No.1 article:
A Split Decision for Democrats

Weary voters appeared willing to give former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. a chance, but they shied away from putting Democrats in full control of Washington.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

WASHINGTON — Americans who turned out in record numbers for the election were willing to weigh a change in course at the White House after four tumultuous years of President Trump, but the unfolding results showed that voters were not ready to hand unfettered control of the government to emboldened Democrats who had pledged to pursue an ambitious agenda if they triumphed.

Despite a record-setting fund-raising bonanza and a flurry of indications that voters were deeply dissatisfied with Mr. Trump, disappointed Democrats came up well short of their aspirations to seize clear control of the Senate and pad their numbers in the House. Instead, they watched gloomily on Wednesday as their path to the Senate majority narrowed while they absorbed unexpected losses in the House.

The split political decision underscored the reality that even as they turned away from the chaos of a divisive Republican president, voters wanted to hedge against Democratic hegemony in the nation’s capital and in statehouses around the country. Far from the so-called blue wave that many Democrats had imagined, the election was shaping up to be a series of conflicting squalls pointing in different directions that, above all, appeared to promise continuing division at all levels of government.

In some ways, the configuration could be tailor-made for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., should he ultimately prevail, which appeared increasingly likely on Wednesday. And it mirrored the decision that Democrats made this year in choosing Mr. Biden as their standard-bearer, elevating him over far more progressive contenders.

Mr. Biden sees himself as an old-school deal maker, someone who can operate in the more conventional political environment that voters seemed to be yearning for by delivering mixed outcomes like re-electing Senator Susan Collins, the centrist Republican from Maine, while delivering three of the state’s four electoral votes to Mr. Biden. But there are real questions of whether those old days of comity and compromise are gone forever.

Should Mr. Biden win, the victory of Ms. Collins and other Senate Republicans targeted by Democrats means he is likely to have to contend with a majority led by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, a man with a recent history of using the majority to thwart Democratic presidents. The Biden-McConnell dynamic could force the new administration to scale back legislative goals on immigration, health care, the environment and economic policy. It could also compel Mr. Biden to negotiate with Republicans on his nominees for the executive and judicial branches, who would need to win Senate confirmation. Progressives who had been expecting big wins on Tuesday that would allow them to rush forward with bold new initiatives were headed for disappointment.

“Senate Republicans are going to be in a very strong position to steer the next two years,” said Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, a member of the Republican leadership. “Nothing is going to become law without the support of Senate Republicans.”

It is an institutional arrangement that some believe could force the bipartisan bargaining that has been so absent in recent years. But it could also be a prescription for a continuation of the partisan paralysis that has held Congress in its grip.

Mr. Barrasso argued that Democrats had erred in believing that deep public dissatisfaction with Mr. Trump would enable them to knock off seasoned Republican incumbents, and that they had gotten ahead of themselves by publicly laying out plans to make sweeping changes that went beyond what most voters wanted. Those included threats to eliminate the filibuster, push through an aggressive legislative program and add seats to the Supreme Court to counterbalance the three justices Republicans had installed over Democratic charges of abuse of power.

“Their own members were talking about these things, and many Americans felt that was just too radical,” Mr. Barrasso said. “People saw this as scary.”

Republicans seized on the talk of court packing in particular, emphasizing it as a colorful illustration of ways Democrats could institute far-reaching changes in Washington, a prospect that evidently rattled some voters.

Democrats still held out hope on Wednesday of pursuing a long-shot path to Senate control, should Mr. Biden be elected and their candidates succeed in toppling Georgia’s two Republican senators in a pair of races that both appeared headed for runoffs in January. Still, as they contemplated falling short, Democrats argued that their main problem this year was simply political geography: To gain the majority, they had to unseat Republicans in states carried by Mr. Trump, when Senate races typically go in the direction of the state’s presidential race.

“The map was very difficult for us,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, who formulated the Democratic campaign strategy. He noted that Republicans had been defending seats in just two states carried by Hillary Clinton in 2016: Maine and Colorado. Mr. Schumer’s decision to try to expand the playing field to force Republicans to expend more resources and give Democrats a chance at the majority succeeded to a degree by putting more races in play. But it only went so far.

With the exception of Maine, where Ms. Collins defied the odds, the emerging presidential results appeared to be corresponding to the Senate outcome, with Democrats winning in Colorado, where Mr. Biden prevailed, and in Arizona, where he had opened a lead. But it meant that Republicans were able to survive well-funded Democratic challenges in states like Iowa, Montana and probably North Carolina.

Despite expectations in both parties that Mr. Trump’s presence on the ballot would hamper Republicans in competitive states and districts, the president appeared to have had substantial coattails in conservative-leaning states, turning out core constituencies to re-elect the incumbents crucial to maintaining the party’s hold on the Senate. In other areas where the president was weaker, such as Democratic-leaning Maine and more conservative suburban House districts nationwide, voters seemed to have stuck with the Republicans they knew rather than taking a chance on Democrats.

That was the case in the suburbs of Omaha, where Mr. Biden won a potentially crucial electoral vote, but Representative Don Bacon, a Republican, beat out a liberal Democratic opponent, Kara Eastman, to keep his seat. The story looked similar for the Republican veterans Ann Wagner of Missouri, Steve Chabot of Ohio and Rodney Davis of Illinois, all of whom held onto their jobs. And in New York, three Democratic challengers were trailing in their efforts to oust Republicans, while two first-term Democrats elected in the party’s 2018 midterm House sweep — Representatives Max Rose in Staten Island and Anthony Brindisi in Central New York — were in danger of losing.

Republicans gained ground partly by portraying Democratic challengers and incumbents — no matter how moderate — as socialists bent on forcing an extreme liberal agenda on their constituents, such as defunding police departments and enacting strict and costly environmental regulations.

“The suburban voter rejected the radical left,” said Corry Bliss, a top Republican strategist who was one of the many people who had warned of a grim environment that could cost his party House seats this year. “They respect cops, don’t want the Green New Deal and don’t want to be taxed to oblivion.”

The dynamic was playing out on a smaller scale across the country, as Democrats also fell short in their efforts to sweep statehouses that Republicans have controlled for years in Iowa, North Carolina and Texas, denying them crucial power over policy on issues like abortion, guns and police reform as well as control over the redrawing of state and national electoral maps.

During the campaign, Mr. Biden, who served as a senator from Delaware for more than 35 years, talked about his experience working across the aisle and suggested he could win over the half dozen or so Republicans needed to advance legislation. But that was provisioned on a Democratic majority, and on Wednesday, he was facing a situation where he could win the White House while Republicans still controlled the Senate. Mr. Biden and Mr. McConnell have a history of hammering out agreements, but the terms did not always meet the approval of fellow Democrats.

Rahm Emanuel, who as White House chief of staff to President Barack Obama clashed with Mr. McConnell in 2009 and 2010, predicted that the Republican leader would not be able to replicate his strategy of relentless obstruction given the severe issues confronting the nation during a pandemic. And he noted that Mr. McConnell would need to protect Republican Senate candidates running in 2022 in states like North Carolina, Ohio and Wisconsin.

“He can’t run a scorched-earth policy again,” Mr. Emanuel said. “He knows that map is skewed against him.”

Asked on Wednesday in Louisville, Ky., how he would work with Mr. Biden, Mr. McConnell was not ready to concede the election. “I’m not sure whether I will need to or not,” he told reporters.

But as he closed out his campaign on Monday, Mr. McConnell made clear to chanting supporters that he had zero tolerance for some of the changes Democrats had hoped to institute.

“When it comes to things like ending the filibuster, D.C. statehood, Puerto Rican statehood, packing the Supreme Court, it will not come up in Mitch McConnell’s Senate,” he vowed. “I’m at the top of my game and ready for another term to not only deliver for Kentucky, but set the agenda for the nation.”





No.2 article:
Win or Lose, Trump Will Remain a Powerful and Disruptive Force

Even if he is defeated, he has made clear that he would not shrink from the scene.

WASHINGTON — If President Trump loses his bid for re-election, as looked increasingly likely on Wednesday, it would be the first defeat of an incumbent president in 28 years. But one thing seemed certain: Win or lose, he will not go quietly away.

Trailing former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Trump spent the day trying to discredit the election based on invented fraud claims, hoping either to hang onto power or explain away a loss. He could find a narrow path to re-election among states still counting, but he has made clear that he would not shrink from the scene should he lose.

At the very least, he has 76 days left in office to use his power as he sees fit and to seek revenge on some of his perceived adversaries. Angry at a defeat, he may fire or sideline a variety of senior officials who failed to carry out his wishes as he saw it, including Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, and Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the government’s top infectious diseases specialist, in the middle of a pandemic.

And if he is forced to vacate the White House on Jan. 20, Mr. Trump is likely to prove more resilient than expected and almost surely will remain a powerful and disruptive force in American life. He received at least 68 million votes, or five million more than he did in 2016, and commanded about 48 percent of the popular vote, meaning he retained the support of nearly half of the public despite four years of scandal, setbacks, impeachment and the brutal coronavirus outbreak that has killed more than 233,000 Americans.

That gives him a power base to play a role that other defeated one-term presidents like Jimmy Carter and George Bush have not played. Mr. Trump has long toyed with starting his own television network to compete with Fox News, and in private lately he has broached the idea of running again in 2024, although he would be 78 by then. Even if his own days as a candidate are over, his 88-million-strong Twitter following gives him a bullhorn to be an influential voice on the right, potentially making him a kingmaker among rising Republicans.

“If anything is clear from the election results, it is that the president has a huge following, and he doesn’t intend to exit the stage anytime soon,” said former Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, one of the few Republican officeholders to break with Mr. Trump over the past four years.

That following may yet enable Mr. Trump to eke out a second term and four years to try to rebuild the economy and reshape the Republican Party in his image. But even from out of office, he could try to pressure Republican senators who preserved their majority to resist Mr. Biden at every turn, forcing them to choose between conciliation or crossing his political base.

Until a new generation of Republicans steps forward, Mr. Trump could position himself as the de facto leader of the party, wielding an extraordinary database of information about his supporters that future candidates would love to rent or otherwise access. Allies imagined other Republicans making a pilgrimage to his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida seeking his blessing.

“It isn’t like his Twitter account or his ability to control a news cycle will stop,” said Brad Parscale, the president’s first campaign manager in this election cycle. “President Trump also has the largest amount of data ever collected by a politician. This will impact races and policies for years to come.”

Exit polls showed that regardless of prominent Republican defectors like Senator Mitt Romney of Utah and the Never Trumpers of the Lincoln Project, Mr. Trump enjoyed strong support within his own party, winning 93 percent of Republican voters. He also did somewhat better with Black voters (12 percent) and Hispanic voters (32 percent) than he did four years ago despite his often racist rhetoric. And after his high-energy blitz across battleground states, late-deciding voters broke his way.

Some of Mr. Trump’s arguments carried considerable weight with members of his party. Despite the coronavirus pandemic and the related economic toll, 41 percent of voters said they were doing better than when he took office, compared with only 20 percent who described themselves as worse off. Adopting his priorities, 35 percent of voters named the economy as the most important issue, twice as many who cited the pandemic. Fully 49 percent said the economy was good or excellent, and 48 percent approved of his government’s handling of the virus.

“If he is defeated, the president will retain the undying loyalty of the party’s voters and the new voters he brought into the party,” said Sam Nunberg, who was a strategist on Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign. “President Trump will remain a hero within the Republican electorate. The winner of the 2024 Republican presidential primary will either be President Trump or the candidate who most closely resembles him.”

Not all Republicans share that view. While Mr. Trump will no doubt continue to speak out and assert himself on the public stage, they said the party would be happy to try to move beyond him if he loses and he would be remembered as an aberration.

“There will never be another Trump,” said former Representative Carlos Curbelo of Florida. “Copycats will fail. He will gradually fade, but the scars from this tumultuous period in American history will never disappear.”

Indeed, Mr. Trump failed to reproduce his fluky 2016 success when he secured an Electoral College victory even while losing the popular vote to Hillary Clinton. For all of the tools of incumbency, he failed to pick up a single state that he did not win last time, and as of Wednesday, he had lost two or three, with a couple of others still on the edge.

Other presidents evicted after a single term or less — like Gerald R. Ford in 1976, Mr. Carter in 1980 and Mr. Bush in 1992 — tended to fade back into the political shadows. Mr. Ford briefly contemplated a comeback, Mr. Carter occasionally criticized his successors and Mr. Bush campaigned for his sons, but none of them remained major political forces within their party for long. Politically, at least, each of them was seen to various degrees as a spent force.

The last defeated president to try to play a power-broker role after leaving office was Herbert Hoover, who positioned himself to run again after his loss in 1932 to Franklin D. Roosevelt and became an outspoken leader of the conservative wing of the Republican Party. While he wielded significant influence for years, it did not regain him the nomination nor change the verdict of history.

For Mr. Trump, who cares about “winning, winning, winning” more than almost anything, being known as a loser would be intolerable. On Election Day, during a visit to his campaign headquarters, he mused aloud about that. “Winning is easy,” he told reporters and staff members. “Losing is never easy. Not for me it’s not.”

To avoid such a fate, the president sought on Wednesday to convince supporters that the election was being stolen simply because state and local authorities were counting legally cast ballots. The fact that it was not true evidently mattered little to him. He was setting up a narrative to justify legal challenges that even Republican lawyers called groundless and, should those fail, to set himself up as a martyr who was not repudiated by the voters but somehow robbed by unseen nefarious forces.

Mr. Trump himself has a long history on the other end of fraud allegations. His sister asserted that he got someone else to take his college-entrance exam. The daughters of a Queens foot doctor claimed that their late father gave Mr. Trump a diagnosis of bone spurs to protect him from the draft for the Vietnam War as a favor to Fred Trump, his father. And his business dealings have often ensnared him in allegations and lawsuits.

The younger Mr. Trump paid $25 million to students of his Trump University to settle fraud accusations. His charitable foundation was shut down after the authorities found a “shocking pattern of illegality.” He participated in dubious tax schemes during the 1990s, including instances of outright fraud, according to a New York Times investigation. And Michael D. Cohen, his estranged lawyer and fixer, wrote in a recent book that he rigged two online polls on Mr. Trump’s behalf.

The president has survived all of that and a string of bankruptcies and other failures through a life of celebrity and populist appeals that gave him the aura of a winner that he nurtured. From his time in real estate and reality television, he has been part of the country’s pop culture firmament for 30 years, a recurring figure in movies, television shows and his own books.

He has been, for millions, a symbol of gold-gilded aspiration and wealth. He was the star of a popular television series for 14 seasons, one that introduced him to the country long before he ran for office. And once he did, his boisterous rallies bonded his supporters to him in a way that underscored how much of a cultural phenomenon he is.

For months, as his chances of being re-elected dwindled, Mr. Trump told advisers — sometimes joking, sometimes not — that should he lose he would promptly announce that he was running again in 2024. Two advisers said they anticipate he will make good on that declaration if his legal challenges fail and is defeated, a move that if nothing else would allow him to raise money to finance the rallies that sustain him.

When he appeared likely to lose his original campaign in 2016, he and some of his family members talked about starting a media property, loosely conceived of as “Trump TV.” Some of those discussions have continued into this year, according to people familiar with them.

“There’s no question that he is one of the greatest polarizing political figures of modern history,” said Tony Fabrizio, one of Mr. Trump’s pollsters. “His supporters adore him and his opponents revile him. There is no middle ground on Donald Trump.”





No.3 article:
A Vote That Flew in the Face of Fear Itself

[Read more on Joe Biden’s president-elect acceptance speech.]

Struggling through one of the most devastating years in the history of the United States, a year of strife and suffering and loss, the nation’s people responded with resolve on the first Tuesday of November. Together but apart, they voted.

Undaunted by a pandemic that worsens by the day, they showed up in the early-morning snow outside the clapboard town offices of Newbury, N.H. Formed a shivering line into a gymnasium in Tobyhanna, Pa. Waited their turn in an elementary school in Louisville, Ky.; a public-housing complex in Houston; a recreation center in Garden Grove, Calif.; a bowling alley in Mandan, N.D.

They provided final punctuation to the 100 million votes already cast through mail-in ballots and in-person early voting, the crest to a tidal wave of turnout. Many showed up at the polls wearing masks, the coronavirus accessory that has come to symbolize this annus horribilis.

By their numbers, they underscored the consequences of the 2020 election, one that would choose between starkly different paths for the future of a politically and racially divided Republic: between the visions of Donald J. Trump, the Republican incumbent, and Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic challenger.

“I’ve been voting for over 30 years, and this is the first time I’ve had a knot in my stomach on Election Day,” Lisa Payton, 55, said as she waited to vote in midmorning outside a municipal building in Stroudsburg, in Pennsylvania’s Pocono Mountains.

She said she took off from her job as a legal assistant to vote for Mr. Biden, but would spend the rest of the day watching Netflix movies and hanging Christmas decorations, rather than watch the news as the country’s fate hung in the balance. Too nervous, she said.

She was not alone. Fear and anxiety abounded, as plywood was hammered into place over storefronts in cities across the country — Boston, New York, Chicago, Washington, Los Angeles — all in anticipation of election-related mayhem that, for the most part, never materialized.

The election was a referendum on 2020, a year that began a decade ago, it seems, with the impeachment — though not conviction — of President Trump. A year that many would prefer simply to end, no matter that nearly two months remain.

Though not spelled out in ink, memories and realities shared the ballot with the two major presidential candidates. The wildfires altering the Western landscape and the hurricanes pummeling the Gulf Coast; the audacious rise of white supremacists and self-appointed militias; the ongoing fight over abortion and the lightning-quick confirmation of a Supreme Court justice; the angry but peaceful marches for racial justice; the protests that devolved into violence.

Looming over it all has been the pandemic, entirely nonpartisan in the toll it takes.

The coronavirus — and the government’s failure to contain it — has led to more than 230,000 American deaths, and the head of Mr. Trump’s own response effort warned this week of an even more deadly phase approaching. The pandemic has upended the economy, forced countless businesses to close, sent millions into unemployment and poverty.

Beyond those who, fearing infection, chose to vote by mail, many who cast a ballot on Election Day experienced firsthand the completeness with which the virus has altered everyday American life. Face masks were, if not mandatory, at least expected, and poll workers sometimes attended to the underpinnings of a democratic government behind transparent protective shields.

But the pandemic did not suppress the vote. If anything, the virus — and how it has been handled — helped to energize a day in which a simple ballot granted momentary power to those who have felt powerless against the onslaught of 2020, a year that has exposed national rifts in the starkest relief.

The fault line between visions for America could be found within 20 miles along the Shenango River in western Pennsylvania. At a polling center in a volunteer firehouse in Greenville, part of once-blue, now-red Mercer County, the vibe was decidedly Republican. “Trump Country,” asserted a campaign volunteer as he handed out sample ballots from a lawn chair.

Gareth Stell, 24, an oil worker in overalls, stopped to talk after voting in his first presidential election. He said he wanted elected officials who understood where he comes from, a place that does not embrace ambitious controls on guns and the environment.

“I live in small-town America,” said Mr. Stell, who is white. “We hunt, we fish, we own guns. That’s just what it comes down to.”

Less than 20 miles down the Shenango, the steel-mill town of Farrell offers a panorama of rusted smokestacks and weather-aged union halls — what, in the accepted stereotype, would also now be called Trump Country.

It is not. Farrell swings Democratic, and nearly half its 5,000 residents are Black. And while Mr. Stell up in Greenville preferred the status quo, Carminal Craig of Farrell demanded change.

Mr. Craig, 54, had just voted for Mr. Biden at the Prince of Peace Center, a social service agency transformed into a polling center. He said he came from a mill family, but the mill life was gone — “The old school is done” — and things needed to be rethought.

“Change needs to come at the White House, the state, the local government,” Mr. Craig said. “Everyone needs to change.”

Change was the operative word elsewhere.

In Minneapolis, Cynthia Robertson snapped photographs of the flowers and murals at the sun-dappled memorial established in honor of George Floyd, the unarmed Black man who died in May after a white police officer knelt on his neck for more than nine minutes. His death, recorded in excruciating videos, became a touchstone event in 2020, sparking nationwide protest marches and deeper examinations of the country’s history of racism.

Ms. Robertson, 46, who is Black and the mother of teenagers, pointed to murals depicting other Black people killed at the hands of police, including one of Breonna Taylor, 26, killed in a botched police raid in Louisville, Ky., in March. As she stood at the corner of 38th Street and Chicago Avenue, where Mr. Floyd died, tears welled behind her bedazzle-framed sunglasses.

“This could be my son; this could be my daughter,” she said. And this was why she had decided to vote for the first time in her life — for Mr. Biden. “Look around us,” Ms. Robertson said. “This is the reason.”

The police shooting of another Black man, Jacob Blake, in Kenosha, Wis., in late August sparked violent demonstrations, including one in which two people were shot dead on a downtown street. The police have charged Kyle Rittenhouse, a white teenager who came from Illinois to patrol the streets with a military-style semiautomatic rifle; he has since become the conservative personification of self-defense and the right to bear arms.

On Election Day, nearly three months later, the case of Mr. Rittenhouse — along with the fires, looting and protests — continued to be felt in Kenosha, a city of 100,000. Charred vehicles still sit in parking lots; businesses, while open, are still boarded up with plywood.

Miranda Schlitz, 45, who works as a server at a drive-in restaurant called Big Star, recalled that when Kenosha’s downtown was in the throes of unrest and destruction, she was so concerned for her family’s safety that she went to stay with her sister in a neighboring city.

“I was literally afraid in my home,” said Ms. Schlitz, who is white. She echoed one of Mr. Trump’s often-tweeted campaign themes. “We need law and order.”

“The riots — that’s when my decision was final,” Ms. Schlitz said. Her decision: a vote cast for Donald Trump.

If unrest had transformed downtown Kenosha, then the coronavirus had transformed the country — a reality on display as people exercised their sacred right to vote. Voters approaching the Kenosha Bible Church first passed a hand-washing station and then a kiosk offering free masks, wipes and sanitizer — all before entering a gym where tables were spaced at least 15 feet apart. Meanwhile, in Oakland, Calif., an outdoor voting system included masked workers using salad tongs to take ballots.

At a time when the deadly coronavirus has been framed by some as overblown — a time when the president has suggested that doctors benefit financially from the pandemic — the outcome of the election took precedent. In Milwaukee, at the Aurora Sinai Medical Center, one of many hospitals being tested by a spiking number of Covid-19 patients, a nurse named Karina Brown said that hospital workers and patients alike were checking their cellphones and “fancy watches” for updates throughout the day.

She was doing the same. “We want the coronavirus to slow down and stop — and I think that’s why this election is so important to us,” Ms. Brown said. “Anxious is an understatement.”

The anxiety extended beyond concerns about health to concerns about employment; about feeding families and paying bills.

In Las Vegas, where the pandemic has cleaned out the casinos, more than half of the 600,000 members of the powerful, immigrant-heavy Culinary Workers Union are out of work — and, on Tuesday, were motivated to vote.

At first light, an army of union workers — those who cook the meals and clean the rooms — set out to drum up Election Day votes, prepared to make the pitch in Mandarin, Spanish or Tagalog. Among the foot soldiers was Tedros Naga, 51, an Ethiopian immigrant who works as a cook.

He and his wife both lost their jobs as the virus leveled the tourism and entertainment industries. With little work to find in Las Vegas, he spent October knocking on doors, encouraging fellow union members to vote early. It has not been a hard sell.

“People have no work,” Mr. Naga said. “People have no food. They maybe soon are losing their house. They want change.”

The virus has struck as well at the core of the American psyche — at the crossroads of individual rights and collective resolve. The federal recommendation to wear a mask, for example, makes obvious sense to some but smacks of deep-state oppression to others.

At a polling station in the New Church of Faith, just outside Orlando, Fla., a woman named Veronica, 35, said she had voted for Mr. Trump because she feared for her freedoms. Moments later, a woman named Dorothy, 45, emerged to say she had voted for Mr. Biden because she feared for her freedoms.

On an Election Day in a pandemic, at a time when the national divide seemed more like a chasm than a fracture, two voters exiting a church were united at least in the operative emotion of 2020: fear.





No.4 article:
As States Fall His Way, Biden Vows ‘Every Vote Must Be Counted’ 

Joseph R. Biden Jr. picked up victories in Michigan and Wisconsin, giving him an advantageous position, as President Trump prepared legal challenges. 

[Read our profile of Kamala Harris, the first woman elected U.S. vice president.]

After an extraordinary election night that put the country’s democracy to the test, the presidential election on Wednesday tilted toward Joseph R. Biden Jr., who claimed Wisconsin and Michigan and was leading in Nevada and Arizona, two states that will get him to 270 electoral votes if his advantage holds.

Top aides to both Mr. Biden, the Democratic nominee, and President Trump argued that they were on a winning trajectory. But Mr. Biden was far better positioned because he had more routes to victory among the seven battleground states that were still counting votes.

After a campaign finale that riveted the country and saw the highest level of turnout in over a century, Mr. Biden sought to balance a tone of conciliation with an attitude of confidence. In an afternoon speech in Wilmington, Del., he said that he believed he was on track to secure the presidency and that it would soon be time to “put the harsh rhetoric of the campaign behind us.”

While he did not claim outright victory the way Mr. Trump sought to do late on election night, Mr. Biden listed the states he had seized from the president and predicted that Pennsylvania would soon be among them.

“I’m not here to declare that we’ve won,” he said, “but I am here to report that when the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners.”

Mr. Biden also issued a warning to the Trump campaign, which was once again threatening to go to court to stop the counting of votes. 

“Power can’t be taken or asserted,” he said. “It flows from the people. And it’s their will that determines who will be the president of the United States, and their will alone.”

“Every vote must be counted,” Mr. Biden said, adding: “No one’s going to take our democracy away from us. Not now, not ever.”

The president had a weaker hand — and seemed to affirm as much throughout the day. First, Mr. Trump vented on Twitter that the tabulation of the mail-in ballots in Wisconsin and Michigan was “devastating in their percentage and power of destruction.” Then, his top aides simultaneously declared victory in Pennsylvania, even though the state had more than one million votes still to be counted. Later, supporters of the president as well as Republican operatives banged on the glass outside a vote-counting site in Detroit and, to no avail, chanted “Stop the count.”

Mr. Trump also took more serious steps toward contesting the election, deploying a legal team to mount a series of challenges against the counting of votes. In the hotly contested battleground of Pennsylvania, the Trump campaign asked the Supreme Court to be allowed to participate in a pending challenge to a three-day extension of the deadline for receiving absentee ballots in the state. The Supreme Court has not said whether it will hear the case.

The Trump campaign also announced it would request a recount in Wisconsin, and in Michigan it sought to halt the counting of votes so that it could arrange for better access for its election board observers.

But as one of the most unusual presidential elections in history stretched into its second, but not final, day of vote-counting, there was no indication that any state or locality would bow to the president’s demand that the process be halted. In an extraordinary interjection into the electoral process, Mr. Trump used an election-night speech from the White House to attack the integrity of the vote, and he kept up his barrage on Wednesday, amplifying baseless conspiracy theories about the accumulating tally for Mr. Biden, the former vice president.

Senior Democratic officials have been holding conversations with corporate executives and former Republican leaders about staging a sort of intervention if Mr. Trump refuses to accept the results of the election, according to a Democrat familiar with the planning.

But Republican leaders seemed to have little appetite for a protracted fight over the ballots, particularly as it became clear by the end of the day that Mr. Biden was well positioned to prevail.

“Every vote that was legally cast needs to be counted,” said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri. “America will once again serve as an example to the world.”

The Democrats made significant gains overnight in part because Republican officials in some states had refused to accommodate the shift toward voting by mail and allow such ballots to be counted before Tuesday. So in states like Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, Mr. Trump had established an early lead that began to erode once absentee votes were tallied.

By Wednesday night, though, the electoral map more fully reflected the entirety of the votes in those states. In Michigan, for example, Mr. Biden was several hundred thousand votes behind on Tuesday night before absentee ballots closed the gap to 37,000 by Wednesday morning. The Associated Press declared him the winner of the state in the afternoon.

Mr. Biden, who focused his campaign on Mr. Trump’s mishandling of the coronavirus pandemic, was on the brink of capturing at least three states that the president carried in 2016, and perhaps as many as five or six if the last waves of ballot-counting strongly favored him.

In some of those states, Mr. Biden’s leads were no more formidable than the wispy margins that carried Mr. Trump into office four years ago, suggesting that the former vice president had managed to improve incrementally on Hillary Clinton’s performance. It was also clear that Mr. Biden was not able to build a coalition capable of delivering an electoral landslide. But he achieved two crucial victories in states that shattered Democrats’ hopes in 2016: Wisconsin, where The A.P. declared Mr. Biden the victor after he amassed a lead of nearly 21,000 votes, and Michigan, where the race was called after he established a 67,000-vote advantage.

Should Mr. Biden hold on to two other unresolved states where he was leading on Wednesday evening — Arizona and Nevada — it would be enough to give him exactly 270 Electoral College votes. That tally also includes one vote he won from Nebraska’s Second Congressional District, because that state does not have the winner-take-all system employed nearly everywhere else. 

There was also the potential for Mr. Biden to flip one or more of the states where Mr. Trump was ahead, most prominently Pennsylvania; the president was leading by less than 200,000 votes with hundreds of thousands of ballots left to count. The uncounted ballots were cast predominantly by mail and were expected to heavily favor Mr. Biden.

In Georgia, too, Mr. Trump’s thin lead did not appear wholly secure against votes that were being tabulated slowly in Democratic-leaning areas. But the president still had one or two clear paths to an Electoral College majority, albeit far fewer than his Democratic opponent. If Mr. Trump held on to the three states where he was ahead — Pennsylvania, Georgia and North Carolina — he would need to overtake Mr. Biden in only one of the states where the former vice president was favored.

Advisers to Mr. Trump argued throughout election night and into Wednesday morning that The A.P. and Fox News had prematurely placed Arizona in Mr. Biden’s column. The Democrat had a lead of about 79,000 votes there, and there were several hundred thousand votes yet to be counted. Many of them appeared to be coming from Maricopa County, which had so far tilted toward the former vice president.

In Nevada, Mr. Biden was clinging to a lead of just 7,600 votes, but additional mail-in ballots were expected to somewhat improve his position.

If Mr. Biden held only a modest upper hand over Mr. Trump, the Democratic Party as a whole posted unexpectedly weak results in contests besides the presidential race. Though Democratic and Republican pollsters had predicted a gain of several seats in the House for Democrats — and perhaps as many as a dozen or more — the chamber seemed headed for the opposite outcome, with Republicans retaking a few conservative-leaning districts they lost in the 2018 midterm elections.

There was significant ticket-splitting, especially in the sort of high-income precincts where Republican strategists had feared an electoral shellacking from voters exhausted by Mr. Trump’s erratic conduct.

“They weren’t a fan of the president’s personality,” said Liesl Hickey, a Republican strategist who spent months conducting weekly focus groups with suburbanites. “But taxes and the economy led the list of their concerns, and they were terrified of their taxes being increased.”

Perhaps most disappointing to Democrats was the narrowing path they had in their effort to capture a majority in the Senate, even though they had a favorable map this year. The party took over two Republican-held seats, in Arizona and Colorado, while losing a seat in Alabama. 

But Republicans showed strong resilience in a number of races where Democrats had been hoping to make the gains required to take over the chamber, including in Maine, where Senator Susan Collins, a moderate who declined to endorse Mr. Trump for re-election, turned back her Democratic challenger with unexpected ease.

There was still some possibility that Democrats could overtake Republicans in the Senate, because of uncalled races in North Carolina and Alaska — both seats are now held by Republicans — as well as the potential for two runoff elections for Senate seats in Georgia. Because of the Southern state’s distinctive electoral procedures, there is a possibility that the Senate may be split almost evenly, with 50 seats held by Republicans and 48 held by Democrats, until Georgia holds a second round of voting in January.

The specter of a two-month clash for two seats in the same state to decide the Senate majority also raised the question about the state of the Republican Party should Mr. Trump lose the presidency. Republican strategists on Wednesday were already discussing how he might handle defeat, and whether he would be an asset or a liability in the Georgia races.

In Pennsylvania, Lt. Gov. John Fetterman, a Democrat, said on Wednesday afternoon that he was confident Mr. Biden would claim victory in his state, irrespective of any Trump lawsuits. While Republicans were challenging the legitimacy of ballots that arrive by mail after polls close on Election Day, Mr. Fetterman said he did not believe Mr. Biden would need those votes to carry the state.

Mr. Fetterman, a possible candidate for governor or a Senate seat in 2022, said his party should reckon with Mr. Trump’s intense appeal to rural voters, and his ability “to drive margins in these small areas that are unprecedented.” But Mr. Fetterman took a dimmer view of Mr. Trump’s litigation threats and rhetorical attacks on the vote.

“It’s no different than some random guy screaming on the corner,” he said. “Just keep on walking.”





No.5 article:
Election Night Parties? How About Not?

With in-person gatherings verboten, results likely delayed and anxiety high, some Americans are saying “wake me when it’s over.”

Devon Powers is dreading election night.

“It’s a weird mix of dread and optimism and fear,” she said. “We will not necessarily know the outcome that night, and there is bound to be some foolery, even if it’s an overwhelming win for Biden. I live in Philly, and that is going to be one of the hot spots for voter intimidation, for civil unrest. Someone is going to be violent somewhere.”

She’s not even over what happened in 2016, when an election party she attended turned sour around 10 p.m. “I am having flashbacks,” she said. “That was extremely traumatic, and I don’t want to relive it in any way.”

So she has decided to skip this year’s altogether.

On Tuesday morning Ms. Powers, 43, a college professor, is driving to Cape May, N.J., where she has rented a cabin. She’s leaving her phone in the car, and will keep her computer turned off. During the day she’ll hit the beach. At night it’s binge watching the first three seasons of “Northern Exposure” and drinking wine.

She will be blissfully unaware of politics until Wednesday at 4 p.m., when she has a Zoom call scheduled for work. “I feel like people will tell me what happened then.”

Indeed.

The election night party is a time-honored American tradition. But with the pandemic curtailing social gatherings, and little to celebrate about 2020, many Americans are choosing to spend the evening of Nov. 3 off the grid, trying to create some kind of Zen moment for themselves.

Some who supported Hillary Clinton are too traumatized from Donald Trump’s surprise victory in 2016 risk such stress again. Others, no matter which candidate they’re supporting, think they won’t even know the results if they tune into the news, so why bother? And some people simply have too much anxiety to go through the night’s play-by-play results.

It’s the opposite coping mechanism from consuming every piece of information to feel a semblance of control, as some who are glued to the news do.

“I am going to a cabin to hide,” Ms. Powers said. “I invited a friend to come down, but she is probably not going to because I told her she can’t bring her phone.”

Jennifer Berk, who works for the Department of Transportation in Indianapolis, gets the day off for Election Day. She is determined to turn what could be a nerve-racking day into a fun, self-soothing time.

During the day she’s going to go for a run, knit a “Doctor Who”-style striped scarf and read books. “I have a whole bunch of them I’m halfway through,” she said. Her 10-year-old’s school is currently operating remotely, so she’s going to take him to play tennis or do archery before making his favorite meal, tacos. Then it’s games, perhaps Chutes and Ladders or Uno, until bedtime.

When Ms. Berk, 43, tunes into politics, she becomes infuriated by developments across the country. “When I read the news I see Ohio, and I’m like, ‘Why is polling like this? Florida is too close, and Georgia is too close,’” she said. “It’s too stressful to watch, especially because there is nothing I can do to control it.” She already voted where she could, and now she’s going to stay away.

Josh and Julianne Davis, 32 and 27, work in social media in Dallas. They have donated to political causes and volunteered for campaigns. They are tied to their phones and keep up with politics daily. “I am a news junkie,” Mr. Davis said.

But they’ve agreed to put away their devices on election night as soon as the results start rolling in.

In 2016 they were in New York City with tickets to “Hamilton” on election night. With their Apple watches silenced and their phones on airplane mode, they realized how lucky they were to have no idea what was happening in the wider world. This year they are trying to create that momentary respite.

They will be watching “Hamilton&quot; on Disney+. “There might be pizza,” Mr. Davis said. “I will be drinking bourbon.” They will turn on their phones much later in the evening, when there might be more clarity about the results.

The decision feels empowering. “I don’t have to sit there doom-scrolling through Twitter for four hours and hanging on to every piece of news and information,” Mr. Davis said. “We will end up with a president one way or another. I don’t need to be there for every waking moment of it.”

But it’s also not an easy decision. “I will be tempted to look at my phone,” he said. “It’s going to be phenomenally difficult to keep my hands to myself.”

If there were election night parties, Joseph Valverde, 24, a student studying political science in San Antonio, would attend. “If things were different, I would definitely be out there with a support group so we can go through it together,” he said.

But as he will be alone, he doesn’t want to face it. He doesn’t want false hope or to ride an emotional roller coaster. “I remember last election, we had moments when it was like ‘Oh my God, Hillary is in the lead’ … ‘Oh my God, Trump is in the lead,’” he said.

Rather than find a way to distract himself, Mr. Valverde is going to pop Benadryl and drift off to sleep: “I am probably going to put a do-not-disturb on my phone and delete Twitter for the day and turn off the notifications,” he said. “I just want an answer in the morning, and I will continue on whatever happens.”

On election night in 2016, Marlee Margulies, 54, who lives in Chapel Hill, N.C., was celebrating her birthday. “We had a birthday dinner and gifts with family, followed by watching returns,” she said. ”It was a fun, optimistic time early on.”

But this year she can’t imagine following the election results will be fun, even in the beginning. “I feel in elections past there was a finality to the results,” she said. “This year, I feel that no matter where things land, the courts are going to be involved. Trump loves to litigate.”

She is strongly considering turning to a hot bath and Ambien to ease her anxiety and catch up on rest. “Sleep has been elusive for months,” she said. “However, I don’t know that I’ll be able to keep away.”

“I am so mad at him for not watching,” said Erica Sallee, 40, a manager at Walmart in Chicago. “I went to vote already, I am excited, I am ready for it. I am all ready for the outcome. I need to see what is going on, and I need to know what states are winning.”

Her husband, Robert Sallee, 36, an X-ray technician at a Chicago hospital, has decided he has had enough with politics. “Especially with my job and the fact that I deal with Covid patients every day and how politicized it’s gotten,” he said. “It’s going to be a really crazy night, and I am not expecting it to be over until December. I think it will be contested, and I would rather not deal with the foolishness of the whole night and the unnecessary drama.”

Mr. Sallee’s plan is to watch “Kung Fu Panda” or other movies with his 4-month-old son in his arms instead. But he understands his plan might go awry with his wife in the next room.

“This is what’s going to happen,” he said. “The Florida or Pennsylvania count will come in, and my wife will start cussing or yelling, and I’ll know what’s happening anyway even if I don’t want to.”

“Still,” he added. “I’m going to try to take a pass on this.”





No.6 article:
False News Targeting Latinos Trails the Election

Rampant falsehoods evolved online on Wednesday, intended to make Spanish speakers question the unfolding election results and believe that President Trump was being robbed of victory.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

MIAMI — The posts proliferated on election night before anything remotely definitive was known about the results of the presidential race. “Robado,” they falsely repeated again and again in Spanish: President Trump was being robbed of a victory. He had won Arizona. George Soros was funding violent “antifa riots.”

The baseless social media messages to Latinos trying to delegitimize the election and the results for Joseph R. Biden Jr. circulated online on Tuesday night and into Wednesday, part of a disinformation campaign to undermine Latino confidence in the vote as it unfolded.

Ahead of Election Day, false news in Spanish tried to turn Latinos against Black Lives Matter and tie Mr. Biden to socialism, tactics that experts said could depress the Hispanic vote. Now that voting is complete, the rampant falsehoods have only garnered larger audiences — including among immigrants less familiar with the institutions of American democracy. The gist of the falsehoods is that the election is “rigged” against Mr. Trump.

“These misinformation narratives are helping plunge the country further into chaos and confusion,” said Fadi Quran, a director at Avaaz, a nonprofit that tracks disinformation. He called the disinformation campaigns a “democratic emergency.” “The most vulnerable communities in the country are paying the highest price,” he said.

For weeks, officials and election security experts braced for what was widely expected to be an election marred by hacking and misinformation. They zeroed in on familiar adversaries in Russia, which weeks earlier had been caught hiring people in Mexico and Venezuela to push out Instagram and Facebook content.

The officials and researchers worried about interference from Iran after Iranians posing as members of the far-right Proud Boys group threatened Democrats not to vote. The Justice Department on Wednesday announced a takedown of dozens of Iranian propaganda sites targeting Americans. And Microsoft and United States Cyber Command separately took aim at Russian cybercriminals’ hacking infrastructure in an effort to stave off the kinds of ransomware attacks that could freeze up election systems.

But on Tuesday, they breathed a sigh of relief as Election Day passed relatively unscathed. It was, one administration official said, just another Tuesday on the internet.

Yet 24 hours later, it appeared Facebook and Twitter might have overlooked the deluge of disinformation targeting Spanish-speaking Americans. Spanish-language accounts with huge followings falsely said that Mr. Trump had secured an early victory, that social media was censoring his win and that Mr. Biden was cheating.

Twitter accounts with large followings pushed a debunked conspiracy theory, adopted by some prominent American conservatives, that election workers in Maricopa County, Ariz., had given Trump voters pens that could not be detected by ballot scanners. Others claimed that armed protesters funded by the billionaire Mr. Soros were taking over the U.S. Capitol.

By Wednesday, disinformation experts like Mr. Quran likened the flood of Spanish-language disinformation to an emergency and called on social media platforms to retroactively inform anyone who engaged with the content that the claims were false.

The reach of the disinformation is vast. In just 24 hours, Spanish-language disinformation was generating traffic that eclipsed even the interference campaign by the Kremlin-backed Russian Internet Research Agency four years ago.

On Facebook, a video posted to a seven-month-old Colombian account called Mr. Capacho en Vivo, with 40,000 followers, accused Twitter of censoring Mr. Trump’s victory and had already been viewed more than 500,000 times — far more traffic than Russian trolls generated with fake Black Lives Matter ads ahead of the 2016 election.

Marketed as a global finance and political news page, the Colombian account pushed QAnon conspiracies, such as the baseless belief that leading Democrats are part of a global cabal of Satanist child molesters. On Monday, the same account posted an edited, misleading video of Mr. Biden touching children, falsely claiming that he was a “superpredator.” By Wednesday, the video had been watched about 45,000 times.

Another Spanish-language influencer, Ciro Gómez Leyva, who has more than two million YouTube subscribers, posted a video late Tuesday in which he claimed that 150 members of antifa were descending on Washington with “gas masks, arms and shields.” While protesters did march outside the White House, there was no evidence that weapons were involved.

On the Spanish-language YouTube channel Campechaneando, a host warned viewers not to believe news that Mr. Biden had overtaken Mr. Trump in the Electoral College count. Some 160,000 people had watched the video by Wednesday.

On another Spanish-language channel, Informativo G24, with more than 500,000 subscribers, hosts compared Democrats to Nazis on Tuesday. The video was seen some 350,000 times.

In Miami, a Spanish-language radio show, “Cada Tarde con Carinés Moncada y Agustín Acosta,” pushed debunked claims late Tuesday that Republican poll watchers had been barred from observing voting locations in Pennsylvania.

In September, one of the show’s co-hosts, Carinés A. Moncada, had pushed a conspiracy theory that a co-founder of Black Lives Matter was involved in devil worship.

It is difficult, if not impossible, to know how much false claims influenced Latino voters ahead of Election Day. But the hub of much of that misinformation was South Florida, home to a diverse community of Latinos, many of whom fled left-wing authoritarian regimes and are receptive to messaging about socialism.

When the results from Miami-Dade County came in on Tuesday, Mr. Trump outperformed expectations. Robust support from Hispanic voters helped him win Florida easily and allowed Republicans to flip two congressional seats in the state.

Juan Pablo Salas, a Colombian political analyst in Sarasota, Fla., said he worried that the misinformation involving Bogotá, Miami and Washington could be a coordinated effort between right-wing interests in Colombia and the U.S., “to essentially turn our Colombian-American community into the tip of the spear of the offense played by the extreme right.”

“They’ve invested a lot of money in turning South Florida into a campaign bastion,” Mr. Salas said of the Republican Party and the party of former President Álvaro Uribe of Colombia, who is close with many Miami Republicans.

On Tuesday night, Eduardo A. Gamarra, a professor of political science at Florida International University, agreed to analyze the election on NTN24, a television news network based in Colombia. He found himself on the air debating Omar Bula Escobar, a former United Nations representative notorious for, among other false claims, saying that Mr. Soros controls the Democratic Party, an anti-Semitic trope embraced by QAnon.

Dr. Gamarra said he rejected Mr. Bula Escobar’s baseless claims of election fraud and then telephoned the network after the interview had concluded.

“I said: ‘Don’t you ever do that to me again. Do background research on your guests,’” he said. “This is irresponsible.”

A producer for the show did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday.

Evelyn Pérez-Verdía, a Democratic Latino issues strategist in South Florida, said she spent four hours on Tuesday trying to debunk false claims on Spanish-language radio that Mr. Biden, a moderate, was a left-wing radical.

“The Republicans called him a socialist, in those four hours, 20 times,” she said. “And a radical five times, and a Castro-Chavista” — a reference to Fidel Castro of Cuba and Hugo Chávez of Venezuela — “three times. Repeat a lie and repeat it until it becomes the truth.”





No.7 article:
Residents Feared Low-Income Housing Would Ruin Their Suburb. It Didn’t.

President Trump told suburban voters that affordable housing would hurt property values and increase crime. The story of one Wisconsin community challenges those assumptions.

NEW BERLIN, Wis. — When John Blaguski first heard about a proposal to build an affordable housing complex near his home in the Milwaukee suburb of New Berlin, Wis., his mind drifted to stereotypes of crime-ridden, shoddily constructed projects.

“If I wanted to live by low-cost housing people,” he wrote in an email to the mayor at the time, “I would have stayed in Milwaukee County.”

But now, eight years after a legal battle forced the city to allow the development to proceed, Mr. Blaguski, 62, said he regretted his visceral opposition.

The 102-unit complex is not the nuisance he had envisioned. When he drives by, he hardly notices it. And fears of a crime wave and plummeting property values — voiced by dozens of residents in public meetings — never materialized.

“I just shot from the hip on that and probably should have been more wary,” Mr. Blaguski said in a recent interview. “If they wanted to build another, more power to them.”

The story of the fight over affordable housing in New Berlin, a deeply conservative suburb about 15 miles southwest of Milwaukee, challenges a key pitch made by President Trump to voters in the suburbs — that “low-income” housing invites crime and hurts property values.

The reality in New Berlin is that the mixed-income development, surrounded by a pond, a farmers’ market and a library, is “really rather attractive,” said Mayor Dave Ament, who is white and staunchly opposed the project as an alderman a decade ago.

Still, while the complex, City Center at Deer Creek, may have defied expectations, it has not shifted the politics of New Berlin. Mr. Trump, who eliminated a regulation put into place under Barack Obama that could have spurred more affordable housing development in the suburbs and has not aggressively enforced fair housing laws, remains deeply popular.

And although Mr. Trump narrowly lost the state in this week’s presidential election, he captured about 59 percent of the vote in Waukesha County, which includes New Berlin, about the same amount he won four years ago.

To this day, residents hold lingering resentment over allegations that their opposition to the housing development was driven by racism. Many remain bitter at what they believe was improper meddling by the Obama administration.

“I don’t think they had any concern at all about whether or not people with limited incomes could live in New Berlin,” said Art Marquardt, 58, a resident since 1991. “I believe that they had a political ax to grind and that they wanted to push that into New Berlin just to start a fight.”

Dozens of residents stepped to the microphone. It was June 7, 2010, and the city’s Plan Commission was holding its first public meeting since approving the affordable housing project a month earlier by a 4-3 vote.

It also had been nearly two weeks since Jack Chiovatero, the mayor at the time, wrote a blunt email to a constituent that caused outrage: “Our city is filled with prejudice and bigoted people who with very few facts are making this project into something evil and degrading,” he wrote.

Residents were appalled. Many insisted that their opposition had nothing to do with race, but instead with their belief that low-income housing did not fit the upscale vision that city officials had presented for the area where the development would be built.

“We built our brand-new home here because we worked hard to become residents of New Berlin — not because we got a handout, not because somebody paved the way for us,” one woman said.

One man described seeing an increase in crime when a “lower-income element” moved into his former Milwaukee neighborhood. “You put this low-income housing into this part of the city,” he said, and “I guarantee you this is what you’re inviting into our community.”

At least one resident wrote a letter teasing at fears that her city would turn into the North Side of Milwaukee, which is predominantly Black.

Mr. Chiovatero, who is white, said someone sprayed an anti-Black slur on his fence. A few residents, he said, privately told him things like “We don’t want those kinds of people here” or “I moved out of the city of Milwaukee — my neighborhood was turning Black, or my neighborhood was turning Hispanic.”

There was an assumption, too, that people who lived in low-income housing did not work. City officials and the developer perpetuated that myth by emphasizing that the development was “work force” housing and would attract working people, unlike “low-income” projects.

In fact, most working-age, able-bodied people receiving government assistance for housing have jobs or were recently employed, according to a report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

The development proposed in New Berlin was relying on low-income housing tax credits, which were introduced in 1986 as part of the largest federal program for building new affordable housing. These developments are vastly different from the public housing projects the government built through the middle of the 20th century.

By the 1980s, the federal government had almost completely stopped building low-income housing, leaving it mostly to private developers through tax credits, said Edward Goetz, a professor of urban and regional planning at the University of Minnesota. Tax-credit developments, which must set aside a share of their units for people with low earnings, usually employ construction styles that mesh with the surrounding communities.

In New Berlin, neighborhoods consist primarily of tract housing with no sidewalks. Residents often leave their garage doors open, and over the years, they have openly feared that too much development could lead to the creation of direct bus routes to Milwaukee.

Research has shown that tax-credit properties generally do not increase crime in affluent communities. They also tend to have little effect on property values in wealthy neighborhoods, though a Stanford University study found that some nearby home prices fell in more prosperous communities.

One of the residents who spoke at that June 2010 meeting may have best summarized the community’s feelings when he explained that he had seen firsthand the negative impact of low-income housing in Milwaukee. The man, the only Black person to speak that evening, said he had worked hard to get his family to New Berlin, “to get away from that kind of deal.”

“So now my wife can go pump gas,” he said. “My son can ride his bike through the community.”

But all that would change if the housing development came to New Berlin, the man said, and the room erupted in some of the loudest applause of the night.

After that June meeting, the Plan Commission rescinded its approval of the development. The developer, Milo Pinkerton, then tried to put the affordable housing complex in a stalled condominium development, but city officials denied that as well.

“Maybe the issue is who you think should occupy that kind of housing,” Mr. Pinkerton said in an interview.

Lawsuits by Mr. Pinkerton and the Justice Department, which argued that the city violated the Fair Housing Act by denying dwellings based on the race of prospective tenants, led to its eventual construction.

In late 2012, Deer Creek opened — three prairie-style apartment buildings with facades of cement siding and brick, pitched roofs and balconies for each unit. Eighty-six of the 102 apartments are reserved for tenants earning significantly less than the city’s median household income of $81,000.

Mr. Chiovatero, 60, feels some vindication in what the complex has become. He pulled his car into a parking lot across the street on a recent wind-swept afternoon and nodded toward the apartments with a smile. “Does that look like low-income housing to you?” he asked.

It is the sort of place that Mareza Landeros had thought was out of her price range, with modern amenities like granite countertops, stainless steel appliances and large closets. But last year, Ms. Landeros, 28, and her two children moved into a two-bedroom unit for about $700 a month, less than half of the market rate.

“It’s a very relaxing, nice area,” said Ms. Landeros, who grew up in Milwaukee and works in nursing.

Still, she has felt like an “outcast” in New Berlin, she said. Ms. Landeros, who is Mexican-American, said she and her boyfriend, who is Black, have been harassed by the police. As a fervent Black Lives Matter supporter, she said she was discomfited by the “Trump 2020” and “We back the badge” signs that dot many yards.

She avoids taking her children to parks or other public spaces in New Berlin, which is 93 percent white, because it seems like people stare at them, she said.

Advocates for the development of more affordable housing say that when executed properly, the buildings should blend into neighborhoods. Crucial to achieving that, fair housing advocates say, is ensuring that cities across a region each take on at least a small share of affordable housing. Doing so avoids concentrating too much poverty in one place, they say, possibly preventing the deterioration and crime that critics of affordable housing worry about.

Alice Torres, 53, a lifelong Democrat, said that much of her opposition to the Deer Creek development stemmed from seeing the deterioration of communities where she had worked with a Milwaukee nonprofit organization to rehabilitate affordable housing. She worried that would happen in New Berlin, where she had moved for her children to get a better education. That concern was enough for her to ignore what she believed was the racism of some of the project’s opponents and align with them in resisting the proposal.

But the past several years have been an awakening, said Ms. Torres, who is white.

She has become so turned off by the political views of some of the Republicans she had teamed up with in opposition to the housing that she now ignores them when she sees them. She disconnected from some of them on Facebook.

And because the affordable housing development did not bring the problems she had experienced in Milwaukee, Ms. Torres said she would not be so quick to oppose future projects. With a caveat.

“As long as it’s not in my backyard,” she said.





No.8 article:
Just Another ‘Dance’ at the Printing Plant

At The New York Times presses in Queens, making the paper Tuesday night felt pretty normal.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

At 7 p.m. on election night, Mike Connors sat at the front of a conference room lit in fluorescent light in The New York Times printing plant in College Point, Queens. Fifteen department heads from the plant filed in and sat socially distanced at small tables placed at odd angles, like one might set out a game of dominoes. More joined on a conference call.

“Tonight is the biggest night we’ve had this year,” said Mr. Connors, the managing director of the plant. He encouraged the departments to be flexible and be ready for a changing schedule in the night ahead.

A banner newspaper headline with the next president’s name is a totem on the day after elections, and the first people to touch those printed papers are in places like College Point. But this year, the slow count of a record load of absentee ballots and early votes left that uncertain. Everyone from the press room to delivery had to prepare for the possibility of a late night and last-minute results, or few results at all. Mr. Connors had to mention plans for print runs on future papers, but that wasn’t the point of the meeting.

“We’re giving the dance floor tonight to the daily,” he said, referring to Wednesday’s paper.

The dance floor happens to be a cavernous building along the Whitestone Expressway. At over 300,000 square feet, the plant houses seven presses, 14 miles of conveyor belts and a lot of automated robots. All that infrastructure produces around 40 percent of The Times’s print run, as well as USA Today and Newsday. The cerulean blue presses stand three stories tall and are accented by other equipment in canary yellow.

Running an operation like this is no small feat. Over two hundred people work in the plant to ensure that the latest news transmitted from the Times newsroom makes it to the printed page on time every night. Many of the people on staff have worked at The Times for decades, and producing the daily paper is second nature. Mike Smith (there are a lot of Mikes at the plant), a 38-year veteran, spends nights in the control room watching four large screens that show the status of every stage of the printing process. When changes need to be made, he gets on the phone with other department heads in the plant to make adjustments.

Mr. Connors has worked for The Times’s printing operations for 44 years and has seen a lot of things happen on election nights.

Some past election night press runs were exceptionally long and complicated. In 2000, before the race between George W. Bush and Al Gore was decided, the team had to stop and start the presses as new information came in about results. In 2016, when Donald Trump’s upset win over Hillary Clinton was certain, College Point held out until 2:30 a.m. to send a final version of the front page.

But on Tuesday night, it became clear there that neither President Trump nor Joe Biden would be declared the winner by deadline. Votes were still out and races were too close. There would be no dramatic “stop the presses” moment. The front page, between its first version at 8 p.m. and its last at 12:15 a.m., didn’t change much. For a national event unlike any other, the night at the plant seemed like many others. If the press workers felt the weight of the moment, they didn’t show it, or say much about it.

Thirty minutes before a 10:30 p.m. printing, Mr. Connors was walking the plant while texting with newsroom colleagues. They were waiting for results from Arizona and asked for more time. With the deftness of a seasoned conductor, Mr. Connors delayed the run 40 minutes to allow for an updated article.

By 11:20 p.m. the plant hummed with the rapid thwap, thwap, thwap of blank paper turning into newsprint. Amid the roar of the printers, the press workers checked the fresh ink for color and print imperfections.

With state races too close to call after midnight, the newsroom sent over five final pages, with other election news, including local results. Within 10 minutes, the pages had been etched onto printing plates and sent to the press floor where they would be folded into the stream of papers. Soon, three presses were pushing out 91,000 copies, the last of Wednesday’s New York-area papers.

By 1 a.m., Mr. Connors was standing by the loading docks with distribution coordinators and machine operators. “It’s not as exciting as four years ago,” he said of the smoothness of the night. But, he added, “This is better. We’ll make a better product.”

By sunrise, trucks had rolled out to deliver the daily paper to 52 locations — from upstate New York to Bridgeport, Conn., to Philadelphia.

On Wednesday afternoon, with election results still hanging in the balance, the declarative banner not yet written, the plant prepared for another paper. The roster of workers was a little different. It didn’t matter much. A crew clocked in, again.

“We’ll keep coming in and doing it. Come in and get it done,” Mr. Connors said.





No.9 article:
Let the Votes Be Counted

Count all the votes.

This shouldn’t be a remotely controversial proposition in a representative democracy. A complete and accurate count is the only way to determine the will of the people who cast ballots.

During even typical election years, the process can take days. It takes longer in the highest-turnout election in generations — and that’s before factoring in a pandemic that has driven tens of millions of Americans to vote by mail and has made it far harder to carry out even basic tasks, like vote counting, that involve many people being in enclosed spaces for extended periods.

A president who cared about upholding American democracy would do all he could to drive this point home with the public. He would set the example by reassuring the people that the nation’s time-honored electoral system is working as it always has — state by state, county by county, precinct by precinct.

President Trump, as usual, is doing the opposite. As growing vote totals in several key battleground states favored Joe Biden, Mr. Trump began casting doubt on the veracity of the counts.

Shortly after midnight, the president said falsely on Twitter that the election was being stolen.

A few hours later, in a rambling, middle-of-the-night speech from the East Room of the White House, Mr. Trump accused “a very sad group of people” of trying to “disenfranchise” those who had voted for him. He threatened to force the election into the Supreme Court. “We want all voting to stop,” he said. “We don’t want them to find any ballots at four o’clock in the morning and add them to the list. OK?”

“This is a fraud on the American public,” Mr. Trump continued. “This is an embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this election. Frankly, we did win this election.”

The speech was one of the lowest, most disgraceful moments in an administration filled to the brim with strong competition. It was also self-contradicting. In the same breath that he cast suspicion on counts in states that appeared to be turning against him, he welcomed more counting in states where his totals looked like they were growing.

On Wednesday morning, Mr. Trump was at it again, compounding the damage with rageful, misleading tweets.

“Last night I was leading, often solidly, in many key States, in almost all instances Democrat run &amp; controlled. Then, one by one, they started to magically disappear as surprise ballot dumps were counted. VERY STRANGE, and the ‘pollsters’ got it completely &amp; historically wrong!” he wrote in a tweet that Twitter flagged, along with several others he has sent, for containing “misleading” content.

Mr. Trump is right that the polls were off — by a lot, in some key states. But none of this is “very strange.” Neither candidate won the election on Tuesday night. That determination won’t be made by the candidates’ wishes or the media projections. It will be made by the voters and the workers who count their ballots. States aren’t even required to certify their count until Dec. 8.

In the meantime, there are no “surprise ballot dumps” that make votes “magically disappear.” It’s normal for vote totals to change, especially in the hours and days after polls close. When one or the other candidate pulls ahead, it’s not “flipping” the result, because there is no result yet to flip.

The irony is that the count could have proceeded more quickly in several battleground states, like Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, had Republican lawmakers there followed their counterparts in many other states and allowed for mail ballots to be opened and processed before Election Day. But despite repeated pleas for them to do so, they refused. Now Mr. Trump and his Republican allies are using that refusal to claim that votes are being counted too late. It’s as though they defunded the Fire Department and then got mad when their house burned down.

On Wednesday, the Trump campaign announced it would seek a recount in Wisconsin, where Joe Biden leads by a little more than 20,000 votes, or less than 1 percent. That is Mr. Trump’s right, although he will have to pay $3 million out of pocket for it, and statewide recounts only change the margin, on average, by fewer than 300 votes.

If anyone has reason to be upset, it is the hundreds of thousands of voters around the country whose mail-in ballots were never delivered to election offices. On Tuesday, a federal judge in Washington ordered the Postal Service to search 12 postal processing facilities in 15 states for any remaining undelivered ballots, which were generally  cast overwhelmingly in favor of Democratic candidates. The Postal Service ignored the order, saying it would continue on its own inspection schedule.

It is understandable that Americans want to know quickly and clearly the outcome of the presidential election. But that doesn’t change the fact that it takes time to count 150 million votes. Across the country, election workers and administrators are committed to doing their job and are working long hours to ensure that every ballot is counted.

No matter how much the nation has come to expect this sort of behavior from Mr. Trump, he always manages to exceed expectations. That doesn’t make it better. To the contrary, it is extremely dangerous. Mr. Trump has for years fanned the flames of rage among his supporters and flooded American society with disinformation.

On Wednesday, Mr. Trump tweeted, “They are finding Biden votes all over the place — in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan. So bad for our Country!”

Yes, Mr. President. That’s what happens when you count the ballots. It’s up to the rest of us, and especially you, to stay calm and let the electoral process play out as it does every four years. In the end, both parties will have won some and lost some. That’s not fraud. It’s democracy.





No.10 article:
Friday Night Bytes: Can Analytics Revolutionize High School Football?

George Mahoney is an efficiency expert by trade and by nature. He’s also among the analytics-minded coaches trying to bring data to one of the last holdouts in American sports — high school football.

MIDDLETOWN, N.J. — The Mater Dei Prep Seraphs faced fourth-and-6 from the Middletown South 40-yard line in a scoreless October game with about four minutes left in the first quarter. Their coach, Dino Mangiero, encountered a pretty standard decision: Go for it or punt?

His headset crackled.

The voice on the other end belonged to a Columbia University graduate perched atop the school’s tiny press box: George Mahoney, who doesn’t have an official title on Mater Dei’s staff or attend every practice, but who, in many ways, represents the early glimmers of what could be the future of high school football. A chemical engineer with 19 years of coaching experience and an affinity for innovative thinking, Mahoney serves as the analytics arm of Mater Dei’s football operation.

That very term, “analytics” — which refers to the use of data analysis to inform decision-making — has polarized big-money sports, pitting adherents against traditionalists in a zero-sum feud. A recent, prominent example of advanced metrics’ sway over game decisions, when Tampa Bay Rays Manager Kevin Cash pulled his starting pitcher, Blake Snell, in Game 6 of the World Series last month, renewed the longstanding debate.

The hidebound sport of football has been slower than most to accept the findings of the data army, with longtime coaches and executives generally distrustful of those who didn’t play at a high level. But that is changing. In N.F.L. and college programs, some more than others, the growing influence of data science has reshaped everything from roster construction to asset management, elements of football dogma that might have seemed untouchable even five years ago.

Still, one area remains off-limits to analytics: N.C.A.A. and pro teams are prohibited from using computers to guide in-game tactics and must depend on static reports to make strategy calls. A small number of high schools, though, like Mater Dei, can, and do, use decision-making aids in real time.

On that afternoon last month, Mahoney, 42, on his tablet computer, consulted prescriptive analytical software called EdjVarsity, a new tool in his arsenal. It simulates hundreds of thousands of games to determine which in-game decisions improve a team’s likelihood of winning. He had spent more than a decade trying to penetrate high school football with statistical analysis, finding the culture of community and tradition nearly impermeable until he massaged his pitch. Now, he is testing the risk tolerance of a middle-class Catholic school that has reached the state championship in New Jersey in each of the past four years.

Mahoney entered basic details of that first-quarter drive — score, time, field position, down and distance — and out came a bar graph at the bottom of his screen totaling the win probability to be gained by going for it on fourth down in one-yard increments: fourth-and-1, fourth-and-2 and so on.

He relayed his recommendation to the coach, as he always does, balancing his radical approach with the stakes for Mater Dei’s season. “You don’t want to be in the position where you’re this analytics guy,” Mahoney said, “and you’re blowing it for these guys that are legitimately calling X’s and O’s and working with these kids all year.”

As an agent of change, Mahoney acts deliberately. He knows Mangiero has a threshold for aggressiveness, so he doesn’t push him beyond his comfort level. Instead, Mahoney relies on data to make other coaches, as he puts it, trip over the truth — and Mangiero trusts him.

“He could be anything,” Mangiero said, referring to a job title. “The assistant head coach for analytics? Whatever George wants.”

They have known each other for more than 25 years, since Mangiero, 61, a former N.F.L. defensive lineman who is in his fifth season at Mater Dei, coached him at St. Joseph by-the-Sea High School on Staten Island. When he pondered in September adding someone to manage analytics, Mangiero didn’t hesitate. He called Mahoney.

For Mahoney, 5-foot-8 and a brawny 185 pounds, chasing efficiency is the through line connecting his personal and professional pursuits. It has been an obsession since childhood, when he would accompany his father, George, on calls to repair heating and air-conditioning units. Sitting in traffic, Mahoney would lament the time squandered that he could have been playing with friends.

He walked onto the team at Columbia, where he obtained degrees in chemical engineering and mathematics, and then managed to manipulate his work schedule to allow him to coach.

The first time he worked under Mangiero, in 2008, as the special-teams coach at Poly Prep in Brooklyn, Mahoney was frustrated. Not with his boss but with preparing for an opponent that, after it scored, would occasionally bypass kicking deep for an onside kick. The threat consumed him all week and then into the off-season, when he wondered whether data supported the risky play.

Poring over statistics he had collected, Mahoney discovered that, yes, it made sense. But he also divined some unexpected special-teams trends. Namely, if 70 percent of punts were either fumbled or not caught at all, then what’s the point in sending out a punt returner?

“I kept looking at the data and hoping I was wrong,” he said.

Mahoney considers this experience formative in his path to enlightenment. It fueled his interest in later projects, such as trying to quantify the correlation between offensive penalties and scoring drives. But his initial resistance also embodied the risk-averse culture so prevalent in football, where convention is doctrine. Especially in the high school realm, where a certain intimacy exists among town and team and sport.

“If a decision doesn’t go well, you’re going to hear it walking the school halls,” said Adam Clack, the coach at Milton High School, north of Atlanta, one of the top Class 6A teams in Georgia. He is using EdjVarsity for a second consecutive season. “You’re going to hear it from the parents who have your phone number and aren’t afraid to give you a call.”

Mahoney was so curious about the challenge of securing community support in that climate that in 2016 he flew to Arkansas to visit another contrarian with a zeal for statistical analysis, Kevin Kelley, who felt like an outcast 17 years ago when he pioneered a no-punt philosophy that has propelled his Pulaski Academy team to eight state titles.

“People want to know why — they really, really do — and as long as you’ve got a great reason,” Kelley said, “they’re willing to at least accept it.”

When Mahoney was promoted to head coach at St. Peter’s Boys High School, on Staten Island, in 2018, he reflected on that advice in his introductory speech to parents. Showing a video of two wildebeests standing backside to backside, Mahoney explained that if lions surrounded them, the wildebeests could swing around and protect each other. But if one strayed, the lions could eat them both.

“If you guys stick with us, we’ll be OK,” Mahoney said he told the parents. “But the second one of you complains that we’re not punting, or we onside kick, now you’ve exposed ourselves to the lions.”

At St. Peter’s, he shortened and streamlined practices to keep players and coaches fresh. By never punting, they could devote more time to offense and defense. He applied the Pareto principle, also known as the 80-20 rule: By focusing on the 20 percent of plays that the opposition ran 80 percent of the time, he eliminated unnecessary film study. Since players weren’t running downfield to smash the wedge on kickoffs, their risk of injury was diminished — not a single concussion, he said.

To offset a disadvantage in talent, Mahoney felt St. Peter’s had to play differently to compete, and indeed, games there doubled as a veritable advanced-stats carnival: The team used onside kicks, rarely deployed punt returners and went for it at counterintuitive times. Behaving in the extreme, he said, felt like the Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés, who attacked Native Mexicans in 1519 with a small force and, to ensure his troops wouldn’t retreat, ordered them to burn the boats they came on. Assistants who didn’t agree with Mahoney quit.

St. Peter’s was 5-8 under Mahoney, but the record bothered members of the community less than the image the team projected. Fans booed when the team recovered onside kicks. In citing reasons for Mahoney’s dismissal, the principal, Michael Cosentino, mentioned analytics but also said the team wasn’t as physical or conditioned as he wanted.

“It didn’t seem like we were putting our kids in the right position to win football games,” Cosentino said. “Certain things looked good on paper but don’t really translate sometimes to the game. When you’re dealing with individuals, they’re not just numbers, our kids.”

Scaling back, Mahoney said, would have felt like a betrayal of his values. But getting fired in the middle of the season still crushed his ego. In the aftermath, he wrote a 12-page treatise assessing his tenure. He attended the Sloan Sports Analytics Conference at M.I.T. and corresponded with Daniel Stern, an analyst with the Baltimore Ravens, one of the more analytics-savvy organizations in the N.F.L.

As time passed, Mahoney grew ever more confident in his philosophy. It was his presentation that needed refining.

“Most people in the world, they’ve never won an argument with statistics,” Mahoney said. “To change conventional wisdom, you usually need a good story.”

And when Mangiero called, in early September, Mahoney had one.

In his first few weeks at Mater Dei, Mahoney felt like an outsider. He worked with the specialists, but mainly, he observed, trying to negotiate his place. He wasn’t sure how the other assistants perceived someone, even with his football background, coming in to oversee analytics, and he found it difficult, at first, to form relationships or read their expressions beneath their masks.

On a staff that skews younger, Mahoney’s arrival was met with enthusiasm but also some skepticism — mostly, Mangiero said, from older coaches. But Mahoney had an ally in Mangiero, who said he had been interested in fourth-down aggressiveness since 2009, when New England went for it on fourth-and-2 from its own 28 late in the fourth quarter against Indianapolis — and failed. Intrigued, Mangiero peppered his former player Brian Flores, then a Patriots assistant (and now the Miami Dolphins’ coach), about Coach Bill Belichick’s tactics.

And when the Ravens excelled last season on fourth down, Mangiero went to a game in Baltimore — his friend Joe Cullen is an assistant there — and discussed their methodology afterward with Coach John Harbaugh.

From Mahoney, Mangiero had heard about EdjVarsity, and asked him to use it to research whether Mater Dei should adjust its punting strategy. Breaking down the Seraphs’ 27-25 loss in last season’s state championship, he told Mangiero a story. On a video chat, Mahoney showed him a presentation detailing how certain decisions affected win probability.

“This whole thing is connected,” Mahoney told him. “All this stuff is chapters of a book. Let’s put the chapters together and write the whole book.”

Impressed, Mangiero, the next day, authorized investing $1,500 to buy an EdjVarsity yearly subscription. To acclimate himself, Mahoney would play an old edition of the Madden video game on simulation mode, pausing after each play to enter the updated details of the game.

Every week, as Mater Dei has tripped over the truth, Mahoney’s responsibilities have expanded. He now manages the clock and advises on 2-point conversion strategy. He communicates the fourth-down plan, based on the tablet readouts, early in the series to guide how Mangiero and the offensive coordinator, Taylor Groh, call plays.

If on third-and-7, for example, Groh knows that Mater Dei will be going for it on fourth-and-3 or less, he might call a play that could net 4 or 5 yards instead of trying to gain all 7 at once.

During the week, after synthesizing customized postgame reports, Mahoney prepares a slide show presentation for the coaching staff. One was so illuminating, Mangiero said, he showed it to the team as part of a larger message about precision.

By demonstrating that turnovers cost the Seraphs 15.5 percent in win probability in their previous game, he reframed the importance of ball security in more urgent terms. When someone jumps offsides in practice, Mangiero reinforced his point by saying the offender cost them a touchdown.

Mahoney marvels at how quickly Mater Dei has incorporated analytics, and to its advantage: The Seraphs (4-1) have won four consecutive games heading into Friday’s season finale and are positioned to earn a playoff berth.

He wants to continue bridging the gap between science and 150 years of football. He wants to educate coaches without demanding they conform. He wants to research and experiment, build templates and confidence. He also wants to be a head coach again, and to train an acolyte or two.

Until then, he will appreciate giving Mater Dei an edge, as he did against Middletown South.

As the final seconds ticked down in the Seraphs’ 10-3 victory, Mahoney bumped fists with the assistants flanking him. He grabbed his Columbia laptop bag — “I need to bring the nerd side of me to football games” — and his headset. One by one, they headed down the stairs, toward the field, to their team, to celebrate together.





No.11 article:
How Biden’s Discipline on Rebuilding the ‘Blue Wall’ Moved Him Close to Victory

From the beginning of his campaign until the end, Joseph R. Biden Jr. concentrated on winning back Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, rather than becoming overly distracted by red states.

[Read more on Joe Biden’s president-elect acceptance speech.]

For Joe Biden, it has always been about Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

From the start of his presidential campaign until the final day of the race on Tuesday, the self-described “scrappy kid from Scranton” believed that rebuilding the Democratic “blue wall” in those states would not only be his strongest path to the White House but also critical for a party that long drew strength from working-class and middle-class voters in the region.

Now, with Mr. Biden edging ahead of Mr. Trump in a nail-biter of an election, the former vice president’s disciplined approach to winning back those Northern industrial states — rather than getting distracted by Democratic dreams of a blue Texas — appears to be paying off. Wisconsin and Michigan flipped back to the Democrats on Wednesday, moving Mr. Biden closer to winning 270 Electoral College votes.

His path to victory could well go through Pennsylvania, which Democrats lost in 2016 for the first time in a quarter century and Mr. Biden, a native son, seemed most determined to claim. But his victories in Wisconsin and Michigan also give him the latitude to take the White House with wins in Arizona and Nevada, where he was ahead in the vote counts on Wednesday night.

Georgia, another state where Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump are running closely, has been a tantalizing target for Democrats in recent years, fueled by fast-changing suburbs. Mr. Biden made a real play for the state, with advertising and visits by former President Barack Obama and others, but he did not spend a lot of time there at the cost of the blue-wall states.

“It was critical to his success to win those three back, not only for his presidency but also for the party,” said former Mayor Michael Nutter of Philadelphia. “We can continue to try to make gains in Florida, we can continue to push Texas and Arizona and Georgia down the line. But those three are key Democratic strongholds.”

Mr. Trump campaigned aggressively in Michigan, Wisconsin and especially Pennsylvania. But Mr. Biden’s focus was notable: Many presidential nominees take their eyes off their most critical states, but Mr. Biden never lost sight of trying to win back voters in those three states who abandoned the party four years ago.

“If I’m going to beat Donald Trump in 2020, it’s going to happen here,” Mr. Biden, the former vice president, told voters in Pittsburgh during the first address of his primary campaign in April 2019.

After midnight on Wednesday, he declared to supporters, “It’s going to take time to count the votes, but we’re going to win Pennsylvania.”

His discipline is relatively rare in presidential politics — candidates, often times Democrats, usually get swept up with a big map conquest, like Hillary Clinton’s intense focus on Florida in 2016 and even her dalliances with Arizona and Utah.

But this race was no ordinary contest: Like voters, activists and officials in his party, Mr. Biden was haunted by the narrow loss in 2016 of 80,000 votes in the three traditionally Democratic states that cost the party the White House that year.

In the last days of the election, Mr. Biden’s campaign and allies privately maintained that he could win battleground states across the country, including places like North Carolina, Arizona and Georgia. But, they argued, the trifecta represented their easiest — though perhaps not fastest — path to the presidency. Final returns in all three states are expected to take days, and Mr. Trump tried early Wednesday to set the narrative that Democrats were trying to “steal the election” — a groundless assertion.

But the Biden camp wasn’t about to take the bait.

“We believe that we are well positioned in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin,” Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, Mr. Biden’s campaign manager, said on Monday in a briefing about election night. “We know those states in particular are coming in later, but we think we’re going to win those states. That is our clearest path to victory.”

Although Mr. Biden visited Arizona and Georgia, his campaign had declined to spend a lot of precious time and money in those states — despite repeated pleas from local Democrats. And when two Democratic billionaires, Dustin Moskovitz and Michael R. Bloomberg, poured money into Texas in the 11th hour, Mr. Biden dispatched only Senator Kamala Harris of California, his running mate, to the state.

Even that was more attention than Democrats were accustomed to getting from the national party in the traditionally conservative Western states. In Arizona, a state that Mr. Biden visited just once as the party’s nominee, officials said they were satisfied with the campaign’s approach to the state.

“They spent a lot of time here; they put in a lot of energy and attention, more than previous campaigns,” said Representative Ruben Gallego, who represents the fast-growing Phoenix area. “And if we win, it doesn’t matter.”

In total, Mr. Biden spent $57.8 million on advertising in Texas and Arizona. He spent nearly three times as much — $169.2 million — in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

The decision to focus on the industrial trio was driven by the practicalities of political math. Mrs. Clinton lost those states by tight margins, making them fertile ground for Democrats to begin a comeback. Just winning those three states, along with holding all of the traditionally Democratic strongholds won by Mrs. Clinton, would capture the presidency for Mr. Biden.

But it was also a calculation born of cultural affinity. Despite his decades in Washington, Mr. Biden sees himself as a working-class son, just another “middle class Joe” taking the train to work like any other commuter.

“Joe, people like him, they don’t dislike him,” Representative Debbie Dingell of Michigan said in an interview this fall. “Hillary Clinton’s my friend, but she never walked into a union hall.”

Mr. Biden has particularly close ties to Pennsylvania, often jokingly referred to as the “third senator” from the state during his time in Congress, Mr. Nutter said.

“He knows the state. He’s comfortable in the state,” he said. “For him, campaigning in Pennsylvania was almost like going home.”

Shortly after Mrs. Clinton’s loss in 2016, Mr. Biden recalled feeling disturbed when seeing Mr. Trump strike a chord with voters at a rally in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., near his childhood Scranton home.

“Son of a gun — we may lose this election,” Mr. Biden recounted thinking in an interview in December 2016 with The Los Angeles Times.

Mr. Biden crafted his own approach, determined not to repeat what he saw as Mrs. Clinton’s mistakes. Not only did Mr. Biden start and end his campaign in Pennsylvania, he also visited the state more than any other during the campaign. Just a little more than 10 miles from his home in Wilmington, Del., and sharing a common media market, Pennsylvania was a second political home for Mr. Biden long before he started his third presidential bid.

“From the time I started as a U.S. senator, Philadelphia has brought me to the dance!” Mr. Biden, a former senator from Delaware, told cheering supporters in the northern part of the city during his last event before polls closed on Tuesday evening.

Mr. Biden and some of his allies see the working-class and middle-class moderate voters of the Midwest as his natural base, and they tried to build a coalition that was made up of more white voters than the base that elected former President Barack Obama and that Mrs. Clinton tried to replicate in 2016.

“Biden is from a manufacturing town, and he’s of the right age, demographic and financial background,” said Aaron Stearns, the Democratic chairman in Warren County in northwestern Pennsylvania. “People can relate to him in a way that they could not relate to Hillary Clinton.”

Some Democrats say it was Mr. Biden’s willingness to focus on the Northern states, devoting his limited in-person campaign stops to showing up even as coronavirus cases surged across the region, that gave him a chance of winning the states back.

“A lot of the problem was that Hillary Clinton was not here enough in some of the suburban areas that we lost to Trump,” said Jay Costa, the Democratic leader in the Pennsylvania State Senate. “The former vice president did a very good job of not falling into that trap another time.”

In the final days of his campaign, Mr. Biden did add a stop in Ohio, a state that many Democrats believe has shifted — perhaps permanently — away from their party. They were proved right Tuesday night, when Mr. Trump won the state.

Some Democrats attributed the stop in Cleveland to scheduling around events in Pennsylvania. Getting across the country to Arizona would simply take too many precious hours in the final days, given how many stops Mr. Biden’s campaign had planned in the Keystone State.

But others ascribed the visit to Mr. Biden’s dogged belief that the Democratic path to the White House still runs through the Midwest.

The Biden campaign, unlike the campaigns of Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, did not impose a central strategy on state Democratic parties, said officials in the three states. Instead, the campaign integrated with voter outreach programs that each state had been building since the parties’ losses in 2016.

“The big gamble for state parties was, would the presidential campaign push all the dishes off the table and start over, or integrate with what we had been building?” said Ben Wikler, the chairman of the Democratic Party of Wisconsin. “They didn’t impose a one-size-fits-all model.”

Mr. Wikler said he had been in regular contact with Biden campaign officials beginning last summer to brief them on the program that the state party was building.

After Mrs. Clinton failed to visit Wisconsin during her 2016 campaign, Mr. Biden made three visits to the state, which was set to host the Democratic National Convention before it became an all-virtual event because of the coronavirus pandemic, which is worse in Wisconsin than it is in any other battleground state.

Mr. Wikler said the three visits, along with myriad other virtual events that Mr. Biden and his surrogates hosted for local supporters, were sufficient enough to maintain a presence for Wisconsin voters.

“Biden has made clear all along that Wisconsin is a top priority,” he said.

It may still be some time before the nation knows whether it was enough.





No.12 article:
Supreme Court Weighs Legacy of Same-Sex Marriage Case

The justices considered whether a city may exclude a Catholic social services agency from its foster care system because it refuses to work with gay couples.

WASHINGTON — In an argument marked by sharp exchanges on the sweep of its 2015 decision establishing a right to same-sex marriage, the Supreme Court on Wednesday considered whether Philadelphia may bar a Catholic agency that refuses to work with same-sex couples from screening potential foster parents.

The argument, heard by telephone, came about a month after Justice Clarence Thomas, joined by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., appeared to urge the court to reconsider the 2015 decision, Obergefell v. Hodges, saying it stigmatized people of faith who objected to same-sex marriage.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who dissented from the 2015 decision, asked a lawyer for the agency, Catholic Social Services, whether her client’s position, rooted in religious freedom, was “in tension with another set of rights, those recognized in our decision in Obergefell.”

The lawyer, Lori H. Windham, responded that the agency merely wanted to continue work that it had been doing for centuries. Prompted by leading questions from several conservative justices, she said no gay couple had ever applied to the agency. If one had, she said, the couple would have been referred to another agency.

The Supreme Court has been quite receptive to claims pressed by religious groups, and that trend is likely to continue now that Justice Amy Coney Barrett has replaced Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died in September and was generally skeptical of such arguments. Justice Barrett’s questions in the case, the first major one in which she has participated, were evenhanded and did not reveal her position.

“What if there was an agency who believed that interracial marriage was an offense against God and, therefore, objected to certifying interracial couples as foster families?” Justice Barrett asked.

Ms. Windham responded that the “government has a compelling interest in eradicating racial discrimination,” suggesting that eliminating discrimination based on sexual orientation was less important.

Hashim M. Mooppan, a lawyer for the Trump administration arguing in favor of the agency, also said that “there’s a particularly compelling interest in eradicating racial discrimination.”

Justice Alito said a passage in Justice Anthony M. Kennedy’s majority opinion in Obergefell, which was decided by a 5-to-4 vote, had stressed the need for accommodations among those who hold conflicting views on same-sex marriage.

“Didn’t the court in Obergefell say exactly that?” he asked Mr. Mooppan. “Didn’t the court say that there are honorable and respectable reasons for continuing to oppose same-sex marriage? Would the court say the same thing about interracial marriage?”

Justice Kennedy, who retired in 2018, did indeed call for “an open and searching debate” on same-sex marriage, writing that “the First Amendment ensures that religious organizations and persons are given proper protection as they seek to teach the principles that are so fulfilling and so central to their lives and faiths, and to their own deep aspirations to continue the family structure they have long revered.”

Justice Elena Kagan pressed Mr. Mooppan to say whether the eradication of discrimination based on sexual orientation was a compelling state interest. He said that “we haven’t taken a position on that question.”

Justice Alito said that Philadelphia had exhibited hostility to the Catholic agency’s views.

“If we are honest about what’s really going on here,” he told Neal K. Katyal, a lawyer for the city, “it’s not about ensuring that same-sex couples in Philadelphia have the opportunity to be foster parents. It’s the fact that the city can’t stand the message that Catholic Social Services and the archdiocese are sending by continuing to adhere to the old-fashioned view about marriage.”

Similarly, Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh said Philadelphia was “looking for a fight and has brought that serious, controversial fight all the way to the Supreme Court even though no same-sex couple had gone to C.S.S., even though 30 agencies are available for same-sex couples and even though C.S.S. would refer any same-sex couple to one of those other agencies.”

“What I fear here is that the absolutist and extreme position that you’re articulating,” he told Mr. Katyal, “would require us to go back on the promise of respect for religious believers.”

Mr. Katyal said the case, Fulton v. City of Philadelphia, No. 19-123, was an easy one. When the government hires independent contractors like the Catholic agency, he said, it acts on its own behalf and can include provisions barring discrimination in its contracts.

Mr. Katyal added that there was no evidence that the city was hostile to religion, noting that it continued to use the agency in other parts of its foster care system, paying it $26 million a year.

Jeffrey L. Fisher, a lawyer for two nonprofit groups that sided with Philadelphia, said a ruling for the Catholic agency could allow other government contractors and employees to refuse to follow the government’s instructions based on their religious beliefs.

The city barred Catholic Social Services from screening potential foster parents after a 2018 article in The Philadelphia Inquirer described its policy against placing children with same-sex couples. The agency and several foster parents sued the city, seeking to be reinstated. They said the city’s action violated their First Amendment rights to religious freedom and free speech.

A unanimous three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia, ruled against the agency. The city was entitled to require compliance with its nondiscrimination policies, the court said.

The agency asked the court to use the case to reconsider an important precedent limiting First Amendment protections for religious practices. The precedent, Employment Division v. Smith in 1990, ruled that neutral laws of general applicability could not be challenged on the ground that they violated the First Amendment’s protection of the free exercise of religion.

That request did not receive a great deal of attention during the argument, which lasted about 45 minutes longer than the scheduled hour.





No.13 article:
Baron Wolman, Whose Photos Helped Start Rolling Stone, Dies at 83

He was the magazine’s first photographer, capturing Frank Zappa, Janis Joplin, the Grateful Dead and many more in the days before image control.

Baron Wolman, Rolling Stone magazine’s first photographer, liked to tell of the time he took a picture of something that wasn’t there.

It was in 1969, and he was photographing Jerry Garcia of the Grateful Dead. When Garcia held up a hand, Mr. Wolman thought he was just waving or some such. But when Mr. Wolman printed the picture, he noticed that much of Garcia’s middle finger seemed to be missing — some kind of trick on Garcia’s part, he assumed.

“I kept thinking, How did he do that?” Mr. Wolman told the California newspaper The Marin Independent Journal in 2011. “How did he make it look like he made it look?”

Only later did he realize that the finger really was missing, and that Garcia had given him a scoop of sorts — at that point, he generally hid the fact that he had lost a piece of the finger as a child.

“Jerry usually kept that missing digit out of sight,” Mr. Wolman wrote in “Baron Wolman: The Rolling Stone Years” (2011), “and here he was holding it up for the world to see, and for me to photograph.”

That anecdote underscores one of Mr. Wolman’s particular gifts as a photographer at the heart of the rock scene during the Woodstock era: his ability to gain the trust of his subjects. That skill led to enduring images of Garcia and the rest of the Dead, Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix and countless others.

Mr. Wolman died on Monday at 83 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. A statement on his website said the cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, often known as Lou Gehrig’s disease.

In the mid-1960s Mr. Wolman was living in the Haight-Ashbury section of San Francisco and working as a freelance photographer when one of his clients, Mills College in Oakland, staged a weekend seminar on the pop music industry. Among those who attended were Jann S. Wenner and Ralph Gleason, who were working on plans for a new music publication.

“Jann asked me if I would like to join the team as its photographer,” Mr. Wolman recalled in the 2011 book, “and, if so, did I have 10 grand to invest.”

He didn’t have the 10 grand, but he did have cameras, and he struck a deal with Mr. Wenner: He’d shoot for the soon-to-debut Rolling Stone free of charge if the magazine would cover his film and developing costs, let him keep the rights to his work and provide him with some stock in the new venture. The first issue, in November 1967, included a photograph of the Grateful Dead — the whole group; the Garcia missing-finger picture came later — on the steps of the band’s house; some members had just been busted on marijuana charges.

Mr. Wolman stayed with Rolling Stone only until 1970, but his brief tenure resulted in many memorable images. It was a time before rock and pop stars and their handlers had become masters of managing their own images, and as Rolling Stone caught on, Mr. Wolman had remarkable access to the rock scene.

The key to a good photograph, he always said, was getting the subject to relax, a delicate matter when dealing with music personalities as different as Frank Zappa, leader of the form-bending group the Mothers of Invention, and Tiny Tim, the quirky falsetto singer.

“You don’t put Tiny at ease the way you put somebody else at ease, right?” Mr. Wolman wrote. “So we bought a bouquet of daisies and said, ‘Tiny, this is for you,’ and he went crazy, he held them to his chest and he kept smiling and thanking us, smiling and thanking, and that small gesture gave us the ability, number one, to do the interview, and, number two, for me to do the pictures.”

Janis Joplin was a favorite subject, though she sometimes took some cajoling.

“She’d come and she’d have a long face on her,” he told The Times Leader of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., in 2016. “I wanted to always try to get her to smile, because she had this great smile, and I would say things like: ‘Janis, look, it’s getting your picture taken. It’s not like going to the dentist, for Christ’s sake. Come on.’ And of course, she’d break into a big smile.”

His best-known images are of stars away from the stage, though he also took performance shots. His first rock concert assignment, he said, was the Who at the Cow Palace near San Francisco in 1967. He was new to the scene and wasn’t prepared for Pete Townshend’s guitar-smashing.

“When Townshend destroyed his guitar, I was stunned, nearly traumatized,” Mr. Wolman wrote. “It would be like me pounding my Nikons and my Leica against the concrete.”

Mr. Wenner, in a phone interview, reflected on his good fortune in finding Mr. Wolman. “He had an eye for the people and catching them in quirky moments,” he said. “He was a good photographer, and that was just serendipitous luck on my part.”

Baron Alan Wolman was born on June 25, 1937, in Columbus, Ohio. His father, Jack, was founder and president of the United Sheet Metal Company, and his mother, Mildred Baron Wolman Burstein, volunteered for Jewish organizations.

He earned a bachelor’s degree in philosophy at Northwestern University in 1960. Then, from 1960 to 1963, after learning German at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, Calif., he served in the Army doing counterintelligence work in West Berlin. After that, he settled in California.

Mr. Wolman had no photographic training, but he was eager to experiment and willing to learn. “I discovered what worked by trying,” he wrote in 2011. “In those days I’d go into a camera store and say, ‘I’ve got this problem, can anybody tell me what to do?’”

Mr. Wenner said the knowledge Mr. Wolman had acquired by studying European publications helped elevate Rolling Stone.

“He turned me on to design and on to European magazines and that sensibility,” he said, “and just kind of raised the game.”

Mr. Wolman’s work for Rolling Stone frequently took him to Los Angeles and New York. He was dispatched to the Woodstock festival in 1969 and encountered the famous traffic jam caused by the crush of concertgoers, but he proved resourceful in finding a way around it.

“I had an AAA map,” he told The San Francisco Chronicle in 2019, when an exhibition of his Woodstock photographs was mounted at the University of California, Berkeley. “Remember those?”

The map allowed him to find an empty two-lane road that led to Max Yasgur’s farm, the site of the concert. Most of the pictures he took there, though, were not of the performers but of the audience — the impromptu villages concertgoers created during the three-day festival and other goings-on away from the stages. In 2014 he published “Woodstock,” with many of those pictures.

“One of my favorite images was a shot of the cows on the field at Woodstock with the festival in the background,” Jodi Peckman, who was Rolling Stone’s photo editor, then photography director and creative director, said by email. “Baron told me that he later heard that the cows were so traumatized by the crowds that they didn’t produce milk for days or weeks. Who knows if that was true, but it’s a great anecdote.”

Another book, “Groupies and Other Electric Ladies” (2015), revisited photographs Mr. Wolman took for a 1969 Rolling Stone article about the women who were drawn to rock stars. He published a collection of his Rolling Stone covers in 2008.

After leaving Rolling Stone, Mr. Wolman founded Rags, a fashion magazine of a different sort. “For us, what people were wearing was more significant than what the magazines said they should wear,” he told The Los Angeles Times in 1992. The magazine folded in 1971.

Mr. Wolman’s marriage to Juliana Sakowsky in 1963 ended in divorce in 1980. He is survived by a sister, Susan Wolman, and a brother, Richard.

Mr. Wolman sometimes lamented what had happened to music photography after his Rolling Stone days, as photographers found their access to stars restricted.

“I think that the management of the musicians right now is so stupid,” he said in 2016, “because in limiting the photographers’ access, they’re limiting the best that the photographer can give them.”





No.14 article:
Bolsonaro’s Eldest Son, a Senator, Faces Graft Charges in Brazil

Flávio Bolsonaro has been under investigation on suspicion of running a kickback scheme that has embroiled several members of the family, including the first lady.

RIO DE JANEIRO — Flávio Bolsonaro, the eldest son of President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, has been charged with graft and money laundering as part of an investigation into the theft of public funds.

State prosecutors in Rio de Janeiro announced the charges in a brief statement issued late Tuesday night. They did not release a charging document or provide a detailed summary of the case because it remains under seal as the investigation continues.

The case has undermined one of the main promises that propelled Mr. Bolsonaro to victory in 2018: that he was singularly equipped to root out the culture of malfeasance in Brazilian politics.

The charges against Flávio Bolsonaro stem from a series of suspicious financial transactions involving staff members at his former legislative office in the Rio de Janeiro State Assembly. Flávio Bolsonaro was elected to the senate in 2018, the same year his father won the presidency.

Investigators say that the president’s son ran a scheme known as rachadinha, in which elected officials pocket part of the salary of legislative aides who accept employment on the condition of kicking back part of their pay. The tactic is common in the lower rungs of politics in Brazil.

In a statement posted on Instagram on Wednesday, Flávio Bolsonaro, 39, said, “I have done nothing illegal.” He accused prosecutors of a series of procedural missteps and said that the charges stemmed from a “fishing expedition” into financial records.

Prosecutors on Tuesday said that they had also filed criminal charges against Fabrício Queiroz, a close family friend who served on Flávio Bolsonaro’s state legislative office. Mr. Queiroz came under investigation when investigators discovered a series of suspicious bank transfers, including a handful to the first lady, Michelle Bolsonaro.

The president and the first lady have not provided a clear explanation for the payments, which totaled more than $16,000. The president has reacted angrily to reporters who raised the issue, telling one in August that he was tempted to “smash your mouth in.”

Prosecutors said that 15 people other than Flávio Bolsonaro and Mr. Queiroz faced charges in the case, which they said was built on the transactions and other actions that began in 2007 and continued for more than a decade.

Flávio Bolsonaro has invoked a series of legal protections that elected officials in Brazil enjoy to keep the case from moving forward. That has created obstacles that prosecutors have so far managed to overcome.

Under Brazilian law, prosecutors must persuade a court to accept the charges in order for Flávio Bolsonaro and the other suspects to formally become criminal defendants.

The newspaper O Globo reported on Wednesday that prosecutors got a big break in the investigation this year when one of Flávio Bolsonaro’s former legislative aides made a sworn statement admitting her involvement in a kickback scheme.

The former aide, Luiza Sousa Paes, told investigators that she agreed to kick back 90 percent of her wages to Mr. Queiroz on the condition that she was an employee only on paper. O Globo said her admission of guilt marked the first time that a person involved in the scheme had told prosecutors how it worked and provided corroborating evidence, including bank records.

The case is testing the independence and strength of Brazil’s justice system, which just years ago drew global acclaim as prosecutors took down dozens of powerful business people and politicians as part of a sprawling corruption investigation that came to be known as Operation Car Wash.

But the careers of several of the protagonists of that crusade have stalled in recent years, and court rulings have deprived prosecutors of some of the investigative and procedural tactics that enabled it.

Under Mr. Bolsonaro’s watch, the executive branch and the courts have weakened anti-corruption measures. And the president himself is facing an investigation by the Supreme Court for obstruction of justice after his former justice minister accused Mr. Bolsonaro of seeking to replace a police chief in an effort to shield his family from criminal inquiries. Mr. Bolsonaro angrily denied the charges.





No.15 article:
How to Do School When Motivation Has Gone Missing

Here’s what teenagers can do to equip themselves to move forward during this difficult and frustrating time.

The school year is still young, yet parents and students alike may have noticed that academic motivation is already low. No surprise there. Whether school is remote, in-person or hybrid, many students have come to feel that, if this year were a meal, it would be all vegetables and no dessert. Gone, or hamstrung by screens, masks and plexiglass, are the encouraging company of classmates and teachers, the camaraderie of tackling tedious work alongside friends and the school day boost of exchanging a few words with one’s crush. Still here is the steady stream of assignments, assessments and lectures.

With the bulk of the academic year yet to come, here’s what teenagers can do to equip themselves to continue to move forward during this difficult and frustrating time.

Educational psychologists recognize two main kinds of motivation, intrinsic and extrinsic. Intrinsic motivation takes over when we have a deep and genuine interest in a task or topic and derive satisfaction from the work or learning itself. Extrinsic motivation, on the other hand, gets us to work by putting the outcome — like a paycheck or a good grade — in mind. When what we’re doing feels fascinating, such as reading a book we can’t put down, we’re propelled by intrinsic motivation; when we pay attention in a class or meeting by promising ourselves 10 minutes of online shopping for seeing it through, we’re summoning extrinsic motivation.

Intrinsic motivation is the one that tends to be prized in educational circles, and with good reason. It is linked to higher levels of academic achievement and greater psychological well-being. That said, intrinsic motivation can’t always be summoned or sustained. Young people may find themselves intrinsically motivated on Mondays, but not Fridays, or at the start of an evening study session but not as the night wears on.

It’s also true that intrinsic and extrinsic motivation aren’t mutually exclusive. It happens all the time that students both take an inherent interest in their academic work and care about their grades.

Rather than privileging one form of motivation above the other, it’s better to treat them as different gears, each of which helps young people down the academic road. In my experience, the students who are most adept at tackling their schoolwork know how to work both gears, shifting back and forth between them as needed.

Intrinsic motivation is extremely useful, giving even serious work a sense of effortlessness. But it’s not a piece of cake to conjure up, and conditions matter. It is most likely to flourish in situations where students feel autonomous, supported and competent, but often fails to take hold when they feel controlled, pressured or unsure.

In practice, this means that young people should be given as much say over their learning as possible, such as giving them options for how to solve problems, approach unfamiliar topics or practice new skills. This can also involve, whenever possible, letting tweens and teenagers decide the order in which they tackle their assignments, how they want to prepare for tests or where they feel they study most effectively, even if that means that their papers carpet their bedroom floors.

Should adults be cheerleaders for our teenagers? Opinion is split. Some researchers contend that praise helps to cultivate intrinsic motivation, while others say that it undermines it by introducing an extrinsic reward. There is, however, an area of consensus: the utility of praise depends on how it’s done. Specifically, praise fosters intrinsic motivation when it’s sincere, celebrates effort rather than talent (“you worked really hard,” vs. “you’re so smart”) and communicates encouragement, not pressure (“you’re doing really well,” vs. “you’re doing really well, as I hoped you would”).

This is such a hard year. So long as we do it right, there’s no reason for adults to be stingy with praise.

Finally, intrinsic motivation is all but impossible to muster for material that feels out of reach. Teachers and parents should keep a close eye for students who are checking out because they feel lost and work to recalibrate the material or the expectations.

Let’s be honest: Hard-working, conscientious adults often rely on extrinsic motivators — even when they love their work. Engaging work might be its own reward much of the time, but sometimes we keep our noses to the grindstone only by holding out the incentive of a cup of coffee, some chocolate, a vanquished to-do list, or all of the above. Adults often have refined strategies for getting through our work and, as a first step, we should talk openly with teenagers about the tactics we employ when intrinsic motivation isn’t happening.

Also, teens and parents can think together about strategies to help face down a long list of assignments. Would it help to have a parent work quietly nearby in silent solidarity? Would the teenager like to study in 25-minute intervals followed by five-minute breaks to stretch, snack or check social media? Might the promise of getting to pick the weekend family movie make that last bit of work more bearable?

Adults should be ready to stand back and admire the fantastic solutions that young people land upon themselves. Some adolescents buckle down with the help of a YouTube study buddy, others hold out the carrot of a video game or run once the work is done.

I recently learned of a 10th-grader who makes time-lapse videos of herself while she does her homework. Knowing that she’s on camera keeps her focused, and having a record of her efforts (and the amusing faces she makes while concentrating) turns out to be a powerful reward. While intrinsic motivation has its upsides, there should be no shame in the external motivation game. It’s about getting the work done.

This year, even more than usual, adults are asking so much of adolescents. One way to help is by talking openly about strategies that help muster motivation. These conversations will help teenagers now, and also long after the virus is gone.





No.16 article:
The Houston Rockets Have to Keep James Harden Happy. But How?

After losing their head coach and general manager this off-season, the Rockets are in a precarious position. Plus: more chatter from the N.B.A.’s grapevine.

Want more basketball in your inbox? Sign up for Marc Stein’s weekly N.B.A. newsletter here.

The N.B.A. draft will take place on Nov. 18, nearly five months later than scheduled. An abbreviated free agency period will likely be stuffed into Thanksgiving week afterward.

The off-season, like the 2019-20 season that preceded it, resembles nothing teams are accustomed to — except for the chatter about potential trades, hires and the like. That talk never stops.

Let’s tap into the grapevine for the latest around-the-league buzz, starting with a superstar’s uncertain future in Houston:

James Harden’s happiness in Houston must be closely monitored.

Mike D’Antoni walked away from the Rockets as head coach less than 48 hours after their season ended, with no promise of a new job, and will be a Nets assistant coach next season under Steve Nash. Daryl Morey then fled Clutch City, in the midst of a coaching search, to take over the Philadelphia 76ers’ front office.

And Houston didn’t hire either of the candidates Harden endorsed the strongest to replace D’Antoni: Tyronn Lue and John Lucas.

Rival teams are thus already wondering: a.) how perturbed Harden is, and b.) how long before the Tilman Fertitta-owned Rockets seriously entertain trading him?

The Rockets are adamant that Harden will not be shopped. They have the N.B.A.’s longest active playoff streak, at eight seasons in a row and counting, which began after Morey traded for Harden in October 2012. Fertitta insisted during a recent CNBC appearance that the Rockets are “not blowing up anything” and “plan on contending.” He has owned the team long enough to know that just keeping Harden should keep the Rockets in 50-win territory.

Houston’s resolve, though, is about to be tested, unless Harden warms to the change all around him.

Rafael Stone, Houston’s new general manager, made a sensible choice in difficult circumstances by hiring Stephen Silas to succeed D’Antoni. Fertitta had strong interest in ESPN’s Jeff Van Gundy, despite considerable reported reluctance from both Harden and Russell Westbrook, while Stone has been Lucas’s biggest backer in the organization. But the coach Houston ultimately chose got strong reviews for his work in each of his previous stops (Cleveland, Golden State, two stints with Charlotte and Dallas) and is known for his offensive acumen.

Silas has always been well liked, too, as evidenced by the praise his hiring drew on social media from the likes of Luka Doncic and Jamal Crawford. The relationship he builds with Harden figures to be the most important of his career, but it’s certainly promising for the Rockets that he has always been able to click with stars, going back to his early days in Cleveland and Golden State when Silas could often be found before games preparing LeBron James and Stephen Curry.

Give the Philadelphia 76ers this much: No team is spending more on organizational upgrades.

More than two years after The New York Times revealed the Sixers’ first attempt to lure Daryl Morey away from Houston, Philadelphia has hired him to a monster five-year deal.

And that’s after Philadelphia awarded a five-year, top-dollar contract to its new coach, Doc Rivers; committed to a contract extension with the holdover general manager Elton Brand; and hired two executives (Indiana’s Peter Dinwiddie and Orlando’s Prosper Karangwa) under Brand.

Industry insiders estimate that Morey received a salary in excess of $10 million annually. Specific figures were not announced, but some insist that the deal tops the five-year, $60 million contract that Phil Jackson reportedly received when he was named team president by the Knicks. The Sixers, citing team policy, declined to discuss the contract specifics when asked this week.

One immediate plus for the Sixers in finally landing their man: Morey, as we know from the nearly 80 trades he swung in Houston from 2007 through last season, has the gumption to break up the tandem of Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons by trading one of them if Rivers is unable to get them functioning better together.

One immediate concern: Morey, Rivers and Brand are all accustomed to having varying degrees of shot-calling power. So they will also have to prove, just like Philadelphia’s franchise duo, that they can mesh.

Morey joins Toronto’s Masai Ujiri and Boston’s Danny Ainge as high-profile executives in the Atlantic Division, where the Knicks’ new team president, Leon Rose, received his own lucrative deal in the spring.

Rose’s annual salary, I’m told, is in the $8 million range after he became the latest player agent to make the leap to the front office.

The last of the league’s nine coaching vacancies is in Oklahoma City.

Will Hardy, an assistant coach with the San Antonio Spurs, Charles Lee from the Milwaukee Bucks’ staff and Mark Daigneault, an assistant coach with the Thunder, are among the candidates who have received strong consideration for the post.

Other outlets have mentioned the Thunder assistant coach Brian Keefe and the former Nets assistant Will Weaver, who is coaching the Sydney Kings in Australia, as contenders.

But I’ve also braced myself, from the moment Billy Donovan and the Thunder parted ways on Sept. 8, for Oklahoma City General Manager Sam Presti to hire someone whose name had never been connected to the job. That would be the Prestian outcome.

Hardy has emerged as a key member of Gregg Popovich’s San Antonio staff and also worked under Popovich as part of the U.S.A. Basketball staff in 2019 when the United States cratered to a seventh-place finish in the FIBA World Cup. Lee has spent the past two seasons on Mike Budenholzer’s staff in Milwaukee after starting his N.B.A. coaching career in Atlanta. Daigneault has been in the N.B.A. for only one season, but he coached Oklahoma City’s N.B.A. G League team for five seasons before that after a collegiate stint under Donovan at Florida.

I was late to “Cobra Kai” on Netflix and can’t get enough of it now, and “Ted Lasso” on Apple TV+ has been another godsend during this very short N.B.A. off-season, but I miss “Game of Zones” badly.

Who’s with me?

This newsletter is OUR newsletter. So please weigh in with what you’d like to see here. To get your hoops-loving friends and family involved, please forward this email to them so they can jump in the conversation. If you’re not a subscriber, you can sign up here.

You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure “Corner Three” is in the subject line.)

Q: Take all the players ever and ask this question: Who would you draft first? You would pick Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. That’s how you settle the GOAT debate. In fact, you’d pick several centers before you got to Michael Jordan or LeBron James. But Kareem as the No. 1 overall pick is unassailable. You can’t teach height, as the old saying goes, and Abdul-Jabbar is the most skilled player to play basketball’s most important position. — Mark Calahan

Stein: Kudos for keeping the GOAT debate alive in this newsletter, no matter how hard we try to move on from it, with a previously unsubmitted argument.

But we have to ask: When is this theoretical draft taking place? In which N.B.A. era, in other words, would the mythical team we select be playing?

If we were drafting for today’s N.B.A., given how modern front offices think, I don’t see Abdul-Jabbar as an unassailable No. 1 pick. Not at all. Not when teams are prioritizing creators with the ball and versatile wing players who have the size and mobility to defend multiple positions.

Although it is gratifying to see such staunch support for Abdul-Jabbar, since he rarely receives that sort of GOAT backing, I suspect several general managers in your theoretical draft would be looking at noncenters if they had to build a team for the way the game is played in 2020. M.J., LeBron and Magic Johnson would all be contenders for the No. 1 overall pick — as well as a couple of Kareem’s predecessors, Bill Russell and Wilt Chamberlain, who possessed elite mobility and athleticism. Russell didn’t have Anthony Davis’s all-around game offensively, but you can certainly imagine him causing the same sort of defensive havoc and guarding all sorts of scorers on switches.

The real issue here is that there have been way too many greats in this sport to describe anyone as an “unassailable” No. 1 pick in the draft you’re proposing. It’s hard enough to get basketball people to agree on four names for the sport’s conceptual Mount Rushmore.

Where we agree is the notion that great big men will always be able to tilt the court. I’ve never bought into the “big man is dead” talk that increasingly circulates; some of that aforementioned focus on guards and wings stems from what’s available.

Rest assured that prime Shaquille O’Neal would find a way to flourish now, just as Denver’s Nikola Jokic and Philadelphia’s Joel Embiid do. It’s just harder than ever to find a Shaq. Or a Wilt.

Q: Tyronn Lue worked as an assistant coach for the Clippers before being named as their new head coach. Has any other championship-winning head coach subsequently worked as an assistant coach? — Jeff Pucillo (Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.)

Stein: My research turned up three predecessors to Lue, who won a title with the Cleveland Cavaliers in his first season as a head coach in 2015-16 and was a Clippers assistant last season.

Paul Westhead, who has a new book out (“The Speed Game”) about his life in the sport, was an assistant coach with three franchises (Golden State, Orlando and Seattle/Oklahoma City) after winning a ring with the Los Angeles Lakers in 1979-80.

K.C. Jones coached the Boston Celtics to two championships in the 1980s and worked as an assistant with the Detroit Pistons in 1994-95.

Al Attles coached Golden State to its first championship in 1974-75 and, in the same season that Jones worked in Detroit (1994-95), Attles served as an assistant coach with the Warriors.

Q: Was Kentavious Caldwell-Pope the worst third-best player on a championship team? — Colin Walsh (Brooklyn)

Stein: This one, cold as it sounds, was posed frequently during the N.B.A. finals. Kyle Kuzma’s underwhelming season opened the door to a debate, and I would argue, in response, that Caldwell-Pope was not the only nominee for No. 3 status.

The gulf between LeBron James and Anthony Davis and the rest of the Lakers’ roster is considerable, but that’s where the clarity ends. As well as Caldwell-Pope played in the finals, Rondo may have had an even bigger role once you factor in his locker room voice — and depending on how deeply you want to dig into this one.

I’d rather not ponder it too much. Caldwell-Pope and Rondo played their best basketball of the season when it mattered most and should be celebrated for doing so rather than scorned.

Some of us are also old enough (barely) to remember when Bob Gross, never an All-Star in an eight-year career shortened by injury, made a series-tilting impact in Portland’s comeback from 2-0 down to win four games in a row against Philadelphia in the 1976-77 finals. Matched up against the 76ers’ iconic Julius Erving, Gross scored 49 points in the last two games.

Most important here is the reality that the league’s overall quality was unquestionably down in 2019-20. The Lakers, to their credit, took advantage. But I believe they will have to strengthen their roster to repeat.

Having two of the league’s top 10 players and a spotty supporting cast was enough last season. I can’t see the league’s degree of difficulty staying that way with a slew of injured stars (Kevin Durant, Kyrie Irving, Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson) returning and a round of roster shuffling to come.

Twenty-two of the league’s 30 teams have not played since Sept. 3. If the N.B.A. succeeds in securing Dec. 22 as opening night of the 2020-21 season, that means 73.3 percent of the league will have enjoyed three months of rest before the Dec. 1 start of training camps. The union has pushed back on the league’s proposed timetable, which imposes a daunting turnaround on teams that made long playoff runs, such as the Los Angeles Lakers and the Miami Heat, but the majority of the league has had considerable time off.

For the eight teams that were excluded from the N.B.A. restart at Walt Disney World near Orlando, Fla., 286 days will have elapsed between the N.B.A.’s last night of pre-pandemic games on March 11 and Dec. 22.

Stephen Silas had been an assistant coach for the 19 N.B.A. seasons before the Houston Rockets finally gave him his first head-coaching shot. As noted last week on Twitter by the former New York Times scribe Howard Beck, Silas thus became the fourth active N.B.A. coach whose father held the same post, joining Cleveland’s J.B. Bickerstaff (Bernie Bickerstaff), Denver’s Mike Malone (Brendan Malone) and Minnesota’s Ryan Saunders (Flip Saunders).

The Rockets posted a winning percentage of .500 or better in each of Daryl Morey’s 14 seasons with the team. Morey, who abruptly stepped down as Rockets general manager on Oct. 15, was the lead decision maker in Houston’s front office for the last 13 of those seasons. No other team in the league posted a .500 or better record over the same span.

Leave it to my trusty historian pal @ToddSpehr35 to have it in his files that Portland’s Bob Gross received two votes for N.B.A. finals Most Valuable Player Award in 1976-77. The Trail Blazers’ Bill Walton won the award with six votes and Philadelphia’s Julius Erving received three despite playing for the losing team. It was Erving’s first season in the N.B.A. after starring for the Virginia Squires and the New York Nets in the A.B.A.

Hit me up anytime on Twitter (@TheSteinLine) or Facebook (@MarcSteinNBA) or Instagram (@thesteinline). Send any other feedback to marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com.





No.17 article:
Gamblers Outside the U.S. Take Presidential Odds on a Wild Ride

Betting on the election is not legal in the United States. But elsewhere, the odds swung wildly between President Trump and Joe Biden as bettors tried to stay a step ahead of prognosticators.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

While voters throughout the country were glued to their TVs and reflexively refreshing news and political sites on Tuesday night, a few of the cannier ones were paying more attention to something else. The betting odds.

You cannot bet legally on political races in the United States, but in Britain and elsewhere there is a thriving market as bettors look to make money on whether Candidate A or Candidate B wins a big race.

Many, many bettors are following the race for the presidency between Donald Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. They are consuming a wide variety of data, and their collective wisdom, as reflected in where they put their money, can move the betting lines quickly. As a result, betting odds can be a canary in a coal mine, catching on to a surge by one candidate before some pundits even notice.

On Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, political bettors, at least those in jurisdictions where they could bet legally, went on a wild ride.

Going into election night, bookmakers in places like Britain had Biden as a big favorite — to win $1, you needed to wager $2. Essentially this meant that Biden was considered to have about a 66 percent chance to win.

The bettors and bookmakers who establish these lines were more bullish on Trump’s chances than many statistical sites: Fivethirtyeight.com gave Biden an 89 percent chance of winning, and The Economist went as far as 97 percent before Election Day.

“Trump had been seen as an underdog since May,” said Pete Watt, the public relations manager at Oddschecker, an odds comparison site that does not take bets itself. “But in no case did bettors desert him. There were always more bets on the president, but the larger bets came in on Biden.”

Last week, an unidentified bettor wagered a million pounds, or about $1.3 million, on Biden on Betfair. If successful, the bet would return the million, plus 540,000 pounds more (about $700,000 more).

But Biden’s position as favorite did not hold on Tuesday night. The first blow was from Florida, a state where he was expected to be more competitive. As it became clear that Trump was leading there, bettors shifted toward the president, and his chance of winning increased from 35 percent to 44 percent by 9 p.m., Eastern time, Oddschecker reported, based on data on major betting sites in the United Kingdom that also take sports bets. Watt said that 93 percent of bets at one bookmaker, Paddy Power, were on Trump at about 9:30 p.m.

Events were moving quickly. “The markets were twitching constantly,” Watt said. By 10 p.m., Trump was the favorite, with a 56 percent chance of winning. By 11, he was up to 69 percent.

Those odds are based on the best prices available. But, of course, some bookmakers vary in one direction or another, based in part on the bets they have accepted. The rush to Trump was so great that at one point a few bookies were offering odds as long as 6-1 or 7-1 to Biden bettors, meaning their $1 bet would return $6 or $7. The odds implied that Trump had as much as an 85 percent chance of winning.

After midnight, bettors seemed to have settled that Trump’s re-election was at least more likely than not.

But overnight, things shifted back to Biden. “He saw some success in the likes of Georgia, which was definitely a surprise, and Arizona,” Watt said. “By 5:30 a.m., Biden was reinstalled as the front-runner.”

And though Election Day is over, betting will continue until it is clear who won, however long that takes. As of early Wednesday morning, betting markets had Trump around 25 to 30 percent to win. A bit lower than 24 hours before, but still a significant chance.

While many voters have strong passions about their candidate, bettors who want to maximize their return have to leave those opinions aside and bet with their heads, not their hearts. A wise wagerer who bet on Trump when he was a 3-1 underdog, and also bet on Biden at 5-1 or more at his low point at 10 p.m. or so, will be looking at making some good money no matter who wins.





No.18 article:
Election Night on TikTok: Anxiety, Analysis and Wishful Thinking

Their parents are watching cable news in the other room, but many younger people are gathering online for a more communal experience.

On election night, tens of millions of Americans turned to their cable networks of choice for returns and projections. Meanwhile, millions of young viewers — some first-time voters and many too young to cast ballots — turned instead to TikTok for virtual watch parties, political analysis and a bit of manifesting.

“Tonight is an extremely important night in Gen Z,” said Zane Mooneyhan, 20, who hosted a livestream as part of the Libertarian Hype House, a political collective. “For a lot of people this is the first election where we’re cognizant of the election and the impact that it has.”

Since its arrival in the United States in 2018, TikTok has become the default platform for millions of teenagers who want to educate themselves on issues, express their political ideologies and organize to take action. It has given rise to a new class of political pundits, many of whom users turned to on Tuesday to make sense of the night’s news and uncertainty.

In interviews on Tuesday, several teenagers said they preferred to see election results come in on TikTok, where they could process them collectively. “We’re all pretty anxious, we’re all pretty scared,” said Hannah Ziouani, 19, a TikToker in Colorado. “We’re looking forward to getting it over with.”

Onscreen, supporters of Joseph R. Biden Jr. expressed a mix of optimism and apprehension, while TikTokers who hoped to see President Donald Trump re-elected were largely confident, using their streams to boast about what they believed to be an inevitable victory.

Nick Lowenberg, 18, a conservative influencer, said that the pro-Trump contingent on the app has been vocal leading up to Tuesday. “I think conservatives dominate the political side of TikTok,” he said, “but I think overall, TikTok users as a whole are definitely more left-leaning.”

Shortly after midnight, Jax James, a 17-year-old TikTok star with 2.3 million followers, started a livestream titled “Scared.” On it, she held her head in her hands as she discussed the votes coming in. “Trump is probably going to win Texas,” she said as messages from her thousands of viewers flew across the screen.

Behind the scenes, political TikTokers communicated in large group chats, trading information and deciding when to make their own calls on certain states.

“I’m communicating with upwards of 70 people, all from political TikTok, about what’s going on,” said Ashleigh Hunniford, 17, a high school senior in Colorado. “I’m relying on different sources that are online. I’m constantly checking Twitter for other people’s predictions and talking to other people about what they think is going to happen in real time.”

Many were wary of jumping the gun before outcomes were fully known, and relied on the data-driven calls of traditional media. “The next few days are going to be hectic, and it is my responsibility and other big creators’ responsibility to not mislead people into believing that the election has gone one way without having states or all the votes counted,” said Harry Sisson, 18, known online as @typical_democrat. “It’s incumbent on us to be accurate. For the next few days I plan on my content being around how states are looking if they’re not called yet, and what those empty states mean.”

Aidan Kohn-Murphy, 16, a founder and lead organizer from TikTok for Biden, a group of more than 480 creators, planned an elaborate election night rollout for the account’s million followers. The account live streamed throughout the night, updating the stream’s title with news like “lead in Arizona.” When The Associated Press called a state, TikTok stars in that state would create a custom video announcing the news, which was promoted on the @TikTokForBiden handle.

That doesn’t mean creators weren’t treating Tuesday night as a big event. Mr. Mooneyhan, of the Libertarian Hype House, planned his election night stream outfit in advance. He donned a brown fur coat and gold circular glasses for the occasion. “It’s my drip outfit,” he said. “It’s what I wear when I want to be dripped out.” Many TikTokers wore campaign merch. One person showed up on stream in bunny ears, and several male influencers streamed shirtless.

“Compared to mainstream media, our livestream where we have people come in and interact is a much more fun and comfortable environment to consume election information. You feel like you’re a part of what is going on,” Mr. Mooneyhan said.

MemePAC, a youth-led, F.E.C.-registered super PAC that opposes Mr. Trump, hosted a livestream on TikTok displaying a website created by Jackie Ni, 18, a founder of the group. The site pulled data directly from The New York Times election map and used an Among Us-style animation to eject Mr. Trump from the White House for every 10,000 popular votes that Joe Biden received.

“I saw a lot of people were really stressed about the election, and I wanted to give them a way to see the results, but in a less stressful and more playful manner,” Mr. Ni said.

Ashton Ray, 17, a TikTok star with 920,000 followers, said the app has proved to be a way for people not yet of voting age to participate in the political process. “Me and a lot of my fellow creators, the majority of us are under the voting age, but we have these large platforms,” he said. “We’ve been able to reach millions of young people.”

As the night wore on, it became clear that results for some states wouldn’t be called until the next day or later in the week. Ms. Hunniford sat in her bedroom and refreshed Google’s live election results.

“My parents are watching NBC in the other room,” she said. “I personally think the mass information that you’re seeing online is so much more helpful, because I’m getting information by the second, and I’m getting everyone else’s opinion to form my own,” she said. “Watching a news station seems like getting someone else’s opinion instead of forming your own.”





No.19 article:
Deprived of a Quick Decision, Democrats Seek a Narrower Path

Joseph R. Biden Jr. may be on the cusp of victory, but the route that took him there proved more arduous than the “blue wave” that some hoped would sweep the party to shore.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

WILMINGTON, Del. — Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s campaign team began Election Day believing that the candidate had multiple routes to 270 electoral votes, as some Democrats dreamed of a landslide.

A day later, it was clear that the path to victory would be narrower, slower and more challenging than many Democrats had hoped, in a vivid reminder of how deeply polarized the nation is and how difficult it has been for the party to secure the votes of some of the diverse constituencies it had courted.

“I thought we were going to have it all over at 10 o’clock last night,” said former Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida. “Obviously, not only was I wrong on Florida, but what happened to Florida has been happening to the entire country.”

Saying that he remained confident that Mr. Biden would ultimately win the presidency, he joked, “I am wearing sackcloth and ashes.”

Mr. Biden has a clear path to the presidency, despite President Trump’s false claims about his own standing in the race. Mr. Biden flipped Wisconsin and Michigan, Midwestern states that were central to Mr. Trump’s path. He is leading in Arizona, another state that for decades was a Republican stronghold but rejected the party under Mr. Trump’s stewardship.

Wins in Nevada, where Mr. Biden narrowly leads, and in Arizona would bring him to 270 electoral votes, the bare minimum number he needs to make him the 46th president of the United States. And on Wednesday night, Georgia was too close to call, too.

In a speech in Wilmington on Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Biden said he would reach 270. “I’m not here to declare that we’ve won,” he said, “but I am here to report that when the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners.”

Yet the initial results on Tuesday and Wednesday indicated a far closer race in key states than many political observers — and the polls — had anticipated. Mr. Biden lost Florida, apparently by a bigger margin than Hillary Clinton did, while the outcome in Pennsylvania, long a top political and personal priority for Mr. Biden, remained uncertain, though there were signs it was moving his direction.

In his remarks in Wilmington, Mr. Biden sought to signal that he was already looking past the election as he emphasized the need for the country to come together once the results are in.

“I know this won’t be easy; I’m not naïve,” he said. “I know how deep and hard the opposing views are in our country on so many things. But I also know this as well: To make progress, we have to stop treating our opponents as enemies. We are not enemies.”

Election night, however, underscored just how deep the divisions in the country are. A number of states that Democrats had been hopeful about — places like Ohio, Florida and even Texas, where Mr. Biden’s running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, campaigned — slipped out of range. And states where Mr. Biden was thought to have a comfortable lead, including Wisconsin and Michigan, were extremely close.

Ohio, Texas, Iowa, Florida and most likely North Carolina — all battlegrounds, all reaches for the campaign where it nonetheless made investments of the Democratic ticket’s time in the final week — remained Republican. It was a disappointment to some in Mr. Biden’s campaign who had hoped for an early night and an overwhelming rejection of Mr. Trump, even as they remained encouraged by news out of Arizona.

“Running the table in modern American politics is really hard,” said Representative Tim Ryan, Democrat of Ohio, who hung onto his seat in a part of the state that has become increasingly challenging for his party, and was optimistic about Mr. Biden’s chances over all.

Biden campaign officials had always said that they were seeking to create as many pathways to 270 electoral votes as possible, and Mr. Biden’s campaign manager, Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, warned weeks ago that the race was closer than polls suggested.

“We were always clear that our initial pathway to victory was through the Upper Midwest,” Anita Dunn, a senior adviser to Mr. Biden’s campaign, said on Wednesday. “The goal was to get 270 electoral votes, and we feel very confident that after the votes have been counted, that’s where we’re going to be — above 270, which is how you win the presidency in this country.”

But on Tuesday, campaign officials had also entertained the prospect of having a clear picture of the results early, suggesting that Mr. Biden would give a presidential speech that hit notes of leadership and national unity that evening. Instead, given the close nature of many races, in a year where many Americans voted by mail in a pandemic, he gave only brief remarks in the early hours of Wednesday, urging patience.

An examination of election returns in battleground states showed trouble spots for Mr. Biden in a number of states, Florida perhaps above all else.

The campaign made a significant play for the state, a perennial battleground, deploying the Democratic ticket and former President Barack Obama there in recent days. But as Mr. Biden’s allies in the state had warned, and some inside his campaign had worried, he faced challenges with portions of the diverse Latino community there. And for months, party officials in the state said, he was not especially visible on the ground, while Trump voters were palpably energized.

“Their message, their implied ‘socialism with a Biden win,’ scared a lot of folks in the South Florida area,” State Senator Janet Cruz, a Democrat, said in a pre-Election Day interview. “I call it like a zipper effect: You start with a little issue, you zip it right open. And it worked.”

Mr. Biden won Hispanics in the state by only five percentage points, according to preliminary exit polls, a sharp decrease from four years ago, when Mrs. Clinton won among that group by 27 points.

In one of his most notable setbacks, Mr. Biden was leading by only seven points in Miami-Dade County, which has a majority Hispanic population and many Cuban-American residents, a steep drop from Mrs. Clinton’s 29-point margin four years ago. In Osceola County in Central Florida, which has a large Puerto Rican population, Mr. Biden was ahead by 14 points, a notable decline from Mrs. Clinton’s 25-point advantage there.

Other states show the limitations of Mr. Biden’s efforts to pry away white voters who supported Mr. Trump in 2016. In Iowa, many Trump-friendly counties moved further to the right. The same pattern could be seen in Ohio.

Yet he also appeared, in some states like Pennsylvania, to make gains with other voters, including moderates and independents.

“My friends, I’m confident we’ll emerge victorious,” Mr. Biden said Wednesday. “There will be no blue states and red states when we win — just the United States of America.”





No.20 article:
Norway’s Supreme Court Hears Rights Challenge to Arctic Oil Drilling

Environmental groups argue that exploratory drilling licenses violate a constitutional right to a healthy environment. It’s a test case taking on an industry that is key to the country’s economy.

OSLO, Norway — The Norwegian Constitution declares that all citizens have the right to a healthy environment. But Norway’s economy is built around an oil and gas industry that accounts for more than half of national exports.

Now the country’s Supreme Court is being asked to confront this apparent paradox, as it hears a challenge by environmental groups seeking to invalidate licenses for new oil exploration in the Arctic on constitutional grounds.

The case, which began on Wednesday before a bench of 15 voting Supreme Court judges — a procedure reserved for the most significant issues — is the first climate-change litigation to be brought under the Constitution’s environmental provisions, which were passed in 2014, and experts said it was unclear how the judges would rule.

It is also among the highest-profile cases in a series of climate-change lawsuits brought by activists in Europe and elsewhere — one that Norwegian news outlets have described as “the case of the century.”

A victory for the environmental groups, said Hans Petter Graver, a law professor at the University of Oslo, could force Norway to phase out activities like oil exploration, a cornerstone of its economy.

The litigants, who include Greenpeace and Nature and Youth Norway, say they are also suing on behalf of future generations, arguing that approving oil exploration violates human rights conventions because of its contribution to increased carbon emissions.

A major cause of climate change is the burning of oil and other fossil fuels, which releases carbon dioxide — a powerful greenhouse gas — into the atmosphere, where it acts like a blanket, trapping the sun’s heat and driving global warming.

The lawsuit “is our generation’s best shot to make sure a significant amount of carbon dioxide stays buried under the ground and never gets burned,” said Andreas Randoy, deputy head of Nature and Youth Norway, adding that a victory would mean “the beginning of the end of the oil age.”

“The government knows that oil and gas contributes to creating a climate crisis,” said Frode Pleym, leader of Greenpeace Norway. “Still, it is giving license to explore for oil.”

The Norwegian government has said that it fulfilled its constitutional duty by compensating for negative effects on the environment in other areas, and that an expansive interpretation of the Constitution’s environmental provisions would “change the relationship between state powers in a fundamental manner,” and potentially erode democracy.

Two lower courts have declined to invalidate the exploration well licenses issued by the government, though both recognized the right of citizens to bring cases under this article. A higher court was more vocal that the right involved the impact from climate emissions — including those from oil and gas exported abroad.

Companies were awarded licenses in 2016 to conduct exploratory drilling in the South and South East Barents Sea, an area on the Norwegian continental shelf spanning about 77 acres where oil and gas fields have recently been built. Parliament approved opening the area for exploration three years earlier.

The environmental groups argue that the oil-exploration plans were not fully researched before being approved. They have also pointed to a previously unknown expert report throwing doubt on the economic benefit of drilling in the Barents Sea, which was commissioned by the government in 2013 but not passed onto the Parliament before its vote.

The case builds on an emerging wave of climate change litigation from environmentalists in Europe and elsewhere. Last year, the Netherlands became the one of the first nations required by its courts to act over climate change: Its Supreme Court ordered the government to cut the nation’s greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent from 1990 levels by the end of 2020.

But the case is especially pertinent in Norway because of its position on the forefront of the international race for oil in the Arctic, even as it has implemented ambitious emission reductions goals.

Across the Norwegian continental shelf, there are about 89 petroleum fields, according to the government. Only two of them are in the Barents Sea, a lucrative area that the government has increasingly opened for exploration in recent years, estimating it holds half of the shelf’s undiscovered resources, but that the World Wildlife Fund has called “one of Europe’s last large, clean and relatively undisturbed marine ecosystems.”

While the lawsuit specifically concerns the licenses approved for exploration in 2016, the government has continued requesting such licenses — saying it would open more of the Barents Sea for oil and gas exploration in June.

“The Arctic is in crisis largely because of existing emissions,” said Gail Whiteman, the founder of Arctic Basecamp in Davos. “Any new drilling goes again a science-based approach to climate change and is at grave odds with Norway’s image as a leading green economy.”

The use of human rights in climate change litigation was a “recent phenomenon” pushed forward by groups who felt that they had run out of other options to force action, said Ole W. Pedersen, a professor of environmental and energy law at Newcastle Law School in England. “It’s a last resort.”

The crux of the case would be how much discretion the courts would allow the government, said Esmeralda Colombo, a fellow at the Center on Climate and Energy Transformation at the University of Bergen. In general, Norway’s Supreme Court has leaned in favor of environmental protection, she said, adding that claimants won a small victory in the last ruling when judges ordered the government to share in paying the costs of the case.

It will also raise questions such as whether Norway is responsible for the emissions burned from its exports — which are far greater than its domestic emissions.

The United Nations Special Rapporteurs for Human Rights and the Environment, among other environmental institutions, have submitted statements in support of the case. Groups have been crowdfunding to help cover legal cost, raising a total of about $270,000 from donors including the Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, who donated about $29,000 from prize money, according to Gaute Eiterjord, a student involved in the lawsuit.

In all, between 2015 and May 2020, 36 rights-based lawsuits have been brought against states for human rights violations related to climate change, according to the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment.





No.21 article:
Republicans Tighten Hold on Senate, but Control Could Be Decided in Runoffs

Along with falling short of expectations in the Senate, Democrats also saw their House majority shrink as Republicans made crucial pickups.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

Republicans, buoyed by an unexpectedly strong performance by President Trump in key battlegrounds, grew increasingly confident on Wednesday that they could maintain narrow control of the Senate and make a considerable dent in the size of the Democrats’ House majority.

Their chances in the Senate were vastly improved by the come-from-behind victory of Senator Susan Collins of Maine, a New England centrist largely written off as a loss before Election Day. Ms. Collins’s resounding performance in a state also carried by former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. defied national trends and she avoided a protracted fight involving the state’s ranked-choice voting system by clearing a 50 percent threshold of support.

Democrats, who had entered the night bullish about their chances, had flipped only two seats, in Colorado and Arizona. And with the loss of Senator Doug Jones, Democrat of Alabama, they were still two or three seats short of the gains they would need to control the chamber.

Their hopes increasingly rested on Georgia, where at least one race was headed for a January runoff with a Democrat as front-runner. Votes in the state’s other contest were still being counted, but Democrats were hopeful that Senator David Perdue, a Republican, would have to contend with a runoff, as well.

If they prove successful, it would provide Democrats with a shot at fighting Republicans to a draw for control of the Senate in a bloody and expensive rematch just two weeks before Inauguration Day. Two Democratic victories there would split the Senate, 50-50, and if Mr. Biden prevailed, his vice president, Kamala Harris, could cast tiebreaking votes to give Democrats de facto control.

Republicans had scored crucial Senate victories in Iowa, Montana, South Carolina and Texas, where Democratic challengers fell well short of expectations despite spending record-breaking sums. They likewise believed they were strongly positioned to hold on in North Carolina as well, where Senator Thom Tillis was considered one of the party’s most endangered senators this year, though the race was still too close to call with mail-in ballots streaming in.

“If my math is correct, if we win in North Carolina and Maine, I am still the offensive coordinator,” Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, told reporters on Wednesday, referring to his position as majority leader.

The fight carried heavy consequences for whoever wins the White House, given that the Senate holds sway over judicial nominations and the legislative agenda, with the power to advance or frustrate a president’s plans. Even as they continued to game out possibilities, Democrats emerged on Wednesday decidedly downcast.

“I was hoping we would sweep to victory with a number of Senate wins,” John Hickenlooper, Colorado’s former Democratic governor who defeated Senator Cory Gardner, said on MSNBC. “You know we were cautiously optimistic, but it’s not the level of excitement I was hoping to wake up to.”

In the House, Democrats were on track to secure the 218 seats needed to maintain the majority they established in 2018. But their predictions of a second consecutive wave powered by antipathy for Mr. Trump had been dashed by Wednesday morning. Instead, Democrats had lost a handful of historically more conservative rural and suburban seats in Oklahoma, South Carolina, New Mexico and Florida and were praying that a late deluge of mail-in votes would minimize further loses in places they once thought safe.

Republicans’ run of victories also promised to replenish somewhat the number of women in their conference, which was decimated in Democrats’ 2018 sweep. 

“I’ve heard for months from the pollsters and the media about how Republicans were going to lose more seats and cling to shrinking coalitions,” Representative Kevin McCarthy of California said at an upbeat news briefing in Washington promoting the new women in his conference. “We expanded this party that reflects America and looks like America.”

The accumulating results suggested that Mr. McCarthy could wield considerably more leverage in the House next term, particularly if Republicans hold the Senate. He quickly announced a run for minority leader and was expected to consolidate support. A smaller Democratic majority thinned of some moderates could also empower the party’s progressive wing to exercise more force.

In a letter to Democrats, Speaker Nancy Pelosi conceded it had been “a challenging election” but tried to put a positive spin on a clearly disappointing outcome. She predicted victory for Mr. Biden and said House Democrats were positioned to work with him “to deliver” health care changes, anticorruption legislation and “green infrastructure” — though a Republican-controlled Senate would have very little interest in making that possible.

Privately, House Democrats who survived were licking their wounds and contemplating whether leadership changes needed to be made at the party’s campaign committee. The losses stung.

In South Carolina, Representative Joe Cunningham, a first-term Democrat, was defeated by Nancy Mace, the first woman to graduate from the Citadel, in his Charleston-based district. With Mr. Trump making significant inroads among Cuban-Americans, two other Democratic freshmen were ousted by Republicans in Miami: Representatives Debbie Mucarsel-Powell lost to Mayor Carlos A. Gimenez of Miami, and Representative Donna E. Shalala was defeated by Maria Elvira Salazar, a former television anchor.

In the increasingly conservative rural Midwest, Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, the Democrat who oversees the Agriculture Committee and has served in the House for three decades, was also toppled.

The battle for the Senate was being waged on even friendlier turf for Republicans. Though they were defending 23 states, compared with just 12 for Democrats, almost all of them were places that Mr. Trump carried in 2016.

Democrats still managed to win in Colorado, a rare liberal-leaning state occupied by a Republican, and Arizona, where Mark Kelly, a former astronaut, beat Senator Martha McSally, handing her a second Senate defeat in two years. They also narrowly hung on in Michigan, where Senator Gary Peters beat John James, a Black Iraq war veteran and a Republican.

But Tommy Tuberville, the former Auburn football coach, easily won back deeply conservative Alabama from Senator Doug Jones. In Iowa, Senator Joni Ernst’s victory over Theresa Greenfield, a Democrat with roots in the state’s farming community, scuttled Democrats’ hopes for a key pickup. And in Montana, Steve Daines beat back a challenge from the state’s popular Democratic governor, Steve Bullock.

In North Carolina, Mr. Tillis had opened a lead of nearly 100,000 votes on Wednesday against Cal Cunningham, the Democrat and Iraq war veteran who had led in polls for much of the year before being dragged down by revelations of an extramarital affair. But the state accepts mail-in ballots postmarked by Election Day until Nov. 12, making a final call premature.

Among all the victories for Senate Republicans, Ms. Collins’s stood out as the most remarkable. Facing an onslaught of liberal outrage over her 2018 vote to confirm Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court amid accusations of sexual assault, she trailed the Democrat, Sara Gideon, the speaker of the Maine House of Representatives, in the race’s closing weeks.

In the end, she proved she was one of the few senators in the country still able to significantly outrun the top of the ticket, winning her fifth term even as Mr. Trump lost badly in Maine to Mr. Biden.

Still, already eying a 2022 Senate election on more difficult turf for Republicans, Mr. McConnell suggested there were reasons for the party to worry, as well.

Speaking to reporters after his own commanding victory in Kentucky, he said Republicans had pressing work to do to win back the support of women and college-educated voters, as well as to bolster their fund-raising apparatus, which has trailed Democrats’ juggernaut, ActBlue.

“I am disturbed by the loss of support in the suburbs nationwide,” Mr. McConnell said.

Democrats still remained hopeful about the races in Georgia. The Rev. Dr. Raphael G. Warnock, a Democrat, was headed for a January runoff against Senator Kelly Loeffler, the appointed Republican, in a special election to replace Senator Johnny Isakson, who retired in late 2019 citing health problems. Jon Ossoff, 33, a documentary filmmaker, was in a tight race to unseat Mr. Perdue, which could also end up in a runoff if neither cleared the 50 percent threshold required under Georgia law to win outright.

Democrats had one other outstanding target, Senator Dan Sullivan of Alaska, but it was considered a stretch.





No.22 article:
Some Suburban Strongholds Swing Back to G.O.P. in N.Y. and Across U.S.

Republicans are ahead in key congressional races in New York State, mirroring a national trend of apparent success in winning back swing districts.

[Read more on Joe Biden’s president-elect acceptance speech.]

Heading into Election Day, Democrats in New York had high hopes across the ballot, with three House races targeted in a national “Red to Blue” campaign.

But by Wednesday morning, those hopes were greatly dimmed: The three Democratic candidates, all women, were far behind after the initial machine count of ballots.

Elsewhere in the state, two first-term Democratic congressmen, Max Rose and Anthony Brindisi, were in danger of losing their seats; just two years earlier, they had been hailed by their party as trailblazers who prevailed in districts traditionally held by Republicans.

And in the State Capitol, where Democrats harbored visions of a supermajority in the State Senate, the party seemed far from that goal and may even cede ground.

With more than one million mail-in ballots still to be counted in the state, final results were far from certain in many races. But the preliminary vote totals seemed to reflect a resurgence of Republican power in the New York suburbs, where at one time some Long Island towns were among the party’s biggest strongholds in the country.

The Republican hold seemed to wane in 2018, with Democrats taking seats in New York and similar suburban districts in other states. But on Tuesday, the tide seemed to turn back again, reflecting the Republicans’ success at ousting House incumbents in swing districts across the country.

That trend was mirrored nationally in results from statehouses, with the lowest number of chambers slated to change hands in more than half a century. While Democrats won both legislative houses in Arizona, they lost the House and Senate in New Hampshire.

While some Republican candidates sought to distance themselves from President Trump, whose popularity was thought to be waning, they still clung to a Trump-like law-and-order message.

They tied Democratic candidates to defunding the police and progressive radicalism in the party, a strategy that seemed to work in many parts of the nation, as Republicans sought to maintain control of the Senate and claw back some House seats.

Mr. Rose was targeted in a series of attack ads from the Congressional Leadership Fund that featured a group of men in police union shirts criticizing him for marching with demonstrators calling to defund police departments. In another ad, he was accused of associating with “cop haters.”

Similar strategies were employed by the Trump campaign and Republicans across the country, and Democrats, including former Vice President Joseph R. Biden, were initially slow to push back — a reluctance that some Democratic lawmakers and strategists warned would backfire.

Indeed, while Democrats will still control the House, Democratic incumbents lost races in Florida and South Carolina.

In New York, Nicole Malliotakis, a Republican state assemblywoman, declared victory in her contest against Mr. Rose, in a swing district encompassing Staten Island and parts of Brooklyn. In Long Island, Andrew Garbarino, a Republican, also proclaimed victory over Jackie Gordon, a veteran of the Army Reserve, in a race to replace Representative Peter King, the 14-term congressman who was retiring. Neither contest was called by The Associated Press.

Nick Langworthy, the chairman of the state Republican Party, said that the party’s performance was a rebuke of Democrats’ “extreme left-wing agenda” in Albany and beyond.

“President Trump campaigned on the same issues our candidates did,” Mr. Langworthy said in an afternoon news conference outside the State Capitol. “We’re going to see where things go nationally. But I think he was a tremendous boost for our candidates.”

In particular, many Republican candidates centered their campaigns on accusations that Democrats were undermining public safety, with many citing a bail reform law passed by state lawmakers last year.

“There is a very fine line that separates Republican and Democratic voters in the suburbs, but it seems that bail reform and a general denouncement of law enforcement was the final straw in 2020,” Joseph Borelli, a Republican city councilman from Staten Island, said in an interview on Wednesday.

Indeed, in Central New York, Claudia Tenney, a former Republican congresswoman and close ally of Mr. Trump running to reclaim her seat, harped on that theme in an election night speech; she was leading against Mr. Brindisi, a moderate Democrat who narrowly upset her in 2018.

“We are going to stand up against socialism, against chaos, against looting,” she told her supporters on Tuesday night. “We’re going to defend our police.”

The state is still a Democratic stronghold: No Republican has won statewide office since 2002; the state’s congressional delegation still remains overwhelmingly Democratic; and New York City leadership is dominated by Democrats.

Indeed, in districts with heavy Democratic representation, candidates did far better. Ritchie Torres, a city councilman representing the Bronx, and Mondaire Jones, a lawyer who lives in Rockland County, won their House races, and will become the first two openly gay Black members of Congress.

The left-leaning Working Families Party also appeared to retain its automatic ballot line in a battle that pitted progressive leaders against Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat in his third term.

Yet Democrats had hoped that a wave of anti-Trump support would help them across the state. Instead, Mr. Trump appeared to do well in many regions, and his criticism of New York City’s rising crime rate and disruption from Black Lives Matter protests may have resonated outside the city.

Democrats may have failed to outline a platform that appealed to moderate voters beyond a rejection of Mr. Trump, said Bruce Gyory, a Democratic strategist.

“You’ve got to be able to put a purposeful agenda that resonates with voters in the center,” he said.

Other factors were in play. There was a flood of nearly $5 million in outside spending across Long Island, much of it from Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics billionaire who supported Republicans.

Mr. Lauder was focused on recapturing State Senate seats for Republicans, and the campaign centered its ad blitz on what it perceived as overzealous bail reform laws that were endangering the streets.

State Senator Robert G. Ortt, the minority leader in Albany’s upper chamber, predicted that his conference would win four to six seats, leaving it short of regaining a 32-seat majority, but still positioning it for a more powerful negotiating position.

“You could almost feel the overconfidence from the other side,” said Mr. Ortt, who represents a Western New York district outside of Buffalo. “It was a reminder that New Yorkers decide the elections, not talking heads, not press people, and not even state senators.”

Democrats had hoped to gain enough votes to win a supermajority in the State Senate, which would give the Legislature a veto-proof majority against Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat who has not always seen eye-to-eye with some of the newer, more progressive lawmakers.

But Senate Democrats, who took control of that chamber after big wins in 2018, said that they still anticipated that absentee ballots would allow them to at least maintain their current 40-seat majority.

“We fully expected to win races where we were behind on election night,” said State Senator Michael Gianaris, the Queens Democratic who serves as the majority’s chief political strategist. “If you’re down a couple thousand votes on election night, you’re actually ahead when you factor in absentee ballots.”

Democrats were trailing in other key races in New York. Lee Zeldin, a Republican incumbent on Long Island, had a sizable lead over Nancy Goroff, a chemist and a professor at Stony Brook University. Thomas Suozzi, a Democratic incumbent on Long Island, was losing to George Santos, a Republican private equity executive, although the margin was small.

In a district that includes Syracuse and nearby farmlands and that Hillary Clinton won in 2016, the Republican incumbent, John Katko, was thought to be vulnerable. The race — along with the two Long Island contests involving Mr. Zeldin and Mr. Garbarino — was among the three that the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee had placed in its “Red to Blue” program.

The contest, pitting Mr. Katko against Dana Balter, an activist who teaches at Syracuse University, was one of the more expensive in the country.

Mr. Katko had endorsed President Trump earlier this year, but he repeatedly condemned the president’s rhetoric and went so far as to call him a “knucklehead” a few days ago. His guarded stance toward the president seemed to pay off: He held a large lead over Ms. Balter.

Other Republicans like Ms. Tenney did not shy away from President Trump, hoping to ride his coattails in a district that stretches from the southeastern shores of Lake Ontario to the northern Pennsylvania border. Ms. Tenney leads by about 28,400 votes, but that does not account for at least 45,000 absentee ballots that have yet to be counted.

In the Staten Island race, Ms. Malliotakis was leading Mr. Rose by about 37,000 votes. Mr. Rose said he would not concede until 52,000 absentee ballots were counted.

“This city has seen a significant shift to the left that’s made a lot of people uncomfortable in our community,” Ms. Malliotakis said in an interview on Wednesday. “I will be a voice that will provide a different perspective, and that’s where you get good policy — when you have a debate and hopefully end up somewhere in the middle.”





No.23 article:
In Ascendant Night for Congressional Republicans, Women Led the Way

Republicans were on track to have the highest number of women ever to serve in their House conference, signaling the success of their efforts to recruit and elect a more diverse slate of candidates.

[Read more on Joe Biden’s president-elect acceptance speech.]

WASHINGTON — Republican women delivered critical victories to their party in the election, signaling the success of their efforts to recruit and elect a more diverse slate of candidates as they sought to counter Democrats’ huge advantage in adding women to their ranks in Congress.

Conservative women were nearing a historic level of representation in the House, more than doubling the number of female Republican incumbents in the chamber as they scored key upsets in battlegrounds across the country and beat back Democratic challengers flush with cash.

Republicans were celebrating their success at chipping away at Democrats’ House majority and feeling increasingly confident of maintaining control of the Senate. By Wednesday evening, they had elected 22 women and were on track to have the highest number of them serving in their congressional ranks, surpassing the previous record of 25 women elected in 2004.

Those wins came as Republicans fought to protect female incumbents in the Senate, where Joni Ernst of Iowa prevailed in her competitive race, Kelly Loeffler advanced to a runoff in Georgia, and Susan Collins won a decisive victory in her re-election race in Maine. Cynthia Lummis, a former House lawmaker, became the first Republican woman to represent Wyoming in the Senate, replacing the retiring incumbent, Senator Michael B. Enzi.

By Wednesday afternoon, Democrats had defeated only one Republican woman in the Senate, Martha McSally of Arizona, who had been expected to lose.

Republicans were still lagging far behind Democrats, who have spent years and huge sums to recruit and elect women across the country. But the Republican gains reflected the success of an urgent effort they undertook two years ago to make up for their widening deficit in enlisting women to run.

“In many ways, this cycle for the Republican women is a very simple story,” said Debbie Walsh, the director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. “You can’t see numeric gains in officeholders unless you have increases in number of candidates.”

But to reach gender parity in Congress, she cautioned, Republicans would have to continue prioritizing the recruitment of women in both chambers and not interpret their success on Tuesday as “a one and done.”

“These are important gains. They need to be celebrated; they need to be acknowledged,” Ms. Walsh said. “But women are still very underrepresented on the Republican side.”

The pickups were particularly remarkable in the House, where Democrats swept to power in 2018 by running a diverse class of contenders and sent a historic group of women into office. Just one new Republican woman, Representative Carol Miller of West Virginia, was elected to the chamber that year, raising alarms inside the party conference.

That set off a scramble by Republican leaders to steal a page from the Democratic recruiting playbook, eschewing the kind of candidates they had previously turned to — white, male, often veterans of politics — in favor of newcomers with diverse backgrounds.

“The Republican Party vowed to make gains among G.O.P. women, and it did because it prioritized the problem,” said Olivia Perez-Cubas, a spokeswoman for WFW Action Fund, a super PAC to elect conservative women that pumped millions of dollars into Republican primary races and the general election. “We’re seeing that Republican women will win.”

Republicans regained a number of seats they had lost in 2018, and partial returns showed women leading Democratic incumbents in other competitive districts, like in Staten Island, where Representative Max Rose of New York was fighting to hold off Nicole Malliotakis. Republican leaders said on Wednesday that they anticipated welcoming as many as 19 women to their ranks after a dozen candidates had notched decisive wins.

A woman won in nearly every district that Republicans had flipped by Wednesday, a striking statistic that bolstered the argument that conservative women could win competitive seats if they were able to make it through a primary to a general election.

Ashley Hinson, a former state legislator and television reporter, ousted Representative Abby Finkenauer of Iowa; Nancy Mace, the first woman to graduate from the Citadel, defeated Representative Joe Cunningham of South Carolina; and Yvette Herrell, a former state legislator and enrolled citizen of the Cherokee Nation, flipped Representative Xochitl Torres Small’s seat in New Mexico to become the first Native American Republican woman in Congress.

In Florida, Maria Elvira Salazar, a former broadcast journalist, stunned Democrats by defeating Representative Donna E. Shalala by a narrow margin in the state’s 27th Congressional District. And Michelle Fischbach, a former lieutenant governor, defeated Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, ending the tenure of the top Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee and a 30-year veteran of Congress.

Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, said in an interview on Wednesday that he and other party leaders had championed recruits like Ms. Hinson early in the cycle, recognizing that “women and minorities’ biggest challenge were primaries, not general election.” More than 200 Republican women ran for the House this cycle.

“They’re not going to give up,” Mr. McCarthy said. “These are the type of people you see who are just natural leaders. They’re not being elected because they’re a woman, but they’re going to break barriers where they haven’t been able to get there before.”

Republicans were also optimistic on Wednesday about the chance of victories by Young Kim, the first Korean-American Republican woman elected to the California Legislature, and Michelle Steel, a first-generation Korean-American and member of the Orange County board of supervisors, who were challenging Democratic incumbents in tight races in California.

Democrats, for their part, added to the diversity of their ranks with victories by Cori Bush, the first Black woman elected to represent Missouri in Congress, and Ritchie Torres and Mondaire Jones, both New York Democrats who became the first openly gay Black men to be elected to Congress. Mr. Torres is also the first openly gay Afro-Latino elected to Congress.





No.24 article:
Patti LuPone Was a Constant. The Other Ingredients Never Cooked.

With a marquee creative team, this romantic musical should have been a sure bet. One great song survived the out-of-town turmoil.

The producer David Merrick was no slouch at offstage drama. With a new musical in rough shape on the road, he devised an audacious caper to fix it.

The place was the Shubert Theater in Boston, the year 1976, the show “The Baker’s Wife” — with music and lyrics by Stephen Schwartz, a book by Joseph Stein and a cringe-making trail of reviews that seemed only to be getting worse.

At the start of the five-city, six-month Broadway-bound tour, in May, the Los Angeles Times had kindly deemed the show “not an embarrassment.” By September, The Boston Globe declared acidly that it didn’t “have a prayer.”

To Merrick, the song “Meadowlark” — sung by the title character, played by a not yet famous, 27-year-old Patti LuPone — was part of the problem. It was more than seven minutes long, and he wanted it out. So after a Wednesday matinee, he ordered the conductor, Robert Billig, to pull all of the sheet music for the song and bring it to the stage.

“I did as I was asked,” Billig recalled by email this week, “and Mr. Merrick put the music in his attaché case and departed for New York.”

The notoriously combative producer left the others to figure out how to make the evening performance work around the hole he had just smashed in it.

“This could all just be myth,” LuPone said by phone the other day, hushing her voice for effect, “but let’s hope it’s true: He was heard in a bar the night before saying, ‘I’ll get that song out of the show if I have to poison the birdseed.’”

“Meadowlark,” which went on to become a cabaret standard, a popular audition number and one of LuPone’s signature solo songs, didn’t stay cut. Billig got on the phone to Schwartz, Schwartz called his agent, threats were made. The orchestra got its music back the next day.

“By that point in the proceedings,” Schwartz said recently by video call, “this is why we couldn’t fix it.” Meaning the show, that is. “Because everything had sort of descended into chaos. Nobody was making really rational decisions.”

In terms of sheer, eye-popping dysfunction, the “Meadowlark” incident — which amuses Schwartz now — is emblematic of the grim slog that was the cross-country out-of-town tryout for “The Baker’s Wife,” whose star, Chaim Topol, eventually followed other axed creatives out the door.

Even LuPone, playing Geneviève, was a replacement for the original leading lady, Carole Demas, who was let go in Los Angeles. At that same stop on the tour, Jerome Robbins came to see the musical, invited by Merrick and Stein in the hope that he might take over the production. No dice.

“There was like a revolving door of directors,” Schwartz said.

“Every time somebody joined the company,” LuPone said, “we looked at them and went, ‘Oh my God, what did you do that put you in the bowels of hell?’“

“The Baker’s Wife” arrived with great ambitions, expected to join the string of Schwartz hits already on Broadway in the autumn of ’76: “Pippin,” “The Magic Show,” “Godspell.” It still hasn’t played there, and not until 2005 did Schwartz and Stein find its proper shape. But its creation story does have a happy ending, and we will get to that.

First, though, the horror show — which, like all the best horror shows, begins with no inkling of trouble.

In 1972 or ’73, when Schwartz was a 20-something boy wonder, Neil Simon invited him to lunch. Broadway’s reigning king of comedies, Simon suggested they write a musical together. But none of the ideas that he proposed — “Mutiny on the Bounty,” maybe? — appealed to Schwartz.

Then, over dessert, Simon told the story of Marcel Pagnol’s 1938 French film “La Femme du Boulanger,” in which a village baker’s much younger wife leaves him for a man nearer to her age. By the time Simon got to the ending, Schwartz was in.

And he stayed in after Simon, newly widowed, dropped out of the nascent project and Stein, who wrote the book to “Fiddler on the Roof,” joined it.

Centering their musical on the baker, Aimable, Schwartz and Stein had hoped to cast the “Fiddler” star Zero Mostel. When he turned them down, they took Merrick’s suggestion and went to Topol, who had played Tevye in the 1971 “Fiddler” movie.

“It turned out to be a kind of disastrous choice,” Schwartz said. “Because Topol was never comfortable playing someone who was an older and less attractive man. He had this sense of virility and sexiness.”

“Nothing could be done as long as Topol was there,” LuPone said, recalling one performance when he didn’t like the lyrics and substituted “blah blah blah” instead. “He sabotaged the show.”

A group of his fellow actors wrote to Actors’ Equity, lobbying to have him fired. (Reached by telephone, Topol’s agent declined to make him available for an interview.)

But by the time Paul Sorvino replaced him, in late October on the tour’s last stop — at the Kennedy Center in Washington, less than a month before the scheduled Broadway start — the actors were so “bloody and beaten” that they only wanted to be left alone by this new leading man who was trying to rally them, LuPone said.

For her, some of the erosion of morale involved “Meadowlark,” which tells the story of Geneviève’s decision to leave her husband. In LuPone’s recollection, it was consistently in the show until Merrick’s stunt in Boston, the tour’s penultimate stop. After that, “it was out, in, out, in, out, in, between Boston and Washington,” she said.

The last time it was pulled from the show, she remembers walking out of a company notes session and telling “the director du jour,” John Berry, that he could go straight to hell.

“I left and went into my dressing room, started crying, started smashing stuff,” she said. “And like a flock of sea gulls after the notes session, the company came in and put a Valium in my throat — and then left the room!”

LuPone laughed. At this distance, she cherishes her forged-in-fire “Baker’s Wife” anecdotes, and she is sure about the disheartening disappearance and reappearance of her big song — a number that, at her own concerts, fans demand to hear as much as they demand “Don’t Cry for Me, Argentina.”

But Billig, the conductor, said he didn’t remember the song being pulled more than once. Schwartz, whose daughter, Jessica, was born during the tour, was at home for much of its second half. Still, he said the song would not have been out of the show after his agent objected vociferously the first time.

One point of agreement about “The Baker’s Wife” back then is that it never did come into focus, no matter how relentlessly it was reworked. (To those who blame Stein’s book, Schwartz retorts loyally that “if we didn’t solve things, it’s because we didn’t solve them together.”)

Toward the end, as the show kept unraveling, those involved badly wanted out. Eventually Schwartz and Stein — who remained friends until Stein’s death at 98 in 2010 — went to Merrick and asked him not to take it to Broadway.

And when the closing notice went up that November?

“The entire company erupted in tears of joy,” LuPone said.

After they closed, LuPone, Sorvino and other cast members recorded an album of Schwartz’s favorite solos and duets from the show, which attracted a cult following and put “Meadowlark” into the world.

Trevor Nunn heard songs from the album enough times in auditions to pique his interest. In 1989, he directed a revamped version of “The Baker’s Wife” in London and supplied what was to Schwartz and Stein a crucial insight: that the central character is not the baker but the village — that it’s the story of a community responding to a small domestic crisis that touches them all.

It wasn’t until 2005, though, at the Paper Mill Playhouse in New Jersey, that Schwartz finally saw a version of “The Baker’s Wife” that felt finished to him. The director Gordon Greenberg, who years earlier had fallen for the show through the album, worked with Schwartz and Stein to realign its bones, lending it what Greenberg called a “Gallic shrug.” Alice Ripley played Geneviève — about 40 in that incarnation, but still with an older husband and a 20-something love.

Before the pandemic struck, Greenberg said, he had an offer to direct “The Baker’s Wife” in London that would have put him in rehearsals there right about now.

But it’s the Paper Mill production that Schwartz comes back to. As his favorite review said, it was the lovely little show that he and Stein had always wanted. It only took 30 years.

“For a long time, of course, it was the child that didn’t survive,” Schwartz said. “I’m really proud of the fact that we never gave up.”





No.25 article:
Migrant Families Were Confused When U.S. Expelled Children Into Mexico

U.S. authorities improperly expelled Central American children in violation of international agreements. Families scrambled to learn how they had ended up back across the border.

Eva Acuña spoke with her teenage sister Esther by phone early on the morning of Aug. 15, about an hour before Esther planned to enter the United States near the Mexican city of Ciudad Juárez and ask for asylum — the end of a long journey from Esther’s home in El Salvador.

Ms. Acuña, a legal permanent resident in the United States, expected to hear next from American immigration authorities about her sister’s status. But instead, about eight hours later, she received a call from the authorities in Mexico. Instead of taking her sister into custody, the U.S. Border Patrol had delivered the girl back to Mexico, where she was in a children’s shelter.

The transfer was contrary to both U.S. policy and an outstanding diplomatic agreement with Mexico, which do not allow children from other countries who are traveling without adult guardians to be expelled into Mexico. But it is now becoming clear that a number of children have been improperly expelled after the Trump administration shut down the border to most asylum applicants because of the coronavirus pandemic.

Since The New York Times reported last week on an internal email that warned border authorities about the improper transfers, Ms. Acuña, who asked that her sister be identified by her first name to avoid immigration repercussions, is one of several Central Americans who have come forward saying they were anxious and confused after their children and young relatives were sent without any adult to accompany them into a country that is not their own.

In some cases, including Esther’s, there were no other family members in Mexico to aid the children.

Just weeks after Esther crossed into the United States, a Honduran woman named Paola walked with her 5-year-old son Nahum to the edge of the international bridge that leads into the United States. (She also asked that she and her son be identified by their first names for fear of retaliation from American immigration authorities.)

The two had been living for months in a shelter in Matamoros, Mexico, waiting for the border to reopen so they could pursue American asylum petitions. But Paola said she had reached her wit’s end about the conditions they had been living in, and the fact that her son had not been to school in more than a year. She decided to send Nahum to the United States, hoping American authorities would allow him to join his grandfather and uncles in Los Angeles.

She said she walked the boy to the bridge on Sept. 5 and watched U.S. immigration officials usher him into the American port of entry. Scared that something might go wrong, she said, she stood on the bridge waiting for news. But after about five hours, she was dismayed to see a Mexican government van drive past her with Nahum inside.

Working with American lawyers, Paola contacted Mexico’s child welfare agency and learned that her son had been sent back into its custody. She pleaded to see him, but three days went by before she was allowed to pick him up.

Shipping young people back and forth between foreign governments is a sensitive matter, in part because of the bureaucratic red tape that can lead to delays in their release, even in cases like Paola’s, when the child’s parent is waiting in the same country.

It is unclear how many non-Mexican children have been expelled into Mexico, because both the American and Mexican governments have declined to provide data on the number of cases. U.S. government officials have cited a legal challenge against some of the expulsions that have occurred under the pandemic to explain why they cannot elaborate further. In a tweet on Friday, a spokesman for the Mexican secretary of foreign affairs said that “at the moment” it had no record of minors entering Mexico without accompanying relatives.

“The Mexican government, along with civil society and multilateral organizations, will continue with due investigations,” the statement said.

A U.S. Border Patrol official raised alarms about the practice in the internal email that came to light last week. Brian Hastings, chief of the Border Patrol’s Rio Grande Valley sector, confirmed the practice had been occurring, and said border agents had been directed to contact the Mexican consular office each time an unaccompanied child who was not Mexican was expelled.

Five people have told The Times that their children or young relatives were expelled into Mexico after entering the United States, in violation of the agreement between the two countries.

Lawyers from KIND, an immigrant advocacy organization, said that they knew of several Central American children who were expelled into Mexico and that some of them were still in custody there. And the Young Center, another such group, confirmed it had appealed to American authorities in two additional cases — two Salvadoran girls, ages 11 and 15, who were expelled into Mexico and eventually allowed into the United States after legal interventions.

“We shouldn’t be encountering these kids at all,” said Jennifer Nagda, policy director for the group. “We have no idea how many cases there are because we’re getting them through word of mouth.”

Some parents have had to wait days or weeks to find out that their children had been sent without their knowledge to Mexico.

Lenis Manzanarez Suazo, a Honduran who has also been waiting in Matamoros for the American border to reopen, said she watched as American immigration authorities walked her 7-year-old daughter, Samantha Manzanarez, into the United States on Sept. 23. She waited for news, assuming that the girl would be reunited with relatives in Florida.

“We waited for a call from a family member or something for three, four days,” Ms. Manzanarez Suazo said. “I was nervous. A week passed and still nothing.”

Finally, about eight days later, Ms. Manzanarez Suazo sought help from an immigrant advocacy organization called Every Last One that contacted the Mexican child welfare agency on a hunch that Samantha had been expelled. The hunch was correct. Samantha was in one of the agency’s shelters.

Mexican officials declined to provide her, as well as Paola, with documentation showing that her child had been improperly expelled by the United States into Mexican custody.

A.B., a 17-year-old from El Salvador who asked to be identified by his initials because he did not want to face retaliation in his pending asylum case, said he crossed the border near El Paso on July 14 but was expelled back to Mexico and held in a shelter there for two weeks.

The American officer who processed his case, he said, told him that if he had tried to cross the border before the pandemic, he would have had more success. “We’re sending you back to Mexico,” he said the official told him. “Maybe next time.”

Ms. Acuña’s sister Esther, who is 15, was transferred to a second shelter after being sent back to Mexico, then a third. She was eventually allowed into the United States after American lawyers, working in concert with the Salvadoran consulate, successfully argued that the expulsion had violated both U.S. policy and the diplomatic agreement.

She arrived at a U.S.-operated children’s shelter in Arizona on Oct. 23, about two months after she had been sent back to Mexico.

Eventually, Ms. Acuña said, the family hopes she can be released to family members in Houston. But when that will be, no one knows.





No.26 article:
When a Dance Collective Was Like a Rock Band

Wendy Perron’s book about the Grand Union explores this group of improvisers, who could transform “almost nothing” into “an unforgettable something.”

In 1970, the Grand Union came into being, and the dance world has never been the same. An improvisatory, leaderless group of artists, the Grand Union hung around for six years — a pretty thrilling six years by most accounts — during which discomfort, wit, boredom, chaos and excitement were all ingredients for creation. These performers were dance rebels who inspired the kind of adoration that rock bands did. They even had groupies.

The Grand Union emerged out of a work by the choreographer Yvonne Rainer, “Continuous Project — Altered Daily.” Along with her, the group included Trisha Brown, Barbara Dilley, Douglas Dunn, David Gordon, Nancy Lewis, Steve Paxton, Becky Arnold and Lincoln Scott. Its predecessor was another collective: Judson Dance Theater, the 1960s group of experimental artists who, among other things, rejected the psychological material associated with modern dance for something more — on the surface at least — in line with the everyday.

The Grand Union wasn’t everyday. As Wendy Perron writes in a new book, “The Grand Union: Accidental Anarchists of Downtown Dance, 1970-1976” (Wesleyan University Press), “The stars aligned briefly to create something as rare as a total solar eclipse.”

Ms. Perron, a former choreographer who danced with Brown and others, attended only a few performances by the Grand Union (Mr. Gordon named it after the supermarket chain) but while researching Ms. Rainer’s collection at the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles, she came across some videotapes.

“I thought, Oh, I’ll just look at some of these,” she said, and approached watching them with the question: Could this possibly be as good as I remember? She discovered that it “was even better.”

Many choreographers have changed the course of dance — Martha Graham, George Balanchine, Merce Cunningham — but Ms. Perron became entranced with writing a book about the dynamics of group creation. “Really, it was the relationship that they all had, and that they complained about and that had ordinary personal limitations and irritations,” she said. “But it was something to admire. This group synergy that created performances from scratch. There was no plan. They had to accommodate to what else was happening. It’s a life lesson.”

Her lively book, peppered with interviews and writings from the participants and observers, as well as her own reflections, includes biographical entries and what she calls “Interludes” — many of them excerpts from published writings — to give a more nuanced sense of the scene. And in her play-by-play descriptions of Grand Union performances, we grasp how spontaneous dialogue and movement could create moments in which, she writes, audiences could witness “the almost nothing transforming to an unforgettable something.”

In her detailed, intimate narration of the archival videos, Ms. Perron creates a sort of dance-theater of the mind — a trippy experience that seems all the more potent now that live dance has been put on hold. In some ways, the book, with its multiple voices and context-providing interludes, feels a bit like choreography. And throughout, it’s a story about people — she keeps them on a first-name basis — overflowing with imagination.

Ms. Perron, an educator as well as the former editor in chief of Dance Magazine, dedicates her book to the writer Sally Banes, whose influential study of postmodern dance, “Terpsichore in Sneakers” ends with a chapter on the Grand Union. (Ms. Banes died in June.)

“I was thinking that what I’m doing is I’m taking that chapter and expanding it,” Ms. Perron said. “I feel like it was a project I did with Sally — this whole book.”

Recently, Ms. Perron spoke about the her experiences diving into the Grand Union. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.

What it was like to be in the room at a Grand Union performance?

One that I remember was at N.Y.U. and Barbara [Dilley] and David [Gordon] were kind of chasing each other and there were pillows. There was an attraction and an anger, too. Their emotional states were so ambiguous, and I felt like I was reading their friendship, their affection for each other — like a brother-sister thing almost.

I remember thinking, are they really mad at each other or are they acting? And then when I was interviewing them both, I realized they didn’t know either. They were just in this realm.

How did you come up with the structure of the book, which unfolds in many sections and includes a variety of remembrances?

I liked the idea of having different voices. I’m not a novelist. Everything I’ve written has been pretty short. In a way, all I wanted to do is just describe what I saw in the videos and then to give background. I thought there would just be a few interludes and then they sort of mounted up — all the different tangential things I wanted to happen in the book.

It creates a visceral experience of an artistic movement, and I think that’s because of your dance background — you were part of the fabric of the time.

With a university press, they expect you to be academic in a way. I know that some of my colleagues in universities will feel like it’s too personal, but that’s the way I write. And I wouldn’t be interested if I were standing back and being totally objective. I was part of an improvisation group with Douglas Dunn. I took a workshop with Barbara Dilley. I’d seen her dance nude. I’d watched David Gordon’s “Chair” piece. I was in the soup, aesthetically, with them.

Could anything like the Grand Union exist today?

I felt like it was really a thing of its time and its place and would never happen again. That’s what I felt the whole time I was writing the book until the MCA Chicago showed the video of Ralph Lemon, Ishmael Houston-Jones and Bebe Miller improvising. Watching that video, I got the same feeling of amazing improvisers allowing things to happen, having unbelievable relationships with one another. Unbelievable movers. Unbelievable patience. And I felt that kind of magic with the three of them, even watching the video. It wasn’t even a live performance! So after saying that I think it could never happen again, I felt like I was watching it happen.

What do you hope that people take away from the story of the Grand Union?

That a collective could be something to work for. I want people to get a sense of the time — that time that had a sort of free-form thing about it, but also a rigor. And I do think dancers should write about their experience and the world that they’re in. That, to me, balances out a critic coming into the dance world from the literary world or the music world. I feel that I belong in this world. I don’t have to make theories about this world.

Because there are many layers to it?

The intellectual layer is one layer. The visceral, physical layer is another layer. The psychological, the sexual are all other layers to see dance in. And I guess I feel like I jump in with all my body and soul into looking at dance. I think all these Grand Union people do, too. That’s what I want people to get out of it: the wholeness of encountering and responding to dance.





No.27 article:
Fox’s Arizona Call for Biden Flipped the Mood at Trump Headquarters

The Fox News decision left the president fuming, and his team complaining. Then he began casting aspersions on other states’ vote counts.

WASHINGTON — With Florida looking red early on Tuesday night, President Trump and his advisers thought they were witnessing a repeat of election night 2016, when a victory in Florida foreshadowed a victory over all.

Inside the East Room, the mood was upbeat as hundreds of people, including cabinet secretaries, ambassadors and former officials who have remained loyal to Mr. Trump, mingled and dined on sliders and French fries. Officials who had been pessimistic about the president’s re-election chances suddenly started to picture four more years in power.

That mirage of victory was pierced when Fox News called Arizona for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. at 11:20 p.m., with just 73 percent of the state’s vote counted.

Mr. Trump and his advisers erupted at the news. If it was true that Arizona was lost, it would call into doubt on any claim of victory the president might be able to make.

What ensued for Mr. Trump was a night of angry calls to Republican governors and advice from campaign aides that he ignored, leading to a middle-of-the-night presidential briefing in which he made a reckless and unsubstantiated string of remarks about the democratic process. Standing in the East Room at 2:30 a.m., he dismissed the election as a “fraud” and claimed he wanted to stop the counting of votes and leave the results to the Supreme Court.

The Trump campaign knew Arizona could be up for grabs, but the Fox News call putting it in Mr. Biden’s column was symbolic, making it the first state that appeared to have flipped from the president’s 2016 batch of winning states. Gov. Doug Ducey, Republican of Arizona, had been on the phone all night with administration officials and campaign staff members, adamant that there were still Republican votes to be counted in his state.

Jason Miller, Mr. Trump’s political adviser, disputed the accuracy of the call on Twitter and frantically called Fox News, asking the network to retract it. He was unsuccessful. Instead of retracting it, the decision desk at Fox News doubled down on its call, putting Arnon Mishkin, the head of the desk, on air to defend the call. Several hours later, The Associated Press also called Arizona for Mr. Biden. (Other news organizations, including The New York Times and CNN, had not declared a victor by Wednesday afternoon because of absentee ballots that remained to be counted.)

Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, was also in touch with Rupert Murdoch, the Fox News owner, as the night wore on. And on Wednesday morning, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Bill Stepien, insisted the president would win Arizona by 30,000 votes.

Keeping Arizona in play was critical to the narrow path the campaign still saw to a victory on Wednesday, along with Georgia and Pennsylvania.

Mr. Trump spent much of Tuesday evening and early Wednesday watching election results roll in on Fox News from the White House residence, where he connected with several Republican governors on the phone. In conversations with Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas and Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, he asked about the possibility that fraud was being committed, according to people briefed on the call.

On Twitter, Mr. Ducey insisted that all the counting be completed before anyone else called the state.

Angry and feeling stung, the president and his aides watched as Mr. Biden gave a brief speech in Wilmington, Del., projecting victory for himself. “We feel good about where we are, we really do,” Mr. Biden told supporters, who honked their horns in support. “We believe we are on track to win this election.”

While Mr. Biden was speaking, the president tweeted for the first time all night, baselessly claiming that Democrats were trying to “steal” the election. In a follow-up tweet, he said that he, too, would deliver remarks. A podium with a presidential seal had already been set up in the East Room.

Mr. Trump’s advisers tried to persuade Mr. Trump to speak in the East Room before Mr. Biden made his remarks in Wilmington, but they were unsuccessful. Instead, they sat and watched as Mr. Biden set the tone for the night.

So it was hours before Mr. Trump actually appeared in the East Room. In the Oval Office, he huddled with aides who discussed how to frame the state of the race and whether he could declare victory or should take a more subtle tone.

He did not choose the latter approach.

“This is a fraud on the American public,” he told a crowd of supporters at 2:30 a.m., in remarks that were immediately criticized even by some of his allies, like Chris Christie, the former New Jersey governor. The president continued: “This is an embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this election. Frankly, we did win the election.”

As the map closed in on the Trump campaign on Wednesday, with Michigan and Wisconsin being called for Mr. Biden, the president was not seen in public all day. A Marine who stands guard in front of the West Wing doors when the president is in the Oval Office had not been spotted all day.

From the residence, Mr. Trump continued making calls to supporters and friends throughout the morning, sounding subdued and somewhat dispirited to some people. Outside the White House, finger-pointing about what went wrong had already begun. Some aides said that Mr. Trump had often resisted entreaties from Ronna McDaniel, chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and Brad Parscale, his former campaign manager, and others to spend more time in Arizona. But they said he had resisted in part because he did not like traveling west and spending the night on the road.

Ms. McDaniel, however, disputed that she had harbored concerns about the president visiting Arizona, and said she was not involved in determining his campaign schedule, which was handled by his campaign.

They and several other aides had also tried and failed to get Mr. Trump to stop attacking an Arizona favorite son and war hero, Senator John McCain, a Republican whom the president has continued to criticize even after the senator’s death two years ago.

There were also questions as to whether, had the campaign not spent so much money before the coronavirus pandemic began, it might have had extra resources to spend in states where Mr. Biden had won or was leading by slim margins, like Wisconsin, Michigan and Nevada.

But others defended the early spending by Mr. Parscale, who among other things had focused on increasing the president’s turnout with Latino voters, who ended up being a key part of his support in Florida.

On Wednesday, the president’s family was heavily involved in efforts to question the validity of the vote tallies. Mr. Trump had joked at a rally that if he lost, he would never speak to any of his adult children again.

Mr. Kushner was making calls, looking for what he described as a “James Baker-like” figure who could lead the legal effort to dispute the tabulations in different states, according to a person briefed on the discussions. (Mr. Baker led George W. Bush’s successful recount case in 2000.) The president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., was working out of the campaign headquarters in Virginia. Another son, Eric Trump, whose wife, Lara, has been heavily involved in campaign activities, spoke at a news conference in Philadelphia, alongside Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor.

“They’re not letting poll watchers watch the polls,” a visibly angry Eric Trump said, in a baseless attempt to cast doubt on the ballot counting still ongoing in Pennsylvania. Mr. Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, also made the groundless assertion that the election in Pennsylvania was being stolen. He also floated the idea of a “national lawsuit” about allegations of fraud, but it was not clear what that meant.

For all of the president’s superstitions, and his attempts to surround himself with the team that helped lead him to victory four years ago, he found himself in a far weaker position this time. In the final weeks before Election Day, Mr. Kushner reassembled a group of people who had been involved in Mr. Trump’s first campaign, including the former White House deputy chief of staff, Katie Walsh, to work with Mr. Miller and others on the final weeks of spending on television.

But by Wednesday, several White House officials and outside advisers said they were hopeful, but not particularly optimistic, that Mr. Trump’s legal challenges in several states would be able to change the trajectory of the race. The president himself tweeted a suggestion that “a large number of secretly dumped ballots” had cost him Michigan, a message Twitter quickly labeled misleading.





No.28 article:
A New Front Opens in the Russia-Ukraine Conflict: Borscht

“A lot of things were taken away from Ukraine, but they will not take our borscht,” said a chef who is leading a drive to recognize the soup as a Ukrainian cultural heritage.

BORSHCHIV, Ukraine — The roadside cafe is called Borscht, advertised with a gigantic beetroot red sign, leaving little doubt what people around here like to eat.

The fields are planted with beets. The town is named Borshchiv, which means “belonging to borscht.” It is just one of a dozen cities and villages in Ukraine named for borscht.

Given this clear commitment to borscht, Ukrainians wonder why the soup is commonly assumed to be Russian, a national dish of their archenemy.

Now a Ukrainian chef supported by the Ministry of Culture and Parliament is trying to set the record straight with an application to the United Nations’ cultural body, UNESCO, to list borscht as an intangible part of Ukraine’s cultural heritage.

“They can think whatever they like, but borscht is a Ukrainian soup,” said Olha Habro, a grandmother and well-practiced maker of borscht in Borshchiv.

Like the food fight between the Arabs and Israelis over who owns hummus, the dispute sadly divides two neighboring cultures over traditions that might have united them. Borscht is enjoyed in both Ukraine and Russia.

This conflict, though, comes with a twist. Even some Russian culinary historians and authoritative Soviet-era reference books on food place the origin of borscht in Ukraine. But after the Soviet Union broke up, Russia seemed to stake more of its own claim to the soup.

A year ago, the Russian government posted in English on its Twitter account a recipe proclaiming that “borscht is one of Russia’s most famous and beloved dishes.”

For the chef, Ievgen Klopotenko, it was the last straw. He had already been upset, he said, when friends told him that stores and restaurants in Europe and the United States market borscht as a Russian soup.

“A lot of things were taken away from Ukraine, but they will not take our borscht,” he said, adding, “I understood we have to defend what is ours.”

He went to battle, creating a nongovernmental organization to assert Ukraine’s sovereignty over borscht. The group spent months painstakingly gathering evidence that the dish originated in Ukraine and planned cultural events celebrating it, including taking a giant caldron around the country to cook borscht at festivals.

Ukraine plans to submit the UNESCO application in March. Parliament has passed a resolution in support.

To win recognition from the United Nations cultural body, the Ukrainians do not have to show that borscht is exclusive to their country, only that it is tightly entwined with their culture in such things as wedding and funeral traditions. And they must show that the soup is consumed widely. Town names also count.

The borscht dispute highlights deeper grievances between Ukraine and Russia.

Ukrainians see the Russian government, in addition to pursuing a military intervention in their country, as trying to appropriate the entire cultural heritage of the eastern Slavic world for Moscow, on such issues as leadership in the Orthodox Church and historical claims to Crimea.

In Western countries, borscht came to be viewed as Russian in part because of the tendency for many decades to conflate Russia, which was only one of the Soviet republics, with all things Soviet.

At home, many Soviet cookbooks identified borscht as Ukrainian, including an authoritative study of ethnic cooking published in 1978, “National Cuisines of Our People,” which listed six recipes, all from regions of Ukraine.

Even the Soviet classic cookbook, “The Book of Tasty and Healthy Food,” first published in 1939 under Stalin, does not describe borscht as Russian. It has only one recipe for the soup indicating a national origin, and that is for “Ukrainian borscht.” The others are specialized versions with mushrooms or low in fat, of unspecified origin.

To be fair, Russia also has a dozen villages and towns named for borscht, each with its own recipe, and the soup is on the menu at any restaurant serving Russian cuisine. Nobody disputes that Russians today eat plenty of borscht.

But it is a relatively modern addition to the Russian menu, said Olga A. Syutkina, a Russian culinary historian and author of “The True History of Russian Cuisine.”

It spread widely in central Russia starting in the late 18th century, she said, in part because the soup was easily made in large batches and served by the tsarist military. Later, it became a staple in cafeterias in Soviet factories.

“The association with the Soviet epoch creates the illusion that borscht is an inalienable part of the Russian menu,” Ms. Syutkina said.

Adding to the confusion, Russians seeking to lay claim to borscht’s origins sometimes cite an entirely different soup that was made in medieval times in Russia from wild hogweed grass and a light beer made from fermented bread. It, too, was called borscht, and is mentioned in a 16th-century Moscow book of advice about home life, “Homemaker.”

In rural Ukraine, gardens yield all the ingredients. For the winter, Ukrainians preserve sour sorrel leaves in canning jars as a base for green borscht, a version without beets. For funeral wakes, vegetarian borscht is on the menu.

More typically, it is a meaty broth, sometimes so rich a quarter inch or so of glistening, liquid fat shimmers on the surface.

In Borshchiv recently, Ms. Habro made a pot for her son, who had been working in the garden planting garlic, and for her grandson, who had been at best only pretending to help with the garden chores but wasn’t begrudged a bowl of soup all the same.

A secret of borscht is accounting for the different cooking times of the ingredients, typically beetroot, carrots, beans, potatoes and some sort of meat, usually beef, but sometimes pork or chicken. Ms. Habro uses two pots — the meat, beans and potatoes in one, the beets and carrots in the other — mixing the two just before serving.

Last month Russia seemed to back down — a rarity these days — on any claim of a direct sphere of influence over the soup. “Borscht is a national food of many countries, including Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Poland, Romania, Moldova and Lithuania,” the Russian Embassy in Washington posted on Twitter. “Choose your favorite.”

The post did include a video of a recipe for “Russian borscht,” by a division of the Russian Information Agency, a state news outlet at times accused of influence operations. It was a version built on beef bouillon with potatoes, spiced with black pepper, which appeared tasty enough.

Anton A. Alyoshin, head chef at Clever, a culinary school in Moscow, said the more traditional Russian soups use sauerkraut rather than fresh cabbage, reflecting the tradition of preserving vegetables for the long, harsh northern winters. The result is a delightful pork and sauerkraut soup — shchi — that is more indisputably Russia’s own. It is also served with sour cream, but, sadly, is not well-known outside Russia.

“By the culinary canon, borscht is a Ukrainian tradition,” Mr. Alyoshin said, surrendering without a fight. “If we talk about shchi, a similar dish, it is more Russian.”

He clarified that borscht “is a dish with a tremendously long history” that has been made in Russia for generations, and said that he and countless other Russian cooks enjoy stewing pots of borscht.

“To be honest, borscht is a Slavic national dish: It is Russian and Ukrainian,” he said. “The roots are the same, but politics interfered.”





No.29 article:
When a President Sabotages His Own Country

Donald Trump may hug and kiss the flag, but he is undermining our election’s legitimacy and our government.

In the end, the biggest interference in America’s elections didn’t come from Russia, or China, or Iran or North Korea. It came from the president of the United States.

As I write this, we still don’t know for certain who won the election, although Joe Biden seems in a strong position to win the White House and Republicans to retain the Senate.

But we do know for certain that President Trump lied to the public early Wednesday morning when he claimed victory and sought a judicial rescue from voters. His brazenness undermines our election system and the very idea of a peaceful transition of power.

It’s hard to imagine that the Supreme Court, however politicized it may have become, would go along with such a charade. I don’t believe that Trump, if he loses in a clear-cut way, will be able to remain in office; if he tries to barricade himself in the Oval Office, he’ll be escorted out on Jan. 20.

Yet what Trump has already done is what the Russians have always tried to do: cast doubt on American elections and destabilize the United States. The 2018 federal indictment of Russian election hackers alleged that they were engaged in “information warfare against the United States of America,” by fostering confusion and distrust that impair the integrity of elections and damage the legitimacy of the government that emerges.

That’s precisely what Trump is now doing. He may hug and kiss American flags and pretend to be a great patriot, but this is a betrayal of our country.

If Biden wins after this poisoning of the chalice, he will inherit a badly divided country after an election that many will deem illegitimate, and it will be harder to govern and more difficult for the United States to exert influence around the world. It’s one thing for Russian hackers in St. Petersburg to sabotage our government; it’s far more tragic when the president does the same from the White House.

Vice President Mike Pence spoke right after Trump and did not repeat the president’s claim of victory or his call for the courts to intervene. But Pence let his boss’s lies stand, and most leading Republicans have also kept quiet.

Trump’s latest attack on the integrity of America’s electoral system and on the peaceful transfer of power — the litmus test for any democracy — comes after years of other lies and efforts to discredit the electoral system. And yes, it’s true that it is an electoral system that has obvious undemocratic elements, but these aren’t what Trump has been talking about.

Biden will easily win the popular vote by millions of ballots, and yet the outcome is in doubt only because of the Electoral College. Between 2000 and 2016, in two of the three times when Republicans won the presidency, it was while losing the popular vote. And if the Supreme Court does weigh in on this election, one-third of the justices were appointed by Trump after he lost the popular vote by 2.9 million votes.

The Senate has similar issues. The current Democratic senators represent 14 million more voters than the Republican senators, but it’s the Democrats who are in the minority because of the outsize influence of low-population states.

Senator Mike Lee, a Republican from Utah, has bluntly said, “we’re not a democracy” but a republic (actually, we’re both). Lee, along with Senator Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican, even recommended repealing the 17th Amendment, which provides for direct election of senators. If senators were again chosen by state legislatures, Republicans would gain a few seats.

More broadly, much of the Republican Party seems to fear voters and believes that its best path to victory is to suppress voting or even, in the case of Harris County, Texas, discard ballots. We no longer have poll taxes and grandfather clauses to disenfranchise Black voters, but G.O.P. officials modernized the barriers to voting by people of color. One careful study published in Scientific American last year found that voters in predominantly Black neighborhoods are 74 percent more likely to have to wait more than 30 minutes to vote than residents of white neighborhoods.

Trump himself said in March that he opposed efforts to encourage more voting because “if you agreed to it, you’d never have a Republican elected in this country again.”

Yet here’s another thought: Perhaps Republicans and Democrats alike have been too quick to assume that higher turnouts are inevitably bad for G.O.P. prospects.

This election appears to have had the highest turnout in 120 years, and Biden and Trump may end up as the No. 1 and No. 2 winners of the popular vote in American history. Trump had the support of millions more voters in this election than four years ago.

According to exit polls, Trump won votes from 18 percent of Black men and 36 percent of Latino men, along with those of 58 percent of white men.

The Democrats had a great deal going for them in this election: a nominee viewed as soothing and electable, streams of new outrages from Trump, frequent revelations of corruption or improprieties involving him, denunciations of him from family members and former aides, and, above all, a mismanaged pandemic that killed 230,000 Americans and devastated the economy.

Yet many voters saw all this and were unfazed. Dr. Irwin Redlener, an expert in managing health disasters, says that Trump won nine of the 10 states with the highest prevalence of the coronavirus.

So as I fret about Trump’s efforts to do Russia’s work and delegitimize this election, I also keep wrestling with this question: How is it that so many millions of Americans watched Trump for four years, suffered the pain of his bungling of Covid-19, listened to his stream of lies, observed his attacks on American institutions — and then voted for him in greater numbers than before?





No.30 article:
Uber and Lyft Drivers in California Will Remain Contractors

The victory of Proposition 22, the most expensive initiative in the state’s history, could help gig companies remake labor laws throughout the country.

[President-elect Joe Biden’s victory prompts spontaneous celebrations.]

OAKLAND, Calif. — Drivers and other workers for so-called gig economy companies in California will not become their employees.

California voters carried Uber and Lyft to victory, overwhelmingly approving Proposition 22, a ballot measure that allows gig economy companies to continue treating drivers as independent contractors.

Uber, Lyft and the delivery service DoorDash designed the measure to exempt the companies from a state labor law that would have forced them to employ drivers and pay for health care, unemployment insurance and other benefits. As a concession to labor advocates, the initiative offers a wage floor and limited benefits to drivers.

The Associated Press projected early Wednesday that Prop. 22 had carried 58 percent of the vote. Prop. 22 faced the strongest opposition in San Francisco, where Uber and Lyft have their headquarters, with more than a 19-point deficit.

The vote resolves the fiercest regulatory battle that Uber and Lyft have faced and opens a path for the companies to remake labor laws throughout the country. The fight pit labor groups and state lawmakers against ride-hailing and delivery start-ups that spent $200 million in support of the measure.

In voting to support Uber and Lyft, Californians rejected the principles outlined in a 2018 State Supreme Court ruling and enshrined in a 2019 state law that said workers who performed tasks within a company’s regular business — and were controlled by the company and did not operate their own firms — must be treated as employees. Under Prop. 22, gig workers are exempted from these rules and can continue to work independently.

The Yes on Prop. 22 campaign, backed by Uber, Lyft and DoorDash, celebrated the victory. “California has spoken,” Geoff Vetter, a spokesman for the campaign, said in a news release. “Prop. 22 represents the future of work in an increasingly technologically-driven economy.” On Wednesday morning, executives at Lyft and DoorDash praised the outcome.

Uber’s stock price climbed more than 14 percent on Wednesday, and Lyft’s was up more than 11 percent at the close of trading.

Uber’s chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, thanked drivers for the win in a late-night email. “The future of independent work is more secure because so many drivers like you spoke up,” he wrote. He said Uber would make the new benefits promised by Prop. 22 available “as soon as possible.”

“The last 14 months in California have been the most critical point on this issue,” said Bradley Tusk, a venture capitalist who advised Uber on political issues during its early years. Emboldened by the election, Uber and other gig economy players are likely to pursue federal legislation to enshrine gig work in the nation’s labor laws.

The passage of Prop. 22 is a bitter loss for state and local officials who have long seen the ride-hailing companies as obstinate upstarts that shrugged off any effort to make them follow the rules.

Many local officials believed California was too gentle for too long when it came to regulating Uber and Lyft and naïve about how powerful and influential the companies would quickly become.

“For all too long, Uber and Lyft banked on the timidity of public officials throughout the country,” said Dennis Herrera, the city attorney of San Francisco. “They said: ‘We’re not going to ask permission. We’ll sort of ask for forgiveness after the fact, once the horse has left the barn.’” Mr. Herrera has sued Uber and Lyft in an attempt to force them to employ their drivers, and the litigation continues.

Uber and Lyft started in the early 2010s with just a handful of drivers, resembling car pool services more than professional fleets. While Uber initially tried to mimic black car services, it quickly joined Lyft in promoting the idea that drivers were drawn to the apps by the novelty of gig work rather than the promise of traditional employment.

Transit officials and taxi companies warned that the drivers lacked professional certification and were not subjected to background checks. Uber and Lyft argued that they were primarily technology companies, not transportation companies, and should not be forced into the burdensome requirements of licensing, safety checks and employment. The California Public Utilities Commission stepped in, setting baseline safety requirements but allowing Uber and Lyft to avoid hiring drivers.

Still, the employment issue persisted. By 2015, the state labor commissioner ruled that drivers were “integral” to Uber’s business model, but the ruling allowed just one driver to be classified as an employee.

Still, three years later, the California Supreme Court made a sweeping and unanimous ruling in a case known as Dynamex. Under the three-prong employment test proposed by the court, Uber and Lyft drivers appeared to be employees, not contractors.

The ruling prompted concern among gig economy companies, but they did not move to reclassify their workers. Lawmakers saw an opportunity to regulate a defiant industry.

“The problem is this: Uber and Lyft have neglected not just labor laws but every law in the book,” said Lorena Gonzalez, the California Assembly member who drafted the state’s new labor law. “The only reason we were able to get A.B. 5 is because of Dynamex. The Supreme Court created such a stark, clear rule. It freaked out business as much as it encouraged labor.”

In September 2019, the State Legislature approved Ms. Gonzalez’s bill, and the law took effect in January.

Under the new law, Uber and Lyft drivers were employees. But nothing changed. The companies continued to treat them as independent contractors and vowed to take their fight to the ballot. In May, Mr. Herrera, joined by the state attorney general and the city attorneys of Los Angeles and San Diego, sued Uber and Lyft in an effort to enforce the law.

When the court ordered the companies to immediately hire their drivers, Uber and Lyft threatened to shut down in California rather than comply. They also funneled millions of dollars more into the ballot fight, making Prop. 22 the most expensive initiative in the state’s history. An appeals court granted Uber and Lyft a small reprieve, allowing them several months to comply with the order.

Although the lawsuit will continue, Prop. 22 will drastically reduce its scope. The state will continue to seek penalties for the time between January and the certification of the election results, when, it says, Uber and Lyft flouted the law.

“You look back and you say, ‘I wish it didn’t need to come to this, that people would have started adhering to the law,’” Mr. Herrera said. “I thought it was important to fight for the rights of workers and the rights of consumers.”

With the gig work model cemented in California, Uber and other gig economy companies are expected to pursue federal legislation that would protect them from similar employment laws in other states.

“Now, we’re looking ahead and across the country, ready to champion new benefits structures that are portable, proportional and flexible,” said Tony Xu, the chief executive of DoorDash, in a statement. “We look forward to partnering with workers, policymakers, community groups and more to make this a reality.”

The passage of Prop. 22 is a setback in the yearslong effort to regulate tech giants like Uber, but federal lawmakers and officials are increasingly eager to take on Big Tech. Members of Congress in both parties support cracking down on social media companies and reining in the likes of Amazon and Google. Uber and its gig economy peers could be caught in that anti-tech sentiment.

“We can’t just allow them to control what the future of work looks like,” Ms. Gonzalez said. “Somebody has to stand up for the future of workers.”





No.31 article:
Black Women’s Hair and Horror Movies: What Could Go Wrong?

An evil weave turns a shy character into a serial killer in “Bad Hair,” but the film doesn’t understand that styling locks can be a source of intimacy and communal pride.

Halfway through “Bad Hair,” Justin Simien’s horror-comedy on Hulu, a group of Black women sit in a conference room and debate the merits of changing their hairstyles to conform to the new corporate climate at Culture, the Black music television network where they work.

Donning large gold hoop earrings, a slouchy beanie hat and a head full of natural coiled curls, Sista Soul (Yaani King Mondschein), a VJ there, is the last holdout. “I’m not changing who I am just to appeal to some whiter,” she asserts, before pausing and then correcting herself, “wider demographic.”

After flipping her own newly sewn-in hair weave, Anna (Elle Lorraine), Sista’s colleague and the focus of the movie, calmly retorts, “No one is asking you to change who you are. Just the way you look.”

Such a pivot is impossible because the weaves in “Bad Hair” are actually evil spirits that possess and take over the personalities of the women wearing them, eventually turning the natural-hair wearing Anna, who is painfully shy at the beginning of the film, into a long-flowing-maned unwitting serial killer.

Simien (“Dear White People”) has described his satire horror as “a very weird love letter to Black women and the unparalleled power they possess to endure and persevere,” and he set his film in 1989, the year that Black Entertainment Television debuted “Rap City.” That hip-hop music video show featured an astounding number of Black women entertainers and dancers wearing weaves. At the same time, regular women found weaves more available, though still quite expensive, as well as more diverse in color, texture and application techniques, making it substantially harder to discern whether the look was real or fake.

Simien’s love letter is more a cheeky lament that mourns the huge financial costs and psychological toll those early hair weaves took on Black women. But the real loss is the movie’s portrayal of Black women’s hair as a commodity and competition for which they are willing to die or kill. In contrast, a recent crop of French and American films, including “Hair Wolf,” “Nappily Ever After” and “Le Bleu Blanc Rouge De Mes Cheveux,” has also taken up themes involving hair and cultural assimilation. But these films, along with “Chez Jolie Coiffure” and “Liberty,” all directed by women of color, reveal what also might be gained when Black women shape their own hair cultures as spaces of ingenuity, intimacy and communal pride.

In many ways, “Bad Hair” is very much like “Good Hair,” the 2009 documentary narrated by Chris Rock and inspired by his desire to understand the obsession that his daughters and other Black girls and women have with “good hair.” That term is often used among African-Americans to valorize naturally straight or wavy hair, and denigrate the more tightly coiled “bad” hair textures. In addition to traveling to hair shows in Atlanta and beauty parlors and barbershops in Brooklyn, Rock journeys to India in search of the women who sell their hair for weaves. In one particularly notable discussion with the Rev. Al Sharpton, both men bemoan the amount of money Black women spend on their hair, only to commiserate over what seems to really bother them: how expensive it is for them and other Black fathers and husbands who are expected to bear the costs.

That scene did not age well. Watching the movie again recently, I was struck by how much Rock diagnosed “good hair” as a desire of mainly Black women, without reflecting on how often, even in the casting of his movies, Black women with long, wavy hair are considered more attractive, and thus imbued with more social capital, than other Black women.

It’s a different story when women are in charge of the narratives. “Hair Wolf,” by Mariama Diallo, and “Nappily Ever After,” by Haifaa al-Mansour (“Wadjda”), also take those contradictions head-on, but from the vantage point of Black female protagonists who must learn to embrace their natural hair as a form of racial resistance and women’s empowerment.

The horror-comedy short “Hair Wolf” (available on HBO) takes place in a Black salon whose staff has to stick together to fend off the vampiric impulses of Rebecca, a white woman who appropriates African-American culture — Black hairstyles, the Black Lives Matter movement, even Black men. The only way that the glamorously dressed, natural-hair-wearing Cami (Kara Young) and Eve (Taliah Webster) who work there can resist these incursions is by conjuring up the names of Black women like Tina Turner, Janet Jackson, Angela Bassett, and Gabrielle Union, whose enduring beauty seems to resist the demands of aging and time.

The Netflix romantic comedy “Nappily Ever After” (based on the novel of the same name by Trisha R. Thomas) stars Sanaa Lathan as Violet, a marketing executive who accidentally loses her hair after wearing a chemical relaxer for too long. When she breaks up with her noncommittal boyfriend, the movie explores her many stages of grief and various hairstyles. (She tries weaves, going blonde, shaving it all off, and the press and curl.) As with Anna from “Bad Hair,” Violet’s hair drama began as childhood trauma, and to overcome it, she must shed the baggage of her past, as well as cut all her hair off.

And yet, sometimes one woman’s liberation might be another girl’s oppression. At least this is true of Josza Anjembe’s 2016 “Le Bleu Blanc Rouge De Mes Cheveux,” a short about Seyna (Grace Seri), a 17-year-old Cameroonian who wants to be a French citizen. Against her father’s wishes, Seyna is ready to denounce her nationality and tries to submit her paperwork for naturalization, only to be turned away because her Afro sticks out too much for her official photo ID. After all her locks are shaved off, Seyna must decide if becoming a French national is worth losing so much of her identity and culture.

While debates about immigration partly inspired Rosine Mfetgo Mbakam’s 2019 documentary “Chez Jolie Coiffure,” it is also about Sabine, a Cameroonian immigrant who runs the Jolie Coiffure salon in what’s known as the African quarter of Brussels. Much like the 2005 “Beauty Shop” starring and produced by Queen Latifah, Mbakam’s movie highlights the ingenuity of Black stylists who are expected to be as versatile as Black women’s hair itself and be able to cut natural hair, add extensions and put in chemical relaxers. But, because “Chez Jolie Coiffure” is shot entirely in the confines of the shop, the film also reveals how Black immigrant women value the salon as a familiar space in an unfamiliar country, a center where they can also go to seek legal advice and join informal professional networks.

Displacement and loss drive Faren Humes’s “Liberty,” a short about two girls, Loggy (Milagros Gilbert) and Alex (Alexandra Jackson), who are preparing to dance at a groundbreaking ceremony for the development of new homes at Liberty Square, one of the oldest public housing sites in the country. The construction not only interrupts their rehearsals with its noise but also tests the bond of their friendship when Alex tells Loggy that she has to move because her building is scheduled to be demolished. In images evocative of the braiding scenes in Julie Dash’s “Daughters of the Dust,” Humes offers up the intimacy of Black girls doing each other’s hair as a salve providing a sense of sisterhood in the face of the unknown.

In that tense conversation with Sista Soul in “Bad Hair,” Brook-Lynne (Lena Waithe) tries to convince her to change by noting, “Black women are magic, you know that. We could put our hair all the way up to the sky, drape it down to our shoulders, or somewhere in between.” 

These movies show that vitality and much more by reminding us of how Black women have used their hair to reveal its other powers: its ability to inspire, connect and heal.





No.32 article:
Social Media Companies Survived Election Day. More Tests Loom.

Twitter, Facebook and YouTube remained on alert as the lack of a clear election result kept the online misinformation flowing.

OAKLAND, Calif. — For months, Twitter, Facebook and YouTube prepared to clamp down on misinformation on Election Day.

On Tuesday, most of their plans went off without a hitch. The social platforms added labels to misleading posts by President Trump and notified their users that there was no immediate outcome to the presidential race. On television, news anchors even cited fact-checks similar to those made by Twitter and Facebook.

Then came Wednesday. With ballots still being counted and the absence of a clear result, the flow of misinformation shifted away from seeding doubts about the vote to false claims of victory. Twitter rapidly labeled several tweets by Mr. Trump over the course of the day as being misleading about the result of his race, and also did the same to tweets from others in his circle, such as Eric Trump and the White House press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany. And Facebook and YouTube used their home pages to show people accurate information about the election.

The actions reinforced how even a smooth performance on Election Day did not mean that the social media companies could relax, fighting a relentless flow of toxic content. In fact, the biggest tests for Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are still looming, misinformation researchers said, as false narratives may surge until a final result in the presidential race is certified.

“What we actually saw on Election Day from the companies is that they were extremely responsive and faster than they’ve ever been,” said Graham Brookie, the director of the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab. But now, he said, misinformation was solely focused on the results and undermining them.

“You have a hyperfocused audience and a moment in time where there is a huge amount of uncertainty, and bad actors can use that opportunistically,” he said.

Twitter said it was continuing to monitor for misinformation. Facebook said, “Our work isn’t done — we’ll stay vigilant and promote reliable information on Facebook as votes continue to be counted.” YouTube said it also was on alert for “election-related content” in the coming days.

The companies had all braced for a chaotic Election Day, working to avoid a repeat of 2016, when their platforms were misused by Russians to spread divisive disinformation. In recent months, the companies had rolled out numerous anti-misinformation measures, including suspending or banning political ads, slowing down the flow of information and highlighting accurate information and context.

On Tuesday, as Americans voted across the country, falsehoods about broken voting machines and biased poll workers popped up repeatedly. But the companies weren’t tested until Mr. Trump — with early results showing how tight the race was — posted on Twitter and Facebook just before 1 a.m. Eastern time to baselessly lash out at the electoral process.

“They are trying to STEAL the Election,” Mr. Trump posted on the sites, without being specific about who he meant.

Twitter moved quickly, hiding Mr. Trump’s inaccurate tweet behind a label that cautioned people that the claim was “disputed” and “might be misleading about an election or other civic process.” Twitter, which had started labeling Mr. Trump’s tweets for the first time in May, also restricted users’ ability to like and share the post.

On Wednesday morning, Twitter added more labels to posts from Mr. Trump. In one, he tweeted that his early leads in Democratic states “started to magically disappear.” In another message, Mr. Trump said unnamed people were working to make his lead in the battleground state of Pennsylvania “disappear.”

Twitter also applied other labels to posts that falsely asserted victory. One was added to a post by Ben Wikler, head of the Democratic Party of Wisconsin, in which he asserted prematurely that Joseph R. Biden Jr. had won the state. The Associated Press and other news outlets later called Wisconsin for Mr. Biden, though Mr. Trump called for a recount.

On Wednesday afternoon, Twitter also affixed context to tweets from Eric Trump, one of Mr. Trump’s sons, and Ms. McEnany when they preemptively claimed that Mr. Trump had won in Pennsylvania, even though the race there had not been called. The company also fact-checked other assertions from Mr. Trump claiming victory in several battleground states such as North Carolina and Georgia, where the race has not been called, and restricted his false statements about voter fraud from being shared.

“As votes are still being counted across the country, our teams continue to take enforcement action on tweets that prematurely declare victory or contain misleading information about the election broadly,” Twitter said.

Facebook took a more cautious approach. Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, has said he has no desire to fact-check the president or other political figures because he believes in free speech. Yet to prevent itself from being misused in the election, Facebook said it would couch premature claims of victory with a notification that the election had yet to be called for a candidate, if necessary.

On Tuesday night, Facebook had to do just that. Shortly after Mr. Trump posted about the election’s being stolen from him, Facebook officials added labels to his posts. The labels noted that “no winner of the presidential election had been projected.”

After the polls closed, Facebook also sent users a notification that if they were waiting to vote at a polling place, they could still vote if they were already standing in line.

On Wednesday, Facebook added more labels to new posts from Mr. Trump, checking his claims by noting that “as expected, election results will take longer this year.”

Unlike Twitter, Facebook did not restrict users from sharing or commenting on Mr. Trump’s posts. But it was the first time Facebook had used such labels, part of the company’s plan to add context to posts about the election. A spokesman said the company “planned and prepared for these scenarios and built the essential systems and tools.”

YouTube, which is not used regularly by Mr. Trump, faced fewer high-profile problems than Twitter and Facebook. All YouTube videos about election results included a label that said the election might not be over and linked to a Google page with results from The Associated Press.

But the site did encounter a problem early on Tuesday night when several YouTube channels, one with more than a million subscribers, said they were livestreaming election results. What the live streams actually showed was a graphic of a projection of an election outcome with Mr. Biden leading. They were also among the first results that appeared when users searched for election results.

After media reports pointed out the issue, YouTube removed the video streams, citing its policy prohibiting spam, deceptive practices and scams.

On Wednesday, One America News Network, a conservative cable news network with nearly a million subscribers on YouTube, also posted a video commentary to the site claiming that Mr. Trump had already won the election and that Democrats were “tossing Republican ballots, harvesting fake ballots and delaying results” to cause confusion. The video has been viewed more than 280,000 times.

Farshad Shadloo, a YouTube spokesman, said the video did not violate the company’s policy regarding misleading claims about voting. He said the video carried a label that the election results were not final. YouTube added that it had removed ads from the video because it did not allow creators to make money off content that undermined “confidence in elections with demonstrably false information.”

Alex Stamos, director of the Stanford Internet Observatory, said the tech companies still had a fight ahead against election misinformation, but were prepared for it.

“There will always be a long tail of disinformation, but it will become less impactful,” he said. “They are still working, for sure, and will try to maintain this staffing level and focus until the outcome is generally accepted.”

But Fadi Quran, campaign director at Avaaz, a progressive nonprofit that tracks misinformation, said Facebook, Twitter and YouTube needed to do more.

“Platforms need to quickly expand their efforts before the country is plunged into further chaos and confusion,” he said. “It is a democratic emergency.”





No.33 article:
Quotation of the Day: Division, Distrust and Dissatisfaction: A Bleak New Morning in America

“The great wedge in America just got bigger last night.”

DAN HENSLEY, a lifelong Republican, reacting after watching President Trump claim both victory and voter fraud early Wednesday morning. Mr. Hensley voted for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.





No.34 article:
Fox News Helped Fuel Trump’s Rise. Now It’s Reporting on a Possible Fall.

The president and his aides have been critical of the cable network that includes some of his most ardent media allies.

President Trump and Fox News have a complicated relationship. Election Day did not help.

The cable news channel that kick-started Donald J. Trump’s political career was suddenly in the position of signaling its potential end. The network’s early call of Arizona on Tuesday night for Joseph R. Biden Jr. infuriated Mr. Trump and his aides, who reached out publicly and behind the scenes to Fox News executives about the call.

The network held firm — even as two of its biggest stars, Laura Ingraham and Jeanine Pirro, attended Mr. Trump’s defiant early-morning speech in the East Room of the White House.

The election-night split screen underscored the fine line that Fox News’s anchors and opinion hosts have walked in the past 24 hours. By Wednesday night, Fox News was the closest of any major network to calling the presidential race for Mr. Biden — not the outcome that many fans of its pro-Trump programming may have wanted.

Fox News was also the only major cable network to carry a news conference on Wednesday held by the president’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who was making baseless claims of election fraud. But the channel promptly cut away to announce a major development: It projected a win in Michigan for Mr. Biden, placing him at the doorstep of the presidency, according to Fox’s projections.

And shortly after Bret Baier, the network’s chief political anchor, emphasized to viewers on Wednesday that Mr. Trump’s threatened litigation could throw the race into doubt — even if Mr. Biden was projected to win 270 electoral votes — Fox News’s politics editor, Chris Stirewalt, threw cold water on some of the Trump campaign’s baseless claims.

“Lawsuits, schmawsuits,” Mr. Stirewalt said. “We haven’t seen any evidence yet that there’s anything wrong.”

Fox News has long occupied an unusual position in the Trump orbit. The network is home to some of the president’s most vociferous defenders, including Sean Hannity, Ms. Ingraham, and the hosts of “Fox &amp; Friends.” But Mr. Trump frequently takes potshots at its news division and polling operation.

“Fox has changed a lot,” Mr. Trump said Tuesday morning on “Fox &amp; Friends.” “Somebody said, ‘What’s the biggest difference between this and four years ago?’ I say, ‘Fox.’”

The president is a vociferous viewer and constant critic, praising preferred hosts by first name at rallies (“Jeanine!” “Tucker!”) and dialing up the network’s chief executive, Suzanne Scott, to complain about coverage. He has hired (and fired) former network personnel; belittled its hosts while also agreeing to interviews; and relied on Mr. Hannity’s political advice while bashing news anchors like Chris Wallace and Shepard Smith, who left the network for CNBC.

In the wake of Tuesday’s Arizona call, a mixed view of Fox News had spread to some of Mr. Trump’s allies. Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, a Republican who rose to fame on the strength of Fox News guest appearances, bashed the network for what he deemed an insufficiently swift projection of a Trump win in his home state.

“For Fox to be so resistant to calling Florida and yet jumping the gun on Arizona, I just thought was inexplicable,” Mr. DeSantis told reporters in Tallahassee on Wednesday. “I don’t think that that was done without some type of motive, whether it’s ratings, whether it’s something else.”

In fact, members of Fox News’s decision desk said repeatedly that the network’s polling team — which reports to the news division and is sequestered on election night — was merely adhering to a rigorous analysis. The network’s data team, led by Arnon Mishkin, relies on a proprietary model that draws on data from The Associated Press.

Still, some Fox News personalities speculated whether Arizona would remain in Mr. Biden’s column. “There may be some tightening there,” Mr. Baier said on Wednesday, summarizing arguments from the Trump campaign, while Bill Hemmer used an interactive map to conjure ways Mr. Trump could eke out a win in Pennsylvania.

But when Mr. Hemmer asked if the network might consider reversing the Arizona call, Mr. Stirewalt laughed. “Not that I see,” he said.

Mr. Wallace also offered a grim prognosis for the president. “It’s real simple math now,” he said, shortly after Fox News projected that Mr. Biden would win Wisconsin. Pointing to Mr. Biden’s advantages in Nevada and Michigan, he said: “If he just holds on to his lead in those two states, he’s the 46th president of the United States.” (Fox News would call Michigan just over an hour later.)

Mr. Hannity did not appear on Fox News on election night, but he returned on Wednesday evening, echoing some of the president’s talking points about the integrity of the vote count. He stopped short, though, of Mr. Trump’s baseless claim of outright “fraud.”

“Do you trust what happened in this election?” Mr. Hannity asked viewers. “Do you believe these election results are accurate? Do you believe this was a free and fair election? I have a lot of questions.”

Mr. Hannity had few specific arguments, tossing in a reference to “dead people,” and at times his monologue sounded like a regular episode of his program, not a postelection special. His lead-in, Tucker Carlson, also spoke ominously about the vote results while avoiding an outright embrace of Mr. Trump’s baseless claims about winning states that had yet to be called.

“Many Americans will never again accept the results of a presidential election,” Mr. Carlson said at one point.

Fox News set a record for the highest Election Day prime-time viewership totals in cable news history, according to Nielsen. The network drew 14.1 million viewers between 8 and 11. Its next-closest competitor, CNN, drew nine million in the three hour block. Each of the three top broadcast networks carried less than half of Fox’s audience, with ABC, at 6.3 million viewers, leading that group.

This followed a delirious ratings run for Fox News in the weeks leading up to the election. In October, Fox News averaged 4.9 million viewers in prime time, up 85 percent from a year earlier and far higher than MSNBC, which finished second with 2.7 million viewers.

“Tucker Carlson Tonight” earned an average of 5.4 million viewers in October, the highest monthly average for any show in the history of cable news. And Fox News even scored higher viewership totals than any of the broadcast networks during the two presidential debates and the vice-presidential debate.

Lachlan Murdoch, Rupert Murdoch’s elder son and the executive chairman of Fox News’s parent company, was asked on a Tuesday earnings call if a prospective Biden victory might rein in the channel’s ratings success. He pointed out that Fox News had dominated cable news rivals through “different administrations and different political cycles.”

Mr. Murdoch added: “We fully expect to be No. 1.”





No.35 article:
In Midwest Battlegrounds, the Virus Met Another Concern: The Economy

New coronavirus cases in the United States surpassed 100,000 on Wednesday for the first time in the pandemic.

KENOSHA, Wis. — When Americans voted in this presidential election, they made it clear that of all the crucial issues facing the country, the coronavirus pandemic towered over the rest.

They remained diametrically opposed, however, on how the pandemic reflected on President Trump.

In the Midwest — states that were battlegrounds in the presidential race and where the virus has soared — supporters of Mr. Trump defended his handling of the crisis, praised his efforts to revive the economy and echoed his suggestions that the virus’s dangers were overblown.

And on Wednesday, with all eyes on the election outcome, new records in Minnesota and Indiana pushed the country above 100,000 virus cases in a single day for the first time since the pandemic began.

Those who voted for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. frequently said that Mr. Trump’s response to the pandemic had given them one more urgent reason to vote him out.

“We need somebody in office who has a game plan,” said Gabrielle Young, a 30-year-old health care worker in Kenosha, Wis., who said she had never cared about politics in the past.

That changed this year. She said she was disgusted by Mr. Trump’s dismissal of masks and his shoulder-to-shoulder rallies, including one he hosted on the eve of the election in Wisconsin, a state Mr. Biden went on to narrowly win.

Then, Ms. Young said, there are Mr. Trump’s false promises of a national recovery from the coronavirus. “Trump keeps saying that the vaccine is ready, and the vaccine is not ready,” Ms. Young said. “You’re not giving us hope. You’re giving us false hope.”

In Ohio, where coronavirus hospitalizations are at a peak, Mr. Trump triumphed on Tuesday just as he did in 2016, sweeping northeastern counties that were once Democratic strongholds.

Mr. Trump’s supporters said they saw little reason to punish him for the pandemic, which has caused a crisis around the world.

“I’m not as afraid of Covid as I am of a bad economy,” said Ish Soltay, 51, of Avon Lake, a suburb west of Cleveland. His county, Lorain, which was once reliably Democratic, went for Hillary Clinton by 131 votes in 2016. On Tuesday, it appeared to surge further right, flipping to Mr. Trump, according to preliminary vote tallies.

Mr. Soltay, a retired critical care nurse who now sells portable oxygen machines, said he had been personally affected by the coronavirus, which infected his son and chipped away at his paychecks in medical sales. But his support for the president was stronger now than it was four years ago, he said, and on the day before the election, Mr. Soltay took a day off work to make his views known near an appearance by Mr. Biden in Cleveland, two Trump flags waving from the roof of his car.

“In the beginning, March, April, May time frame, I would say corona was a bigger issue for me,” said Mr. Soltay, who said he locked down inside his house in the spring, leaving to go to the grocery store and changing his clothes afterward. “By the time I was voting, if I had to rank them, economy was one to me.”

In the Midwest, coronavirus cases have surged dangerously and hospitals have neared capacity in recent days, leaving voters with even more reason to send a message about the pandemic. Even as coronavirus cases rose in states like Michigan, Wisconsin and Ohio, closely related issues — the economy and shutdowns — were top of mind.

Twelve states around the Midwest added more cases in the seven-day period ending Tuesday than in any other week of the pandemic, a sign of the rapidly devolving situation in the center of the country as infections and hospitalizations continue to spike.

The situation is especially volatile in Wisconsin, which has for weeks been adding cases at one of the highest rates in the country. More than 35,000 infections have been identified over the last week, the most in any seven-day stretch of the pandemic. As of Wednesday morning, seven of the 20 American metropolitan areas with the most cases per capita in recent days were in Wisconsin.

Still, some Wisconsin voters said that while they were deeply worried about the pandemic, they were unsure whether they should have steered their support to Mr. Biden because of it.

Brenda Garcia, 63, recounted all the things she and her husband, who live in Kenosha, have missed since the pandemic hit. They have canceled three vacations and countless dinners with friends, children and grandchildren. In a few weeks, Thanksgiving will be a quiet affair: just the two of them.

Yet by Election Day, Ms. Garcia said she was not inclined to say that Mr. Trump had seriously erred in his handling of the pandemic.

“I think he should have taken it a little more serious,” she said as she left a neighborhood church that doubled as a polling place. “But I’m just not blaming anybody. We don’t know what Biden would have done. Who’s to say he would have done any better?”

The Midwest’s struggles with the coronavirus reach far beyond Wisconsin. Covid-19 cases have been rising sharply in Michigan, Ohio, Iowa and Minnesota, all relatively competitive states in the presidential race. The Omaha area, where voters awarded a single electoral vote to Mr. Biden, has been adding cases at record levels. And in Minnesota, more than 3,800 new cases were announced on Wednesday, shattering a record set a day earlier.

In downtown Cleveland on Wednesday, James Williams, 53, was getting off work from his job as a cook at a hotel and heading to a second job stacking boxes at a factory. Wearing a mask as he hustled to catch the bus, Mr. Williams said he cast his vote for Mr. Biden. His chief reason? “For the world’s safety,” he said, “because of this pandemic.”

Unemployment remains high in Cuyahoga County, and Mr. Williams said he had been set back for five months, scraping by with temporary jobs. He said his cousins caught the virus, as did friends.

“People fail to realize the economy is going to be there,” he said. “You can always reboot and rebuild the economy, but you can’t reboot and rebuild a nation of people.”

Some people saw a vote for Mr. Trump as a move toward normalcy, a way out of the coronavirus crisis and the restrictions that surround it.

As he stood outside his polling place at a recreation center in Waterford Township, Mich., on Tuesday, Robert Myers, 73, lamented that he had to wear a face covering.

Mr. Myers, who voted for Mr. Trump, said he approved of the way the president managed the coronavirus.

“He doesn’t try to push something on you that you don’t want,” he said. “The government has their nose enough in other people’s business.”

His greatest hope for the country? “Getting rid of these stupid masks,” he said while still wearing one.





No.36 article:
Trump, Biden and Dressing for No Victory

The battle for the presidency is still going on, and that includes the pageantry.

How do you dress to declare fake victory? How do you convey the image of coming out on top when the top itself is shrouded in clouds and fog?

In the small hours of Wednesday morning, as news organizations warned that it could be days before the election results were known, President Trump walked onto a makeshift stage in the East Room of the White House for his moment in the spotlight and announced, essentially, that, as far as he was concerned, it looked like they had won, and they didn’t understand why vote counting was still going on. He did so by stripping down some of his usual stagecraft, turning what might have been a coronation extravaganza into something that looked a lot more like a war room.

Against what seems like the now requisite army of American flags — not even one full row, but two — he arrived with his wife, Melania, accompanied by Vice President Mike Pence and his wife, Karen.

They were preceded by the flotilla of Trump children, who took their places at the front of the audience. They almost all went dark: Ivanka wore a black double-breasted pantsuit; Kimberly Guilfoyle, black capri pants and a top; Lara Trump, a navy pantsuit. Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press secretary, wore a black dress. The only punctuation marks were Tiffany, who wore a Republican red pantsuit, and Don Jr., who was in bright blue, to match the flags.

The first lady, who earlier on Tuesday had gone to cast her vote in Palm Beach wearing a sleeveless Gucci chain-print silk dress, had also changed into her sartorial security blanket: a black no-nonsense Dolce &amp; Gabbana pantsuit, with a crisp white shirt (the same kind of look she had worn for her official portrait). Mrs. Pence also wore black. The president wore his usual dark suit. So did the vice president. Mr. Trump’s tie was blue; Mr. Pence’s red.

Viewed as a whole, through the screen, the picture was business as usual. It was startling to remember the asymmetric white jumpsuit with ruffle Mrs. Trump had worn on the same night four years ago, and the little blue-sky dresses Ivanka and Tiffany had chosen as they took their places flanking their father after his surprise victory.

That had been a scene of somewhat shellshocked brightness, and not-quite coordination. This was more like a gold-chandeliered, stars and stripes bunker. It was accessorized with the implicit suggestion: We’re not going anywhere. We’re hunkering down and digging in. Take this thing to the Supreme Court, if necessary.

Black is a complicated political color, with its associations of elitism and funerals, doom and threat. It tends to be avoided by family members whose role it is to show the softer, human side of a candidate or leader; to surround him (or her), literally, in a hazy glow. But the creeping darkness mirrored the mood of the country and President Trump’s own dark accusations: of voter fraud and election thievery.

It’s a battle, no question. Neither side is denying that one. Monday night, in her final rally in Philadelphia, Kamala Harris, Joe Biden’s running mate, wore a heavy steel-toned military greatcoat as protection against the elements, even as she exhorted voters with a big smile. (It was from MaxMara, the brand that made Nancy Pelosi’s famous burnt orange flame-throwing coat, which may or may not have been a coincidence.) Yet Jill Biden, standing with her husband as he addressed his supporters just after midnight on Wednesday morning — outdoors, against a mere sprinkling of flags, just a gesture to the idea of props — wore a rose-colored swing coat: a light spot in the darkness.

Also a face mask, which has become a symbol of distinction between the two sides. Mr. Biden himself, smiling and radiating positivity and the belief it would all be OK, didn’t bother with a coat at all, even though they were outside.

That’s an old presidential tradition, harking back to Eisenhower, who shed his coat at his second inauguration to stand unshielded (at least by wool) in front of the world. Kennedy did the same, as did almost every President after him, until Obama. It’s a little visual sleight of hand, a nod to old traditions and stereotypes of virility and strength and a certain internal heat. That guy doesn’t need a coat: He makes his own warmth.

Certainly, Mr. Biden has tried. Whether it catches fire as the last votes are counted, or is doused by the cold water of this divided country, remains to be seen.





No.37 article:
There Was a Loser Last Night. It Was America.

We still do not know who is the winner of the presidential election. But we do know who is the loser: the United States of America.

We have just experienced four years of the most divisive and dishonest presidency in American history, which attacked the twin pillars of our democracy — truth and trust. Donald Trump has not spent a single day of his term trying to be president of all the people, and he has broken rules and trashed norms in ways that no other president ever dared — right up to Tuesday night, when he falsely claimed election fraud and summoned the Supreme Court to step in and stop the voting, as if such a thing were even remotely possible.

“Frankly, we did win this election,” Trump declared, while millions of ballots remained to be counted in Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Arizona and Nevada.

“We’ll be going to the U.S. Supreme Court,” Trump added, without explaining how or on what basis. “We want all voting to stop.”

We want all voting to stop? Really?

But if Joe Biden wins — and we may not know for days — it may be by just a sliver of votes in several key battleground states. Although he’ll likely win the popular vote, there will be no landslide, no overwhelming majority telling Trump and those around him that enough was enough: Be gone with you and never bring that kind of politics of division back to this country again.

“Whatever the final vote, it is already clear that the number of Americans saying, ‘Enough is enough’ was not enough,” said Dov Seidman, an expert on leadership and author of the book “How: Why How We Do Anything Means Everything.”

“There was no blue political wave,” he noted. “But, more importantly, there was no moral wave. There was no widespread rejection of the kind of leadership that divides us, especially in a pandemic.”

We are a country with multiple compound fractures, and so we simply cannot do anything ambitious anymore — like put a man on the moon — because ambitious things have to be done together. We can’t even come together to all wear masks in a pandemic, when health experts tell us it would absolutely save lives. It would be so simple, so easy and so patriotic to say, “I protect you and you protect me.” And yet, we can’t do it.

This election, if anything, highlighted the fault lines. The president, using many different dog whistles during the campaign, presented himself as the leader of America’s shrinking white majority. It is impossible to explain his continued support, despite his unprecedented poisonous behavior in office, without reference to two numbers:

The U.S. Census Bureau projects that by the middle of this year, nonwhites will constitute a majority of the nation’s 74 million children. And it is estimated that by sometime in the 2040s, whites will make up 49 percent of the U.S. population, and Latinos, Blacks, Asians and multiracial populations 51 percent.

Among many whites, particularly white working-class males without college degrees, there is clearly a discomfort with the fact, and even a resistance to it, that our nation is in a steady process of becoming “minority white.” They see Trump as a bulwark against the social, cultural and economic implications of that change.

What many Democrats see as a good trend — a country reckoning with structural racism and learning to embrace and celebrate increasing diversity — many white people see as a fundamental cultural threat.

And that is fueling another lethal trend that this election only reinforced.

“Many Republican senators and congressional representatives — like Lindsey Graham in South Carolina and John Cornyn in Texas — won by hugging Trump,” said Gautam Mukunda, author of “Indispensable: When Leaders Really Matter.” “That means that Trumpism is the future of the G.O.P.

“The tactically unique thing about Trumpism is that it never even tries to get the support of the majority of Americans. So the G.O.P. will continue with the strategy of using every legal, but democratically deeply harmful, way to control power even though most Americans vote against them — like the way they just crammed through two Supreme Court justices.”

That means all the stresses on the American system of government will continue to grow, Mukunda added, because in our antiquated electoral system, Republicans theoretically can control both the White House and the Senate despite the desires of a large majority of the American people. “No system can survive that kind of stress,” he concluded. “It will break at some point.”

Nothing has happened, even if Biden wins, that suggests Republicans will fundamentally rethink this political strategy that they perfected under Trump.

But Democrats have a lot to rethink, said Michael Sandel, a professor at Harvard and author of “The Tyranny of Merit: What’s Become of the Common Good.”

“Even though Joe Biden emphasized his working-class roots and sympathies,” Sandel told me, “the Democratic Party continues to be more identified with professional elites and college-educated voters than with the blue-collar voters who once constituted its base. Even so epochal an event as a pandemic, bungled by Trump, did not change this.

“Democrats need to ask themselves: Why do many working people embrace a plutocrat-populist whose policies do little to help them? Democrats need to address the sense of humiliation felt by working people who feel the economy has left them behind and that credentialed elites look down on them.”

Again, while Biden made small inroads with working-class voters, there seems to be no huge shift. Maybe because many working-class Trump voters not only feel looked down upon, but they also resent what they see as cultural censorship from liberal elites, coming out of college campuses.

As Rich Lowry, the editor of National Review, wrote in an Oct. 26 essay, “Trump is, for better or worse, the foremost symbol of resistance to the overwhelming woke cultural tide that has swept along the media, academia, corporate America, Hollywood, professional sports, the big foundations, and almost everything in between.”

“To put it in blunt terms,” he continued, “for many people, he’s the only middle finger available — to brandish against the people who’ve assumed they have the whip hand in American culture. This may not be a very good reason to vote for a president, and it doesn’t excuse Trump’s abysmal conduct and maladministration.”

I confess that the hardest conversations I had Tuesday night were with my daughters. I so badly want to tell them that all is going to be OK, that we’ve been through bad patches as a country before. And I hope that will turn out to be the case — that whoever wins this election will draw the right conclusion that we simply cannot go on tearing one another apart.

But I could not, in all honesty, tell them that with any confidence. I am certain “the better angels of our nature” are still out there. But our politics and our political system right now are not inspiring them to emerge at the scale and speed that we so desperately need.





No.38 article:
Covid Is the Big Story on Campus. College Reporters Have the Scoop.

University outbreaks are significant contributors to the pandemic. And the campus paper might be the only one left to cover them.

Before classes had even started at the University of Missouri this August, Eli Hoff, the managing editor of the student newspaper, got a hot tip: A fraternity member had tested positive for the coronavirus.

He reported the news for his campus publication, The Maneater. Then in September, he and his colleagues wrote a story about administrators instructing staff members to “publicly support” all university decisions. And after the school said no students had been hospitalized with Covid-19, Mr. Hoff said he was able to confirm two admissions, although university officials continue to say that is incorrect.

Not everyone has been happy with his dogged reporting — Mr. Hoff, 19, said a fraternity leader shared his phone number with members and told them to “have fun” with it — but with declining coverage of the campus from local news outlets, “it’s up to us to report on it,” he said.

As American colleges have become a major source of outbreaks, with at least 214,000 cases linked to campuses, student journalists have found themselves playing a vital role in the pandemic, reporting stories of national importance and holding their administrators and fellow students accountable.

The Michigan Daily exposed a cluster tied to fraternities and sororities just days before the county imposed a stay-at-home order on University of Michigan undergraduates. The State Press broke news that Arizona State students who were supposed to be in isolation had left their dorms. And at Indiana University, The Indiana Daily Student spoke to Uber drivers who picked up students from Greek houses under quarantine orders.

“We all saw this coming,” wrote the editorial board of The Daily Tar Heel at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, excoriating administrators for poor planning just a day before a growing outbreak forced the school to abandon in-person instruction.

Even before the coronavirus shut down campuses this spring, disrupting student life to a degree not seen since the Vietnam War, college publications had found themselves playing an increasingly vital part in their communities. The crisis in local journalism, which has forced more than 1,800 U.S. newspapers to close or merge since 2004, has left some of them as the sole remaining daily paper in college towns.

“Student journalists are playing an incredibly important role in this moment, and they’re doing it in an environment where local news media is drying up or disappearing,” said Hadar Harris, the executive director of the Student Press Law Center.

But college journalists can also face special obstacles, including from people with power over their educations. Last month, the president of Haskell Indian Nations University in Lawrence, Kan., was criticized by press groups for threatening disciplinary action against the editor in chief of the student paper.

“A lot of times, they will not be forthcoming in the information they provide to student journalists because they don’t want to make the school look bad,” said Ms. Harris, who offers resources to students trying to counter objections from administrators to their reporting. “In the era of Covid, it’s that much more of a lockdown of information.”

After their splashy editorial, student journalists at The Daily Tar Heel continued to push the administration. In response to a public records request, Elizabeth Moore, a reporter at the paper, received more than 3,000 pages of emails and text messages showing internal faculty dissent over reopening plans and advance warning from epidemiologists about possible outbreaks.

“You could see a direct line from the decisions they made in May that they decided to stick with, even though the situation kept evolving over the summer,” said Ms. Moore, 20. “That ended up causing some harm. A lot of people got sick, and people got displaced from dorms.”

Kyle Wood, a journalism student at the University of Florida, works in one of the college communities where the campus publication, The Alligator, is now arguably better staffed than the local paper. The Gainesville Sun has suffered years of contraction and budget cuts. Only a handful of reporters remain there full time.

“We’re filling holes where we see them,” said Mr. Wood, 22, who oversees a staff of about 60 journalists as The Alligator’s editor in chief. He has added new beats, including coverage of K-12 education and small businesses, to report on the pandemic’s effect on the city.

The first story from the reporter on the paper’s new health beat followed a tip about lax safety procedures in the university hospital’s emergency room. Mr. Wood is also working with reporters to maintain and update a map of cases on campus, informing both the campus and the city about outbreaks.

One coverage area where campus publications have traditionally excelled is sports, especially at large schools where college athletics are a regional industry. During the pandemic, the fate of sports on campus has been a major story, with clusters of football players (and their highly paid coaches) testing positive, and some universities cutting programs amid economic hardship.

At the University of Virginia, The Cavalier Daily shed light on a testing disparity between athletes — some of whom received tests three times a week — and other students who told the paper they had to exaggerate symptoms just to get tested.

At Villanova, the big story in the sports pages is the basketball team, which currently fields several strong seniors with a shot of making it to the N.B.A. Disruptions to the schedule could affect whether professional scouts can watch them play.

“If they lose that, their professional career is in jeopardy,” said Emily Cox, 21, a co-editor in chief at The Villanovan. “We’re tracking that.”

For some students, covering the pandemic has taken a toll. The Daily Gamecock at the University of South Carolina went dark for a week last month, saying its journalists were suffering from Covid-19 burnout. “In the past year, I could count on one hand the number of times I didn’t have a tight feeling in my chest,” wrote Erin Slowey, the paper’s editor in chief.

Students say it is difficult to play the role of watchdog even as they try to attend classes and cope with the pandemic themselves.

“You’re not parachuting in,” said Oyin Adedoyin, 21, the editor in chief of The Spokesman, the student newspaper at Morgan State University, Maryland’s largest historically Black university. “You literally live it,” she added.

The Spokesman has partnered with the Poynter Institute to report on health disparities in Baltimore’s Black community. “Black people, specifically, have been affected by the coronavirus,” Ms. Adedoyin said, “whether it’s unemployment, whether it’s students who just really don’t learn as well online, whether it’s family situations where you just can’t be home.”

College journalists are also facing disruptions in the media industry, just like those working at professional news outlets, and questions about whether they will graduate to jobs in the business. Some are experimenting with new ways of delivering information.

Arielle Gordon, 21, a senior at Colorado College, helped start a newsletter to report about the pandemic on campus and in the surrounding community of Colorado Springs. After a spike of cases in late August, the school’s test positivity rate has stayed below 1 percent, according to its coronavirus dashboard.

“Our audience is definitely expanding as coronavirus cases pop up,” Ms. Gordon said, adding, “People in the broader community have more questions and have started paying more attention to the stuff that we’re reporting.”

Along with her co-writers, Ms. Gordon has published interviews with campus administrators, offered scientific forecasts about the state of public health and infection in the community, and documented the exhaustion of life in quarantine dorms.

“People want to know what went wrong,” she said. “We’ve been trying to find out as much we can.”




No.1 article:
UK records another 378 deaths – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Brazil reported another 22,294 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the past 24 hours, and 630 deaths from Covid-19, the health ministry said on Thursday. The country has now registered 5,612,319 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 161,736, according to ministry data, in the world’s most fatal outbreak outside the United States.

The UK death toll from coronavirus has risen by 378, taking the tally of people who died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 to 48,120, government data showed. 

Separate figures published by the UK’s statistics agencies for deaths where Covid-19 has been mentioned on the death certificate, with additional data on deaths that have occurred in recent days, show the number of deaths from Covid-19 to be around 63,000.

As of 9am GMT on Thursday, there had been a further 24,141 lab-confirmed cases in the UK, taking the cumulative total of confirmed infections to 1,123,197.

Colombia’s lower house abruptly ended its session on Thursday and asked lawmakers to quarantine after a member tested positive for Covid-19.

Lawmakers in Colombia, which has registered more than 1.1 million confirmed coronavirus cases and more than 32,000 deaths, have the option to connect virtually or attend sessions in person.

At least 150 lawmakers could potentially have been exposed, the chamber’s press office said.

Representatives should avoid travel to their home regions and remain in Bogota while they wait 72 hours from potential exposure to have a test, said the president of the chamber, Conservative representative German Blanco.

Obviously this is a delicate and grave circumstance. I’m going to end the session, because I have the responsibility not to maintain debate...

Blanco said representative Alejandro Carlos Chacon, of the Liberal party, tested positive for coronavirus after attending Wednesday’s session.

Chacon did not immediately respond to a message seeking comment.

All lawmakers should remain in the capital until Saturday, said representative Maria Jose Pizarro, relaying recommendations from the city’s health department.

Last month a senator from Mexico’s ruling party died after contracting Covid-19.

A dozen US states reported record one-day increases in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, a day after the country set a record with nearly 105,000 new infections reported on Wednesday, according to a Reuters tally.

The outbreak is spreading in every region of the country but is hitting the Midwest the hardest, based on new cases per capita.

Illinois reported nearly 10,000 new cases and along with Texas is leading the nation in the most cases reported in the last seven days.

Other Midwestern states with record increases in cases on Thursday were Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota and Ohio. Arkansas, Maine, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Utah and West Virginia also set records for rises in new infections.

Some cities and states have announced new measures such as curfews or reduced gathering sizes to combat the spread of the virus, but the United States has taken no action at the federal level. Seventeen out of 50 states do not require masks.

Many countries in Europe are shutting high-risk businesses and even ordering national or regional lockdowns as a second wave sweeps over the continent.

In addition to rising cases, US hospitalisations of patients with Covid-19 rose to over 52,500 on Thursday, up for an 11th day in a row and getting closer to the record of 58,370 set in July.

North Dakota reported only eight free intensive care unit beds in the entire state on Thursday. Hospitalisation are a key metric because they are not affected by the amount of testing done.

Coronavirus deaths are trending higher but not at the same rate as cases. The United States is averaging 850 deaths a day, up from 700 a month ago.

In recent days, six states have reported their highest one-day increases in deaths ever: Arkansas, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, West Virginia and Wyoming.

The pandemic has affected nearly every aspect of American life, including a record number of voters mailing in their ballots in Tuesday’s presidential election, whose outcome has yet to be decided.

For all things election head over to our US politics live blog:

A family have spoken of their devastation after losing three loved ones within five days to coronavirus.

Grandmother Gladys Lewis, 74, from Pentre, south Wales, died at the Royal Glamorgan Hospital on 29 October. Her son Dean Lewis, 44, was found unresponsive at his home in nearby Treorchy the following day and pronounced dead a short time later. On Monday, younger brother Darren, 42, died following treatment in intensive care at the Royal Glamorgan Hospital.

All three had tested positive before they died and their death certificates state Covid-19 as the cause.

After the unbearable pain of losing their mother and her two sons to the virus, the Lewis family urged people to take Covid-19 seriously.

Debbie Mountjoy, 41, daughter of Mrs Lewis, told Channel 4 News how coronavirus had “just ripped through the family”. 

Darren, who had Down’s syndrome, had not left the house since February apart from to attend hospital appointments. Mrs Lewis, who had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and emphysema, had also been shielding, with Dean only going out once a week to shop for his parents.

Mrs Mountjoy told Channel 4 News:

We were scared of the virus anyway. But now we are absolutely terrified and I’m so scared because of losing the three of them that I’m going to lose my dad or somebody else.

Ten other members of the family, including Mrs Mountjoy, her father and Gladys’ husband David Lewis, 81, and Dean’s wife Claire Lewis, 44, tested positive for Covid-19 and have been self-isolating.

The three funerals will take place at the same church, with the coffins brought in the night before when the family will be able to visit to say goodbye. 

A GoFundMe page to help pay for the funeral costs has been set up and donations at the three funerals will be in aid of the Royal Glamorgan Hospital.

Coronavirus lockdowns in Europe have led to some environmental improvements such as better air quality and lower carbon emissions, but they are temporary and coupled with a surge in single-use plastic, the European Environment Agency (EEA) said on Thursday.

The pandemic is ravaging Europe, which has now become the global region with the most Covid-19 infections, and governments in the UK, France, Italy and elsewhere are ramping up measures to stop the spread.

The Copenhagen-based EEA said in a statement that lockdowns in European countries “may have some direct, short-term, positive impacts on our environment, especially in terms of emissions and air quality, although these are likely to be temporary.”

The EU agency said its data showed that the concentration of nitrogen dioxide (NO2), a gas emitted mainly from vehicles which can cause inflammation of the respiratory system, fell sharply in countries where lockdowns were imposed in the spring of 2020.

The concentration of NO2 fell by 61 percent in Spain, 52 in France and 48 percent in Italy, all countries which had strict lockdowns, the EEA said. Noise pollution also fell significantly.

But the pandemic has also brought about a significant spike in plastic consumption, as demand for protective gear like masks, gloves and hand sanitiser soared.

Restaurants forced to only offer takeaway have used single-use plastic containers, while increased online shopping has also contributed to the problem.

The statement said:

The upsurge in demand for these items may challenge EU efforts to curb plastic pollution and move towards a more sustainable and circular plastics system.

The pandemic has also led to a sharp drop in oil prices, making it cheaper for manufacturers to use oil rather than recycled material to make plastic, it added.

Ireland is on track to get its second wave of Covid-19 infections under control by the end of November when the government hopes to ease some of the strictest restrictions in Europe, a senior public health official said on Thursday.

Ireland moved to the highest level of restrictions to fight the virus two weeks ago, when the government banned visiting other households and travel of over 5 kilometres and closed restaurants and non-essential retail for six weeks, until 1 December.

Over the past two weeks the daily average of cases reported has fallen by more than half to 552, data from the health ministry showed on Thursday.

“The way case numbers are behaving would suggest that case numbers are declining rapidly and that we are on target for the sort of end position we want to be in at the end of the six weeks,” on 1 December, Philip Nolan, the chair of the Irish Epidemiological Modelling Advisory Group, told a press briefing.

Ireland is one the few countries in Europe bucking a trend of rapidly rising infection rates. The 14-day infection rate in Ireland fell to 202 cases per 100,000 on Thursday from 292 a week ago, data showed.

The chief medical officer Tony Holohan told the briefing that Ireland would need to maintain the current level of decline for another four weeks, at which point it would be up to the government to decide whether to ease restrictions.

We’ve made great progress so far, but we are only halfway there.

Several thousand people have joined a chaotic march through central London in protest at lockdown regulations and commemoration of Guy Fawkes’ attempt to blow up parliament. 

The Million Mask March, an annual event, was given added impetus by a new protest movement in opposition to lockdowns which has been building since late summer. 

Police were apparently struggling to control the largely spontaneous protest. Officers were trying to order those taking part to return home and picking some protesters from the crowd and arresting them. 

Four protesters, one of whom was wearing a Guy Fawkes mask, were arrested by police officers near the gates of Charing Cross Station. A number of police vans lined the Strand near the station as officers continued to urge people to go home.

A tweet by the Metropolitan police said: 

A large group of protesters have moved off from #TrafalgarSquare and are ignoring officers directions. This gathering is unlawful and is putting others at risk. We are directing those there to go home. Failure to do so will result in enforcement action.

Protesters chanted “freedom” and “take your freedom back” as police chased the crowd through soho and other central London districts. 

Here’s a quick recap of the latest coronavirus developments across the globe over the last few hours:





No.2 article:
Torrential rains, landslides and floods spread devastation, with most deaths in Guatemala

Storm Eta has unleashed torrential rains, and catastrophic landslides and flooding in Central America, killing scores of people, displacing more than 300,000, and turning city streets into raging torrents.

At least 50 people died in Guatemala, including 25 who were killed in a landslide in the village of Quejá, according to the country’s president, Alejandro Giammattei. He also told local radio that 60% of the eastern city of Puerto Barrios was flooded and 48 more hours of rain were expected. Authorities reported nearly 100 homes damaged by flooding and landslides in Guatemala.

Footage posted on social media showed canoes navigating through the flooded streets of the Honduran city of San Pedro Sula, where scores of people perched on roofs, pleading to be rescued.

“The situation is serious, it’s shocking and needs to be dealt with professionally, fast,” the Honduran president, Juan Orlando Hernandez, told HCH television, pointing to reports of people stranded or stuck on roofs of flooded homes.

Damage and destruction had spread across the “vast majority” of Honduras and speedboats and helicopters would be sent to rescue people in inaccessible areas, Hernandez said.

One of the fiercest storms to hit Central America in years, Eta struck Nicaragua as a Category 4 hurricane on Tuesday with winds of 150 mph (241 kph) before weakening as it moved inland and into neighbouring Honduras.

By Thursday, authorities confirmed at least five deaths in Guatemala and seven in Honduras. Media in Nicaragua also reported two miners had died in a mudslide.

In southern Costa Rica, a landslide onto a house killed two residents, a Costa Rican woman and an American man, officials said. A man and a woman also died in flooding in Panama’s Chiriqui province, near the Costa Rica border, authorities said.

There was better news in Honduras, where the 60 fishermen who went missing on Tuesday returned after taking shelter on cays until they were reached by boats bringing food and fuel, said community leader Robin Morales.

Calling their escape a “miracle”, Morales said a man among them presumed dead from a heart attack also made it back. “Our friends are alive, thank God,” he said.

Across swathes of Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala and Costa Rica, high winds and heavy rain have damaged homes, roads and bridges, forcing thousands to take cover in shelters.

On Thursday, Eta was a tropical depression moving north-west through Honduras toward the Caribbean at 9 mph, the US National Hurricane Center (NHC) said. Heavy rains continued but its maximum winds had fallen to 30 mph.

One unidentified woman broadcast on Honduran television made a desperate plea for help in a neighbourhood of La Lima, a municipality on the southeastern flank of San Pedro Sula.

“I’ve got five children on the roof of my house and nobody’s helping me to get them down,” she said.

Eta is forecast to return to sea and regain momentum as a tropical storm, reaching Cuba and southern Florida in the coming days, the NHC said.





No.3 article:
Toronto policeman jailed for beating black man who lost an eye

‘I was worthy of suspicion because of the colour of my skin,’ says victim Dafonte Miller

A Toronto police officer has been sentenced to nine months in jail for his assault conviction in the beating of a young black man who lost an eye when he was arrested in 2016.

Prosecutors alleged constable Michael Theriault, who was off duty at the time, and his brother Christian chased Dafonte Miller in the early hours of the morning on 28 December 2016, cornering the then 19-year-old between two homes in Whitby, Ontario, and beating him so badly with a pipe that his left eye burst.

The Theriaults pleaded not guilty to aggravated assault and obstruction of justice in relation to the incident and its aftermath. The judge convicted the officer and acquitted his brother in June.

“The racialised context in which the offence took place cannot be ignored,” superior court justice Joseph Di Luca said in delivering his sentence.

He said he also considered the officer’s high chance of rehabilitation and the conditions he will face in jail.

Di Luca also sentenced Theriault to 12 months of probation following his jail term, along with a five-year weapons prohibition.

Prosecutors had sought a jail term of 12 to 15 months and several other restrictions for Theriault. Defence lawyers asked for an absolute discharge or suspended sentence.

Miller laid out the lasting impact the incident has had on his life in a statement that prosecutors read to the court in September. In it, he said the encounter permanently altered his view of police, adding that he had never previously experienced an abuse of power to that degree.

“No one questioned him. Only I was worthy of suspicion ... Because of the colour of my skin,” he wrote.





No.4 article:
Hong Kong police launch hotline for residents to inform on each other

Tip-offs for alleged breaches of national security law could tear city apart, says one lawyer

Hong Kong police have launched a hotline for the city’s residents to inform anonymously on anyone they allege has broken a sweeping new national security law.

Critics say the measure has disturbing echoes of surveillance methods used in mainland China, will deepen divisions in the city and could be exploited by individuals trying to settle personal, business or political scores.

The system allows people to send tip-offs via video, audio files and pictures to the police, without sharing their personal details. More than 1,000 pieces of information were submitted on Thursday, the first day of operation, the South China Morning Post reported.

The system “replicat[es] the Chinese Communist party’s model of relying on grassroots informants,” Maya Wang, a senior China researcher at Human Rights Watch, said on Twitter.

Hong Kong authorities said the law brought in by Beijing in June would affect only a “small minority who endanger national security”. But it has already been used to target pro-democracy politicians, activists and academics, and to curtail a year-long protest movement.

The Democratic party legislator James To said the hotline could tear an already divided city apart, and was unnecessary when the police’s existing national security unit already had “tremendous” powers.

“It will be a serious blow to freedom in Hong Kong and will undermine the trust between people,” he told the local broadcaster RTHK. “Much of the reports will be related to individuals’ political opinions.” 

Comments on a police Facebook page promoting the site deepened concerns that some in Hong Kong hoped to use it for surveillance of neighbours with political differences. 

Posters said they would use it to denounce people who ate at restaurants known to back the pro-democracy movement, RTHK reported. Others made comments attacking “cockroaches”, a term sometimes used to attack supporters of the pro-democracy movement.

Joshua Wong, a student activist, said the hotline carried disturbing echoes of one of mainland China’s most turbulent periods, the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s. Then, neighbours, colleagues and even families were encouraged to denounce each other, with devastating and sometimes deadly consequences.

“No matter where you are, your private conversations, business chats, social media posts or school lectures can be reported via this new hotline,” Wong said. “By putting ‘eyes and ears everywhere’, the hotline can also be used for business retaliation, by encouraging citizens snitching on each other and cooking up charges against business competitors, just like what happened during China’s Cultural Revolution.”





No.5 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Exclusive: mass-testing experts say tests should not be widely used in hospitals or care homes

A rapid coronavirus test at the heart of Boris Johnson’s mass-testing strategy missed more than 50% of positive cases in an Operation Moonshot pilot in Greater Manchester, the Guardian can reveal.

The 20-minute tests, on which the government has spent £323m for use with hospital and care home staff with no symptoms, identified only 46.7% of infections during a crucial trial in Manchester and Salford last month.

This means that many of those carrying Covid-19 were wrongly told they were free of the virus, potentially allowing them to infect others.

The tests were due to be used in the UK’s first city-wide mass-testing initiative, which starts in Liverpool on Friday. There was confusion on Thursday night when the council suggested they would no longer be deployed as part of the trial, but the government later insisted that small numbers of NHS staff would be using them in hospitals.

Scientists with Greater Manchester’s mass testing expert group (MTEG) raised significant concerns about the accuracy of the OptiGene Direct RT-Lamp tests this week, and said the technology should not be widely used as intended in hospitals or care homes.

The findings pose significant questions about one of the main tests in the government’s mass-screening strategy, which Johnson heralded this week as the UK’s main route back to normality. The prime minister told MPs on Monday that the government was “rolling out testing of all NHS staff as fast as we possibly can” and that it wanted to introduce rapid, regular testing for hospitals, care homes, schools and universities.

The Salford trial was billed as the first step in the Operation Moonshot mass-testing scheme but was drastically scaled back after just six weeks, in part due to concerns about the accuracy of the OptiGene test, the Guardian understands.

Local leaders had asked the government for the clinical validity data behind the technology, but it is understood this data has not been provided.

The Department of Health and Social Care said the test had been validated in three other trials which differed from Manchester’s findings, however it has not made this data public.

The MTEG, which reports to the region’s health chiefs and the Greater Manchester (GM) mayor, Andy Burnham, revealed their concerns about the Operation Moonshot findings to Martyn Pritchard, the chair of the region’s testing strategy group on Monday.

In a letter seen by the Guardian, they wrote: “The current available data from the Manchester pilot shows low sensitivity (46.7%) of the Direct RT-Lamp platform,” which is favoured for use in hospitals because of its ability to produce results in around 20 minutes.

They wrote that “a high proportion of samples collected from infected individuals in a ‘real world’ setting would not be detected” using the technology, and added: “MTEG have significant concerns and do not feel the data supported the investment in the large scale rollout of Direct RT-Lamp saliva testing in any of the proposed clinical settings considered (hospital staff, care staff, community settings) at this time.”

The Greater Manchester experts said “technical limitations of the system were also a cause for concern”, including the lack of internal controls, and that if not addressed “these may pose a significant risk of errors”. They added: “It should be noted that solutions to these issues are not available at this time and are likely to take considerable resource and time to address.

“It is also of concern that the scale of investment needed [at a ‘new department’ level] to deploy this test at a scale that would be useful and sustainable is unlikely to be cost-effective.

“We remain fully committed to wider asymptomatic testing in the health and care sectors as well as in community settings, however we are not convinced that this is the right platform for widespread deployment across GM.” The experts said they would assess the tests again if there were fixes that “materially improve sensitivity”.

The hospital test is made by OptiGene, a small biomedical firm in Horsham, West Sussex. The government has paid £323m for 600 of its newly developed Genie HT machines and 90m testing kits and chemicals. Each machine can reportedly deliver up to 200 tests an hour.

The DHSC confirmed that the Genie HT machines would be the primary technology deployed to test NHS staff and patients who do not present with coronavirus symptoms.

They do so using two methods: the rapid Direct RT-Lamp, where a saliva sample is added straight to the machine after being made safe by heating, and the RNA Lamp, which takes longer to process because the nucleic acid has to be extracted from the sample.

Prof Mark Wilcox, the co-chair of the DHSC’s technical validation group, said: “The Direct Lamp tests used in Manchester have been validated in other laboratories and in real-world testing for use in different settings.

“It is incorrect to claim the tests have a low sensitivity, with a recent pilot showing overall technical sensitivity of nearly 80%, rising to over 96% in individuals with a higher viral load, making it important for detecting individuals in the infectious stage. The challenge now is to understand the reasons for the difference in claimed sensitivity in one evaluation versus those in multiple others.”

The health secretary, Matt Hancock, announced a six-week trial of OptiGene’s tests at the end of May, which he said “could change the way that we control Covid-19 across the country”. The results of the trial, however, have never been made public. A separate study published last month found that it identified only 67% of infections, meaning it missed one in three cases, and advised anyone who tests negative to take a separate follow-up test to verify the result.

OptiGene referred the Guardian to the DHSC.

Questions have also been raised about a separate rapid saliva test which will be offered to everyone in the community in Liverpool. The public data available on the Innova test is for nose and mouth swabs only, not saliva tests.

The instructions for use say “negative results do not rule out Sars-CoV-2 infection” and should not be used for treatment decisions or “infection control decisions”. The government’s Porton Down laboratory evaluated the test and approved it in August, but only for swab samples and no detailed results have been published.

callout-coronavirus

Johnson earlier told the Commons that the rapid test to be used in Liverpool would be one “that you can use yourself to tell whether or not you are infectious and get the result within 10 to 15 minutes”. The Innova test, however, is for people who already have symptoms and is not approved to be self-read. Any positive case should be confirmed with the gold-standard lab-based PCR swab test.

Experts, including those in Liverpool, are understood to be anxious about the performance of the tests chosen for use in the pilot scheme and to have asked for reassurance from the government. There is concern that doubts over the results will undermine public confidence and affect people’s willingness to come forward for testing.

Bill Esterson, the Labour MP for Sefton in Merseyside, asked the government on Thursday to urgently publish the test’s clinical validity data and said: “It’s very worrying if unreliable tests are being used. It’s crucial that the Liverpool mass-testing pilot succeeds.”





No.6 article:
Evo Morales to return from exile to Bolivia in 800-vehicle convoy

Unease at reappearance of charismatic but divisive figure after last year’s disputed election

Bolivia’s exiled former president, Evo Morales, is set to make a triumphant homecoming next week, leading an 800-vehicle convoy to the jungle-clad coca-growing region where he began his political career.

The Bolivian newspaper Página Siete reported that Morales would cross from Argentina into the southern border town of Villazón on Monday morning before heading 600 miles north to the province of Chapare.

Bolivia’s first indigenous president, who was driven into exile last November in what supporters called a US-backed coup, plans to arrive in the town of Chimoré on Tuesday, exactly a year after fleeing the same location on a Mexican airforce jet.

The return of Bolivia’s first indigenous president comes after his Movement for Socialism (Mas) reclaimed the presidency last month when Morales’ former finance minister, Luis Arce, won a landslide election victory.

The former coca farmer, who led Bolivia from 2006 to 2019, has been living in Buenos Aires since Argentina’s government granted him asylum last year.

Arce will take office on Sunday, 24 hours before Morales’ return, with the guest list including leftist regional leaders such as Argentina’s president, Alberto Fernández, and the Venezuelan strongman Nicolás Maduro.

For Morales, 61, the homecoming is a chance to celebrate a remarkable political revival by Mas and make a powerful statement about his own political relevance in a profoundly symbolic region.

“It’s really the equivalent of Trump going into Nebraska and Oklahoma to have campaign rallies,” said Jim Shultz, a Bolivia specialist.

The Argentinian newspaper Página/12 said Morales aides were billing the “caravan” to the Chapare as a “historic journey” that would conclude with a “great ceremony of welcome and thanks to the people”.

The Mas senator Leonardo Loza told Argentina’s RadioCut that followers were preparing a “historic gathering” in Chimoré to which he hoped up to 1.5 million supporters would flock from across Bolivia.

Álvaro Ruiz, the head of the pro-Mas Federation of Municipal Associations of Bolivia, told reporters: “He will be coming back with the same strength and the same hope.” 

Shultz saw an intensely personal side to Morales’s journey home. “I’m sure he’s miserable being outside Bolivia. I’m sure he misses the people, the attention, the food … on a personal level I’m sure he’s ecstatic to be coming home.”

But many, even within Morales’s party, are thought to be uneasy about the reappearance of a charismatic but deeply divisive figure whose reluctance to give up power contributed to the turmoil that engulfed the South American country after last year’s disputed election.

Shultz said it was unclear whether Morales would be content to take a backseat role in politics or aspired to be “a behind-the-scenes kingmaker telling underlings how to run the country”.

“The question is whether all we are looking at is somebody rebuilding their personal reputation and reconnecting with their support base, or whether we are looking at the opening of an alternative power base within the Mas … No one knows the answer to that question.”





No.7 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Italy records highest daily fatalities since April as Greece announces national lockdown

The leaders of Italian regions entering partial lockdown on Friday have lambasted the government’s new tiered system, which has categorised some areas with the lowest rates of Covid-19 in the country as high-risk red zones.

The row, which is expected to provoke more protests against restrictions in the coming days, erupted as Italy registered 34,505 new coronavirus infections on Thursday and 445 fatalities - the highest daily death toll since 23 April.

Covid-19 deaths in Italy since the start of the pandemic are the highest in mainland Europe and now stand at 40,192.

Meanwhile, Greece became the latest European country to announce a return to lockdown, and Germany and Poland both reported new daily case records.

The southern Italian region of Calabria – which registered 245 new infections on Wednesday – will join Lombardy, which has been worst-hit, Piedmont and Aosta Valley in partial lockdown. The restrictions mean people will be able to leave their homes only for work, health or emergency reasons. Bars, restaurants and non-essential shops apart from hairdressers will have to close.

Nino Spirlì, the acting president of Calabria, said the lockdown was unjustified and that he would appeal against its imposition. “This region does not deserve an isolation that will be fatal to it,” he said.

Neighbouring Campania currently has the second-highest daily caseload in the country but has been put in the lower-risk yellow zone, as has Lazio, the region surrounding Rome.

Puglia, also in the south, and Sicily are in the medium-risk orange zone, meaning bars and restaurants will have to close and people will be banned from moving beyond their towns or cities.

“The decision to relegate Sicily to the orange zone is absurd and unreasonable,” said Nello Musumeci, the island’s president. The leaders of Lombardy, Piedmont and Aosta Valley have also demanded to know exactly how the tier system was decided.

The restrictions, which will be in place until 3 December, are said to have been determined by the rate of Covid-19 transmission, the number of infections and people with symptoms and the availability of hospital beds.

Italy’s prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, said intensive care capacity would be at risk in 15 of Italy’s 20 regions within a few weeks unless new measures were enacted.

Greece’s prime minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, said on Thursday that the resurgence of the virus required a three-week national lockdown that would begin at 6am on Saturday. The country recorded 2,646 new infections and 18 deaths on Wednesday, up sharply from last week. The virus has killed 673 people in Greece among almost 47,000 infected.

“It was a difficult decision … but measures must be taken for three weeks to overcome this second wave,” Mitsotakis told a videoconference on Thursday. Under the measures, Greeks can leave their homes only if they receive authorisation after making an official request by phone or SMS. Only essential shops, including supermarkets and pharmacies, will be open.

Unlike the previous six-week lockdown that began in late March, however, kindergartens and primary schools will remain open. Secondary school pupils will be taught remotely. University students are already doing online classes.

Germany’s national disease control centre, the Robert Koch Institute, said 19,990 infections had been confirmed over the past 24 hours, topping the previous record of 19,059 on Saturday. The country has now recorded 597,583 cases and 10,930 deaths. A four-week partial shutdown took effect on Monday. Bars, restaurants and leisure and sports facilities are closed and new contact restrictions have been imposed. Shops and schools remain open.

Poland reported 27,143 new cases on Thursday, well up on the 24,692 reported on Wednesday. The government is expected to announce new restrictions to try to contain the second wave of Covid-19.

Spain, which is under curfew after the declaration of a state of emergency, reported 21,908 new cases on Thursday, and 368 new deaths – the highest daily death toll to date in the second wave. The country now has a total of 1,306,316 cases.

In France, which is already in a month-long national lockdown intended to put “a brutal brake” on the virus, the mayor of Paris announced that some shops that sell takeaway alcohol and food will be forced to close at 10pm to prevent further contagion.

France’s public health agency said on Wednesday that there had been more than 40,500 new infections in 24 hours and 385 deaths in hospital. The overall French death toll stands at 38,674, and there are 4,089 people in intensive care. The country has 6,400 intensive care beds available nationwide.

The new lockdown allows people to leave home only to go to the office, if working-from-home is not possible; to go to the doctor; exercise outdoors; drop children off at school, or do essential shopping.

Sweden’s prime minister, Stefan Löfven, has gone into self-isolation after a person in his “vicinity” met with someone who had been confirmed to have Covid-19. In neighbouring Denmark, which is also facing a resurgence in cases, the prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, is also in self-isolation after the justice minister tested positive.

In Ireland, however, the countermeasures appear to be paying off and the country now has one of Europe’s lowest incidence rates after two weeks of maximum tier restrictions. The R value, which indicates the number of people on average an infected person will infect, is now 0.7 and 0.9. To suppress the virus it must be below 1.

callout-coronavirus

The cumulative 14-day incidence rate has fallen to 212.7 per 100,000 people, a 30% reduction. It gives Ireland the seventh lowest rate of 31 European countries, above Finland, Norway, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia and Greece. Authorities reported eight coronavirus-related deaths and 444 new cases on Wednesday, bringing the death toll since the pandemic began to 1,930. The total number of cases is 63,483.

Health officials attribute the improving numbers to moderate restrictions imposed on Dublin city and county on 18 September, followed by nationwide severe restrictions on 21 October. They are due to end on 2 December, by which time authorities hope daily case numbers will be between 50 and 100. There have been a handful of small, fleeting protests.

Infection rates have also fallen in Northern Ireland, but health officials have advised the Stormont executive to extend restrictions on the hospitality sector, which are due to end on Friday.





No.8 article:
Police infiltrated our 60s Rhodesia demo

James Dalglish recalls being arrested in 1969 at a small protest in which 10% of the protesters were in fact undercover officers

Your article on undercover police involved in student politics in the late 1960s rang true (MI5 worked with undercover police to infiltrate Vietnam protests, 2 November). I was arrested after a small demonstration in October 1969 against the University of London’s links with University College, Rhodesia. I was charged with affray along with three other UL students.

At our trial at the Old Bailey in July 1970, under interrogation, two special branch officers who had been on the demonstration admitted that the first time they’d seen me was in Tottenham Court Road police station after my arrest. They also said that there had been four other special branch officers on the demonstration who did not give evidence against me or my co-defendants.

As there were only about 60 students on the demonstration, it meant that 10% of those on the demonstration were police.

After the police evidence against me was so discredited, the case collapsed. The other three were convicted, two of whom were given six-month sentences, one of which was suspended. UL cut its links with UCR the following year. James Dalglish Richmond, London





No.9 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Strongest evidence yet found of sustained defence in people who recover from coronavirus

Scientists have found the strongest evidence yet that people who recover from Covid may mount a much faster and more effective defence against the infection if they encounter the virus again. 

Researchers at Rockefeller University in New York found that the immune system not only remembered the virus but improved the quality of protective antibodies after an infection had passed, equipping the body to unleash a swift and potent attack if the virus invaded a second time.

“It’s very good news,” said Michel Nussenzweig, the head of molecular immunology at Rockerfeller and a senior author of the study. “The expectation is that people should be able to produce a rapid antibody response and resist infection in a large number of cases.”

It is unclear how long the immune system’s memory might last, but Nussenzweig said it could potentially provide some protection for years. The discovery may explain why verified re-infections from the virus are so far quite rare.

When people are infected with coronavirus, the immune system launches a multi-pronged attack. One form of protection comes from T cells, which seek and destroy infected cells, and so prevent the virus from spreading. A second front involves B cells, which release antibodies into the blood. Antibodies latch on to the virus and stop it from invading cells in the first place.

Once the infection has passed, the immune system stands down, but it remembers the virus by storing so-called memory T cells and memory B cells. Should the virus return, these are immediately called to action.

Many studies have shown that the first wave of antibodies to coronavirus wane after a few months, raising concerns that people may lose immunity quickly. In their study of 87 coronavirus patients, the US researchers confirmed that antibodies wane, falling to about a fifth of their peak level over six months, but this may not matter too much, they believe.

When the researchers examined the immune system’s memory, they noticed that six months after infection the antibodies made by memory B cells had evolved to become more potent. These highly honed antibodies could be unleashed within days of re-infection, rather than taking a couple of weeks to build up, as seen in primary infections. 

The scientists went on to show that tiny amounts of coronavirus, or protein fragments from inactive virus particles, lurked in patients’ intestines and apparently helped to maintain the immune system’s memory. The remnants of the virus are not thought to be harmful.

“The take-home lessons are that people who have been infected, six months later have persistent B cell memory responses with antibodies that can neutralise the virus and can do it very well,” Nussenzweig said. That could mean wiping out the virus before it takes hold, he added. “We don’t know how long any protection will last, but it might be a really long time. It could be years.”

callout-coronavirus

The study is preliminary and has not been peer-reviewed or published in a journal.

Charles Bangham, a professor of immunology at Imperial College London, who was not involved in the study, said the work suggested there was “a very good chance that if you’re re-exposed, you’ll make a brisker immune response” to the virus. “It remains to be proved that it’s protective, but you would be reasonably confident it would have some beneficial effect,” he said.

Arne Akbar, a professor of immunology at University College London, said: “This is good news for everybody who has been sick with coronavirus.” He said the immune system was like an army that stands down once the threat is over, but remains prepared for a future invasion. “You want the army to be generated again very quickly, and this is what these researchers have found.”





No.10 article:
Russian MPs consider lifetime immunity for former presidents

Second bill in a week prompts talk of whether Putin could be preparing for retirement

Russian lawmakers have introduced a bill to parliament that would give Vladimir Putin lifetime immunity from prosecution if and when he decides to leave office.

The draft bill would give a former president immunity from criminal prosecution for any offences committed during his lifetime. A supermajority of lawmakers would be required to revoke the protections. Currently, ex-presidents are protected for actions taken only while they were in office.

It is the second bill this week that provides special provisions for former presidents, prompting talk of whether Putin, 68, might be preparing for retirement.

On Saturday he sponsored legislation that would entitle a former president to a lifetime seat as a senator in Russia’s Federation Council, a position that also comes with immunity from prosecution.

The bills follow Russia’s adoption of constitutional amendments that “reset” Putin’s term limits, allowing him to potentially run twice more for president and remain in office until 2036, when he would be 84. He has ruled the country, mostly as president, since 2000.

Political analysts have differed on their interpretation of Putin’s plans. While he has cleared a path to rule for years, it is possible he simply did not want to be seen as a lame duck as he would have been forced out by term limits in 2024 – he was first elected president in 2000, then returned to the presidency in 2012. He has largely worked remotely since the outbreak of the pandemic, holding meetings from a windowless bunker and rarely appearing in public.

Presidential immunity played a prominent role in Putin’s rise to power. Among Putin’s first acts as president was to issue a decree granting immunity to the former president Boris Yeltsin from prosecution, interrogations and searches of his property.

The decision was interpreted by some as an incentive for Yeltsin – who was then ensnared in a Swiss investigation involving credit cards issued to his family – to step down and choose Putin as a successor. Yeltsin denied in his memoirs that there was any deal with Putin. A law on presidential immunity was adopted by Russia’s parliament in 2001.

The only other living Russian to whom Putin’s new bill would currently apply is Dmitry Medvedev, who served as president from 2008 to 2012 and then stepped aside to allow Putin to return.

The bill will need to pass three readings in the lower house, then the upper house, before being signed by Putin to enter into law.





No.11 article:
Twelve people infected so far with new strain against which vaccines may be ineffective

An outbreak among farmed mink of a mutant form of Covid-19 with the potential to be resistant to future vaccines has led to the Danish government bringing in tougher lockdown measures in parts of the country.

The measures were announced following the discovery of a new strain of the disease in animals bred for fur in the country’s northern regions.

Twelve people in the Jutland region have been diagnosed with infection with the new strain, and municipalities in northern Denmark will impose restrictions on residents’ movements between regions.

Restaurants and bars will also be shut, said Per Bach Laursen, the mayor of the Vesthimmerland municipality.

The country’s health authorities fear the new strain could prove to be more resistant against a vaccine. Kåre Mølbak, head of the State Serum Institute, the national authority for the control of infectious diseases, said the strain had mutations on its spike protein, the part of the virus that infects healthy cells.

He said the strain posed a potential threat to the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, which work by disabling the spike protein. “There is a risk that vaccines targeting the spike protein will not provide optimal protection against the new viruses occurring in mink,” a report published by the institute said.

Denmark’s health minister, Magnus Heunicke, said laboratory research had “shown that mutations may affect current candidates for a vaccine against Covid-19”. He said: “It is a threat to the development of vaccines against the coronavirus. This is why we must lead a national campaign.”

The World Health Organization said it had been “informed by Denmark of a number of persons infected with coronavirus from mink, with some genetic changes in the virus”.

Denmark is the largest producer of mink skins in the world, producing 40% of the world’s pelts. Mink is the country’s third-biggest agricultural export.

Between 15 million and 17 million mink, kept on more than a thousand Danish farms, will be killed in an effort to restrict the spread of the virus strain.

After previous Covid outbreaks 1.2 million mink were killed at 400 farms, which either had infections or were close to infected farms. There are 1,139 mink farms in Denmark employing about 2600 full-time staff.

The €800m cost of the cull policy, including compensation for affected farmers, has raised questions about the evidence for the action. “We are asking to have [the evidence] sent over so we can assess the technical basis,” a spokesperson for the Liberal party told the broadcaster TV2 on Wednesday.

Tage Pedersen, the president of the Danish mink breeders association said the cull would be the end of the industry.

He said: “It is a dark day for all of us and for Denmark. Of course, we don’t want to be the cause of another pandemic but the government’s decision is a disaster for our industry and Denmark. It is a de facto permanent shutdown and liquidation of the fur industry.”

The Dutch government killed the mink populations on 68 mink farms in June and announced the intention to permanently close the sites from the spring of 2021 after an outbreak of coronavirus.

A survey of employees in mink farms in the Netherlands found that more than 50% had been infected by a strain of the coronavirus found in the minks. The conclusion arrived at was that many of the people could have been directly or indirectly infected by the animals.





No.12 article:
Deal struck to enable EU to block budget payments to rogue members

Qualified majority vote by states will be sufficient for removal of voting rights

Brussels will be able to block budget payments to rogue EU governments that undermine the rule of law or the independence of judges, under a hard-fought agreement between the European parliament and member states.

In what was described as the “end of a painful phase” for the EU, a provisional deal has been struck, which will allow a qualified majority of member states to impose sanctions where governments fail to maintain democratic standards.

Procedures under article 7 of the EU treaties were launched against Poland in 2017 and Hungary in 2018 over alleged attempts by the governments to undermine the independence of their judges.

But the current system requires unanimity among the member states before sanctions, such as the removal of voting rights in Brussels, can be imposed. The rightwing governments in Poland and Hungary have said they will protect each other from such measures.

Under the new mechanism, there would be greater accountability over EU payments through removal of that veto. The European commission will establish whether any principles have been violated and then propose sanctions.

A suspension of payments from the bloc’s seven-year budget and coronavirus recovery fund could be enforced in response to “breaches of the principles of the rule of law in a member state” or where governments “seriously risk affecting the sound financial management of the EU budget or the protection of the financial interests of the EU”.

EU countries would then have one month to adopt the sanctions proposed by the commission by a “qualified majority”, which means at least 15 of the 27 countries representing at least 65% of the bloc’s 450 million citizens.

The targeted member state could trigger an “emergency break” to allow an extra two months of talks over a possible compromise. But once the sanctions have been agreed they must be implemented within seven months.

“We are ending a painful phase,” said Petri Sarvamaa, the Finnish MEP who helped lead to the European parliament’s negotiators with the member states over the mechanism. “If we had left this regulation too vague, toothless, then the ship would have continued to stay off the course indefinitely. This is what happened actually … Just look at what has happened in the US in the last four years … We want to avoid that situation in Europe.”

Katalin Cseh, a Hungarian MEP in the liberal Momentum party, said the agreement would prevent the prime minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, and others from using the EU as a “cash machine”.

She said: “Hungary is not a functioning democracy any more. Orbán and the government will fight to the death to stop the functioning of this. But I hope we have found something to stop this kind of violation.”

The deal must now be officially endorsed by a qualified majority of the EU’s 27 member states and a majority in the parliament. But MEPs and the member states are remain in dispute over the total size of the seven-year budget and coronavirus recovery fund, in a row that threatens its timely distribution. The parliament wants to secure additional funding beyond the €1.8tn (£1.6tn) agreed by EU leaders earlier this year.

Cristian Terheş MEP, from the Romanian Christian Democratic National Peasants’ party, said the rule-of-law mechanism was an unacceptable interference by Brussels into domestic politics.

He said: “The EU is shaking a chequebook rather than a gun at the head of democratically elected governments in Poland and Hungary in order to bully them into doing Brussels’ bidding.

“This is a despicable interference in the lawful democratic decision-making of member states. States have constitutions and parliaments which need to be respected by Brussels, rather than being whipped into line like a badly behaved child.”





No.13 article:
NHS system has also had one of its worst weeks for tracing close contacts of those infected

A total of 137,180 people in England tested positive for Covid-19 in the week ending 28 October, the highest weekly number of cases since NHS test and trace launched in May.

It represents an 8% rise in new positive infections on the previous week, according to Public Health England data. The test-and-trace system also reported having one of its worst weeks in terms of its performance in tracing the close contacts of those infected with Covid-19.

The figures, published by the Department of Health and Social Care, reveal that only 59.9% of close contacts of people who tested positive for coronavirus were reached and asked to self-isolate.

Prof James Naismith, the director of the Rosalind Franklin Institute, said: “The real issue is that less than half of infected people are even being tested – that’s the best way to understand why the system has been entirely ineffective. In the week ending 21 October we would estimate from the ONS [Office for National Statistics] there were around 330,000 new cases over that week.:

“So using the government’s own assumptions of three contacts per person, that’s a million people that need to be contacted through test and trace.

He continued: “Setting up an effective track and trace is an extremely difficult task, and with the current level of infection, it’s probably impossible. I wish to stress the UK is not alone in this struggle, the virus is spreading rapidly across the EU and the USA and [these countries] have also failed to implement effective tracing.”

Only 41% of coronavirus testing capacity was used in the week ending 28 October, with about 1.5 million people being tested at least once, despite capacity for 3.6m tests.

Nearly two-thirds of in-person test results were received the day after the test was taken, and 52% of home test results were received within 48 hours.

There has been criticism surrounding contracts awarded to companies such as Serco and Sitel, which have previously been reported to have only reached as little as 46% of close contacts in some areas of the UK.

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

Local health protection teams (HPTs) have been proving highly effective in tracing close contacts of infected people, with 97.9% being reached and asked to self-isolate in the week to 28 October. By contrast, only 58.5% of close contacts not managed by local HPTs were reached.

Experts have said at least 80% of close contacts have to be reached in order for test and trace to be effective. Overall, 33% of close contacts have not been reached since the system began operating in May.





No.14 article:
Two teenagers arrested in Belgium on suspicion of terrorist plot

Suspects appearing to pledge allegiance to Isis arrested in cities of Eupen and La Calamine 

The office of Belgium’s federal prosecutor says two underage people suspected of plotting what has been labelled a terror attack have been arrested.

Aged 16 and 17, the suspects were arrested on 31 October after raids in the cities of Eupen and La Calamine, located in the province of Liège. The prosecutor’s office said they were suspected of “attempted terrorist assassination and participation in a terrorist organisation.”

The two minors have been placed in a youth protection centre. According to Belgian broadcaster RTBF, the suspects had recorded a video of allegiance to Islamic State and were suspected of planning a stabbing attack against police officers.

The arrests were made before Monday’s attack in Vienna, where a man who had previously tried to join Isis went on a rampage in the Austrian capital and fatally shot four people before being killed by police.

Four years ago, coordinated attacks killed 32 people and injured hundreds more at Brussels’ Zaventem airport and on the city’s metro system. Belgian authorities have since thwarted several terror plots.





No.15 article:
Arctic time capsule from 2018 washes up in Ireland as polar ice melts

Cylinder left in ice by 50 Years of Victory ship travelled 2,300 miles to county Donegal

When the crew and passengers of the nuclear-powered icebreaker ship 50 Years of Victory reached the north pole in 2018, they placed a time capsule in the ice floe.

The metal cylinder contained letters, poems, photographs, badges, beer mats, a menu, wine corks – ephemera from the early 21st century for whomever might discover it in the future.

The future came pretty swiftly. The cylinder was found this week on the north-western tip of Ireland after floating an estimated 2,300 miles from the Arctic Circle, where global heating is melting a record amount of ice.

Conor McClory and Sophie Curran, surfers from the village of Gweedore in county Donegal, were checking sea conditions when they spotted the tube on the shore at Bloody Foreland, a beauty spot named for the red hue of the rocks at sunset.

“When I saw it, first I thought it was a steel pipe of a ship, then I lifted it and saw there was engraving on it. I thought it was a bomb then,” McClory told the Donegal Daily. “When I saw the date on it I thought it could be somebody’s ashes, so I didn’t open it.”

A Russian friend of a friend translated the engraving and told McClory it was a time capsule, so he opened it and discovered messages in Russian and English from the 50 Years of Victory’s polar expedition.

One letter in English, dated 4 August 2018, said: “Everything around is covered by ice. We think that by the time this letter will be found there is no more ice in Arctic unfortunately.”

McClory tracked down one of the letter’s authors, a Russian Instagram blogger in St Petersburg known as Sveta. In a Zoom call, Sveta said the crew and passengers had thought the cylinder might be discovered in 30 or 50 years and expressed shock it was found so quickly, McClory said.

In the past decade, Arctic temperatures have increased by nearly 1C. Arctic sea ice has reached its second-lowest extent in the 41-year satellite record.

Last year the Greenland ice sheet lost a record amount of ice, equivalent to 1 million tonnes every minute. With annual snowfall no longer enough to replenish snow and ice lost during summer melting, scientists fear it has passed the point of no return.

A Nature Climate Change study predicts that summer sea ice floating on the surface of the Arctic Ocean could disappear entirely by 2035.

For €29,600 (£26,740) the Russian-owned 50 Years of Victory takes passengers on 14-day expeditions to the north pole, calling it a “magical destination”.





No.16 article:




No.17 article:
Spain announces plans for flying taxi service in Barcelona

First air taxis to fly in Catalan capital and Santiago de Compostela in 2022, says Enaire

When Spain’s much-missed tourists and pilgrims finally return, they may be offered a novel way to rise above the crowds and appreciate some of the country’s most dramatic urban architecture.

Enaire, Spain’s air navigation authority, has announced plans to begin demonstrating flying taxis in Barcelona and Santiago de Compostela in 2022.

“We need to move urban mobility into the third dimension: airspace. And we need to do it as efficiently and sustainably as we can,” the authority’s director general, Ángel Luis Arias, told an online conference this week.

Arias said Enaire was working on European projects involving the use of flying taxis and other flying vehicles to move people around urban and semi-urban areas, as well as the use of drones to deliver goods.

He added: “Enaire, in its capacity as a public company of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, is willing to fulfil its duties to attract and help any private sector companies or public organisations that are interested in allowing Spain to position itself at the forefront of the development and operation of this new sector.”

Enaire is participating in two EU-funded projects that belong to Horizon 2020, the union’s biggest research and innovation programme to date. One is led by the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation, the other by the multinational technology company Everis.

“The plan if for both projects to demonstrate air taxis in Europe in 2022,” Enaire said in a statement. “Enaire will manage the flight of the first air taxis in Spain, which will take place that year in Barcelona and Santiago de Compostela.”

Passenger-carrying drones have been successfully flown in recent years by companies including China’s Ehang and the German aviation startup Volocopter.

In July last year, the Spanish technology company Tecnalia unveiled its prototype for a pilotless, one-person air taxi. The taxi, designed to carry a person or load of up to 150kg, has a cruising height of between 100 metres and 300 metres, and can cover distances of up to 15km in 15 minutes.





No.18 article:
England's second national Covid lockdown - in pictures

England has begun its second nationwide lockdown, after parliament approved Boris Johnson’s coronavirus strategy despite dozens of his own MPs voting against it





No.19 article:
Bill now needs approval from upper house before becoming law

Activists in Italy have hailed a vote in the lower house of parliament to pass a bill that would make violence against LGBT people and disabled people, as well as misogyny, a hate crime.

The bill, which passed successfully despite months of protests from far-right and Catholic groups, now needs approval from the upper house, where it is backed by the ruling coalition parties, before becoming law.

“If we succeed in definitively approving this law, Italy will finally be a country that accepts LGBT rights, because right now we are among the last countries in Europe for the social acceptance of LGBT people,” said Alessandro Zan, the Democratic party politician who drafted the law. “Moreover, it also criminalises hate against disabled people and misogyny, so it’s a very advanced law.”

Zan expects the law, which would see people convicted of such crimes jailed for up to four years, to be enforced before next spring. The law would be an extension of an existing law that punishes racist violence, hatred and discrimination.

The passing of the bill in the lower house comes after a series of high-profile attacks against gay and transgender people. In September, Maria Paola Gaglione, 22, was killed after her brother rammed his vehicle into the motor scooter she was riding on with her transgender partner, Ciro Migliore, in Naples. The brother, who has been charged with manslaughter, told investigators he didn’t intend to kill his sister but instead wanted to “teach her a lesson” over the relationship.

In late June, a 25-year-old man was brutally attacked by a gang of seven people as he walked hand in hand with his boyfriend in the Adriatic city of Pescara.

Rights’ groups receive hundreds of hate crime reports each year but many go unpunished. Although Italy approved same-sex civil unions in 2016, the country has lagged behind its EU partners in creating anti-homophobia measures. Attempts by various governments over the past three decades to enact a similar law have either been stifled or sabotaged, with any progress or even just meaningful debate stymied by a macho culture, Catholicism and support for far-right parties.

Matteo Salvini’s far-right League and Brothers of Italy, led by Giorgia Meloni, protested against the law, arguing it would suppress freedom of expression. The Italian bishops’ conference also said the bill marked “the death of liberty”.

The law would permit an increase in funding for groups that work to fight against discrimination and assist people who are the victims of it. “It will also put into play awareness campaigns in schools,” said Zan.

Luisa Rizzitelli, an LGBT and women’s activist, said the law was also an important tool to help counter misogynistic attitudes towards women.

“There is so much hate simply because you are a woman,” she said. “This law is a very strong signal. Not only does it make misogyny a crime, but at a cultural level it means our country accepts that the problem exists, as often misogyny becomes violent – people will be more aware that this behaviour is not right and now there will be a way to punish the perpetrator.”





No.20 article:
Kosovo’s president resigns to face war crimes charges in The Hague

Hashim Thaçi was guerrilla leader during 1990s war for independence from Serbia

Kosovo’s president, Hashim Thaçi, a guerrilla leader during the country’s war for independence from Serbia in the 1990s, has resigned to face charges for war crimes and crimes against humanity at a special court based in The Hague.

Thaçi announced his resignation at a news conference in Pristina, Kosovo’s capital. He said he was taking the step “to protect the integrity of the presidency of Kosovo”.

He was indicted by a special Kosovo court based in The Hague, Netherlands, which was set up to try the alleged crimes of former ethnic Albanian rebel leaders. A spokesman for the prosecutor at the court said he had no comment.

Thaçi is one of several politicians who have been indicted for crimes that include murder, enforced disappearances, persecution and torture.

Among them is also former parliament speaker Kadri Veseli, who also said he had been issued an indictment by a pre-trial judge and that he planned to travel to the The Hague on Thursday.

Three other former commanders of the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) that fought for independence from Serbia have been charged with war crimes by the court and an associated special prosecutor’s office established five years ago.

Exact details of the 10-count indictment against Thaçi, Veseli and others have not been released. Announcing the existence of the indictment earlier this year, the specialist prosecutor’s office alleged that Thaçi and others were “criminally responsible for nearly 100 murders”.

At the time, the prosecutor’s office said it made the existence of the indictment public because of what it called repeated efforts by Thaçi and Veseli “to obstruct and undermine” the work of the court, adding that they were believed to have tried to overturn the Kosovo law that created the court.

The formation of the court and prosecutor’s office followed a 2011 report by the Council of Europe, an international organisation upholding human rights, that included allegations that KLA fighters trafficked human organs taken from prisoners, and killed Serbs and fellow ethnic Albanians.

The court is mandated to investigate and prosecute allegations of war crimes and crimes against humanity in Kosovo, or linked to the Kosovo conflict, from 1998-2000.

The 1998-1999 war for independence from Serbia ended after a 78-day Nato air campaign against Serbian troops.

Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia in 2008, something that Serbia has still not recognised.





No.21 article:
In 1968 he was appointed lecturer in politics at the fledgling University of Warwick. His early work focused on political youth movements and the Conservative party, but then, perhaps influenced by his background as the son of a refugee, he turned to the study of race in British politics, a field in which he became a scholar of significant international standing, publishing extensively, and collaborating with colleagues at home and abroad.

His books included The Politics of Race in Britain (1984) and The Politics of Immigration: Race and Race Relations in Post-War Britain (1992). His most profound influence was probably as director of the Warwick University ESRC Centre for Research in Ethnic Relations, 1993-98, when he attracted prestigious overseas scholars to Warwick. As professor emeritus he continued to co-edit the leading book series in the field until 2018.

Known universally as Zig, he was always popular with his students, and many postgraduates kept in touch with him, inviting him to their home countries to give guest lectures. Colleagues remember him as “a global superstar”, “a true gentleman” and “collegial”, with “a gentle manner and good humour” whose “political commitment to race equality was fierce and steadfast”.

Born in Carlisle, Zygmunt was the eldest of five children. His father, also called Zygmunt, was a Polish army officer and his mother, Barbara (nee Matthew), later worked in a bookshop in London, to where the family moved when his father was put on the Polish army general staff. Zig was educated at St Benedict’s school in Ealing, west London, and at Birmingham University, where he studied politics, sociology and economics, and where he met Barbara Campbell in 1964. They married four years later.

For a while in the 1980s he was a local magistrate, and he was a member and president of Kenilworth rotary club for many years, having been drawn to it by its ethos of service above self.

Zig was a devoted family man with a love of nature and birdwatching, which was always a feature of family holidays – that is, when we succeeded in extracting him from his latest research project.

He is survived by Barbara, his daughters, Alison and me, and his grandsons, Oskar and Alec.





No.22 article:
Captain in fatal migrant boat journey to Canary Islands jailed for eight years

Abdallah Wazri sentenced after journey from Morocco in which woman and baby girl drowned

A boat captain who smuggled migrants from Morocco to the Canary Islands has been jailed for eight years and ordered to pay more than €160,000 in compensation after a woman and a one-year-old girl drowned while attempting to reach Europe last year.

Another woman is believed to have died in the accident but her body has never been found. 

On Wednesday, a court on the island of Gran Canaria found Abdallah Wazri, 29, a Moroccan citizen, guilty of two counts of involuntary manslaughter and one count of crimes against foreign citizens.

The court heard that Wazri had packed 30 people – including 11 women and three young girls – into his boat, which was 5.5 metres long and 2.5 metres wide, for the five-day journey from northern Morocco to the Spanish archipelago in May last year.

His passengers, who were from sub-Saharan Africa and north Africa, were charged about €1,000 each even though the boat was “fragile, unstable and ill-suited to transporting so many people on a crossing lasting days”. The court heard the vessel lacked sufficient lifejackets as well as the necessary provisions and drinks to cover people’s basic needs.

According to the judgment, as the boat neared the port of Arguineguín in Gran Canaria on the night of 16 May 2019, “the captain performed a hurried and risky manoeuvre to bring the boat to shore, which led the vessel to collide with a rock and several people to fall into the sea”.

A middle-aged woman drowned, as did the baby girl. 

Wazri jumped into the sea just before the boat hit the rock and swam to shore. He was arrested in the city of Las Palmas on Gran Canaria two weeks later.

The court said testimony from police officers and witnesses had provided a disturbing picture of the atrocious conditions aboard the boat. One of the passengers told of having to sit with his head bent over his knees for almost the entire voyage.

“Almost all the witnesses gave similar accounts of the miseries they suffered on the journey, during which they were piled on top of each other, unable to move and left without supplies, which were scarce and which soon ran out,” the judgment continued.

“The forensic reports are as revealing as the witness testimony. They show that people were suffering fatigue because of hunger and were generally weak because of the conditions in which they found themselves.”

The court concluded that Wazri’s fatal manoeuvre – “whether brought about by clumsiness, tiredness and/or haste” – had led to the death, by drowning, of at least two people. It also noted that more than half the passengers had stayed on the beach close to the accident site, while others had fled to avoid the police.

The verdict comes less than a week after at least 140 people travelling to the Canaries from Senegal died in the deadliest shipwreck recorded so far this year.

UN refugee and migration agencies have warned of a huge rise in the number of people risking the dangerous Atlantic route to Europe over recent months.

According to figures from the International Organization for Migration, 11,006 people have arrived in the Canaries since January this year, with 4,925 arrivals in October alone. Last year, 2,557 migrants arrived in the archipelago, up from 1,307 in 2018.

An estimated 414 people have died trying to reach the Canaries so far this year, almost double the 210 deaths recorded in 2019.





No.23 article:
Robert Buckland says it will be ‘huge challenge’ to get public to follow strict coronavirus restrictions again

The second national lockdown in England has been caused in part by a lack of public compliance, the justice secretary has said, adding that it will be a “huge challenge” to get the public to follow the strict rules this time.

Robert Buckland suggested the public had failed to adhere to the previous system, leading to the need for the four-week lockdown starting on Thursday in England.

“That’s one of the reasons we are having to take the measures we are today,” the cabinet minister told the BBC. “Sadly, it’s been difficult frankly regarding the compliance of some people with regard to the quarantine restrictions.

“I think it would be very ambitious of me to suggest that somehow we will be able to use the enforcement authorities to intervene in every case I think sadly that’s not possible.”

Buckland said he had not seen any of the much-vaunted Covid marshals out in public spaces but said local authorities had been given funding to expand enforcement in order to ease pressure on police.

“I haven’t met any, but I know that in my local area arrangements are being made,” he said. “They will have been trained in the regulations, the dos and don’ts and that person will be a useful source of advice and encouragement to make sure we can avoid a situation where lots of people are bring ticketed for infringements.”

Police have warned the public to expect tougher action after the home secretary told them to “strengthen enforcement”.

Martin Hewitt, the chair of the National Police Chiefs’ Council (NPCC), said: “Not following the regulations and measures put in place to limit the spread of the virus is unacceptable. We won’t waste time with endless encouragement for those who knowingly or deliberately break the rules. People recklessly ignoring the regulations should expect to receive a fixed penalty notice.”

Priti Patel told police chiefs that Downing Street wanted tougher action, and senior government figures called for the police to be visible in enforcing Covid regulations, especially against illegal raves or wedding with a large number of attendees.

There is a £200 fine for every breach that doubles on every offence, up to a maximum of £6,400, as well as £10,000 for large gatherings.

Buckland said the police would use the increased fines for repeat offenders. “I think the message has to go out very clearly that this will only work if we all play our part. The majority of people do brilliantly, but we have to deal with that tiny minority who do not wish to support other people.”

The government suffered a bruising vote on the lockdown on Wednesday, with Boris Johnson’s coronavirus strategy rejected by dozens of Conservative MPs.

Senior Tories, including former leaders Theresa May and Iain Duncan Smith, were among those in Wednesday’s Commons debate to criticise Downing Street’s management of the pandemic.

Thirty-four Conservative MPs voted against the four-week lockdown – the central plank of Downing Street’s plan for containing the virus – and several said they could not support any extension beyond 2 December, when it was due to end. 

May was among those who lined up to lambast the government, saying no data had been produced to justify the rules.

Buckland said the dissent in parliament was “actually fairly limited”, given the support of opposition parties.

“The decision made by the Commons actually reflects the vast majority of the public who support this approach, who do not want to see a series of stop-start measures that not only disrupt life and wellbeing, but disrupt the economy,” Buckland told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.





No.24 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Human rights watchdog will consider issues that have put minorities at ‘greater risk’ across England, Scotland and Wales

Great Britain’s human rights watchdog has begun an inquiry into inequalities experienced by people from black, Asian and minority ethnic communities who work in health and social care.

The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) said it would consider the “structural issues which have left people from a range of ethnic minorities at greater risk” across England, Scotland and Wales.

It comes after a study commissioned by the London mayor, Sadiq Khan, last month found that black people were at almost twice the risk of dying from Covid-19 as white people.

And research published by the Resolution Foundation thinktank on 28 October showed 22% of BAME workers who had been supported by government subsidies were unemployed in September, compared with a figure for the general population of 9%.

callout-coronavirus

The EHRC chief executive, Rebecca Hilsenrath, said the inquiry would help to answer questions about racial inequality “and make recommendations that can be applied to a number of other working environments where ethnic minorities are over-represented at the lowest-paid levels … This includes those on the frontline who have been supporting all of us through the immense challenges we have faced this year.”

A call for evidence will be announced in coming weeks, along with further information about an external advisory group that will help guide the investigation.





No.25 article:
Australian exporters scramble as fears of more China trade bans grow

Australian wine exporters have reportedly suspended shipments amid fears officials in Beijing are about to bar a range of goods

The Morrison government has accused China of heightening trade risks and breaching Xi Jinping’s own public pledges as a range of Australian export sectors brace for new disruptions as soon as Friday.

Guardian Australia understands some Australian wine exporters have suspended shipments to China, based on requests from their Chinese import partners, amid fears officials in Beijing are about to press ahead with bans on a raft of goods.

Lobster exporters have also been trying to clarify the hold-ups they have experienced since late last week.

While the trade minister, Simon Birmingham, hit out at Beijing for sending “continued uncertain and inconsistent messages”, some Australian-based analysts argued the Chinese government was engaging in “psychological warfare” by flagging vaguely defined potential sanctions that may or may not eventuate.

The state-run Global Times published an article late on Wednesday saying Australia was nervous about losing access to the Chinese market after China “halted seven categories of Australian goods from the market”.

The article did not provide new details but treated the development as fact, even though China’s commerce ministry had earlier in the week dismissed “rumours” of potential disruptions to Australian wine, lobster, sugar, coal, timber, barley and copper from Friday onwards.

The apparent confirmation of looming trade actions coincides with the third China International Import Expo, which is being held in Shanghai this week.

Xi, the Chinese president, reportedly told the opening ceremony he aimed “to turn the China market into a market for the world, a market shared by all, and a market accessible to all” in order to “bring more positive energy to the global community”.

But Birmingham said the inconsistent messages from China about what was happening with Australian exports were “heightening risks” and also undermined “the statements made by President Xi” at the import expo.

“If China is to be true to the statements of its government then it should provide confidence that normal customs and related processes will apply to imports of goods such as seafood and wine,” Birmingham said in a statement.

Hours before Birmingham issued the strongly worded statement, Scott Morrison, the prime minister, told reporters: “China has denied that is what they are doing and I can only take that at face value out of respect for the comprehensive strategic partnership we have with China.”

Dr Jeffrey Wilson, a trade expert who is the research director of the Perth USAsia Centre at the University of Western Australia, said he believed China’s tactics were a case of “grey-zone” diplomacy.

“The ambiguity is by design,” he said. 

“It’s not a trade war, it’s psychological war.”

Wilson said the uncertainty was “principally designed to strike fear into a large number of Australian companies … that their shipments to China might not get cleared”. China is Australia’s number one trading partner, making up 33% of Australia’s total exports.

Sowing that fear, he said, would “provide additional ballast” to those commentators who were pressing the Australian government to soften its stance towards China in an effort to “fix” the relationship.

Wilson said the moves also sent a message to import partners who may be thinking of doing business with Australian exporters at the trade fair this week.

Richard McGregor, a senior fellow at the Lowy Institute, said China wanted Australia to pay a price for their political disagreements, especially the call for the international inquiry into Covid-19.

“Whether or not the hard ban goes into place on Friday, Chinese importers of all sorts of goods have been sent an unmistakeable signal by the [Chinese] government, that it is pointless building business ties with Australia, because they can be interrupted overnight because of politics,” McGregor said. 

“So even if business doesn’t stop this week, it is going to come to a stop at some point, so why bother investing in the relationship.”

Guardian Australia understands wine exporters have still not had anything officially confirmed, but several have suspended shipments to China to avoid any risk at the border. This step was taken at the request of importers.

However, one of Australia’s biggest operators, Treasury Wine Estates, which makes Penfolds, is believed to have continued business as normal with China this week.

Shares in Treasury Wines Estates fell by 8% on Thursday, after it informed the stock market it had become aware China’s domestic drinks industry was lobbying Beijing to impose retrospective tariffs on Australian wine.

That domestic request was associated with an ongoing anti-dumping investigation into Australian wine that was launched by China’s commerce ministry in August and is scheduled to take up to 12 months to complete.

Wilson questioned how it would even be possible for authorities to implement back-dated tariffs on products that had cleared customs, been sold and consumed.

“I’ll be honest with you: I have a PhD in trade policy from the Australian National University and I’ve never heard of retrospective tariffs in my life,” he said.

While Australian and Chinese officials continue to talk through diplomatic channels, Australian ministers have reported being unable to reach their Chinese counterparts for several months. Birmingham said earlier this week that this situation had not changed but the Australian government remained keen for dialogue.

China’s embassy in Australia has not commented directly on the potential new trade actions but has referred Guardian Australia to comments from the foreign ministry spokesperson on Tuesday “that the Chinese authorities take inspection and quarantine measures on imported products in accordance with laws and regulations”.

China’s foreign ministry urged Australia to “bring the bilateral relations back to the right track”.





No.26 article:
&#x27;Save nothing for best&#x27;: Guardian readers on lessons of lockdown

How what they learned first time around will help them now as England enters lockdown again

 As we wake up to the first day of a second national lockdown in England, millions of people are facing at least a further four weeks of staying at home.

Although many in the north and Midlands have lived under restrictions for some time, the new countrywide measures that came into force from midnight will mean everyone is now subject to more rigorous restrictions.

Guardian readers share what they learned from the first national lockdown, and how they plan to use that knowledge as a second one begins.

In April, 34-year-old Katie Davies lost her father. The experience made her realise that time was short, and she vowed not to continue to wait to do, or use, things that would give her joy.

“In the first lockdown I learned that you shouldn’t save anything for best”, she said. “It’s a bit of a habit in my family. My nana said that any new coats were too new to wear straight away; they had to acclimatise to the wardrobe for a bit first and then only brought out on Sundays.”

She continued: “I’d had my second daughter in January and caring for two babies, meant I was stretched beyond capacity emotionally, with very few coping mechanisms available.”

Struggling to get shopping slots and avoiding supermarkets in case of catching coronavirus, Davies and her mother raided the cupboards and discovered items saved as gifts, and never used.

“Picnics outside with the children meant actually using a teapot with real leaf tea , risking the fancy cups, two of which did get broken,” said Davies, who lives in Wigan.

“I still have real leaf tea most days, six months on, and a sense of a parallel universe in which my dad died and a pandemic hit us,” she added. “One tea canister my mum found was a year out of date, past its best. My dad ran out of time to do what he wanted to. Drink the best tea, use the fancy cups.”

For Eleanor*, who lives in London and works in tech, a second lockdown calls for more defined boundaries between work and life. Without access to an office, she has found switching off “super difficult”, and raised concerns that many employees were working much longer hours remotely.

“For many of us that have stressful jobs and live alone in small flats, the lack of boundaries with work and the increased demands of work have been hard to manage,” she said. 

“I live alone, and don’t have children, and there’s an expectation that because you don’t have to look after others, you can just keep working,” she added. “It’s unhealthy.”

Eleanor said she plans to be “stricter” about clocking off from work on time, and introduce more time to switch off.

“I’m going to put an alarm on, and even if the work isn’t done, I’m going to close the laptop, because the demands don’t stop,” she said. “I’m also going to try and have less screen time. Instead of lounging about on Netflix, I’m trying to read.”

For 36-year-old social anthropologist Connie Smith, the constant saturation of news about coronavirus was “overwhelming”.

“Following minute-by-minute live streams of news can feel like a duty, and how we show we care about what’s going on,” said Smith, who lives in Manchester. “Lockdown forced many of us to slow down, get off the treadmill, and that change of pace became an opportunity. But if we take it all online, we lose that opportunity to slow down.”

Instead, Smith has decided to focus on things that are within her control, sharing small moments of kindness to herself and others.

“I learned to take things more slowly,” she said. “You can take time to do something small for yourself or someone else that feel tiny, but can have a big impact. Watch a bird out the window, help a neighbour, smile with my eyes, stop being impatient in the queue. Planting seeds on your windowsill. It’s a small thing, but it’s an investment in the future.”

“Lockdown is traumatic and stressful,” she added. “We should remember that a little gentleness goes a long way.

In Lincoln, engineer Jonny Codling thinks the best way for people to get through the second lockdown is to make sure they have a support network. “It’s really important for people to be able to confidentially lean on each other if they need to,” said Codling, 29.

COBL (Cathedral on Bailgate Lincoln) cycling club was set up by Codling and five other people in June to help create a community of support offering outdoor rides and talks on mental health. “It just snowballed,” he said. “It started off with people just asking advice but now we have 80 members and since the summer we’ve seen this positive wave of people wanting to get together and ride.”

“I think people were receptive to the idea because a lot of them felt isolated during the lockdown in March. When we got together I think members appreciated the social aspect of what we could offer.”

It’s been difficult for Codling who has not been able to work for most of the year. “I’ve racked up some debt, but it’s the happiest I’ve ever been. The club has people from the ages of 15 to 60, and some of them have never ridden before.

“We had a few rides outdoors during the summer but now we can’t meet up we’ve started indoor rides where people can take part at home using a turbo trainer (where you take off the rear wheel of your bike and attach it on), and a virtual reality app which lets you feel as if you’re cycling outside. We can all video chat together and still feel connected. 

“Now that we have this incredible support network we’re hoping it will help get us through this next period of isolation.”

For healthcare assistant Libby Telling who lives on her own in Hereford, the lockdown in March was incredibly difficult. “I felt very isolated,” said Telling, 58. “I’ve had agoraphobia and panic disorder since 2019. Work was keeping me sane, but I got a viral infection in April and was off for three weeks.”

Telling said she felt “cut off” during lockdown even though she was able to speak to her four children on social media, and is “not looking forward” to another one. “You get lonely living on your own, and you become introspective. I’ve realised that it’s not good for my mental health.

“This time round I’ll be reaching out to people more and going for walks which will help distract my mind. It also gives you a different perspective on life and gets you out of a cycle of anxious thinking. It’s going to be hard, but I think I’ll get through it.”





No.27 article:
Thursday briefing: Joe Biden with one hand on the prize

‘When the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners’ … protests outside vote count venues … Trump threats grow in line with chance of losing

by  Warren Murray

Hello, Warren Murray here with an electoral collage …

By reliable, objective measures Joe Biden is winning the race to become the next US president. Overnight the Democrat has been projected to our satisfaction to be the victor in Michigan and Wisconsin, while he appears to be narrowing Donald Trump’s lead in Georgia. At time of writing Biden holds an estimated 264 electoral college votes – six short of victory – while Trump holds 214 according to the measures that the Guardian uses.

As we send out today’s Briefing, the states not yet called are Nevada, North Carolina, Georgia and Pennsylvania. For the electoral votes he needs, Trump would have to win them all. Biden could get over the line with a win in Pennsylvania, or in Nevada where he has been leading the count. A Biden victory in Georgia or North Carolina would almost certainly foretell wins elsewhere and a Democratic victory. Trump has been leading in Pennsylvania but what is thought to be a huge Democratic vote share remains to be tallied in the cities of Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. You can see the live results here.

Trump and Republicans have put out a wave of tweets, speeches and announcements railing about fraud, announcing legal action to block vote counts, and illegitimately “claiming” the electoral college votes of several states for the White House incumbent. None of their claims appear to have any serious credence. Protests have erupted in some places – Biden supporters generally demanding that officials “Count every vote”, and Trump supporters seemingly wanting the count stopped or demanding on the spot to be let into counting venues as “observers”. As we publish, Trump supporters, including some armed, have been milling outside the counting centre in Maricopa county, Arizona, a state where Biden holds a narrowing lead.

Biden has claimed he is on course to win the presidential election and issued a plea for national unity. “After a long night of counting, it’s clear that we’re winning enough states to reach 270 electoral votes we need to win the presidency,” he said in Wilmington, Delaware, in stark contrast to Donald Trump’s inflammatory tone. “I’m not here to declare that we’ve won,” Biden continued, “but I am here to report that, when the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners.”

The election has been “tarnished” by legal uncertainty and Trump’s “unprecedented attempts to undermine public trust”, according to the US election observer mission of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). “Baseless allegations of systematic deficiencies, notably by the incumbent president, including on election night, harm public trust in democratic institutions,” says its preliminary report. The Polish diplomat heading the mission, Urszula Gacek, told the Guardian: “You have an incumbent who is doing something we’ve never seen before, casting doubt on the actual process, and making the way you cast your ballot also a political statement.” The tireless Guardian team continues to bring you the latest at our US election 2020 live blog.

Coronavirus latest – England has begun its second nationwide lockdown this morning after Boris Johnson faced a bruising vote where dozens of his own MPs rejected the PM’s coronavirus strategy. The four-week stay-at-home order keeps all non-essential shops and venues closed. The home secretary, Priti Patel, has told police to “strengthen enforcement”. The Commons approved the new measures on Wednesday by 516 votes to 38, with opposition parties backing the government, but 34 Conservative MPs voting against. Rishi Sunak is expected to announce an extension of furlough beyond December. The head of the Oxford University group developing one of the leading Covid vaccine contenders has played down the chances of vaccinating people by Christmas: “I think there is a small chance of that being possible, but I just don’t know,” said Prof Andrew Pollard. Jump into our global live blog for further developments.

Cancer treatment hold-up deadly – Delaying cancer treatment by just four weeks increases the risk of death by up to 10%, according to new research that shows the devastating impact of missed NHS treatment targets due to Covid. Researchers pooled the results of 34 studies involving more than 1.2 million patients internationally to arrive at their findings. An unprecedented number of cancer patients missed out on vital treatments, diagnostic tests and outpatient appointments as the pandemic unfolded, according to NHS England data. Analysis by Cancer Research UK estimates 12,750 fewer cancer patients have had surgery while 6,000 fewer received chemotherapy and 2,800 fewer had radiotherapy due to the postponement of routine NHS care. The researchers calculated that for breast cancer a surgical delay of 12 weeks would add up to 1,400 excess deaths in the UK over the course of a year.

TfL ‘facts’ site is Tory front – The Tory mayoral candidate for London, Shaun Bailey, has been criticised after his team launched a “facts” website about the Transport for London bailout, with the site making no direct mention it was created by the Conservative party. It attacks the mayor, Sadiq Khan, for the authority needing a £1.8bn government bailout after revenues fell during the pandemic. The Conservatives faced criticism for masquerading online as a fact checking service during the 2019 general election. A spokeswoman for Khan said Bailey’s campaign was “deliberately lying” and described the website as “fake news masquerading as ‘facts’ … The Tories must stop trying to take Londoners for fools.”

‘Hygienic living’ – Seemingly out of the blue North Korea has banned smoking in some public places. The North Korean ruler, Kim Jong-un, has been known as a chain smoker, frequently seen with a cigarette in hand in photographs in state media. North Korean state media said that to provide citizens with “hygienic living environments” smoking would be banned inside “political and ideological education centres” (which sound unhealthy enough already) as well as theatres and cinemas, and medical and public health facilities.

It’s day one of the lockdown in England, and it’s been a turbulent week in US politics. Thankfully Robin McKie, the Observer’s science editor, has some good news on the race to find a vaccine.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/04-80223-20201105_TIF_vaccine.mp3 

Some of the Briefing’s colleagues get the fun jobs. Sam Wollaston tries on the Gravity Industries jetpack, brainchild of ex-Royal Marine Richard Browning: “It is the embodiment of a thousand myths, from Hermes and Peter Pan to Iron Man, as well as a million childhood dreams.”

Manchester United resembled a rabble for much of a dire display against Champions League debutants Istanbul Basaksehir. Basaksehir had not scored or gained a point before taking on Ole Gunnar Solskjær’s side, yet by the interval two barely credible errors had given Basaksehir the goals that consigned United to their first group defeat. Chelsea took a grip on Champions League Group E with a 3-0 defeat of Rennes, on a night when they also announced a positive coronavirus test for Kai Havertz, the £72m signing from Bayer Leverkusen.

In his first match since a record-extending 13th Roland Garros title, Rafael Nadal marked his return to competition in the very same city with a rusty victory over Feliciano López. After dropping the first set to his 39-year-old countryman, Nadal recovered to win 4-6, 7-6(5), 6-4 at the Paris Masters. Mamadou Sakho has won his libel action against the World Anti-Doping Agency and is to receive “substantial damages” after it repeated false claims about a drug test taken by the former Liverpool defender. The door has been left open for Alistair Brownlee to seal a place at next year’s Tokyo Olympics despite the two-times gold medallist being left out of the provisional British triathlon team.

Shares in Asia rose to their highest point for nearly three years overnight as markets bet on a Joe Biden victory in the US presidential election and the end of uncertainty about the outcome. Stocks in Europe and the US moved upwards on Wednesday and the positive mood continued in Asia Pacific on Thursday with the MSCI index of Asian shares (excluding Japan) lifting 1.3% to its highest mark since February 2018. In Japan the Nikkei was up 1.45%. The FTSE 100 is set to rise 0.36% at the opening based on the current trajectory while the pound is buying $1.296 and €1.104.

“Donald Trumped?” Somebody had to do it and that somebody is the Daily Mail, which says the president is threatening a “constitutional crisis” after he lashed out with “wild claims of voter fraud and ‘surprise ballot dumps’”. The Mirror’s first edition branded Trump “A liar and a cheat to the bitter end”; its second switched focus to Joe Biden with “Now it’s time to heal and start again”. The Guardian has “Biden: no one will take away our democracy”.

The Telegraph leads with “We will win, says Biden, as Trump threatens legal war”; in the Times, “America holds its breath” is the treatment. The i has “Biden edges closer to the White House”, and a pat on the back to the Metro for “Make America wait again”.

The Express has a virus lead – “We can’t let Covid break our NHS” but the election’s there too: “Trump threatens legal chaos”. The Sun tries to lift locked-down spirits with “It’s a Jabby Xmas”, saying a vaccine could be rolling out by then. Its election headline: “Is it Joe Bye Don” which took three people to explain to me. The FT puts the “US election on a knife edge” and adds that a “Mountain of mail ballots looms over Philadelphia” which evokes a strange mental image.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.28 article:
Tiny Japanese home &#x27;filled&#x27; with 164 starving dogs

Experts say extreme animal hoarding cases are linked to poverty, isolation and ageing population

Health officials in Japan have found 164 emaciated dogs crammed into a tiny house, in the latest case of animal hoarding that experts say is linked to poverty, isolation and the ageing population.

The parasite-infested animals were found in a 30 square-metre (323 square feet) house in Izumo, a city in western Japan, last month following complaints from neighbours.

Kunihisa Sagami, the head of the animal rights group Dobutsukikin, said the dogs were found crammed onto shelves and under tables and chairs.

“The entire floor was filled with dogs and all the floor space you could see was covered with faeces,” Sagami told Reuters.

The increase in reports of hoarding has raised concerns about the welfare of both the animals and their owners.

In the year through to the end of March 2019, local authorities received more than 2,000 complaints about homes overrun with animals, according to the environment ministry.

A ministry analysis of 368 cases showed about 30% of the owners were aged 70 or over, with a significant number living with dementia. More than half of the people questioned said they were living in “difficult” circumstances, including poverty, poor health and isolation.

In response, Japan’s animal welfare law has been revised to force owners to neuter or spay their pets where over-breeding is a risk, and penalties for animal abuse have been increased. Animal welfare officials now have the power to conduct an on-the-spot inspection if they suspect an owner of cruelty.

“There is a tendency … to treat issues around animals lightly, but if we don’t approach the owners of these pets with a view to providing welfare, then we can’t solve the problem,” a local government official told the Mainichi Shimbun,

In June, a man in his 50s was arrested after animal rights activists rescued 66 dogs he had been keeping in foul conditions in an unoccupied house. The man did not live with the animals, but visited the house every two or three days to feed them.

Dogs are not the only victims. In March, 238 cats were discovered living in unsanitary conditions in a house in northern Japan before being placed under the protection of local authorities and animal rights groups.

In another case that made headlines last year, animal support volunteers entered the Tokyo home of a woman and her elderly mother to find a tiny room filled with 163 cats.

Public health officials first visited the house in Izumo seven years ago after neighbours complained about the noise and smell, but the occupants – a family of three – refused to allow them in.

They later told officials that that the number of dogs had multiplied because they could not afford to have them spayed or neutered.

Sagami said his group would find foster homes for the dogs after the family agreed to give them up.





No.29 article:
China bans non-Chinese arrivals from UK as England enters lockdown

People from Belgium and Philippines are also barred in ‘temporary measure taken in response to the pandemic’

China has barred non-Chinese travellers from the UK, Belgium and the Philippines, imposing new border restrictions in response to the worsening Covid-19 pandemic.

The Chinese embassy in the UK said on Wednesday that China’s borders were now closed to those arriving from the UK, including those with valid visas and residence permits. The measure, a reversal of recently loosened restrictions, comes as England began a month-long lockdown in an effort to stop a resurgent outbreak. The country has the highest death toll in Europe of almost 48,000 deaths.

“This is a temporary measure taken by China in response to the current pandemic,” the Chinese embassy in the UK said.

The embassy in Belgium also released a statement announcing restrictions for nationals traveling from Belgium, which has the highest per capita number of cases in Europe. On Thursday, the embassy in the Philippines, which has among the largest number of cases in south-east Asia, followed suit.

The notices said the new restrictions would not affect those with diplomatic, official or courtesy visas or crew members of international flights, trains or other vessels.

Beijing, which has for months largely contained the outbreak and seen the Chinese economy begin to recover, also imposed new rules on those who are allowed in. As of Friday 6 November, all passengers from the US, Germany, the Czech Republic and France must have tested negative for the Covid-19 virus as well as for antibodies within 48 hours of travelling. Passengers from Denmark are subject to the rule from 7 November. Starting on 8 November, those travelling from Australia, Singapore and Japan will be subject to the same rule.

Officials have said that the antibody test is to guard against false negatives in nucleic acid tests. A negative test for the antibody immunoglobulin M, or IgM, the body’s first response to the virus, would indicate that a person has never been exposed or that they have been infected and recovered.

Chinese residents have watched warily as the pandemic continues to spread in Europe and the US. As the UK prepared for its new lockdown, news of the number of private jet bookings circulated Chinese social media with the hashtag “Rich Brits take private jets to escape second lockdown” attracting more than 60m views.

“The whole continent of Europe is in a mess. What’s the difference?” one user commented in response. Another said: “No place is clean. Escaping is not possible.” Another, commenting on the looming lockdown, said: “To put it bluntly, what they are doing is not shedding a tear until they see the coffin.”

• This article was amended on 5 November 2020. An earlier version said that the presence of antibodies shows that a person has either never been exposed to the virus or has been exposed but recovered; this should have referred to the absence of antibodies, or a negative test.





No.30 article:
Police warn public to expect tougher crackdown on Covid lockdown breaches

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Home secretary tells police chiefs to ‘strengthen enforcement’ ahead of England’s second lockdown

Home secretary tells police chiefs to ‘strengthen enforcement’ ahead of England’s second lockdown

Police have warned the public to expect tougher action against Covid rule-breakers after the home secretary told them to “strengthen enforcement” ahead of England’s second lockdown.

Martin Hewitt, chair of the National Police Chiefs Council (NPCC), said those blatantly and deliberately flouting the regulations should expect punishment.

A police source stressed this did not mean officers would start “policing people’s private lives” but officers would be quicker to fine or close premises in clear and wilful breach of the new regulations.

“Not following the regulations and measures put in place to limit the spread of the virus is unacceptable. We won’t waste time with endless encouragement for those who knowingly or deliberately break the rules. People recklessly ignoring the regulations should expect to receive a fixed penalty notice,” Hewitt said.

It marks a change of tone since the first lockdown, and comes amid growing concern about rule-breaking including raves. One rave attracted 1,000 people in east London at the weekend and another, in the West Country, saw attacks on police who tried to close it down, leading to a standoff lasting several hours.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Police cited an example of a Merseyside pub opening in breach of Covid regulations despite repeated warnings; in future police are likely to issues fewer warnings before enforcement action including shutting down premises.

The NPCC comments came after Priti Patel told police chiefs that Downing Street wanted tougher action. Senior government figures want the police to be visible in enforcing Covid regulations, especially against the most blatant breaches such as raves and weddings with scores of people attending.

While police forces are operationally independent, Patel’s spokesperson said that she had told police chiefs: “We now need you to strengthen enforcement.”

The home secretary told a meeting of the National Policing Board: “I am acutely aware that we are asking more from our outstanding officers, and that they have been working flat out to keep people safe.

“But the prime minister has been clear that he wants to see tougher enforcement of the necessary restrictions in order to save lives. We now need you to strengthen enforcement, and that the law-abiding majority are not endangered by those who flout the rules.”

Strict new rules are expected to be rolled out for the whole of England on Thursday, including the instruction to stay at home except in a handful of circumstances including exercise and essential shopping.

Last week, the NPCC said more than 20,000 fines had been issued in England and Wales since coronavirus restrictions were introduced on 27 March. No data was available on how many had been paid.

Of these, 1,103 fines were issued in the four weeks to 19 October to people breaking England’s local lockdowns and for gatherings of more than 30 people. The NPCC said the highest level of financial penalty – £10,000 – had been issued 64 times in England and twice in Wales for people holding raves, house parties, or protests of more than 30 people.

Prof Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, said there had been a remarkable level of compliance among the British public to the draconian restrictions on social contact.

However, there have been concerns that the majority of people – up to 80% – fail to quarantine fully when asked to do so by test and trace. Police chiefs are planning to release data in the coming weeks on how many people have been referred to officers for breaching self-isolation.





No.31 article:
Israeli forces leave 41 children homeless after razing Palestinian village, UN says

Demolitions used as a ‘key means’ to ‘coerce Palestinians to leave their homes’

Israeli forces in the occupied West Bank have razed a Palestinian village, leaving 73 people – including 41 children – homeless, in the largest forced displacement incident for years, according to the United Nations.

Excavators escorted by military vehicles were filmed approaching Khirbet Humsa and proceeding to flatten or smash up tents, shacks, animal shelters, toilets and solar panels.

“These are some of the most vulnerable communities in the West Bank,” said Yvonne Helle, the UN humanitarian coordinator for the occupied Palestinian territory.

Three-quarters of the community lost their shelters during Tuesday’s operation, she said, making it the largest forced displacement incident in more than four years. However, by the number of destroyed structures, 76, the raid was the largest demolition in the past decade, she added.

On Wednesday, families from the village were seen rifling through their wrecked belongings in the wind, with some of the first rain of the year arriving the same day. The UN published a photo of a bed and a cot in the open desert.

The village is one of several Bedouin and sheepherding communities in the Jordan Valley area that is located within Israeli-declared army training “firing zones”, and despite being within the Palestinian Territories, people there often face demolitions for a building without Israeli permission.

“Palestinians can almost never obtain such permits,” said Helle. “Demolitions are a key means of creating an environment designed to coerce Palestinians to leave their homes,” she said, accusing Israel of “grave breaches” of international law.

Nearly 700 structures have been demolished across the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 2020 so far, she said, more than any year since 2016, leaving 869 Palestinians homeless.

Israel’s Civil Administration, the body tasked with running the occupation, said it had carried out an “enforcement activity … against seven tents and eight pens which were illegally constructed, in a firing range located in the Jordan Valley”.

Those figures contradicted the UN statement and an on-site report by prominent Israeli human rights group, B’Tselem, which said forces destroyed 18 tents and sheds housing 11 families, 29 tents and sheds used as livestock enclosures, three storage sheds, nine tents used as kitchens, 10 portable toilets, 10 livestock pens, 23 water containers, two solar panels, and feeding and watering troughs for livestock.

Israeli forces also destroyed more than 30 tonnes of food for livestock and confiscated a vehicle and two tractors belonging to three residents, the group added.

“As part of its efforts to take over more and more Palestinian land, Israel routinely demolishes Palestinian homes and property,” said B’Tselem spokesperson Amit Gilutz.

“But the wiping off of a whole community at once is extremely rare, and it seems like Israel was making use of the fact that everyone’s attention is currently set elsewhere to move forward with this inhumane act,” he said in reference to the US election.

Israel captured the West Bank from Jordanian forces in 1967 and continues to control and occupy the area, although Palestinians have limited self-rule over small enclaves.

The country’s hardline prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said he intends to annex large swathes of occupied Palestinian territories, including the Jordan Valley, although the plan was temporarily “suspended” as part of a deal with the United Arab Emirates.





No.32 article:
Prime minister says New Zealand feels like ‘a calm oasis in a chaotic and difficult world’

Jacinda Ardern has compared New Zealand’s “calm oasis” with the “chaotic and difficult world” in her first comments since election day in the United States.

Speaking in Auckland on Thursday, the prime minister fell short of condemning Donald Trump for prematurely claiming victory in the election on Wednesday night (AEDT).

She did, however, make a pointed reference to her hope that ballot-counting would continue as the president’s campaign makes legal bids to challenge counting in states where the result will be determined.

Ardern, who has previously lived in the US, said she believed democracy would prevail.

“We have faith in the institutions in the United States,” she said.

“And of course faith that those final votes will continue to be counted and that there will be a final result declared.

“This is another country’s democracy and now it’s time for us to let it run its course.”

As with most US presidential elections, the result hinges on the count in a small number of swing states.

Based on projected vote tallies, Trump looks set to lose the presidency to Democratic challenger Joe Biden.

Ardern said she stood ready to work with either man, with New Zealand eager to progress free trade talks with the USA.

“My job in this role as prime minister is to work with whoever another country decides should be the leader in the same way that New Zealand expects every other country to work with whoever [we] elect as prime minister.”

The 40-year-old won her own bid for re-election last month in the New Zealand election.

On Thursday, Ardern gave her first major post-election address, spelling out her immediate governing priorities to Business NZ.

She began by addressing the US election, saying “I’m speaking with you at a time when New Zealand feels like a calm oasis in a chaotic and difficult world”.

“I watched the results of the US election roll in, and I couldn’t help but reflect on our own elections in recent years,” she said.

“Increasingly I’ve come to believe that we have to find ways that strong views can be held, and expressed, but without the accompanying partisanship that stops us from working to build consensus where it really matters.”





No.33 article:
Covid vaccines: Scott Morrison announces two new deals but Australia ‘at end of long queue’

Pfizer has already agreed to supply the US, EU and Japan with hundreds of millions of doses

Australia’s efforts to secure the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine candidate may be compromised by huge global demand and a lack of local manufacturing capability, experts say, as Labor warns that Australia may struggle to distribute it at the required temperatures.

On Thursday, Scott Morrison announced Australia had reached two new deals for Covid-19 vaccines, one for 10m doses with pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and another with the US corporate Novavax, which would supply 40m vaccines.

That adds to the two prior deals struck with AstraZeneca/Oxford and the University of Queensland and further diversifies the vaccine types available to Australia, as researchers race to find a safe and effective candidate.

The Pfizer candidate is an mRNA-type vaccine, a new technology never before approved for clinical vaccine use, which works by giving cells the instructions they need to produce the viral proteins that trigger an immune response to Covid-19.

Australia currently lacks any mRNA vaccine manufacturing capability, forcing it to rely on imports only.

Its order of 10m doses, at two doses a person, would only be enough for 5 million Australians, and Pfizer has already struck deals to give hundreds of millions of doses to the United States, Japan and the EU.

The Australian government says it has priority access and estimates the Pfizer vaccine supply would first begin to arrive in early 2021, ready for use if the candidate proves safe and effective.

But Prof Thomas Preiss, a molecular biologist with the Australian National University who specialises in mRNA, said there is a significant possibility the manufacturing of the mRNA vaccine will be constrained.

He has urged Australia to pursue a two-pronged approach to supplying the Pfizer vaccine, by importing what it needs for urgent vaccination and establishing a local manufacturing capability in parallel.

“The key issue here is that there are potential global capacity constraints with manufacturing mRNA vaccine doses … for the entire world population,” he said.

“As this is a novel vaccine technology, no country or company had really contemplated making therapeutic mRNA at that sort of scale until recently.”

Assoc Prof Archa Fox, an expert on RNA with the University of Western Australia, said Australia will be “at the end of a long queue” to obtain the Pfizer vaccine if it passes clinical trials.

Importing enough doses would also likely cost $1bn. Setting up local manufacturing would cost a fraction of that, Fox said, though it would take time to train staff and establish capability.

“The lack of capacity to make mRNA is both a threat and an opportunity for the Australian biotechnology sector,” Fox wrote for the Conversation. “Given the speed at which this technology has been applied to Covid-19, it would be useful to have this production capacity in Australia, so we can quickly respond to future pandemics.”

The vaccine must also be stored at temperatures below -70C at all times, complicating distribution significantly. It requires a network of suitable freezers, dry shippers, or liquid nitrogen tanks to supply the vaccine across the country.

Labor says Australia currently has “no capacity to do this”.

“So even if it was ready tomorrow, we couldn’t use it. That’s a big problem,” the shadow health minister, Chris Bowen, said.

“We are keen to see further detail of the government’s touted vaccine roadmap. Who is in, who is out, the pathway to secure more, and how we get it in the hands of Australians.”

Bowen’s comments drew a sharp response from the health minister, Greg Hunt, who said distribution for the Pfizer mRNA vaccine within Australia had already been secured. He said the government was undertaking thorough planning to ensure vaccine distribution at the required temperatures, with tenders to be issued on Thursday to coordinate the process.

“Indeed, the manufacturer has humiliatingly refuted Chris Bowen’s statement. Sometimes, Chris, it is better to remain silent if you have no idea what you are talking about,” Hunt said in a statement.

Preiss said the distribution of mRNA vaccines would pose significant challenges in remote areas.

“I believe Moderna [another mRNA vaccine] requires -20 degrees whereas Pfizer requires -70 degrees. Minus-20 freezers are available throughout Australia’s medical infrastructure, whereas -70 freezers are more likely restricted to hospitals rather than at GP locations,” he said.

Other experts suggested distribution would not be a significant problem. Prof Colin Pouton, of Monash University, said ultra-low freezers are widely used and operate at -80C.

“Lower temperatures can be obtained using storage in vapour phase above liquid nitrogen [at or below -140C],” he said. “Transporting vials can be done in granules of solid carbon dioxide [dry ice] in an esky. This is freely available and sublimes at a temperature of -78C.”

Pouton said the more difficult issue would be the volume of material needed to be transported.

Australia is attempting to diversify the vaccine types it secures, according to health department secretary Prof Brendan Murphy, and now has two protein vaccines, one viral vector vaccine, and Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine.

“We have diversified our strategy and we have the capacity now to start vaccinating the Australian population in the first quarter of next year, which is a terrific outcome and gives us a very, very strong position internationally in access to vaccines,” Murphy said on Thursday.

Both Fox and Preiss say there are other benefits to establishing local RNA manufacturing. mRNA can also be used for other non-vaccine purposes, including promising therapies for cancer and other genetic diseases.

“RNA therapeutics is potentially a disruptive technology and in this way Australia could become a leader in an expanding new hi-tech industry and export to the world,” Preiss said.





No.34 article:
Covid has set back the PM’s modest progress on childhood hardship, meaning greater policy ambition is needed 

As the New Zealand First party’s vote share evaporated on election day, so too did Jacinda Ardern’s last excuse for not making more progress on child poverty, her signature issue.

No longer able to blame inaction on her one-time conservative coalition partner, and possessing an absolute majority, the Labour leader now has a free hand on an issue dear to her heart. She may have labelled climate change her “nuclear-free moment”, referencing the 1980s Labour government’s famous opposition to nuclear weapons, but it is child poverty reduction, not climate change, that she has always taken as her “extra” portfolio.

And Ardern has already made modest progress. Data released in February showed that, on seven out of nine key measurements, child poverty had fallen slightly in her first year in office. And that data was collected before her main anti-poverty initiative so far, the Families Package, had fully taken effect.

The latest Treasury modelling shows that, pre-coronavirus, Ardern was on track to achieve the 2021 targets in the Child Poverty Reduction Act, which include lowering from 16.5% to 10.5% the proportion of families with less than half the typical (median) household income. This, though, was a little bit like getting to base camp on Everest: no mean feat, but infinitely easier than the task ahead.

The coronavirus-induced recession has clearly worsened some forms of poverty – just look at the food bank queues. The Treasury thinks the number of families in “material hardship” – those reporting they are unable to afford basic items – will “rise sharply”. Progress on other measures, such as the household incomes one, is likely to stall or partially reverse.

Ardern’s long-term targets, meanwhile, are daunting. They require the proportion of households with less than half the typical income to fall to just 5% by 2028, for instance.

It is important to stand back and appreciate the scope of this ambition. It would cut the number of children in poverty by two-thirds in a decade, placing New Zealand amongst the world’s best performers and profoundly reducing misery and marginalisation.

But ambitious targets require ambitious policy agendas – all the more so as the hardest challenges are still to be met. The families helped so far will largely be those who were in relatively “shallow” poverty, needing perhaps an extra $50 a week to be lifted over the line. The families Ardern will have to help in later years will be as much as $350 a week under the poverty line, according to the 2018 Welfare Expert Advisory Group (WEAG). And their numbers will have been swollen by coronavirus.

For all that she is supposed to be a transformational figure, Ardern has relied largely on the “third way” policies of her Labour predecessor, Helen Clark, in her fight against child poverty. The Families Package rejigged a familiar array of tax credits and payments, albeit signalling a minor shift to universalism via the best start payment for all newborns.

Some more ambitious policies are on the way. The minimum wage will continue its rise towards $20 an hour, while so-called fair pay agreements will ensure that if workers win good pay rates with one employer, those conditions are spread throughout their industry. Beneficiaries will be able to earn significantly more before their benefits are clawed back, some 200,000 children will get free school lunches, and another 8,000 state houses will be built.

But most experts believe these policies will be nowhere near enough. “There’s nothing in place that would give you any confidence that they have the tools to meet the 2028 targets,” says Susan St John, a founding member of the Child Poverty Action Group. At a minimum, she says, the government needs to raise core benefits by nearly 50%, as the WEAG recommended. It should also simplify and increase Working for Families payments, remove sanctions, forgive beneficiaries’ debts and make housing more affordable.

Ardern’s innate fiscal and political caution will not help here. Although New Zealand’s coronavirus-induced public debt will, at 55% of GDP, be modest by global standards, she seems reluctant to spend up large on things like solving child poverty. Yet that fight, if it is to be successful, will be expensive, even if it brings immense savings – in the form of healthier, better-educated children – in the long run.

St John says the government could easily spend $1bn a year – on a package that includes extending some tax credits to beneficiary families – just as “a holding position to relieve the depth of poverty”. This starkly illustrates the scale of the challenge Ardern faces. She has made it part way up the mountain: but does she have the strength for the climb ahead?

Max Rashbrooke is a New-Zealand-based writer with interests in economic inequality and democratic participation. He is currently the 2020 J D Stout Fellow at Victoria University of Wellington





No.35 article:
Nearly a third of New Zealanders felt badly distressed in Covid lockdown

Young people worst affected with almost half of those aged 18-24 reporting moderate to severe distress

The wellbeing of New Zealanders plummeted during the country’s nationwide lockdown, research has found, with nearly a third experiencing “moderate to severe psychological distress” – especially young people.

On 15 March Jacinda Ardern, the prime minister, ordered the total closure of the country’s borders and on 26 March the entire population of five million entered a strict lockdown.

From an infection point of the view the lockdown worked, but the social toll is continuing to be understood, including higher rates of depression, anxiety, and domestic abuse, as well as widespread sleeping problems.

On days 19 and 22 of the nearly five-week lockdown, Otago University’s Dr Susanna Every-Palmer, head of psychological medicine, surveyed 2,000 Kiwis about their wellbeing and mental health, including questions about their levels of depression and anxiety, the state of their family relationships and if they were experiencing any positive side-effects of lockdown.

Every-Palmer found “almost a third of participants experienced mental distress during the lockdown”, with 30% reporting moderate to severe psychological distress and 16% had moderate to high levels of anxiety.

Almost 40% said their level of wellbeing was low.

“New Zealand’s lockdown successfully eliminated Covid-19 from the community, but our results show this achievement brought a significant psychological toll,” Every-Palmer said.

“Substantially increased rates of distress were seen among those who reported having lost their jobs or experienced a reduction in work as a result of the pandemic, those who had potential vulnerabilities to Covid-19, or identified their health status as poor, and those who had a past diagnosis of a mental illness.”

The research also found the lockdown affected different age groups in different ways, with the level of mental distress much higher in younger adults, with almost half of those aged between 18 and 24 experiencing moderate to severe psychological distress compared to less than one in 10 adults aged 65 years and older.

Every-Palmer said her team surmised the cause of this was higher levels of wellbeing among older age groups prior to entering lockdown, and higher levels of resilience learned from past exposure to adversity.

One in 10 people also reported experiencing some form of domestic abuse during lockdown, which corresponds to similar research findings from China, the US, Brazil and Australia.

However the psychological impact of lockdown was not all bad, Every-Palmer said, with 62% of respondents saying there were some enjoyable aspects, including working from home, spending more time with family, and living in a quieter, less polluted environment.

“People reported taking the opportunity to pause, reflect, consider priorities, recreate healthy habits, and they appreciated the environmental benefits brought by reduced travel.”

Dr Dougal Sutherland, a clinical psychologist from Victoria University of Wellington, said the findings were valuable as they were captured in real time.

“Although the study couldn’t tell us exactly what about the lockdown people found stressful, it is likely that a combination of health anxiety and worry about the potential economic consequences of Covid-19 played a role,” Sutherland said.





No.36 article:
Theresa May abstains and Iain Duncan Smith votes against PM’s plan in Tory rebellion 

England has begun its second nationwide lockdown on Thursday, despite a bruising vote the previous day in which Boris Johnson’s coronavirus strategy was rejected by dozens of his own MPs.

Senior Tories including former leaders Theresa May and Iain Duncan Smith were among those in Wednesday’s Commons debate to attack Downing Street’s management of the pandemic, which claimed nearly 500 lives across the UK on Wednesday – up 24% on the previous day – and left more than 12,000 people hospitalised. 

NHS England warned that within two weeks more hospital beds could be filled than at the height of the first wave, and said its alert level would rise to 4 from Thurday, meaning the pandemic response would be handled nationally rather than regionally.

The four-week stay-at-home order starting on Thursday, in which all non-essential shops and venues will have to close, is likely to be more heavily policed than the first national lockdown in March, after the home secretary, Priti Patel, told forces that Johnson expected them to “strengthen enforcement”.

The House of Commons approved the new measures on Wednesday by 516 votes to 38 with opposition parties backing the government.

Thirty-four Conservative MPs voted against the four-week lockdown – the central plank of Downing Street’s plan for containing the virus – and several said they could not support any extension beyond 2 December, when it is due to end. May was among those who lined up to criticise the government, saying no data had been produced to justify the rules. 

In a final attempt to quell a substantial revolt, Johnson had urged rebels in his party to “put differences aside”. But May said the potential need for a rolling series of lockdowns would cause “irreparable damage” to the economy and have a “significant impact on lives”, while the regional tiers system had not been given adequate time to work. Liverpool, which has been subject to tier 3 measures, had seen cases halve, which May said suggested the localised approach may be working.

Duncan Smith said the data used to put England into lockdown had “unravelled in the last few days”, also pointing to case numbers in Liverpool. He said he would not vote for the government’s plan, saying he believed that the leak of the lockdown plans on Friday had “bounced the government” into announcing the measures.

Many Conservative MPs were taken aback by the prime minister’s abrupt abandonment of tiered regional restrictions, which he had been robustly defending days before Saturday’s announcement.

Scientists believe the R number is still above 1 in most parts of the country, meaning that even though infection rates are slowing in Liverpool and other tier 3 areas, the decline is not by enough to avoid a prolonged second wave and excess deaths.

May abstained rather than vote against the lockdown measures, and Duncan Smith was among those voting against, as were a string of other former ministers including Steve Baker and Esther McVey, and the chair of the 1922 Committee, Graham Brady.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

The government also published advice for people defined as “clinically extremely vulnerable” on Wednesday, hours before the lockdown was due to begin. The clinically extremely vulnerable group includes those with reduced immune systems, specific cancers or severe respiratory conditions such as cystic fibrosis. They are being strongly advised to stay at home at all times unless they are going out for exercise or a doctor’s appointment.

People with chronic kidney disease (stage 5) and those undergoing dialysis, as well as adults with Down’s syndrome, are being added to the shielding list by the NHS due to new evidence about groups more likely to be at risk of serious illness from Covid-19.

During the Commons debate, Johnson vowed that the lockdown would end on 2 December and that ministers would seek a “fresh mandate” on what came next.

“It is right for members on all sides of this house to have the doubts that have been expressed, to seek answers from me, and to provide scrutiny,” he said. “But while it pains me to call for such restrictions on lives, liberty, and business, I have no doubt that these restrictions represent the best and safest path for our country, our people and our economy.”

Johnson did not remain in the Commons for May’s speech, causing cries of outrage from the opposition benches. But he told MPs earlier: “I know there are many in this house who are concerned about how long these measures might last, and that if people vote for these regulations today, they could suddenly find that they’re trapped with these national measures for months on end.

“So let me level with the house. Of course I can’t say exactly where the epidemiology will be by 2 December, but what I can say is that the national measures that I hope the house will vote on tonight are time-limited … They legally expire.”

The prime minister reiterated that the NHS being overwhelmed could have disastrous consequences. “It means that the precious principle of care for everyone who needs it, whoever they are, whenever they need it, that principle can be shattered for the first time in our experience,” he said. “It means those who are sick and suffering and in need of help could be turned away because there was no room in our hospitals.”

Brady said he would vote against the government “with greater conviction than I have in casting any vote in those 23 years [as an MP]”. He said: “I think there is an, unintended perhaps, arrogance in assuming the government has the right … to tell people whether they can visit their elderly parents in a care home, whether it has the right to tell parents they can’t see their children or grandchildren, whether it has any right – for heaven’s sake – to tell consenting adults with whom they are allowed to sleep.”

Baker said he would vote against the measures “with a heavy heart,” because of doubts about the data presented to MPs. He said the UK must “improve standards in government so that never again do we see a model like this, which evaporates like morning mist under the sunlight of close inspection”.

However, he said there was a crucial need for compliance with the new rules, in a dig at the prime minister’s adviser Dominic Cummings who broke the last lockdown’s rules. “No more innovative eye tests,” Baker said.





No.37 article:
North Korea bans smoking in public places to safeguard &#x27;hygienic living&#x27;

Measure comes despite more than 43% of the country’s male population being smokers, including leader Kim Jong-un

North Korea’s supreme people’s assembly has introduced smoking bans in some public places to provide citizens with “hygienic living environments”, state media KCNA reported.

The tobacco-prohibition law aims to protect the lives and health of North Koreans by tightening the legal and social controls on the production and sale of cigarettes, KCNA on Thursday quoted the legislature as saying.

The law stipulates that smoking is banned in specific venues, such as political and ideological education centres, theatres and cinemas and medical and public health facilities, KCNA said.

North Korea has high rates of smoking, with 43.9% of the male population smokers as of 2013, according to the World Health Organization.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is known as a chain smoker who is frequently seen with a cigarette in hand in photographs in state media.

Kim was spotted taking a cigarette break at a railway station in the southern Chinese city of Nanning in 2019 on his way to Hanoi for his second summit with US president, Donald Trump.






