No.1 article:
Assassination in Iran Could Limit Biden’s Options. Was That the Goal?

The killing of Iran’s top nuclear scientist is likely to impede the country’s military ambitions. Its real purpose may have been to prevent the president-elect from resuming diplomacy with Tehran.

WASHINGTON — The assassination of the scientist who led Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear weapon for the past two decades threatens to cripple President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s effort to revive the Iran nuclear deal before he can even begin his diplomacy with Tehran.

And that may well have been a main goal of the operation.

Intelligence officials say there is little doubt that Israel was behind the killing — it had all the hallmarks of a precisely timed operation by Mossad, the country’s spy agency. And the Israelis have done nothing to dispel that view. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has long identified Iran as an existential threat, and named the assassinated scientist, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, as national enemy No. 1, capable of building a weapon that could threaten a country of eight million in a single blast.

But Mr. Netanyahu also has a second agenda.

“There must be no return to the previous nuclear agreement,” he declared shortly after it became clear that Mr. Biden — who has proposed exactly that — would be the next president.

Mr. Netanyahu believes a covert bomb program is continuing, until yesterday under Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s leadership, and would be unconstrained after 2030, when the nuclear accord’s restraints on Tehran’s ability to produce as much nuclear fuel as it wants expires. To critics of the deal, that is its fatal flaw.

“The reason for assassinating Fakhrizadeh wasn’t to impede Iran’s war potential, it was to impede diplomacy,” Mark Fitzpatrick, a former State Department nonproliferation official, wrote on Twitter on Friday.

It may have been both.

Whatever the mix of motives, Mr. Biden must pick up the pieces in just seven weeks. The question is whether the deal the president-elect has outlined — dropping the nuclear-related sanctions Mr. Trump has imposed over the past two years if Iran returns strictly to the nuclear limits in the 2015 accord — was shot to pieces along with Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s S.U.V. in the mountain town of Absard, east of Tehran.

The answer lies largely in how Iran reacts in the next few weeks. Three times since the start of the year, Iran has been on the receiving end of highly visible, highly damaging attacks.

First came the killing of Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, the Iranian commander who ran the elite Quds force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, in a drone strike in Iraq, where the Trump administration said he was planning attacks on American forces.

Then, in early July came the mysterious explosion at a centrifuge research and development center at Natanz, a few hundred yards from the underground fuel-production center that the United States and Israel attacked more than a decade ago with a sophisticated cyberweapon.

And now the killing of Mr. Fakhrizadeh, a shadowy figure often described as the Iranian equivalent of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the scientist who oversaw the Manhattan Project more than 75 years ago in the race for the United States to develop the world’s first nuclear weapon.

The chief of staff of Iran’s armed forces, Maj. Gen. Mohammad Bagheri, described Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s killing as “a bitter and heavy blow to the country’s defense system” and said there would be “severe revenge.”

The commander in chief of the Revolutionary Guards, Maj. Gen. Hossein Salami, said “the assassination of our nuclear scientists is a clear, violent war against our ability to achieve modern science.” He carefully avoided mention of the overwhelming evidence that Mr. Fakhrizadeh taught physics once a week at the Guards’ own university, but spent the rest of his time keeping alive the option of building a nuclear warhead that could fit atop one of Iran’s growing fleet of missiles.

The Israelis may well be betting that they win either way.

If Iran holds off on significant retaliation, then the bold move to take out the chief of the nuclear program will have paid off, even if the assassination drives the program further underground.

And if the Iranians retaliate, giving Mr. Trump a pretext to launch a return strike before he leaves office in January, Mr. Biden will be inheriting bigger problems than just the wreckage of a five-year-old diplomatic document.

Both those options seem fine with Mr. Trump’s departing foreign policy team, which is trying to lock in the radical reversal of Iran policy that has taken place over the past four years.

“The Trump administration’s goal seems plain,” said Robert Malley, who leads the International Crisis Group and was a negotiator of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal.

The administration’s plan, he said, was “to take advantage of the time remaining before it heads to the exits to solidify its legacy and make it all the more difficult for its successor to resume diplomacy with Iran and rejoin the nuclear deal.”

Mr. Malley expressed doubts that “it will in fact succeed in killing diplomacy” or the deal.

“The center of gravity in Iran is still with those who want to wait until Biden is president,’’ said Mr. Malley, who has known Mr. Biden’s pick for secretary of state, Antony J. Blinken, since they attended high school together in Paris.

Mr. Biden and Mr. Blinken have made clear that returning to the deal Mr. Trump pulled out of is one of their first objectives in the Middle East.

But as Jake Sullivan, the newly appointed national security adviser, who served as one of the secret emissaries to begin the negotiations that led to the deal, put it on Wednesday at an event at the University of Minnesota, “that’s really up to Iran.”

“If Iran returns to compliance, for its obligations that it has been violating, and is prepared to advance good-faith negotiations on these follow-on agreements,” Mr. Biden is willing to do the same, he said. (While Mr. Biden supported the 2015 deal, he was also in on the decision-making in 2010 as the cyberstrike against Natanz unraveled.)

Before the assassination, there was considerable evidence that the Iranians were laying low, avoiding provocations that might give Mr. Trump a pretense to strike before he leaves office. Iran’s leaders have made clear that regime survival is their No. 1 goal, and they have been careful not to take risks that could upend their hopes of lifting sanctions, and restoring the deal, after Mr. Trump’s term ends.

After the killing of General Suleimani, there was a brief missile attack on an American facility that miraculously killed no American troops (though there were many cases of traumatic concussion injuries that Mr. Trump dismissed as “headaches.”) De-escalation followed.

There was no real response to the explosion at Natanz, also attributed to Israel, other than the subsequent installation of some advanced centrifuges to make the point that Iran’s program would move ahead, slowly and methodically. Attacks aimed at American forces in Iraq, many by Iranian proxies, have diminished in recent weeks, and Iran’s feared cyberattacks on the American election system seemed more like amateur hour — emails to some voters purporting to be threats from a far-right group, the Proud Boys.

But the hard-liners are angry, and some experts fear that the combined loss of Iran’s most revered general and its most revered nuclear scientist is too much. Pressure is already mounting for some response — either a calculated one, presumably on the orders of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, or an unscripted lashing out, perhaps by a rogue element of the Iranian military or an Iranian-sponsored militia that does not get the memo to wait for Inauguration Day.

That may be exactly what Mr. Netanyahu — and Mr. Trump and his advisers — is betting on. Any retaliation could result in American military action, exactly what Mr. Trump contemplated, and was argued out of, two weeks ago when news came that Iran was continuing to produce nuclear fuel above the limits of the 2015 accord. (That move, of course, was in response to Mr. Trump’s decision in mid-2018 to break out of the agreement himself.)

American military officials said on Saturday that they were closely monitoring Iranian security forces after Iran’s vow to retaliate for Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s death, but that they had not detected any usual Iranian troop or weaponry movements.

The officials declined to comment on any heightened U.S. alert levels or additional measures to protect American forces in the Middle East, noting that the more than 40,000 troops in the region are already at a relatively high level of alert.

A cycle of military action could make it all but impossible to reconstitute the Iran nuclear deal, much less negotiate a bigger, longer-lasting diplomatic arrangement.

If the response to the killing of Mr. Fakhrizadeh is a cycle of retaliation and counter-retaliation, the nuclear program will go deeper underground — quite literally — where bombs and saboteurs cannot reach it, and cyberstrikes may be ineffective.

“We should not exclude the use of force, but military strikes won’t bring us a long-term shutdown of the program,” said R. Nicholas Burns, a former under secretary of state and the Iran nuclear negotiator from 2005 to 2008 under President George W. Bush.

“Our goal is to roll back and shut down its nuclear program for decades to come,’&#x27; said Mr. Burns, who now teaches diplomacy at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, and “achieving that through tough-minded diplomacy is still a smarter and more effective option than a military strike that could provoke a wider war in the Middle East.”





No.2 article:
Biden Aides’ Ties to Consulting and Investment Firms Pose Ethics Test

Some of the president-elect’s choices for top posts have done work for undisclosed corporate clients and aided a fund that invests in government contractors.

WASHINGTON — One firm helps companies navigate global risks and the political and procedural ins and outs of Washington. The other is an investment fund with a particular interest in military contractors.

But the consulting firm, WestExec Advisors, and the investment fund, Pine Island Capital Partners, call themselves strategic partners and have featured an overlapping roster of politically connected officials — including some of the most prominent names on President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s team and others under consideration for high-ranking posts.

Now the Biden team’s links to these entities are presenting the incoming administration with its first test of transparency and ethics.

The two firms are examples of how former officials leverage their expertise, connections and access on behalf of corporations and other interests, without in some cases disclosing details about their work, including the names of the clients or what they are paid.

And when those officials cycle back into government positions, as Democrats affiliated with WestExec and Pine Island are now, they bring with them questions about whether they might favor or give special access to the companies they had worked with in the private sector. Those questions do not go away, ethics experts say, just because the officials cut their ties to their firms and clients, as the Biden transition team says its nominees will do.

WestExec’s founders include Antony J. Blinken, Mr. Biden’s choice to be his secretary of state, and Michèle A. Flournoy, one of the leading candidates to be his defense secretary. Among others to come out of WestExec are Avril Haines, Mr. Biden’s pick to be director of national intelligence; Christina Killingsworth, who is helping the president-elect organize his White House budget office; Ely Ratner, who is helping organize the Biden transition at the Pentagon; and Jennifer Psaki, an adviser on Mr. Biden’s transition team.

WestExec did not respond when asked for a list of its clients. But according to people familiar with the arrangement, they include Shield AI, a San Diego-based company that makes surveillance drones and signed a contract worth as much as $7.2 million with the Air Force this year to deliver artificial intelligence tools to help drones operate in combat missions.

At the same time, Mr. Blinken and Ms. Flournoy have served as advisers to Pine Island Capital, which this month raised $218 million for a new fund to finance investments in military and aerospace companies, among other targets.

The team recruited by Pine Island Capital Partners — which is led by John Thain, the chief executive of Merrill Lynch at the time of its collapse in 2008 during the recession and sale to Bank of America — was chosen based on its members’ “access, network and expertise” to help the company “take advantage of the current and future opportunities present in the aerospace, defense and government services industries,” including artificial intelligence, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing in September describing the new fund, Pine Island Acquisition Corporation.

Pine Island Capital has been on something of a buying spree this year, purchasing the weapons system parts manufacturer Precinmac and a company until recently known as Meggitt Training Systems and now known as InVeris, which sells computer-simulated weapons training systems to the Pentagon and law enforcement agencies.

Another person listed as a member of the Pine Island team is Lloyd J. Austin III, a retired Army general who is also under consideration for defense secretary, according to a person familiar with the selection process.

Also working with Pine Island are Richard A. Gephardt, the former House majority leader, and Tom Daschle, the former Senate majority leader, both Democrats, as well as Don Nickles, a Republican, who was chairman of the Senate Budget Committee and is now the chief executive of a lobbying firm with dozens of major corporate clients.

Ms. Flournoy, who served as under secretary of defense for policy during the Obama administration and as an assistant secretary of defense during the Clinton administration, has other business ties that could overlap with her role if Mr. Biden chose her to run the Pentagon.

She is a member of the board at Booz Allen Hamilton, a global firm that has billions of dollars in federal contracts including a deal signed in 2018 to provide cybersecurity services to six federal agencies. That company paid her about $440,000 in the last two years, much of it stock awards.

Republicans have already signaled that they intend to bore in on WestExec in confirmation hearings for Mr. Blinken, and other nominees with links to it.

And Mr. Biden’s team has faced pressure from the left and government watchdogs to outline steps to minimize the sort of corporate influence and conflicts of interest that marked President Trump’s tenure from the start.

These groups worry not only that Mr. Biden’s aides could shape government policies in ways that could benefit companies that paid their firms, but also that the firms could become magnets for access seekers in the Biden administration.

At a minimum, these critics say, Mr. Biden must demand that his team fully disclose all financial relationships and clients, divest any ownership stakes and make sure that his aides recuse themselves from any decisions that could benefit their previous business interests.

“We want to make sure that they are not beholden to anyone else and that any decisions they make would be beyond reproach,” said Mandy Smithberger, a director at the Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit group that investigates spending and conflicts of interests at federal agencies.

A spokesman for Mr. Biden said in a statement that, if confirmed, Mr. Blinken and any other appointees who were partners in WestExec and Pine Island would leave the firms if they had not already done so, sell their ownership stakes and make “proper” client disclosures.

“Joe Biden has pledged the most ethically rigorous administration in American history, and every cabinet member will abide by strict ethics rules and abide by all disclosure requirements,” the spokesman, Andrew Bates, said. Mr. Blinken already took a leave from Pine Island and WestExec as of August, when he joined the Biden campaign full time.

But Mr. Biden’s transition office stopped short of saying that all clients would be disclosed — and ethics rules allow incoming federal officials to withhold the identities of clients if the arrangements are subject to confidentiality agreements.

WestExec cited such agreements in a statement explaining why it would not reveal some of its clients to The New York Times.

“As a general matter, many of our clients require us to sign nondisclosure agreements, which are a standard business practice to protect confidential information,” WestExec said in a written statement, when asked for a list of its clients that do business with the Pentagon or State Department. “We are legally and ethically bound by those agreements.”

Mr. Biden’s transition office said Mr. Blinken was “obtaining permission&quot; from clients to disclose their identities but stopped short of saying that all clients would be disclosed.

WestExec was created in 2017 to offer what its website calls “unique geopolitical and policy expertise” to companies seeking to navigate “external factors and relationships that affect businesses” in Washington and around the world.

The company said that “it does not lobby, does not act as an agent of foreign principals and does not work for any governments or state-owned enterprises.”

Its co-founders — Mr. Blinken, Ms. Flournoy, Sergio Aguirre and Nitin K. Chadda — had worked in foreign policy and national security posts under President Barack Obama. The firm has prominently highlighted those connections, featuring a large photo on its home page of Mr. Blinken in the White House Situation Room with Mr. Obama.

The firm became a holding pen of sorts for prominent national security and foreign policy officials from previous Democratic administrations, who could help attract clients while waiting to re-enter the next Democratic administration.

Two former government officials listed as principals at WestExec — the former deputy defense secretary Robert O. Work and the former deputy C.I.A. director David S. Cohen — joined Mr. Blinken recently to brief Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on what the incoming administration described as “national security planning.”

And the former Obama adviser Lisa Monaco, who had been listed as a principal by WestExec, is believed to be under consideration for a post in the Biden administration.

Mr. Biden’s team has played down some of its advisers’ ties to WestExec. While the firm had listed both Ms. Haines and Ms. Psaki as WestExec principals, a transition official said they had spent a relatively limited amount of time working with the firm, with Ms. Haines serving as a consultant and Ms. Psaki as an outside contractor.

WestExec’s business plan accommodates the revolving door between the influence industry and government by offering services that draw on government expertise without triggering lobbying laws that would require its officials to disclose their clients’ identities or specific issues before the government.

Registering as lobbyists also would have restricted the ability of WestExec officials to work for the Biden transition, which enacted rules barring participants who had lobbied in the last year from serving on the transition, unless they receive waivers.

The Biden administration is expected to introduce restrictions on former lobbyists, and if it follows the example set by the Obama administration, it will also bar appointees from lobbying their former agency for two years after leaving the government.

The Obama lobbying restrictions had the side effect of spurring a rise in what critics have called “shadow lobbying,” in which firms advised clients on how to do business in Washington, including navigating the bureaucracy and pointing them to officials who oversee potentially lucrative contracts. While the consultants may not formally lobby to secure the deal, their connections and knowledge make them valuable.

Mr. Bates said Mr. Blinken did not advise clients on how to obtain federal contracts and that the bulk of his work was on geopolitical risk assessment.

But WestExec’s website provides case studies of how it has helped clients, without identifying them by name. In one, the firm indicates it helped a multibillion-dollar American technology company and an American pharmaceutical company expand sales in East Asia by “safeguarding against trade tensions between the U.S. and China.”

In two other cases, WestExec indicates it helped companies promote services related to artificial intelligence — an increasing priority for national security and intelligence agencies in the United States and around the world.

Mr. Biden has indicated his administration intends to spend heavily on artificial intelligence research, echoing a recommendation in a report issued last year by a think tank created by Ms. Flournoy.

WestExec, in one of its case studies, says it helped an “artificial intelligence analytics firm” secure “key pilot programs with multiple national security agencies.”

Another WestExec client, Shield AI, was founded in 2015 by a former member of the Navy SEALs to employ artificial intelligence to protect service members and civilians. It won a $1 million contract from the Defense Department in 2016 before securing its Air Force contract this year worth up to $7.2 million.

A Shield AI official said WestExec did not play a role in securing any government contracts awarded to the company.

Wired magazine reported last month that Ms. Flournoy helped Shield AI develop guidelines for artificial intelligence use that incorporate human judgment, quoting her as saying that “the Department of Defense doesn’t want to remove the human; it wants to make the human better.”

WestExec also has represented Windward, an Israeli artificial-intelligence company, according to The American Prospect. Windward representatives did not respond to requests for comment.

Pine Island is similarly bullish on artificial intelligence. In the S.E.C. filing from September, it predicted that the Defense Department “will prioritize rapid technological advancements” in artificial intelligence and other high-tech specialties.

The stock sale in November — which raised, at least so far, a total of $218 million — is being used to set up what is called a “blank check company” that is sitting ready to buy a new target, likely in the military or aerospace sector, the company filings say.

Mr. Blinken had left Pine Island before it completed raising the money for the new fund, according to a Pine Island spokesman. Ms. Flournoy “remains a member of the firm,” the spokesman said in a statement on Friday.

Pine Island said that it has no contractual relationship with WestExec but that WestExec provides it with “analysis, insight and expertise.”

If anything, the attention to WestExec’s ties to the incoming administration has increased interest in the firm’s services in Washington’s influence industry, according to lobbyists. They say WestExec has already come to be seen as a go-to firm for insight on how Mr. Biden’s team will approach issues of significance to deep-pocketed corporate interests.

WestExec’s name comes from the small street that runs between the West Wing of the White House and the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, where other top White House officials work. The firm’s name, it points out, “is, quite literally, the road to the Situation Room.”





No.3 article:
Virus Deaths Approach Spring Record Amid Changing U.S. Crisis

On April 15, more Americans were reported dead of Covid-19 than on any other day of the pandemic. The daily toll is growing close once more. 

On April 15, the United States reached a grim nadir in the pandemic: 2,752 people across the country were reported to have died from Covid-19 that Wednesday, more than on any day before or since.

For months, the record stood as a reminder of the pain the coronavirus was inflicting on the nation, and a warning of its deadly potential. But now, after seven desperate months trying to contain the virus, daily deaths are rising sharply and fast approaching that dreadful count again.

How the virus kills in America, though, has changed in profound ways.

Months of suffering have provided a horrific but valuable education: Doctors and nurses know better how to treat patients who contract the virus and how to prevent severe cases from ending in fatality, and a far smaller proportion of people who catch the virus are dying from it than were in the spring, experts say.  

Yet the sheer breadth of the current outbreak means that the cost in lives lost every day is still climbing. More than 170,000 Americans are now testing positive for the virus on an average day, straining hospitals across much of the country, including in many states that had seemed to avoid the worst of the pandemic. More than 1.1 million people tested positive in the past week alone.

At the peak of the spring wave in April, about 31,000 new cases were announced each day, though that was a vast undercount because testing capacity was extremely limited. Still, the toll of the virus was an abstraction for many Americans because deaths were concentrated in a handful of states like New York, New Jersey and Louisiana.

Now the deaths are scattered widely across the entire nation, and there is hardly a community that has not been affected. On Wednesday, when 2,300 deaths were reported nationwide — the highest toll since May — only three counties reported a toll of more than 20. 

Forty-four states have set weekly case records and 25 states have set weekly death records in November, as the nation’s death toll has surpassed 264,000 and officials worry that Thanksgiving gatherings may cause infections to spread still more widely in the coming days. 

On April 15, more than half of the people who died were in just three states: New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Michigan, Massachusetts, Maryland and California also each reported more than 100 deaths that day.  

But in much of the country, the spring looked far different. 

In Oklahoma City, Lizanne Jennings, an I.C.U. nurse, was part of a team in her hospital that was planning for the onslaught of sickness they were hearing about in places like Italy and New York City. The staff was counting beds and calculating how many people they might be able to fit in the units.

“It was just always a sense of ‘it’s coming, it’s coming,’” Ms. Jennings said, describing it as “pre-traumatic shock syndrome.”

In March, Ms. Jennings remembered sitting after work one day with her husband, Dennis Davis, a machinist and former bodybuilder.

“I need you to pay attention,” Ms. Jennings, 53, recalled telling him. “Look at me: People we know, people we love — our family, our friends — people are going to get this virus. And people we know are going to die.”

New York City alone recorded hundreds of deaths on April 15, underscoring its unique role in that spring surge.

“The city was silent except for the ambulances,” said Dr. Steven A. McDonald, an emergency room doctor at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital.

In a city locked down, emergency rooms were relentlessly frenzied, filled with patients gasping for breath. 

Dr. McDonald would head into work every day with the same thought on his mind. “You know someone is going to die in your care that day,” he said. “The question is, How many people?” 

The emergency began to subside in the city as summer began, but not before the virus had killed more than 20,000 people and infected, by one estimate, more than a fifth of New York City’s population. 

Now daily case counts around New York City have begun ticking up again, with an average of 6,600 each day in the metro area, a fivefold increase from the start of October. Still, the surge has so far been nothing like the one in the spring. 

Patrick J. Kearns, a funeral director in Queens, who in the spring regularly had to transport bodies to a crematory in Schenectady, N.Y., nearly three hours away, has noticed a two- or three-day backlog forming again at the city’s crematories. He has called the crematory in Schenectady, he said, to let them know he may be returning in the weeks ahead. 

“We are at risk of repeating what happened in April,” Dr. Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota and a member of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s coronavirus task force, said of the death toll. 

“Once you go over the case cliff, where you have so many cases that you overwhelm the system, basically at that point when you fall off that case cliff, you’re going to see mortality rates go up substantially,” he said. “I shudder to imagine what things might be like in two weeks.”

With an inconsistent and shifting response from government officials, the virus surged in the Sun Belt in the summer, and then began rising steadily through the Midwest and the Great Plains — and then all over in recent weeks. The country reached a peak seven-day average of 176,000 reported cases on Wednesday, and there is reason to fear the worst is still coming. Outbreaks continue to grow in Southern California, West Texas and South Florida. 

After rising cases has come the new surge of deaths.

Texas and Illinois have reported more than 800 deaths over the past week, while Pennsylvania, Michigan, California and Florida added more than 400 each. In the Upper Midwest, where reports of new cases have started to level off, deaths are still mounting. Nearly 40 percent of all coronavirus deaths in Wisconsin have been reported since the start of November. In North Dakota, where military nurses have been deployed in hospitals, more than 1 of every 1,000 residents has now died.

The dispersed nature of the catastrophe means it seems invisible in many places. The emergency is too widespread to draw teams of health care workers from other places to help. The sounds of ambulances are heard across many states. Families say their losses have sometimes been overshadowed in communities amid fatigue and impatience after more than eight months of social distancing and economic turmoil.

Around the country, medical examiners and funeral home directors are grappling with a steady rise in the toll. “Our volume is exploding,” said Dale Clock, who along with his wife owns and operates two funeral homes in western Michigan. On a recent night, they handled four Covid-19 deaths in just 12 hours, he said. In the past two weeks, nearly half of the families they served had lost relatives to the virus. All of that comes as one worker has had to quarantine because of the virus, and the staff is working overtime. 

In the spring, Mr. Clock said, the homes had seen only a few Covid-19 deaths every few weeks.

For Ms. Jennings, the Oklahoma nurse, it has been a long eight months.

The surge her hospital had braced for in the spring never materialized, at least not in big numbers. In July, she traveled to Texas to work with Covid-19 patients at a hospital in the Rio Grande Valley, arriving to find a community that was taking the virus seriously. But “the damage was done,” she said. Many patients, she said, did not survive.

Back in Oklahoma, she said that many people seemed not to believe the virus was real or to take it seriously. It frustrated her, she said.

Last Friday, her mother, Linda Jennings, who had been infected with the coronavirus, died. 

“I’m weary and I’m miserable,” she recalled her mother, who was 78, saying as she lay in a hospital bed. “I can’t do this anymore.” 

Then on Monday, Ms. Jennings sat beside her husband, eight and a half months after warning him of the dangers of this frightening new virus. He was lying on his stomach in a hospital bed, hooked up to a machine that helps with breathing. He had been admitted 11 days earlier, she said, with a Covid-19 diagnosis. 

“I love you so much,” Ms. Jennings remembered saying as she held his hand in the last hours before he died. “I said, ‘You’re going to go, OK? I’m letting you go. You’re going to be at peace.’” 

Advertisement





No.4 article:
Plastic Dividers and Masks All Day: What Teaching in a Pandemic Looks Like

As school districts diverge on handling the pandemic, Baltimore City Public Schools are slowly trying to get students back in the classroom. It has not been easy, but neither has remote learning.

BALTIMORE — Zia Hellman prepared to welcome her kindergarten students back to Walter P. Carter Elementary/Middle School this month the way any teacher would on the first day of school: She fussed over her classroom.

Ms. Hellman, 26, dodged around the trapezoidal desks, spaced six feet apart and taped off in blue boxes. She fretted about the blandness of the walls, fumbled with the plastic dividers covering name tags and arranged the individual yoga mats that replaced colorful carpets. Every window was open for extra ventilation, chilling the air.

“I wonder how they’re going to react to all of this,” she said, hands on her hips, scanning the room for the last time. “I don’t know what I’m supposed to feel, but it feels right.”

Ms. Hellman was among about two dozen teachers and staff members required to return to work on Nov. 16 for the first in-person instruction in Baltimore City Public Schools since March. The city was the first large school district in Maryland and the latest among urban districts in the country to tiptoe into one of the highest-stakes experiments in the history of the nation’s public education system: teaching face-to-face in a pandemic.

Returning to the classroom has not been easy; neither has remote learning.

Educators looking to get back in front of students have had to navigate conflicting guidance from politicians and public health officials. Some teachers’ unions have refused to return to buildings until the virus abates, ostracizing colleagues who dare break with them. On the other hand, the country’s most vulnerable children have sustained severe academic and social harm from the remote-learning experiment. Parents, navigating their own economic and work struggles, are increasingly desperate.

Ms. Hellman has yearned to be back in her school building in northeast Baltimore since September. She also understands the risks.

“I feel like I’m a bit in ‘The Hunger Games,’” Ms. Hellman said. “I didn’t volunteer as tribute, I was chosen as tribute. But I want to be here for my students.”

Superintendents, meantime, have had to navigate a firestorm of political pressure, parental preference and the weight of a once-in-a lifetime public health crisis.

“Superintendents have always had to deal with conflicting interests, but it’s never been this kind of life-and-death balance,” said Michael Casserly, the executive director of the Council of the Great City Schools, a coalition of large, urban public school systems across the country. “To have interests and decisions changing week to week, day to day, makes this situation unlike anything public education has ever faced.”

For Sonja Santelises, the chief executive of Baltimore City Public Schools, the decision to reopen 27 schools on Nov. 16 to about 1,200 academically at-risk students — such as kindergartners, special education students and English-language learners — was not a choice but an obligation. She made the call on the advice of the city’s public health commissioner.

“If I were to cling to one-liners or seek to score political points like some people want, I would choose not to see those families who need options, who need translators, those refugee families who walked miles to get their children an education,” Ms. Santelises said. “I will not do that.”

Baltimore reduced the number of planned building reopenings to 27 from 44 as the virus surged in certain parts of the city. But the local teachers’ union is calling for buildings in Ms. Santelises’ district to stay closed until they are deemed absolutely safe or a vaccine is widely available. It has pressured individual teachers against volunteering to go back and encouraged parents to boycott.

Those tensions reverberate across the country, where schools are grappling with the pandemic in widely varying ways, with some closing this month after opening earlier this fall even as others like in Baltimore just now are trying to reopen.

“We’re not just being obstructionist; we’re obstructing the district from putting people’s lives at risk,” said Diamonté Brown, the president of the Baltimore Teachers Union.

More than 70,000 schoolchildren left Baltimore classrooms in March, when the coronavirus outbreak in the United States was declared a pandemic. Since then, school leaders have focused on temporary measures. They bought computers and internet-access devices, sent worksheets to students’ homes, staffed their cafeterias and buses to serve meals to their communities, and waited for direction from local and federal health officials that never really came.

But now, with the pandemic threatening to derail the education and prospects of a generation of children, district leaders are feeling pressure to move on their own.

In Washington, D.C., internal testing data shows steep declines in the number of kindergartners through second grade students meeting literacy benchmarks, The Washington Post reported. In Houston, huge numbers of middle and high school students are failing their first semester, according to The Houston Chronicle. Even affluent, high-performing districts like Fairfax County, Va., a Washington suburb, are reporting alarming rates of middle and high school students failing classes, particularly English-language learners and students with disabilities — two populations that a recent Government Accountability Office report found were poorly served by remote learning.

Among the most alarming statistics are the significant enrollment declines that districts across the country are experiencing, particularly among kindergartners. Public education is out of reach for some families without internet access or with home lives that are unconducive to remote leaning. Some families have simply given up.

Ms. Hellman, in her fourth year of teaching kindergarten, understood what returning to the classroom would mean. She would not be able to see her 92-year-old grandmother. She might be subject to “corona-shaming” by colleagues, family and friends who have stayed away from work. She was putting herself personally at risk.

But, she reasoned, “I’m young, I’m healthy.”

At 9:15 a.m., each of the six students whose families had opted for in-person learning in her classroom received temperature checks. Two minutes later, one student was excitedly holding his mask up to show her its design.

“I love your mask,” Ms. Hellman told him, “but I think it would be cuter on.”

At 9:30, all the students were allowed to remove their masks to snack on Cinnamon Toast Crunch and applesauce. “It’s only 10 minutes,” she told them and herself, “and the windows are open.”

By 10:30, things had settled down, and she was just a teacher. Students were practicing writing their letters. By 11, they were preparing for recess by singing to the tune of “The Farmer in the Dell”:

“The purpose of the first day is to feed them, have fun and send them home,” Ms. Hellman said. “We need them to come back the next day.”

Not only did her six in-class students return that next day, but so did 19 of her students learning virtually. So did Brandon Pinkney, the school’s principal, who was showing her classroom to a parent who was considering sending her son back.

In the 24 hours since in-person classes resumed, Mr. Pinkney was fielding inquiries from parents intrigued by what they were seeing in the classroom through their children’s computer screens at home.

He canvassed the building, popping his head into different classrooms and mentally reconfiguring the spaces, just in case. He was hoping to reserve an extra desk for a student who told him bluntly that he was done with “that virtual stuff” but would return if the school reopened.

“I know he’s in the streets,” Mr. Pinkney said. “If I don’t see him this week, I’m going to get him.”

Many staff members in the school said they had only returned to the building because it was Mr. Pinkney’s voice on the line, telling them that they had been chosen.

He promised transparency and support, and that was enough for Rachael Charles. A special-education teacher with two teenagers at home, she wasn’t as easy to persuade as Ms. Hellman, who acknowledged that as a young, childless teacher, she did not face the same choice between her life and livelihood.

With the Black community disproportionately affected by the virus, Ms. Charles, who is African-American, had been working out over the summer, taking vitamins and alkaline water, just in case. But she still explored taking a leave of absence.

“I love my students dearly, but I’m coming back into the classroom to take care of children when no one is taking care of mine,” she said.

Safety risks aside, Ms. Charles wondered if she would be able to be the teacher that her students remembered. “I’m very hands-on, and it’s hard to have them right in my reach and not support them the way they need,” she said.

When a student with a slight physical disability struggled to pull his mask down to eat lunch, she initially stood outside his blue box, encouraging him. “Under your chin, you can do it.”

But before long, her hand was on his mouth, and she pulled it down herself.

Downstairs, Mr. Pinkney was in a hallway with a group of clinicians debating whether to do virtual or in-person special education assessments.

“It doesn’t make sense to do them virtually when we have assessment rooms here,” he said. “They’re cleaned every hour on the hour.”

“Every hour?” a skeptical voice could be heard asking over a speakerphone.

“On the hour,” a voice chimed in from nearby.

That voice belonged to Donice Willis, the school custodian. A 66-year-old grandmother of 11, she had never stopped working during the pandemic, and she could not wait for children to return to the building.

She said she knew that she was among the highest risk groups for the coronavirus. She hopes to retire at 70, but she said she had relinquished control of that goal to the same higher power she hopes is protecting her from Covid-19.

“You’re going to go one day from something,” Ms. Willis said. “If God gives me 70, I’ll take it.”

When a maskless student walked out of a classroom she was preparing to clean, she barely flinched: “Put your mask on, pookie,” she said.

Around dismissal time on Nov. 18, a Wednesday afternoon, news broke that New York City had reached a coronavirus positivity threshold of 3 percent, which would result in another shutdown of in-person instruction. The city’s schools had been open for less than two months. Within the hour, Washington city officials announced that talks between district and union officials had fallen apart.

Teachers in Baltimore wondered how their city leaders would react. Maryland’s positivity rate was above 6 percent.

Ms. Santelises stood her ground. The science was strong that transmission rates in schools remained low, she said. A teacher had emailed, “hold the line.”

Ms. Hellman focused on how well her new normal was going. She was wearing two masks now, and she did not have to remind her students to keep theirs on as much. She gushed over how her in-person students waved at her remote pupils. Her only concern was that her remote learners were missing the banter and nonverbal cues her students were getting in the classroom.

“Today was better,” she said. “It just feels like this is how it is, and it’s only been three days.”

Then came the reality check. Shortly after 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, Mr. Pinkney emailed the staff to say someone had reported Covid-like symptoms, and two classes had been sent home to quarantine.

“Oh my God,” Ms. Hellman said. “It’s here.”

Mr. Pinkney followed protocols, alerted classmates and staff members, and submitted the case to the district.

Ms. Hellman felt defeated.

“Covid doesn’t care what day it is,” she said. “It doesn’t care that you have a shield in front of your face, it doesn’t care if you have a mask on most of the day, but not 10 minutes while you’re eating.”

Baltimore announced that same day that schools that had begun offering in-person instruction would not resume it after Thanksgiving until Dec. 7, amid warnings about holiday gatherings and travel. Some of the private schools in the area had done the same.

The actions of Baltimore’s private schools during the pandemic have weighed heavily on Ms. Santelises. Those students have clearly had an educational advantage, and one of them is her daughter. Two of her other children attend public charter schools that are closed.

“As a mom, I’m living the difference, and the inequity is astounding” Ms. Santelises said. “I’m saying goodbye to one every morning at the bus stop, and I’m watching the difference it makes. I see my daughters’ faces looking at me at home, like: ‘You all aren’t even going to try?’”

The announcement of the new delay spurred members of the teachers’ union to protest, and members marched to different buildings calling for the district to shut down the buildings for the rest of the semester. By the end of the week, at least 15 staff members had tested positive for the virus, the union said.

Ms. Brown, the union leader, said the district was insulting teachers who had been working around the clock to deliver quality instruction to their students at home.

“There’s more to education than teachers standing in front of students teaching a lesson,” she said.

On Friday, Ms. Hellman was still standing in front of students. As the day drew to a close, she helped a student draw what he was thankful for. A week in, she was crossing into her students’ blue boxes without much thought.

Outside, as the students played together while awaiting their parents, the directions were even more relaxed: “You can take your mask off, but don’t get too close,” Ms. Hellman said.

Sharrea Brown embraced her 5-year-old daughter, Paige Myers. Over the course of the week, Ms. Brown had watched Paige’s mood improve. At home, the frustrated child would yell “You’re not my teacher!” when she tried to help.

Paige said she was nervous about the “bad germ,” so she has a message for other children who want to go back to school: “Keep your mask on.”

Ms. Brown was hopeful that with school open, she could also resume some normalcy. She took a leave of absence from her job in March, and her unemployment was stretching only so far.

“Christmas ain’t looking too good,” Ms. Brown said. “But she’s good,” she said of her daughter. “She’s almost back to feeling like herself again.”





No.5 article:
Boeing’s 737 Max Is a Saga of Capitalism Gone Awry

A corporate culture that privileged profits over safety had terrible consequences.

After a Boeing 737 Max jet plunged into the ocean off the coast of Indonesia in October 2018, killing all 189 passengers and crew members aboard, Boeing quickly diagnosed the problem: faulty software. The company immediately promised to fix the code, reminded pilots how to handle a potential malfunction and insisted the Max was safe.

And yet, less than five months later, another 737 Max crashed, this time in Ethiopia. Once again, the new software — known as the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, or MCAS — was identified as the culprit. With a total of 346 people now dead, the Max was grounded worldwide, plunging Boeing into its biggest crisis ever.

Last week, the Federal Aviation Administration cleared the Max to fly again, bringing to an end the longest grounding of a commercial jet. But the saga has shattered Boeing’s once-sterling reputation. As an avalanche of investigations and reporting over the past 20 months made clear, the true cause of the crashes wasn’t faulty software. It was a corporate culture gone horribly wrong.

“The Boeing Company for a good part of a century was the foremost and best airplane manufacturer in the world, but they got infected,” Representative Peter DeFazio, chairman of the House transportation committee, which led an investigation into the crashes, told me. “They started watching Wall Street. They started tying executive bonuses to stock performance. It was greedy executives doing shortsighted things to pad their pockets.”

What made the crashes so vexing is that it was impossible to pin the blame on one central villain. Instead, the whole company seemed to be at fault. Time and again, Boeing executives and engineers didn’t take warning signs seriously enough, opted against adopting additional precautions and made decisions for the sake of saving money or raising profits.

The new software, which had the power to repeatedly push down the plane’s nose, relied on only one sensor. That gave the Max a single point of failure, a cardinal sin in aviation engineering, an area where safety redundancy is usually built into every system. In both crashes, that single sensor failed, causing the software to go haywire.

The risks were evident early on. During the development of the Max, Boeing employees concluded that if pilots didn’t respond to MCAS within 10 seconds, it would be “catastrophic.” Boeing considered, then abandoned, the idea of adding an alert for MCAS activation to the cockpit of the Max. At least one employee raised the question of whether having MCAS rely on a single sensor made the plane more vulnerable.

Boeing nevertheless made MCAS more powerful and left it uniquely prone to malfunction. The company also failed to inform pilots about the new software, and pressured the F.A.A. to remove mention of MCAS from the Max’s training manual — moves that helped Boeing avoid costly retraining on simulators, and made it more appealing to airlines.

When it came time to build the Max, chaos reigned on the factory floor. “Frankly right now all my internal warning bells are going off,” one manufacturing employee told an executive in 2018, describing an exhausted work force that was making too many mistakes. “And for the first time in my life, I’m sorry to say that I’m hesitant about putting my family on a Boeing airplane.”

Some Boeing employees harbored a disdainful view of regulators and colleagues alike. In internal company messages released as part of investigations into the crashes, one Boeing test pilot described his F.A.A. counterparts as “dogs watching TV.” In another exchange about the Max, an employee wrote to a colleague, “This airplane is designed by clowns, who are in turn supervised by monkeys.” Yet another employee wrote, “I don’t trust many people in Boeing.”

Boeing’s failings continued once the Max entered service, in 2017. That year, company officials learned that a cockpit warning light that could have helped the pilots on the Indonesia and Ethiopia flights identify an MCAS malfunction wasn’t working in most planes. But the company didn’t inform the airlines.

And even after the crashes, Boeing executives, including the chief executive, Dennis Muilenburg, suggested that poorly trained foreign pilots, not the company, were to blame.

No single one of these transgressions was directly responsible for the crashes. But the cumulative effect was fatal. A company that once prided itself on safety above all else had abdicated its responsibility to the traveling public.

How could something like this happen at Boeing?

The company is an American icon. It helped usher in the age of commercial aviation and produced planes like the 747. Boeing’s World War II-era bombers were built in the factory where the Max was born. Boeing engineers helped NASA put men on the moon. The company builds Air Force One, the F-15 fighter jet, the Apache attack helicopter and more.

Yet in recent decades, Boeing — like so many American corporations — began shoveling money to investors and executives, while shortchanging its employees and cutting costs.

The changes began in 1997, when Boeing took over its chief domestic rival, McDonnell Douglas.

Led by Harry Stonecipher, McDonnell Douglas was a company that prioritized boosting share price as much as making airplanes. Mr. Stonecipher was an alumnus of General Electric and had learned under Jack Welch, the profit-obsessed chief executive who made G.E. the most valuable company in the world through merciless downsizing and financial engineering.

When Mr. Stonecipher became chief executive of Boeing in 2003, he brought G.E.’s model with him: He slashed costs, reduced head count, ramped up outsourcing and increased Boeing’s share buyback program and shareholder dividends.

“When people say I changed the culture of Boeing, that was the intent, so that it’s run like a business rather than a great engineering firm,” Mr. Stonecipher said in 2004.

Boeing moved its corporate headquarters to Chicago in 2001, lured by tax breaks and distance from its unionized work force near Seattle. When it came time to build the 787 Dreamliner, Boeing constructed its new factory in South Carolina, which had no aviation work force and little organized labor. Quality at the Dreamliner factory soon suffered.

In 2011, Boeing learned that American Airlines, one of its most important customers, was poised to place a major order for new jets with Airbus. Boeing had been considering designing a new midsize passenger jet, but the threat of losing out on the American deal forced the company’s hand.

Boeing decided to redesign the 737 — a plane that was introduced in 1967 — once more. To make the new Max more fuel efficient, Boeing needed bigger engines. But because the 737 was an old plane that sat low to the ground, those engines needed to be mounted farther forward on the wings, changing the aerodynamics of the plane. To compensate, Boeing introduced the ill-fated MCAS.

And even when the company knew that the software had caused the first crash, Boeing kept the Max flying until another plane fell from the sky.

“The second crash was corporate manslaughter,” said Zipporah Kuria, whose father, Joseph Waithaka, died in the Ethiopia crash. “If they had grounded the plane after the first crash, my dad would still be here.”

This March, my reporting partner, Natalie Kitroeff, and I interviewed Boeing’s new chief executive, another Welch protégé, Dave Calhoun. He appeared to hint that the pilots of the two doomed flights might have mishandled the software malfunction, and said the messages in which Boeing employees denigrated the F.A.A. and ridiculed their own colleagues were not reflective of a rotten culture. “I see a couple of people who wrote horrible emails,” he said.

It seemed that inside Boeing, little had changed.

Then, not long after our conversation, the coronavirus pandemic ground air travel to a halt. Airlines around the world canceled orders for hundreds of Max jets. Boeing laid off tens of thousands of employees and sold its corporate yacht, a symbol of corporate excess, for $13 million.

In March, the company extended a pause of its stock buyback program, stopped issuing dividends and cut executives’ salaries. Over the course of the year, Boeing implemented sweeping new policies to improve engineering oversight, promote transparency and encourage employees to flag safety concerns. There is even chatter that Boeing might sell its headquarters in Chicago, potentially setting the stage for a return to Seattle. The pandemic, it seems, is doing what the Max crisis couldn’t, and Boeing is finally demonstrating some humility.

Such changes might make Boeing more closely resemble the company that for so long embodied American ingenuity. But the true measure of change inside Boeing will be how its executives and engineers behave in the years ahead. Will they put safety first? Will they respect their regulator? Will they speak up when something seems off? Until all that happens, nothing will have really changed.

“It has been a tragic couple of years,” Michael Huerta, who was the F.A.A. administrator when the Max was certified, told me. “The best we can hope for is that they’re applying what has been learned, and that aviation will be safer in the future.”





No.6 article:
Top Contenders for Biden’s Cabinet Draw Fire From All Sides

Lists of names of those the president-elect is said to be considering are flying across Washington, prompting lawmakers and interest groups to raise questions about some top contenders.

WASHINGTON — There are leading candidates and dark horses. There are potential roadblocks from progressives and conservatives. And there are competing factions hoping to be part of the next president’s inner circle, all jockeying for influence.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. moved quickly this past week to name the first two members of his cabinet, picking one of his closest confidants to be the nation’s top diplomat and choosing an immigrant to lead the Department of Homeland Security, a first.

But as Mr. Biden fills out the rest of his team in the days and weeks ahead, the task will become more complicated, requiring him to navigate tricky currents of ideology, gender, racial identity, party affiliation, friendship, competence, personal background and past employment.

Aides to Mr. Biden who are managing the selection process are revealing little about whom he intends to choose. And yet, as is typical in Washington in the early days of a transition, the names of those the president-elect is said to be considering are a frequent source of discussion. This time, the gossip is spreading via Zoom calls, Twitter posts and encrypted text messages sent by lawmakers, lobbyists and political consultants.

“I can assure you, there will be more cabinet announcements in the weeks ahead, so buckle up for December,” Jennifer Psaki, a senior transition adviser, told reporters this past week.

Whom Mr. Biden will tap to be the next attorney general is among the most talked about — and politically fraught — decisions that he will make as civil rights issues roil the country and some Democrats expect investigations into President Trump and his associates.

Sally Q. Yates, the deputy attorney general in the final years of the Obama administration, had long been considered the front-runner. Mr. Biden is close to her and has told friends that he could imagine her as the nation’s top law enforcement official. But some advisers fear that Republicans would block her nomination because of her refusal to defend Mr. Trump’s first travel ban and her role in the early stages of the investigations into his campaign and his associates.

Mr. Biden could instead pick Lisa Monaco, the former homeland security adviser for President Barack Obama who was a finalist in 2013 to be F.B.I. director. And like Ms. Yates, she worked well with Mr. Biden when he was vice president.

But both women are up against Deval Patrick, the former Massachusetts governor who served as the head of the department’s civil rights division in the Clinton administration and would be the second Black man to be attorney general.

The president-elect’s aides see civil rights issues as a far more deep-seated problem than simply one that has arisen because of Mr. Trump. The aides believe that Mr. Patrick’s experience at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc., and his stewardship of the department’s civil rights division positions him to take on that issue.

Others around the president-elect are not eager to reward Mr. Patrick, who jumped into the Democratic nomination race last year to challenge Mr. Biden as a politically moderate answer to the party’s more liberal candidates. Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, is also under consideration for attorney general.

Mr. Biden has also not yet announced his pick to lead the Pentagon, despite having introduced other members of his national security team.

One candidate for the job, according to people familiar with Mr. Biden’s deliberations, is Michèle A. Flournoy, a senior defense official for President Bill Clinton and Mr. Obama. But her lock on the job may have slipped in recent days as some progressive groups have attacked her work at consulting firms that have represented military contractors and foreign governments.

“Her employment at these two companies, as well as her time as a paid board member for defense contractor Booz Allen Hamilton, creates potential conflicts of interest,” said Mandy Smithberger of the Project on Government Oversight, an ethics watchdog group.

If Mr. Biden does not choose Ms. Flournoy, Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, a former deputy energy secretary and National Security Council member, and Lloyd J. Austin III, a retired Army general and head of the U.S. Central Command, are possibilities, people close to the process said. The Biden team could also tap Jeh C. Johnson, who served as a top Pentagon lawyer before becoming secretary of homeland security under Mr. Obama.

Should Mr. Biden tap Ms. Yates for attorney general, it may enhance Mr. Johnson’s prospects for the Pentagon because otherwise the traditional top four cabinet department posts — Justice, State, Defense and Treasury — will have gone to white nominees.

Republicans in the Senate will try to reject some of Mr. Biden’s nominees. But his team is just as worried about opposition from Democrats.

Michael J. Morell, a former acting C.I.A. director and one of the two leading candidates to be nominated to that position, has drawn the ire of liberals for his outspoken defense of the C.I.A.’s interrogation program.

“Mike Morell wrote that torture was effective and moral,” Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, wrote on Twitter on Wednesday. “He’s wrong on both counts.”

Thomas E. Donilon, a former national security adviser in the Obama administration, is also a leading possibility to take over the C.I.A. His brother, Mike Donilon, is one of Mr. Biden’s closest political advisers. Others under consideration are Sue Gordon, a former principal deputy director of national intelligence who was pushed out by Mr. Trump; Vincent R. Stewart, a retired lieutenant general who led the Defense Intelligence Agency; and Representative Elissa Slotkin, Democrat of Michigan, a former C.I.A. analyst and White House national security aide.

Aides to the president-elect said on Wednesday that he intended to announce more members of his economic team this coming week after choosing Janet L. Yellen, a former Federal Reserve chair, to be his Treasury secretary.

Mr. Biden could pick Roger W. Ferguson Jr., an economist who was vice chair of the Federal Reserve and was under serious consideration for the Treasury job, to lead the National Economic Council or a new board overseeing the recovery from the recession.

Picking Mr. Ferguson, who is Black, to lead the council would help Mr. Biden keep a promise to make his administration look like the rest of America. Other names under consideration for the position are white men, including Bruce Reed, a former chief of staff to Mr. Biden, and Austan Goolsbee, an economist who was chairman of Mr. Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers. Gene Sperling, a veteran economic adviser dating to the Clinton administration, is another possibility, as is Brian Deese, who was deputy director of the National Economic Council under Mr. Obama.

Mr. Reed, a noted centrist and deficit hawk, was Mr. Clinton’s domestic policy director, and helped develop the welfare overhaul that Mr. Clinton signed into law requiring work and setting time limits.

He has come under fire from prominent liberal members of Congress, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who also oppose consideration of him to lead the Office of Management and Budget, which helps the White House determine economic priorities. But blocking Mr. Reed, who traveled with Mr. Biden for much of the campaign, from the budget office post might only ensure that he winds up in the West Wing, where the president-elect could make him a senior adviser.

To lead the Agriculture Department, Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the highest-ranking Black member of Congress, is pushing for Representative Marcia L. Fudge, an African-American Democrat from Ohio. Mr. Clyburn, an early and important backer of Mr. Biden, has said the department should be focused more on hunger.

But traditionalists eager to keep a voice from rural America in the post are advocating for Heidi Heitkamp, a former senator from North Dakota, or Tom Vilsack, the former Iowa governor who served as agriculture secretary for Mr. Obama.

To coordinate the response to the pandemic, Jeffrey D. Zients, who was director of the National Economic Council under Mr. Obama, could become Mr. Biden’s “Covid czar.” That job could also go to Vivek H. Murthy, the former surgeon general who helps lead Mr. Biden’s transition panel on the virus.

Mary D. Nichols, California’s climate and clean air regulator, is seen as the top candidate to lead the Environmental Protection Agency. And there is a growing campaign to persuade Mr. Biden to name a Native American as interior secretary. Among the names he is considering: Representative Deb Haaland, Democrat of New Mexico and a rising star in Democratic politics, and Michael Connor, the former deputy interior secretary in the Obama administration. Steve Bullock, the governor of Montana, is also a candidate.

The possibility that Ernest J. Moniz, Mr. Obama’s energy secretary, could reprise his role troubles environmental groups who believe Mr. Moniz did not do enough to steer the country away from fossil fuels. Mr. Biden could also turn to Arun Majumdar, who runs the Precourt Institute for Energy at Stanford.

Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama’s former chief of staff and a former mayor of Chicago, is a candidate to run the Transportation Department, but he is disliked by some liberals for how he handled police issues as mayor. Eric M. Garcetti, the mayor of Los Angeles, is another top candidate.

Representative Karen Bass, Democrat of California; Alvin Brown, a former mayor of Jacksonville, Fla.; and Keisha Lance Bottoms, the mayor of Atlanta, are being discussed to lead the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico is interested in becoming secretary of health and human services and would be another Latino in the cabinet.

On Sunday, members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus plan to release a letter to Mr. Biden emphasizing the importance of Hispanic representation, trumpeting Ms. Lujan Grisham’s experience and urging him to make her the health secretary.

Some allies of Mr. Biden’s on Capitol Hill worry that Mr. Biden’s choices for the biggest jobs in government look too much like professional staff members, with no big personalities who may be better suited to helping drive policy. He could rectify that if he picked one of his Democratic primary rivals — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont or Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts — to lead the Labor Department or the Commerce Department. Liberals would cheer such a nomination, but transition advisers have told Mr. Biden that confirmation of either would be difficult.

In an interview with NBC News, Mr. Biden strongly hinted that he was likely to leave both senators where they are.

“Taking someone out of the Senate, taking someone out of the House — particularly a person of consequence — is a really difficult decision that would have to be made,” Mr. Biden said. “I have a very ambitious, very progressive agenda. And it’s going to take really strong leaders in the House and Senate to get it done.”





No.7 article:
In the Face of Challenges, ‘Thinking of Yourself in a Higher Light’

Last fall, Demetria Mack was elated to be starting at Howard University. She was not only gaining the independence of a college student, but as she moved into her dorm room, she was also entering a new chapter in her journey out of foster care.

College life was going well as she worked toward a computer science major, but the abrupt shift on campus when the coronavirus pandemic took hold in the United States felt like a setback.

Ms. Mack returned to the East New York section of Brooklyn to live with her foster mother. Staying in the home and adapting to remote classes while two children were also in the living room was frustrating, she said.

Then in May, the police killing of George Floyd kept her on edge. “The racial injustice that was happening over the summer was really a lot for me to take in,” she said in a recent interview.

Her foster mother’s imminent move to Florida added to her anxiety. With Howard planning remote classes for the fall, she needed a housing solution.

Ms. Mack, who finished her freshman year with a cumulative 3.78 grade-point average, worked part-time at a Dollar Tree and in an administrative job over the summer to save for rent. And a $2,227 scholarship she received from the nsoro Foundation, which supports education for students from foster care, was planned for housing.

Looking for additional help, she reached out to Children’s Aid, one of 10 organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Ms. Mack returned to Washington for her sophomore year at Howard, and Children’s Aid has been paying her $1,089 portion of the monthly rent for a four-bedroom off-campus apartment she shares with three roommates. She is attending full time and paying tuition through loans and scholarships.

Ms. Mack, 19, also needed to replace her aging laptop. Children’s Aid used Neediest Cases money for a $1,588 Apple MacBook Pro and a $300 gift card from Target for household necessities.

Her current living situation is set until the lease ends in the spring. After that, Ms. Mack may go stay with her foster mother in Florida until her junior year begins, though she is aiming to secure an internship (ideally with Google in New York).

Instead of worrying, she is concentrating on her goals. She wants to attend graduate school at Brown University.

“It’s easier said than done,” Ms. Mack said, “but just thinking of yourself in a higher light and always being optimistic will allow you to do the things you need to get done in your life.”

Soranyelis Mulles Melo, who became a U.S. citizen in March, was also optimistic through her struggles this year, though she was weeks from giving birth to her fourth child when the pandemic took hold.

In March, New York had a statewide stay-at-home order that put the region in an economic stranglehold. Ms. Mulles Melo, a maintenance worker for a commercial cleaning company, had just started maternity leave. Her husband, who lives in the Dominican Republic, had recently lost his job. And Ms. Mulles Melo’s roommate, a cousin, needed to move out right away.

Ms. Mulles Melo, 32, had already paid the $2,300 rent for March on her three-bedroom apartment in the University Heights section of the Bronx. Money to provide for her three children — Yandel, then 11, Jeremy, 7, and Valentina, 3 — was tight.

Her son Jayden was born on March 23 at NewYork-Presbyterian, when companions were banned from labor and delivery rooms.

“It was a sad day in my life,” Ms. Mulles Melo recalled. “Nobody was able to be in the hospital with me.”

Friends and family gave Ms. Mulles Melo what they could for the newborn, but fear of spreading the virus meant she was caring for the four children on her own, with her oldest child doing a lot for his siblings.

“I was feeling alone with the kids,” she said, recalling how depressed she felt and the difficulties of keeping the students engaged in virtual classes. “April was the hardest month.”

Her employer shut down, which meant she could not return to her full-time position with union benefits that paid $20 an hour. She had been on the job for only three months.

Her brother, who checked on her regularly, was a lifeline, as was a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefit of $768 monthly, which recently rose to $807.

Relief arrived in June after relatives urged her to contact the YM &amp; YWHA of Washington Heights &amp; Inwood, which was offering emergency cash assistance to people who had lost their jobs. She received $500. Then came unemployment benefits, along with the federal government’s $600 weekly supplement, which expired July 31, and the $300 weekly boost for six more weeks. She used those funds to pay her rent for April, May, June and half of July.

When she fell behind on rent again, she sought help from the Washington Heights Y, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York, which is supported by The Fund.

In late September, $2,300 in Neediest Cases Fund money paid for the family’s August rent and $142 was used for diapers and clothes for Jayden.

In mid-November, Ms. Mulles Melo received an early Thanksgiving surprise: The Washington Heights Y told her that it would use an additional $1,130 in Neediest Cases funds to pay her rent balance for July.

Ms. Mulles Melo was hired in October for a temporary full-time position cleaning offices, but she doesn’t expect it to last much longer.

She hopes her old job will return in early 2021 and is determined to catch up on rent for October and November. And her mother, who moved into the apartment this month and is working as a home health aide, will help with the bills.

“I want my kids to say, ‘I’m so proud of my mom,’” Ms. Mulles Melo said. “If I went through the pandemic without working, without anyone supporting me, then I can do anything.”





No.8 article:
I’ve Been Wearing Masks for Months and I Still Have Questions

Should masks be stored with the underwear or with the socks?

Recently, at a funeral, I got to thinking about the lesser challenges of the mask. Not the should-you-or-shouldn’t-you, which is settled science at this point, but the specific problem of how to cry with a mask on. This was especially pressing for me because, as an incorrigible weeper — it doesn’t matter if I’m a third friend twice removed — I was streaming tears before the service had begun. But the mask posed a new challenge: How to blow my nose discreetly and with enough frequency that I didn’t wind up with a big wet splotch in the middle, surely a repellent look during a raging pandemic? How to lift my mask to do the requisite wiping without someone looking askance?

Worse, I hadn’t worn black. That is to say, I had worn black clothing and a black coat — the ceremony was socially distanced and outdoors on a brisk November day — but the mask was light gray. I hadn’t realized until I was running out the door that I didn’t own a proper mourning mask. I briefly considered borrowing one of my son’s black masks, but given the territorial behavior around masks in my family, knew this would have had grave repercussions.

In a household with three children, it was only natural that a proprietary mind-set had set in. Early on, when we were still in the box-of-disposable-masks phase, before anyone “owned” any particular mask, there was a lot of tussling about who left which mask where and who bent their nose wire just so. Later, when we converted to washable masks, the sense of “Mine! Mine!” only grew. The smallest child learned to knot his ear loops. The middle child only wanted certain colors. The eldest clung to the disposables until they ran out. Once, over the summer, we went to the beach and didn’t bring enough masks. The middle child had to wear the youngest child’s mask to use the bathroom, the sensory equivalent of getting into his sibling’s bathful of used lukewarm water.

My husband ordered a bunch of cheap masks, not knowing how long the pandemic would last and not wanting to make too great an investment. Also, he is colorblind. The first shipment arrived, and the kids scuffled over the package, snatching up the best ones. I wound up with the polka dots, which everyone seemed to recognize lacked a certain dignity. I would run errands in my polka-dot masks sensing I was the object of disdain. 

Also, my masks didn’t fit. This was before mask makers began offering different sizes and the ones we had seemed to come in one-size-fits-all … for a horse. Then sizes were introduced, but how did one calculate face size, anyway? Last I checked, there were no size charts directing you to measure the circumference of your face around the widest swath of nose, or to draw the distance between earlobe and chin. Using guesswork, I ordered a new batch and learned that my middle child and I had bigger faces than anyone else in the family. I flashed back to a haunting period of adolescence in which my oldest brother accused me of having a face that managed to be too long and too fat at the same time.

Meanwhile, my husband got creative. He had discovered that masks could make a statement, and soon had an exciting coronavirus wardrobe full of personality. One day, a mask with the pattern of an old library card arrived, complete with date stamps. I posted a picture of it on Instagram, where it received more likes than images of my most recent book and my best cat photos.

I had to face the fact that my masks were both unoriginal and unfashionable. They said nothing smart about me and I didn’t wear them well. My horse-size masks kept slipping off my nose. An ear loop always came loose when I was in the company of my strictest quarantine friend or at the moment I arrived at the cash register. When alone, I lost confidence in my face (was there something structurally unsound about it?), and when in company, I felt like an outlaw, shirking my duty as a citizen. Maybe she’s one of those anti-maskers, folks probably whispered behind my back at the pharmacy.

Maybe I was! Goodness knows, I had mask issues. I forgot, repeatedly, not to apply lip balm. I smiled meaningfully at people, forgetting they couldn’t see. Walking up a steep hill after the funeral with two old friends, I gasped and wheezed like an animal trapped under a damp blanket. “Can we stop for a minute?” I begged, while the two of them looked at me coolly, their expressions yogi-like, their breath inaudible.

I briefly contemplated buying a special plastic cup  that you can apparently put between your face and your mask to create breathing room, but knew nobody who used such a device, which I’d only seen advertised on social media, and therefore it felt almost as foolhardy as buying something “as seen on TV” was during the ’70s. For all I knew it had been debunked as unsafe and black-marked as uncool; if I wore it, I’d probably wind up with deep, telltale red indentations on my skin. “She fell for the cup,” people would note as they swished by in their bespoke, limited-edition masks from pop-up websites that only fashion insiders knew about.

When I got home, I faced the usual cacophony of masks scattered on the bench by the doorway. “Whose are these?” I raged. Some masks had been labeled, but a vast majority were inscrutable. I did my best to divvy them up and called once again to the kids, “Please remember to put your masks in the laundry after using them!” but the truth was, nobody knew where to put the masks. The sock drawer didn’t seem quite right, nor did anyone enjoy the idea of stashing them alongside the underwear. How did you differentiate between the clean ones and the “I only wore it for five minutes” ones? What we ended up with were piles everywhere, and the risk of accidentally putting on someone else’s mask.

“Whose face does this belong to?” you’d find yourself wondering, and then wandering to a more existential place. “And who am I beneath this mask I wear?”





No.9 article:
Listen to Indigenous People

Expand your understanding of Native history issues beyond the fourth Thursday of November. Here are some Indigenous podcasters recommending their favorite Native-made audio.

The Indigenous people of the land now called North America are often only brought up in the past tense in primary school classrooms. The fact is they are a growing population, an increasing demographic in the country and in Congress, yet most Americans are woefully uninformed about their histories and present-day struggles. Podcasts can help fill in the gaps, and there are plenty of shows made by Indigenous people. Don’t know where to start? Native podcast-makers recommend their favorites.

Michael Kickingbear, an enrolled member of the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation and co-host of the current affairs show, “Native Opinion,” recommends “Let’s Talk Native, With John Kane.” Each episode is mostly a monologue by the Mohawk activist and educator John Kane, always speaking “truth to power on political and social justice issues,” Mr. Kickingbear said. To learn how young Indigenous people think about the world around them, Mr. Kickingbear turns to “The Red Nation Podcast,” which he called “my weekly dose of ‘Energy and Youthism’ from Indian country.”

Another show on Mr. Kickingbear’s list is the mother-daughter podcast “Coffee With My Ma.” The host, Kaniehtiio Horn, a First Nations actress, spends each episode interviewing her “Radical Activist Mother,” Kahentinetha Horn, a prominent Mohawk activist and hilarious woman whose life has led her into some unbelievable adventures. “I love this podcast because of the experiences of her mother, and the loose playful format,” Mr. Kickingbear said. “You truly feel like you are sitting in their living room as ‘Ma’ tells us stories of her life.”

For an easily accessible primer on the history of land theft in Native America, Andi Murphy recommends “This Land,” from Crooked Media. Murphy, a Diné (Navajo) writer who has her own podcast (“Toasted Sister,” about Native American food), calls “This Land” an “intro course to Indian law and policy.” The narrative series taps Indigenous legal experts and uses music to showcase how a 1999 murder case sparked a 2020 Supreme Court ruling on tribal sovereignty; listening to it made Murphy feel “indignant all over again about the atrocities committed against Cherokee, and other tribes, during colonization.”

Connie Walker, who is Cree from the Okanese First Nation and a reporter for Spotify’s Gimlet Media, loves “The Secret Life of Canada” by the CBC for the illusions it dispels about the country’s reputation for progressive policy.  “For a lot of people, especially Indigenous and other marginalized communities, the truth is much more complicated,” she said. Ms. Walker, who hosted the acclaimed true crime series “Missing and Murdered: Finding Cleo,” said the CBC show “shines a light on the history that we did not learn in school, and reveals important truths that, in this era of ‘reconciliation,’ are crucial to understand and acknowledge.”

One of the hosts of “The Secret Life of Canada,” Falen Johnson, finds inspiration for her own show in the true crime series “Return to Thunder Bay.” Ms. Johnson, who is Mohawk and Tuscarora from Six Nations, the largest First Nations reserve in Canada, sees each episode of this series as a challenging but necessary call to action. “The show sheds a light on corruption, systematic racism and violence in this Northern Ontario town,” she said.

Matika Wilbur, a photographer and member of the Swinomish and Tulalip Tribes, was kept company by “The Cuts” and its host Sterlin Harjo during a lonely time in her life: while she was on the road working on Project 562, a documentary series in which she set out to take a photograph of at least one person from each of the 562 federally recognized tribes in the United States. “I’d find myself playing the episodes when I was traveling on long, lonely roads or while walking through airports, as I was living in transit,” Ms. Wilbur said. “Sterlin’s jokes, and the Native folks that he had on the series, all offered great comfort. They made me feel like I was at home and less alone in spaces where I felt like the only Native person in the room.” Mr. Harjo’s work inspired her own much-recommended podcast, “All My Relations”: “I wanted our people to feel represented in the pod space, and to provide more opportunities for our people to hear about issues they care about.”





No.10 article:
How a Brooklyn Sisterhood of Black Women Became National Power Brokers

Last November, when Democratic presidential candidates were still jockeying for the nomination, before the coronavirus pandemic killed more than 250,000 Americans and fervent protests against police brutality swept the nation, Senator Kamala Harris of California appeared before a group of mostly Black women in South Carolina to file officially for the state’s critical primary.

The event was hosted by Higher Heights for America, one of the largest political groups dedicated to helping Black women win elected office, and it was billed as a chance to have an intimate conversation with Ms. Harris in the midst of her historic run for the Democratic nomination for president.

“Black women decide elections,” Glynda C. Carr, president and co-founder of Higher Heights, said at the South Carolina forum. “We can decide we are going to elect Black women up and down the ballot.”

The moment was engineered, in no small part, by an informal collective of Black women from Brooklyn who call themselves the Olori Sisterhood.

This sisterhood was born a decade ago, made up of about a dozen women who had grown sick of being excluded from politics despite being told how important Black women were to Democratic candidates. They started out as campaign door-knockers and City Council aides, drawn to one another out of the sense that no one else would be able to support them in the hostile world of politics better than another Black woman who was also fighting for respect. A bond was forged in coffee shops and on stoops all over central Brooklyn.

Now the members of the Olori Sisterhood are partners at lobbying firms, and they run their own consultancies; they are political directors for presidential campaigns. Higher Heights was founded by two members of the group.

That Ms. Harris chose Higher Heights to host her event was a symbol of how Black women around the country have methodically used grass-roots organizing and personal networks to gain undeniable political influence.

The numbers cannot be ignored. Black women had among the highest turnout rates in the 2012 presidential election and 2018 midterms, and they played a crucial role in this year’s vote. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Ms. Harris received 91 percent of the vote from Black women, according to exit polls. It has become a cliché that Black women are the backbone of the Democratic Party. Indeed, after their victory, Ms. Harris wrote on Twitter that Black women were “often overlooked” but “are asked time and again to step up and be the backbone of our democracy.”

For the women in the sisterhood (“Olori” is a Yoruba word that roughly translates as “queen”), Ms. Harris’s selection as vice president was a cause for celebration, if somewhat bittersweet. (Many would have preferred a President Harris.) They see the Democratic win as a sign not only that Black women have learned to wield power but also that it is time to demand more than a token agreement about their importance.

“It reinforces that we belong in this space,” said Kimberly Peeler-Allen, a co-founder of Higher Heights. “And don’t let anyone tell you otherwise.”

The women of the sisterhood specialize in different areas of political tradecraft: fund-raising, crisis management, public relations, lobbying. Most are not interested in being candidates themselves, preferring to work behind the scenes. When one member lands a gig, she looks for ways to bring other members in. They trust one another in ways that those in the sometimes cutthroat world of politics generally don’t.

Jacqui A. Williams, a veteran Albany lobbyist, is known as a rainmaker among the group.

“People don’t share, especially in New York,” Ms. Williams said. “They cut throats here. But I want a Black woman at the table.”

At one gathering several months ago at the Downtown Brooklyn apartment of Tiffany Raspberry, founder and president of York Group Associates, a lobbying firm, members of the Olori Sisterhood traded professional horror stories: consulting jobs where they knew they were being paid less than white male consultants; being told that a company run by a young Black woman in as big a market as New York was too risky to be trusted; having to fight to be more than just a token Black face on a major campaign.

Tyquana Henderson-Rivers, a political consultant and the founder of Connective Strategies, recalled telling one campaign that the Afrocentric literature it planned to send out was pandering, and that Black voters would be offended. She was overruled by a white consultant who said he knew “thousands” of Black voters. The literature went out, and just as Ms. Henderson-Rivers predicted, the campaign received complaints.

“Everybody wants the Black vote,” Ms. Henderson-Rivers said, “but they still aren’t open to listening to the people who are best at messaging the Black community.”

Over the years, the women’s personal relationships, shared disappointments, struggles and triumphs have created a camaraderie that has carried over to the professional. And with a Black woman soon to be vice president, the mood feels different from other achievements, even when a Black man was in the White House.

“This moment is not lost on us who have been fighting for a seat at the table,” said Juanita Scarlett, a partner at the lobbying firm Bolton-St. Johns and a press secretary for Eliot Spitzer when he was state attorney general. “When our group started, our goal was to make sure we had more voices at the table, and now it’s happening.”

This summer, Ms. Harris chose Karine Jean-Pierre, a Haitian-American woman who had been a senior adviser to Mr. Biden, as her chief of staff. Now Ms. Jean-Pierre is on the shortlist to be the first Black woman to serve as White House press secretary, as is Symone Sanders, another senior Biden adviser. On Monday, Mr. Biden picked Linda Thomas-Greenfield, who is Black, as the ambassador to the United Nations. With the position being restored to cabinet-level status, she would serve on the National Security Council.

When Black women are in visible positions of power, it sends a strong signal, Ms. Henderson-Rivers said. While some in the sisterhood say they are hearing from the Biden administration, many are being recruited by candidates in New York City’s 2021 mayoral race. Lupé Todd-Medina is the spokeswoman for Raymond J. McGuire, a former Wall Street executive and mayoral candidate who is Black; Ms. Henderson-Rivers is a senior adviser for the campaign.

During the last mayoral election cycle, the women said they received calls from second-tier candidates or only after white consultants had turned a candidate down. Ms. Henderson-Rivers’s firm began getting calls months earlier than past election cycles, she said, adding that she had recently invested in more office space.

“It’s the first time I’ve been this busy this far out, and I think it’s because the worth of Black women is finally being recognized,” she said.

The sisterhood was formed almost by accident nearly two decades ago. It was Black Caucus weekend in Albany, the annual legislative conference of the New York State Association of Black and Puerto Rican Legislators, and a group of Black, male political operatives held a networking meeting about how to drum up more business and the outlook for the year ahead. Women were not invited.

Already feeling excluded in an industry dominated by white men, a group of women got together and held their own meeting, but the male strategists  got wind and barreled in. The meeting ended abruptly, but the women had sensed a powerful connection.

After that trip to Albany, the women stayed in touch, gathering for the occasional “Black girl dinner” and commiserating on the missed opportunity to have a female president after Hillary Clinton lost the Democratic nomination to Barack Obama in 2008.

“When glass breaks, shards remain,” read an email from 2009 that was shared among the sisterhood. “Now is the time for us to work as a collective whole to fulfill the promises made to our foremothers and their mothers.”

In the end, it was a personal connection that united them.

When Hasoni Pratts was on bed rest during a difficult first pregnancy in 2009, the women of Olori would gather at her bedside in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, to keep her company. They shared food, comfort and movies, but political conversations were never far from the surface.

“We’ve gone through deaths of children, people having problems with infertility, people choosing not to have kids; we’ve gone through divorces and marriages,” said Ms. Todd-Medina, a communications consultant who served as press secretary for Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey when he was mayor of Newark. “The reason you need this sisterhood and the reason Kamala means so much to us is, unlike men, women sacrifice in very hard and real ways that men do not.”

Eventually, Ms. Pratts’s mother would come in and shoo the women away. Back then they worked for members of the New York City Council and the State Legislature. They pitched in and supported one another through false starts and second-rate bosses.

Now they work on the biggest stages. Ms. Pratts was the national director of engagement for Pete Buttigieg’s presidential campaign. Ms. Peeler-Allen worked as the director of the Committee for Mike, part of Michael R. Bloomberg’s presidential bid. Ms. Todd-Medina is a communications consultant for the political operations of Representative Hakeem Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat frequently mentioned as a future candidate for speaker of the U.S. House.

Ms. Henderson-Rivers worked on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s most recent campaign, while L. Joy Williams, a political strategist who is president of the Brooklyn N.A.A.C.P., was a senior adviser for Cynthia M. Nixon, the actress and activist who ran against Mr. Cuomo in the Democratic primary.

Working for Ms. Nixon carried the potential for backlash from Democratic Party officials, who were upset that an incumbent governor was facing a primary challenge. Ms. Williams talked to the women in the sisterhood before she made the decision. She wasn’t asking for their permission; Ms. Williams wanted backup.

“They made calls and said, ‘L. Joy is about to do this,’” Ms. Williams said. “Not having those relationships could have meant being blackballed for going against the party, but my girls were like, ‘We got you.’”

The recrimination that Ms. Williams feared never came. In June she served as senior adviser for Representative Yvette Clarke of Brooklyn, who had the endorsement of the Democratic Party establishment as she beat back her own primary challenge to win by a surprisingly large margin.

Regardless of these successes, the women of the sisterhood would be the first to acknowledge those who came before them. There’s Shirley Chisholm of Brooklyn who was elected as the first Black congresswoman in 1968. In 1999 Donna Brazile became the first Black woman to oversee a major party’s presidential campaign when she managed Al Gore’s 2000 presidential bid.

Two decades later Ms. Brazile sees both formal and informal groups of Black women like the sisterhood forming all over the country, similar to those she surrounded herself with, the self-described “Colored Girls.” In addition to organizations like Higher Heights, there’s Black Women for Biden-Harris, Power Rising and Win With Black Women, to name a few.

“We are in the room and we are at the table and we are demanding, we are not asking anymore,” Ms. Brazile said. “Black women have always been part of the progression of women in politics, but now we are accumulating the force to make change.”

Even when women of the sisterhood make breakthroughs — as Ms. Pratts did when she went to work for Mr. Buttigieg on what would be her first national political campaign — they still rely on their network.

During a campaign event in December, as Mr. Buttigieg stood in the Harlem residence of the Rev. Dr. Kelly Brown Douglas, dean of Episcopal Divinity School at Union Theological Seminary, and took questions from a group of mostly Black women, Ms. Scarlett and Ms. Todd-Medina sat in the audience.

Ms. Pratts, wearing a flowing pink pantsuit, had organized the event. She had picked out Mr. Buttigieg’s clothes, encouraging him to wear black shoes instead of his trademark brown Oxfords. She worked the room beforehand, making personal introductions with Mr. Buttigieg.

It was still a rough afternoon for the mayor of South Bend, Ind. In spite of his gifts as a public speaker and his meteoric rise, Mr. Buttigieg had little support from Black voters.

“You can’t win without the Black women’s vote,” Dr. Brown Douglas said that day in opening remarks.

Looking shocked, Mr. Buttigieg motioned to Ms. Pratts. “Part of what I’m doing is making sure that we have empowered the right voices to share our story,” he said.

Afterward, Ms. Pratts disappeared to debrief Mr. Buttigieg privately. Two hours after the event and on her way to another primary state, she called Ms. Scarlett and Ms. Todd-Medina for a brutally frank critique.

Three months later, as Mr. Buttigieg’s decision to drop out of the Democratic primary for president began to spread one afternoon in March, Ms. Pratts was in Selma, Ala., sitting in a parking lot outside of First Baptist Church and feeling as if she had failed.

Her cellphone began to vibrate. Affirming messages from the women of the sisterhood began to flood her inbox. Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign wouldn’t be her last presidential effort, the messages said. “Pick yourself up and let’s think about what’s next,” read another text. Ms. Pratts sat in the car and cried.

“I felt such a sense of gratitude,” she said.

Now the sisterhood wants to exert influence on the new administration and has linked up with other Black women across the country who supported the Biden-Harris ticket.

With the coronavirus disproportionately affecting Black communities, Ms. Scarlett is pushing for Black women to serve in cabinet-level positions such as education secretary and health secretary. For her part, Ms. Carr is focused on making sure that a Black woman is chosen to replace Ms. Harris in the Senate.

“We can’t just say the vice president is a Black woman and she will do it for us,” Ms. Todd-Medina said. “We have to make sure that our voices are heard — and responded to.”





No.11 article:
Pedophile Scandal Can’t Crack the Closed Circles of Literary France

The scandal surrounding the writer Gabriel Matzneff was not limited to his pedophilia. It also opened a window on the entrenched and clubby nature of many of France’s elite institutions.

PARIS — One of France’s most prestigious literary awards, the Renaudot can change a writer’s career overnight. Prizewinners jump onto best-seller lists. Publishers earn bragging rights in a nation that places literature at the heart of its sense of grandeur and global standing.

A striking example is now a notorious one: Gabriel Matzneff, the writer whose career was revived with the award in 2013 before collapsing this year when a woman published a bombshell account of their sexual relationship when she was underage. He now faces a police investigation in a national scandal that has exposed how clubby Parisian elites long protected, celebrated and enabled his pedophilia.

Mr. Matzneff’s win was engineered by an elite fully aware of his pedophilia, which he had brazenly defended for decades. His powerful editor and friends sat on the jury. “We thought he was broke, he was sick, this will cheer him up,” said Frédéric Beigbeder, a confidant of Mr. Matzneff and a Renaudot juror since 2011.

The fallout from the Matzneff affair has rippled through France, dividing feminists and seemingly ending the career of a powerful deputy mayor of Paris. Yet the insular world that dominates French literary life remains largely unscathed, demonstrating just how entrenched and intractable it really is.

Proof of that is the Renaudot — all but one of the same jurors who honored Mr. Matzneff are expected to crown this year’s winners on Monday. 

That the Renaudot, France’s second biggest literary prize, could wave away the Matzneff scandal underscores the self-perpetuating and impenetrable nature of many of France’s elite institutions.

Whether in top schools, companies, government administration or at the French Academy, control often rests with a small, established group — overwhelmingly older, white men — that rewards like-minded friends and effectively blocks newcomers.

In France’s literary prize system, jurors serve usually for life and themselves select new members. In a process rife with conflicts of interest that is rarely scrutinized, judges often select winners among friends, champion the work of a colleague and press on behalf of a romantic partner.

The process would never be tolerated in contests like Britain’s Booker Prize or the American Pulitzer, where juries change every year and judges recuse themselves over potential conflicts of interest.

Mr. Beigbeder derided suggestions of change as representing an American-influenced desire for “purity” and “perfection.” But the reality is that calls for an overhaul have mounted even from inside France.

Early this year, immediately after the Matzneff scandal broke, articles in French news outlets and comments on social media zeroed in on the Renaudot as an embodiment of the weaknesses of France’s literary world.

Jérôme Garcin, a judge since 2011, left the Renaudot jury in March — itself a rare upheaval. He urged fellow jurors to address the prize’s “flaws” by, for instance, replacing him with a woman. Only one of the jury’s 10 members was female.

In a recent interview, Mr. Garcin said he had hoped to spur a “resignation by the whole jury which would be rebuilt on a new foundation.”

“I told myself that, at least in our jury, it would give rise to a growing awareness, some debates, a calling into question,” Mr. Garcin said. “And then nothing happened.”

Six out of the nine current judges who agreed to be interviewed by The New York Times said they were looking to recruit another female juror. But no one described plans for larger changes. The Matzneff scandal had not fueled internal discussion, they said. A few were categorical.

“Frankly, I think, no, we don’t need to reform,” said Jean-Noël Pancrazi, a juror since 1999. “It works well like this.”

The sentiment does not surprise observers of France’s literary scene or its political life.

“This is a country that finds it extremely difficult to accept actual change in its institutions,” said Françoise Nyssen, the head of a publisher, Actes Sud, who was France’s minister of culture in 2017 and 2018. “People shield themselves against change.”

François Busnel, the host of “La Grande Librairie,” France’s most important television literary program, compared prize juries to the southern Italian mafia. “It’s a camorra, particularly the Renaudot,” he said in a recent interview.

Perhaps no one embodies the Renaudot’s conflicts of interest more than its second-longest serving juror, Christian Giudicelli, 78, a longtime friend and editor of Mr. Matzneff.

Over the years, he has lobbied for work by friends or from Gallimard, France’s most storied publishing house, where he is an editor. It also publishes his poorly selling work, including a 2019 book that sold just 180 copies.

“It’s obvious that if he’s published, it’s because he’s a member of a jury — otherwise, why would Christian Giudicelli be published instead of another?” Raphaël Sorin, the former editor of Michel Houellebecq, often considered France’s greatest living novelist, said, describing Mr. Giudicelli’s writing as “mediocre.”

Antoine Gallimard, the head of the publishing company founded by his grandfather, declined interview requests.

In their writings, Mr. Giudicelli and Mr. Matzneff recall frequent trips together to the Philippines. While Mr. Matzneff recounts engaging in sex tourism with boys as young as 8 years old, Mr. Giudicelli describes his own involvement with an 18-year-old male prostitute in Manila.

Mr. Giudicelli declined interview requests through another juror and did not respond to calls or messages to his cellphone.

Starting in the 1960s, Mr. Giudicelli steadily carved out a successful career in Paris as a writer and radio journalist. In 1986, he was awarded the Renaudot for a novel, “Station balnéaire,” whose protagonist, a young male prostitute, is involved with an older male writer.

Mr. Matzneff himself has been explicit about support from Mr. Giudicelli. Mr. Matzneff wrote in his journals and told The Times early this year that Mr. Giudicelli backed him on the Renaudot jury for a 2006 novel published by Gallimard’s parent company, and then for a nonfiction book in 2009.

Mr. Matzneff said he had especially hoped to win in the prestigious novel category.

“I would have made a lot more money,” Mr. Matzneff said, adding that victory in 1986 had allowed Mr. Giudicelli to buy a three-room apartment in Paris.

On his third try, in 2013, Mr. Giudicelli succeeded in persuading other jurors to award his friend the essay prize.

But it wasn’t only Mr. Matzneff’s books that Mr. Giudicelli has championed.

“Sometimes Christian Giudicelli will say, this is a book I edited, but it’s good and I support it,” said Dominique Bona, the only woman on the Renaudot jury and a member of the French Academy. “He says that often.”

In 2017, Mr. Giudicelli pushed hard for “Nos années rouges,” a novel he had edited at Gallimard.

He was backed by another juror, Patrick Besson, who happened to be the romantic partner of the novel’s author, Anne-Sophie Stefanini.

“I wanted her to get the prize,” Mr. Besson, a writer now married to Ms. Stefanini, said in an interview. “I didn’t see the conflict of interest.”

An analysis by The Times showed that the Renaudot jury suffered from far more potential conflicts of interest than those of three other top prizes, the Goncourt, Femina and Médicis.

Between 2010 and 2019, on average, nearly three of the Renaudot’s 10 judges and the laureate for best novel in a given year had ties to the same publisher — triple the average for the other three juries. In three specific years, half of the jurors had books published by the same publishing company that captured the prize. Four of its nine current jurors work for publishers.

“We vote for the editor we know because, apart from any story of cronyism or pressure from editors, in general we know very well the books of our editor,” said Louis Gardel, a Renaudot juror since 1986 and a longtime editor and professional reader at Seuil, a major publisher.

Every year, a nation of voracious readers flocks to buy the prizewinners.

“I tell myself how is it possible that it keeps going like this and that especially the public completely falls for it,” said Jean-Marie Laclavetine, a leading editor at Gallimard.

Jurors at the major prizes enjoy lifetime appointments; the exception is the Goncourt, which established a mandatory retirement age of 80 in 2008. The jurors choose new members, almost always from a small circle.

In the top four prizes, there is one nonwhite juror among 38. Only three women sit on the Goncourt’s 10-member jury.

“In 2020, come on! That’s ridiculous, that’s not representative of France,” Mr. Busnel said, adding, “It’s the old world that’s clinging on.”

On the Médicis jury, reform was a topic too sensitive to be broached, said Marie Darrieussecq, a member since 2017. At least one juror automatically voted for books from his publisher, she said.

Jurors, writers and editors said that publishers also secured the votes of judges who were not employees through other means, including book advances or payments for a preface.

“In France, it might be 15,000 euros, 20,000 euros,” Ms. Darrieussecq said, referring to advances of $18,000 and $24,000. “But for these 20,000 euros, they will be loyal, faithful, which are pretty words to say corrupt.”

Defenders of lifetime appointments argue that the holders develop expertise.

Christine Jordis, a longtime editor and professional reader at Gallimard and a Femina judge since 1996, rejected the suggestion that her work influenced her voting — saying instead that it gave her financial independence.

She dismissed critics of lifetime appointments, saying, “These are young people who believe in egalitarianism, who think anybody can read as well as anybody else.”

Sylvie Ducas, an expert on literary juries at the University of Paris-Est Créteil, said that even partial reforms would help the Renaudot and other prizes regain credibility.

“They have to reform, so that they can be in a system that reflects more our understanding of a democratic culture,” Ms. Ducas said, adding, “A jury that doesn’t know how to reform at the moment it’s under threat, that’s a dead jury.”

Even some of the system’s beneficiaries now profess misgivings.

Mr. Matzneff’s 2013 Renaudot angered a woman, Vanessa Springora, who in the 1980s was involved with the writer when she was 14 and he was 49. Ms. Springora began writing the tell-all book, “Consent,” that triggered his downfall.

Early this year, Mr. Matzneff said he did not regret receiving the prize, even though it had proved cataclysmic — “not at all,” he said.

But in a recent exchange of emails, he sounded less sure. He didn’t want to talk about literary prizes, he wrote.

“The literary world,’’ he said, “makes me vomit.”





No.12 article:
What We Can Learn From Solitude

Since the beginning of the pandemic, Paul Fredette and Karen Karper Fredette have made some changes to their lives: Ms. Fredette stopped attending her local exercise class, and the couple whittled their interactions with their neighbors down to waves.

But in many ways, seclusion comes naturally to them. From a house they call Still Wood, nestled in the slope of a mountain surrounded by hundreds of acres of wild woodlands, the Fredettes live their lives “oriented towards solitude,” which is their preferred way of saying that they’re hermits: devoted to simplicity, silence and prayer. The nearest town, Hot Springs, N.C., is 18 miles away and has a population just under 600.

Mr. Fredette, 71, is a former Catholic priest, while Ms. Fredette, 78, spent 30 years in a monastery after high school before leaving to live as a hermit in a cabin in West Virginia. Since 1996, the couple has overseen a social network for hermits and the hermit-curious called Raven’s Bread Ministries. They provide spiritual counseling to seekers of solitude, write books on the topic, run a website and deliver a quarterly newsletter, Raven’s Bread, which includes contributions from the greater hermit community.

The original idea for Raven’s Bread Ministries was to validate hermits’ attraction to solitude. But this summer the Fredettes felt called to minister to a different demographic: those struggling with the isolation of the coronavirus pandemic. After noticing their average daily website hits went from around 800 pre-pandemic to up to 2,000 in August, the Fredettes began creating YouTube videos. Listening to them feels a bit like getting a very quiet pep talk from your grandparents, or watching an unusually spiritual A.S.M.R. video.

“A lot of people are going to be in pain, and if you know there’s something you can do to alleviate some of that pain, do it,” Ms. Fredette said.

In addition to “affirming and supporting” hermits, the Fredettes serve as unofficial spokespeople on their behalf, dispelling the Unabomber stereotype that looms large in the public imagination. Like everything these days, hermits exist on a wide spectrum and prefer a variety of identifiers: lovers of solitude, solitaries, contemplatives. (Ms. Fredette likes to add “contemporary” as a qualifier, to make the lifestyle sound less antiquated.)

Although some version of the solitary exists in nearly every religious tradition, eremitism is most commonly associated with the early Christian Desert Fathers and Mothers of the third and fourth centuries. Academics have found interest in eremitical life to be tied to the strength of centralized ecclesiastical institutions at the time, as well as increasing industrialization and urbanization.

Today, there are hermits who have been officially professed by their respective religious institutions — in Catholicism they are called “canonical hermits” — and rogue hermits who answer to no spiritual authority. There are hermits who live in caves, like the Himalayan Hermit, who spends his summers in a mountain crevice 10,000 feet above Gangotri, India. But many more hide in plain sight, in suburbs and cities.

Hermits have never been quite as isolated as many assume: They have often attracted devotees and have always had to earn their own living, which means allowing for some contact with the outside world.

Contemporary hermits might take jobs that require little human interaction, like cleaning houses. They try to fill what extra time they have with spiritual practice, rather than social interaction, in person or online, and make choices that support that end: They’ll meditate on their commute rather than read the news, or only answer their phone during designated hours.

They can live anywhere, but tend to reside in modest dwellings and avoid moving around unnecessarily. Nevertheless, a hermit should also not be confused with a recluse. The difference, Ms. Fredette said, is that hermits do not exit society because of misanthropy. “I would define a hermit or a person who chooses solitude as one who chooses solitude for spiritual reasons,” Ms. Fredette said, “and we do accent the spiritual, but it can be any form of spiritual.”

Despite the hermit’s religious origin, a surprising number of subscribers to Raven’s Bread describe themselves as “formerly” religious and say they don’t affiliate with a particular church or faith group.

The topics of the Fredettes’s videos are wide-ranging: Sometimes the couple encourages viewers to journal their worries, sometimes they mirror back feelings of despair and anger, and sometimes they relay comparable experiences from their own lives, such as when Ms. Fredette had to miss family gatherings while cloistered at the monastery.

They lead mini-guided meditations and quote solitary luminaries like Thomas Merton and Julian of Norwich, a medieval mystic who lived through the Black Death and civil unrest. The Fredettes also touch upon the events of our day, like racial injustice and climate change. “We’re not separated from what’s going on around us,” Ms. Fredette said.

Hermits themselves are torn on the issue.

“Solitude is not like protein,” said Heidi Haverkamp, a Raven’s Bread subscriber and the author of “Holy Solitude: Lenten Reflections With Saints, Hermits, Prophets, and Rebels,” who describes herself as a part-time solitary. “Some people find what I get from solitude in music or in exercise, just different ways that they access the transcendent.”

Several people pointed out that solitude for them is more a tool than simply a comfortable loneliness. “Solitude is a means,” said John Backman, a writer and “quasi-hermit” who affiliates with both Zen Buddhism and Christianity. “It is a means to draw closer to, immerse oneself in, that or who which is larger than we are, to immerse ourselves in Spirit, as it were.”

But the Fredettes and other hermits believe that anyone could benefit from incorporating some eremitic fundamentals — such as being rooted in place, practicing austerity and committing to a daily schedule that prioritizes prayer or meditation — to help them make sense of their isolation into their lives, regardless of personality type, religiosity, or life circumstances.

For people with little to no background in hermit spirituality, the pandemic has proved the ideal entryway. Karthik Kotturu, 27, of Gurugram, India, who described himself as spiritual but not religious, said that after an initial rocky adjustment to lockdown life, he found solace in the teachings of Zen Buddhism.

“The pandemic made me realize how afraid I was of being alone,” he wrote in an email. Discovering the Zen idea of detaching from the world — in the words of the Tao, eliminating both “longing and aversion” — helped him to shift his perspective. “Once I started seeing what I already had, my desires to seek something from outside started decreasing.”

Others have found that the situation has allowed them to tap into a love of solitude that was always present but neglected because of life obligations. Hannah Sheldon-Dean, 32, a writer and editor living in Brooklyn, said her morning chores have become a slow, calming routine, and she always ends her days by listening “Harry Potter and the Sacred Text,” a podcast in which the hosts do a deep read of the Rowling series, sometimes utilizing Lectio Divina principles, a Christian style of reading which involves approaching a text in four unhurried stages: read, meditate, pray, contemplate.

“I’ve always had ritualistic and contemplative tendencies like the ones the hermits describe, but the pandemic has just given them more space to flourish,” Ms. Sheldon-Dean said.

Some contemporary hermits say prayer and meditation can be done while simultaneously engaging in other activities. And all the hermits interviewed described experiencing a psychological dredging process in the early days of their solitude (they described the emotions that came up as “junk” or “sludge”) and emerging as evangelists for self-love.

“When we’re alone, all the fears and worries and anxieties come up, because we can’t distract ourselves,” said Sister Elizabeth Wagner, a canonical hermit who lives in her own “cell” on the grounds of a communal hermitage in Central Maine. “The great way to be with ourselves, to embrace who we are, warts, bumps, lumps and all, is to breathe.”

Ms. Fredette said that the understanding that your own “deeper self” is always beside you is the key to transforming anxiety-ridden isolation into nurturing solitude. “Once you begin to talk to yourself, know yourself, then you realize you’re not alone.”

The most potent grounding force of all, many hermits said, is nature. Hermitic life and environmentalism are natural bedfellows: Hermits generally travel infrequently — the term “anchorite” refers specifically to a religious solitary who takes a vow to remain in one place, though even non-anchorite hermits tend to be homebodies — and eschew rabid consumerism.

Awe in the face of the natural world runs like a thread through the history of eremitism, from the pastoral poems of the Yuan dynasty hermit Stonehouse right up to the work of the Charles Brandt, the Vancouver Island priest-hermit who fought tirelessly for the preservation of the streams and forests around the cabin he called Merton House.

Today, some hermits just walk around in a patch of grass, something Sister Rachel Denton, a canonical hermit in Sheffield, England, called “prayer walking.” She also picks up litter in the public park across the street from her home, a community service she calls her “penance.”

“I suppose there’s a therapy in there as well,” said Sister Denton. “Your body doing the walking, doing the pacing, it’s like a mantra.”

Alternatively, some hermits make friends with nature, like the Fredettes have.

“We have a rock, a huge rock, that’s sticking out of the mountains,” Ms. Fredette said. “Her name is Petra. And we have a path that leads right out to Petra. And when things are difficult I go out and I lean on Petra, and I say, ‘Give me some guidance.’”





No.13 article:
The Myth of the Next Maradona

It was nothing more, really, than a ruffle of the hair and a kiss on the cheek. There was no pomp or circumstance that day in 1994, no words of wisdom whispered in the ear or sweeping gesture made for the crowd. Diego Maradona left the field, and Ariel Ortega replaced him on it. But that was all it took. The torch, it was decided, had been passed.

Ortega was not the first player to be labeled the new Maradona. That honor, according to common consensus, fell to the former Boca Juniors forward Diego Latorre, and he certainly would not be the last. For a couple of decades, at least, a new pretender came to Maradona’s throne seemingly every year.

There would be short Maradonas and tall Maradonas, slender ones and squat ones, quick ones and slow ones. Sometimes the parallels were obvious: Pablo Aimar and Juan Román Riquelme and Andrés D’Alessandro played in the same position as him, in the same way as him, on the same team or bearing the same jersey number as him.

And sometimes they were not. There were new Maradonas who turned out to be jet-heeled wingers or elegant, deep-lying midfielders or languid target-men or elfin goal-poachers.

Often, Maradona himself would anoint his successor, though his favor was uncertain, shifting. For a while, it was Javier Saviola, though it pained Maradona to say it, “because he plays for River Plate,” the great rival of Maradona’s beloved Boca Juniors. A few years later, Maradona decreed that D’Alessandro was the “only player who amuses me.” He cast Carlos Tevez as “an Argentine prophet for the 21st century.”

Mostly, the new Maradonas were Argentines, though by no means exclusively. There were Maradonas all over the world, on every continent, in every mountain range. There was a Maradona of the Carpathians (Gheorghe Hagi), a Maradona of the Caucasus (Georgi Kinkladze), a Maradona of the Alps (Andi Herzog) and a Maradona of the Andes (Roberto Merino).

Some were given an entire country: Krishanu Dey was the Indian Maradona, Ali Karimi the Iranian version. Others had to share their territory. There have been, according to some lists, at least four Maradonas of the Balkans.

Some were given a much more precise geographical location. Fabrizio Miccoli was the Maradona of the Salento, the area in the south of Italy from which he hailed. Turkey’s Emre Belozoglu was the Maradona of the Bosporus. At one point, there was even a Maradona of Basingstoke, an unremarkable commuter town southwest of London, though that one, at least, was a knowing joke.

Some players leaned in to the comparison: Miccoli, a gifted but mercurial forward with Juventus, Fiorentina and Palermo, bought a pair of Maradona’s earrings at auction and would later acquire a tattoo of Che Guevara’s face, just like the one on his idol’s shoulder. Tevez acknowledged that he had based his style of play on his idol; they would go on to become close friends.

Others found the pressure implicit in the comparison suffocating. When Saviola signed with Barcelona in 2001, two decades after Maradona had done so, he was asked what he made of the parallels. “As I never tire of saying, there will not be another player like Maradona,” Saviola said. He was 19, and he already felt like he was repeating himself.

There were some who came close to living up to the name, in the same way as boarding a commercial flight is close, in some respects, to going to the moon. Aimar, Riquelme and Tevez enjoyed long and successful careers in which they played in World Cups, lifted league title trophies and defined their own legacies rather than being condemned to the coda of another player’s.

Hagi carried Romania to a World Cup quarterfinal and remains a symbol of his country’s soccer culture in the same way Maradona, more than anyone, represents Argentina’s. Dejan Savicevic, one of Maradona’s many Balkan apostles, became one of the finest players in Europe, an inspirational part of the great A.C. Milan teams of the early 1990s.

Others never did quite enough to escape Maradona’s shadow, Ortega prime among them. Perhaps that was unavoidable: nobody, not even Riquelme and Tevez — the two players tasked, willingly or not, with living up to Maradona’s name at Boca Juniors — felt the white heat of expectation quite so much as the boy who took the field to replace him that day in Salta in 1994.

That game — a 2-1 win against Morocco — had been a warm-up for the World Cup set to start a few months later. At Argentina’s base that summer in Wellesley, Mass., Ortega shared a room with Maradona, the team captain. When Maradona was thrown out of the tournament after testing positive for ephedrine, Ortega would be tasked with replacing him for Argentina’s remaining games.

It made sense. Both were stronger than their stature would suggest. Both had a low center of gravity, almost flawless technique and a burst of acceleration that carried them past opponents. They even shared a passing physical resemblance, right down to the shock of raven-black hair.

Their similarities did not end there. Ortega had a flash of his mentor’s temper; one of the things Maradona most admired about him was his defiant, self-possessed, renegade streak. Ortega was sent off in a World Cup quarterfinal, and later punished with a worldwide transfer ban after walking out on his contract at the Turkish club Fenerbahce.

To an extent, too, his fate and Maradona’s were entwined. Ortega struggled with an alcohol addiction — Maradona himself would, at one point, advise that his old friend “needed help” — that first derailed and then curtailed his career. It is dangerous to psychoanalyze from a distance, but it is hard not to wonder if, perhaps, the torch he was passed that day in Salta was too hot for him, for anyone, to handle.

Argentina has not anointed a new Maradona for more than a decade now. The rest of the world has moved on, too. The quest to find an heir had grown too quixotic to be taken seriously by the middle of the last decade. When the tag was bestowed on Lionel Messi sometime around 2005, it no longer felt quite so onerous.

Messi did what none of his predecessors ever could: He managed not only to build his own career, to establish his own name, but to do so emphatically enough to dull the urge to compare. He neither embraced nor rejected the parallels with Maradona; he simply rendered them irrelevant.

Whether his greatness matches or exceeds Maradona’s will never be easily quantified. For all the similarities between them — small, left-footed, Argentine — the differences are stark. Messi does not possess Maradona’s penchant for self-destruction. Maradona never benefited from the rigorous professionalism of the game Messi has known.

Perhaps we will find out only with time. More than a decade elapsed between that moment in Salta, when Ortega stepped onto the field and Maradona walked off it, and the emergence of Messi. The search for Maradona’s heir had spanned every corner of the globe, every country, every mountain range.

Perhaps, then, we will know the scale of Messi’s greatness by the time it takes to find his successor. There is already a Thai Messi and an Indonesian Messi and a Japanese Messi. There is a new Messi every year in Argentina. And there will be, just as there was with Maradona, until someone who can be known by their own name comes along.





No.14 article:
Walt Whitman, Parenting Books and Other Letters to the Editor

To the Editor:

So who knew? Until reading Dwight Garner’s essay “Mark My Words” (Nov. 8), I’d never heard of a commonplace book. Yet here I am with two standard-size journals (one leather-bound!) plus a folder stowed away in my computer chock-full of quotes and passages, pithy, humorous, dark, shrieking and subtle words gleaned from all sorts of sources (including my own best lines).

Amazing, isn’t it, how something commonplace is elevated by the addition of a distinguished title? To top it all off, the journal entries are written with a fountain pen (I’m a fan). Well! I’m feeling mighty good. Thanks so much!

Elizabeth G. Moisan Harwich, Mass.

♦

To the Editor:

After scribbling favorite sentences from texts on an assortment of paper scraps over the years and filing them in a makeshift folder, I was delighted to discover that there was both a name and a better repository for my collection — a “commonplace book.”

Additionally, Dwight Garner provided a new favorite for my file, while describing another author’s novels: “They were bird’s nests of facts threaded with the author’s own subtle interjections.”

Marialis Seehorn Sunnyvale, Calif.

♦

To the Editor:

I love Garner’s notion of a “commonplace book,” a gathering of noteworthy excerpts from one’s reading. I hope that he has discovered the wonderful “Suppose a Sentence,” by Brian Dillon, a collection of essays on 27 of Dillon’s favorite sentences from literature.

I always look forward to Garner’s reviews. My favorite of his is an assessment of three parenting books, one of which he said made him feel as if the author were “reaching up from the text to slap me across the face” every time he turned a page. It was the perfect description of reading any book in that category. His fellow parents know the feeling.

I read my paper early. How nice it was to be laughing out loud by 8 in the morning.

Margaret McGirr Greenwich, Conn.

♦

To the Editor:

I am sure I am not the only one who noticed this sentence in Garner’s last paragraph: “Writing in the April 1904 issue of The Atlantic, Walt Whitman declared … ” I knew that this was an impossibility since Whitman died in 1892. I checked the April 1904 issue of The Atlantic and found an essay by Walt Whitman that the magazine had published.

Titled “An American Primer,” it was written by Whitman earlier in his life, and the magazine included it in its 1904 issue. So Garner is partially correct: The quotation he includes was written by Whitman but not in 1904, so Whitman was not “writing” then. Perhaps if Garner had instead said “included in The Atlantic’s April 1904 issue, an essay, written by Walt Whitman during his lifetime …” that would have been more accurate.

I loved the essay and plan to buy Garner’s book since I, too, love quotations.

Maryanne GarbowskyWestfield, N.J.

To the Editor:

In his generally astute review of the cultural historian David S. Reynolds’s massive biography of Abraham Lincoln (Nov. 15), Robert W. Merry got it mostly right. But he was simply wrong about the book’s important discussion of the connection between the still-controversial Connecticut-born revolutionary abolitionist John Brown, who tried to incite a slave rebellion in western Virginia in 1859, and Lincoln.

To Merry, Brown was “a murderer, a traitor and a madman.” In contrast, Reynolds knows Brown’s extremism eventually inspired Lincoln to issue the final Emancipation Proclamation in 1863. Much happened in these years, and the pragmatic Lincoln adapted with changing times. In 1860, while campaigning for the Republican nomination for president, Lincoln spoke at Cooper Union in New York City and distanced himself and his party from Brown. Less than three years later, under vastly different circumstances, Lincoln effectively adopted Brown’s approach to abolitionism (as Reynolds clearly notes) in the famous proclamation, which, among other things, encouraged the Union to arm nearly 200,000 African-Americans, mostly former slaves. That was Lincoln’s genius!

Lincoln was not saintly; no wartime leader can be. Merry needed to understand this to appreciate Lincoln’s greatness.

Steven S. Berizzi Norwalk, Conn.





No.15 article:
Beijing Takes Its South China Sea Strategy to the Himalayas

China built a village in territory also claimed by the kingdom of Bhutan, echoing its aggressive tactics at the border with India and in places much farther away.

Just in time for its National Day in October, China completed construction of a new village high in the mountains where the Chinese region of Tibet meets the kingdom of Bhutan. A hundred people moved into two dozen new homes beside the Torsa River and celebrated the holiday by raising China’s flag and singing the national anthem.

“Each of us is a coordinate of the great motherland,” a border guard was quoted as saying by an official state news agency, China Tibetan News.

The problem is, these new “coordinates” are more than a mile inside what Bhutan considers its territory.

The construction, documented in satellite photos, followed a playbook China has used for years. It has brushed aside neighbors’ claims of sovereignty to cement its position in territorial disputes by unilaterally changing the facts on the ground.

It used the same tactics in the South China Sea, where it fortified and armed shoals claimed by Vietnam and the Philippines, despite promising the United States not to do so.

This year, China’s military built up forces in the Himalayas and crossed into territory that the Indians claimed was on their side of the de facto border. That led to China’s bloodiest clash in decades, leaving at least 21 Indian soldiers dead, along with an unknown number of Chinese troops. The violence badly soured relations that had been steadily improving.

Even when challenged, China’s territorial grabs are difficult to reverse short of the use of force, as the Indian government has learned. Since the dispute at the border, Chinese troops have remained camped in areas that India once controlled.

“In the end, it reflects the consolidation of China’s control over the area it claims,” said M. Taylor Fravel, director of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an expert on China’s military.

Over the past year, China has moved aggressively against many of its neighbors, seemingly with little regard for diplomatic or geopolitical fallout. Its actions reflect the ambition of China’s leader, Xi Jinping, to assert the country’s territorial claims, economic interests and strategic needs around the world.

Mr. Xi often cites China’s historical grievances against foreign encroachment and colonization, using its past to justify its aggressive strategic activities. 

The construction of the Himalayan village suggests that China has extended a broader campaign to fortify its southern flanks to include Bhutan, the Buddhist nation of 800,000 people that popularized the concept of “gross national happiness.”

As the construction was underway on that long-disputed border, China added a new claim this summer to nearly 300 square miles of territory in the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary, a preserve on the other side of Bhutan from where the village was being built.

In pushing its boundaries, China appears to have brushed aside decades of quiet and ultimately fruitless talks to finalize the two countries’ border. A 25th round of talks this year was postponed because of the coronavirus.

“The Chinese obviously seem to be losing patience,” Tenzing Lamsang, editor of the newspaper The Bhutanese and president of the Media Association of Bhutan, wrote on Twitter.

The dispute stems from different interpretations of a treaty signed in 1890 by two now-defunct imperial powers, the United Kingdom as India’s colonial ruler and the Qing dynasty in China.

The new village is near the Doklam Plateau, where the borders of China, India and Bhutan converge. The plateau was the site of a 73-day standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in 2017 that began over the construction of a road into Bhutanese territory. India, which is obliged to defend Bhutan under a longstanding security pact, pushed troops forward to halt the Chinese work.

Bhutan, which in recent years has felt squeezed between the two giants, poses no military threat to China. For China, control of the area would give its forces a strategic position near a narrow strip of land in India called the Siliguri Corridor.

That area, which Indian military strategists also call the Chicken Neck, connects the bulk of India to its easternmost provinces bordering Bangladesh, Myanmar and China.

Mr. Lamsang noted that Bhutan has long had to defer to India’s security interests. In its repeated talks with the Chinese, Bhutan has so far been unwilling to make any territorial concessions along the western and central borders.

“Given Bhutan’s refusal to concede in the talks or even agree to compromises by China we are now paying a price,” Mr. Lamsang wrote.

Neither the Bhutanese nor the Chinese foreign ministry responded to requests for comment.

Global Times, a Communist Party newspaper that often echoes a hawkish view among Chinese officials, ridiculed the claims that the newly built village was in Bhutan, blaming India for stoking tensions with China’s southern neighbors. A day later, the newspaper warned against “looming foreign forces backing the China-bashing campaign across the Himalayas.”

The exact location of the new village, called Pangda, emerged in a series of satellite images published recently by Maxar Technologies, a company based in Colorado. They showed that construction began late last year and was completed, it seems, not long before Oct. 1, China’s National Day.  China’s version of the border lies south of the village.

The images also showed extensive new road-building and the construction of what seem to be military storage bunkers, according to a Maxar spokesman, Stephen Wood. The bunkers are in undisputed Chinese territory, though, indicating that China has sought to build up its military presence along much of the Himalayan border area. The images of China’s new construction were earlier reported by NDTV, a broadcaster in India.

China has made no secret of the construction, as evidenced by several state media reports on the village. One recounted an inauguration ceremony on Oct. 18 that was attended by senior officials from Shanghai, including Yu Shaoliang, deputy secretary of the city’s Communist Party committee.

In China, richer provinces often sponsor development projects in poorer regions, especially in Tibet and Xinjiang. China absorbed Tibet beginning in 1950, with the new Communist government seeking to reassert sovereignty over the Tibetan people and territory that had been lost after the fall of the Qing dynasty. Although the Chinese called its annexation the “Peaceful Liberation of Tibet,” many Tibetans are unhappy with Chinese rule. 

Mr. Fravel of M.I.T. said that with its recent construction, China appeared to have backed away from potential compromises that it floated in earlier rounds of border talks with Bhutan, in which it offered to trade swathes of territory.

“Previous compromise ideas from the 1990s may no longer be on the table,” he said, “as China may be unwilling or unlikely to withdraw from territory where it has erected such infrastructure.”





No.16 article:
‘Tokenized’: Inside Black Workers’ Struggles at the King of Crypto Start-Ups

SAN FRANCISCO — One by one, they left. Some quit. Others were fired. All were Black.

The 15 people worked at Coinbase, the most valuable U.S. cryptocurrency start-up, where they represented roughly three-quarters of the Black employees at the 600-person company. Before leaving in late 2018 and early 2019, at least 11 of them informed the human resources department or their managers about what they said was racist or discriminatory treatment, five people with knowledge of the situation said.

One of the employees was Alysa Butler, 25, who worked in recruiting. During her time at Coinbase, she said, she told her manager several times about how he and others excluded her from meetings and conversations, making her feel invisible.

“Most people of color working in tech know that there’s a diversity problem,” said Ms. Butler, who resigned in April 2019. “But I’ve never experienced anything like Coinbase.”

In Silicon Valley, where entrepreneurs and investors often preach high-minded missions and style themselves as management gurus, Coinbase has held itself up as a model. Since the start-up was founded in 2012, Brian Armstrong, the chief executive, has assembled memos and blog posts about how he built the $8 billion company’s culture with distinct hiring and training practices. That has won him acclaim among influential venture capitalists and executives.

But according to 23 current and former Coinbase employees, five of whom spoke on the record, as well as internal documents and recordings of conversations, the start-up has long struggled with its management of Black employees.

One Black employee said her manager suggested in front of colleagues that she was dealing drugs and carrying a gun, trading on racist stereotypes. Another said a co-worker at a recruiting meeting broadly described Black employees as less capable. Still another said managers spoke down to her and her Black colleagues, adding that they were passed over for promotions in favor of less experienced white employees. The accumulation of incidents, they said, led to the wave of departures.

“It was the first time I realized what racism felt like in the modern world,” said Layllen Sawyerr, a compliance analyst who is Black. “I felt like I was being bullied every day at work.” She said she filed a discrimination complaint with Coinbase’s legal department before quitting in 2018.

Kim Milosevich, a Coinbase spokeswoman, said the company “does not tolerate racial, gender or any other forms of discrimination.”

She added, “All claims of discrimination are treated very seriously, investigated by both internal and third parties, and the appropriate action is taken.”

Ms. Milosevich said Coinbase had a record of only three official complaints from the 2018-19 period and none from Ms. Butler. Ms. Milosevich said the three complaints, including Ms. Sawyerr’s, were investigated and found to be unsubstantiated. Ms. Butler said she was not told how to make an official complaint; Ms. Sawyerr said she never spoke to an investigator and was not informed of the findings.

On Wednesday, before publication of this article, Emilie Choi, Coinbase’s chief operating officer, wrote an email to employees to preemptively question the article’s accuracy and said, “We know the story will recount episodes that will be difficult for employees to read.” The company posted the email to its public blog.

Tech companies have long struggled to hire and support Black employees and entrepreneurs. Just 1 percent of venture-backed companies were led by Black entrepreneurs from 2013 to 2018, according to a study by RateMyInvestor, which analyzes tech investors. Large tech companies like Intel, Google and Facebook have publicly said that they need to do better on diversity and have committed to improvements, though progress has been uneven.

But even in this environment, Coinbase stands out, said the current and former employees, some of whom requested anonymity because they had signed confidentiality agreements or feared retaliation. Three percent of the company’s employees are Black, which is less than half the average in most of the tech industry, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Coinbase’s percentage has also stayed flat in recent years, while companies such as Square, PayPal and Twitter have modestly increased their share of Black employees.

“If the numbers haven’t changed, it’s definitely because there wasn’t a real intention to do so,” Cleve Mesidor, the founder of the National Policy Network of Women of Color in Blockchain, said of Coinbase, which she has worked with to hold events in the Black engineering community. “We know now that Brian Armstrong was never committed to this.”

The tensions at Coinbase came to a head in June, after the police killing of George Floyd. As many tech leaders publicly voiced support for Black Lives Matter protests, Black employees at Coinbase said on the Slack messaging platform that they were hurt by the silence of Mr. Armstrong and other executives about the matter. They organized a meeting where several of them told executives, often through tears, about their difficult experiences at the company, eight people who attended said.

The next day, Mr. Armstrong, 37, summarized the tone of what he had heard. “There was just this outpouring of, like, Why does the company not have my back?” he said at a staff meeting, according to a recording of the session shared with The New York Times. In a company email he sent later, which was also shared with The Times, he agreed to revamp the diversity-and-inclusion plan and increase mentoring.

But in September, Mr. Armstrong published a public blog post telling employees to leave concerns for issues like racial justice at the door. He said that while the company embraced diversity, the staff needed to focus on Coinbase’s mission of profit and advancing cryptocurrencies. They should resign if they did not agree, he said.

“We don’t engage here when issues are unrelated to our core mission,” Mr. Armstrong wrote.

The post drew immediate blowback from employees. “Why stay and put effort into this work if it’s just tokenized into recruiting points and not actually improving the sense of belonging and psychological safety,” Lauren Lee, who was responsible for diversity and inclusion, wrote in a Slack message that was viewed by The Times.

Ms. Lee, who did not respond to requests for comment, resigned last month. So have at least 60 others.

Mr. Armstrong, a former Airbnb engineer, and Fred Ehrsam, a former Goldman Sachs trader, founded Coinbase eight years ago to provide a place to buy and sell cryptocurrencies. They built the start-up into a cryptocurrency leader, making money by taking fees on trades placed by its customers. (Mr. Ehrsam left day-to-day operations in 2017.)

Today, Coinbase is riding a new wave of interest in cryptocurrencies, with the value of the virtual currency Bitcoin approaching a new high as investors increasingly treat it like an alternative to gold.

Much of Coinbase’s culture stems from the one around Bitcoin, current and former employees said. Bitcoin, which embodies a libertarian philosophy that snubs its nose at the pieties of mainstream institutions, has attracted a generation of fans known as “crypto bros.” Many have propagated a brash male-dominated way of life, facing criticism for sowing racism and sexism.

At Coinbase, Mr. Armstrong, who eschewed some of Bitcoin’s most renegade elements, began building what he called an “all star” culture, with mostly young white and Asian men. In one 2018 post on “36 Ways to Hire, Develop and Retain Great People,” he wrote about the importance of creating a “consistent culture” and the value of acting like an “all-star team” instead of a “family.”

“Players who don’t contribute or work as a team get cut,” he wrote.

Ruby Bhattacharya, a recruiter at Coinbase in 2017, said the search for employees for this “consistent culture” often meant looking for people who resembled the other staff. Ms. Bhattacharya, who is gay and was born in England to Indian parents, said her colleagues made it clear she did not belong.

“I was told I don’t have the right brain for this,” she said. “It was constant condescension.”

As Coinbase grew, several female executives lobbied for more diversity, three former employees said. The company had brought on about a dozen Black employees by the beginning of 2018, when it had a staff of around 300.

One of those hires was Katherine Johnson, who led the compliance department. She helped recruit seven more people of color, said Ms. Sawyerr, who was among those who joined.

But Ms. Sawyerr and others said they soon felt like they were being treated differently. On days when reporters or photographers came in, they said, they were told to be present so they could be in the photos to display the company’s diversity. But in meetings, they were talked down to and ignored. By mid-2018, some said they had started talking to human resources and their managers about the behavior.

When Coinbase announced it would be opening an office in Portland, Ore., several Black employees in the compliance department who worked remotely were told to move there or reapply for new jobs, four former employees said. The company said it wanted the whole team in one place, but current and former employees said the one white employee in the department was allowed to continue working remotely.

Ms. Milosevich said the white employee lived in Philadelphia and was allowed to commute to and work from the company’s New York office. She said all of the workers were offered relocation packages and that some who declined to move received severance.

All of the Black workers in the compliance division ended up among the group of 15 who left. Ms. Johnson, who was described as a supportive manager, declined to comment. She left Coinbase last year.

In mid-2018, Coinbase hired Tariq Meyers, who had worked on inclusion efforts at the ride-hailing company Lyft, to lead a diversity push. Ciceli Johnson-Porter, who worked on Coinbase’s legal team, said she had approached Mr. Meyers several times to discuss the way her managers repeatedly diminished her and favored her white colleagues. She said he tried to help but was not empowered to change anything.

“He knew he was there to put a Band-Aid on a bullet wound,” she said. Mr. Meyers, who left Coinbase in June, declined to comment.

Ms. Johnson-Porter, who resigned last year, said Coinbase often turned its scrutiny on the person who complained. After she spoke up, she said, her boss started taking issue with her work. “Those of us who were vocal about the unfair treatment — they either pushed you out or created an issue that wasn’t an issue to force you out,” she said.

Ms. Milosevich said the company investigated Ms. Johnson-Porter’s claims and found “no evidence of unfairness or wrongdoing.”

Early last year, some workers brought the exodus of Black employees to the attention of Mr. Armstrong and asked him to step in, three people briefed on the situation said. He listened and said he would think about it, but took no action, they said.

Mr. Armstrong rarely spoke or made decisions in meetings, the current and former employees said, leaving them uncertain about his opinions. In a staff meeting this summer, he said he knew his style made many employees uncomfortable and attributed it to being “on the spectrum,” according to a recording of the event.

Ms. Sawyerr said she had talked with four other Black employees about bringing a discrimination lawsuit against Coinbase, but the others backed out after being offered hefty severance payments in exchange for confidentiality agreements.

By the end of 2019, 31 of Coinbase’s 1,000 employees were Black. That proportion has remained unchanged.

When Mr. Armstrong wrote his blog post in September asking employees to leave their outside interests at the door, he was celebrated and praised by several tech investors.

Fred Wilson, a venture capitalist at Union Square Ventures, and one of the nine members of Coinbase’s board, said that many tech chief executives “would like to have done what Brian did” to reduce the distractions that come from employee activism. David Sacks, a PayPal founder, said Mr. Armstrong’s post was “how you build a movement and change the world.”

But internally, Mr. Armstrong’s post led to another exodus. Besides Ms. Lee, another employee who left in October was John Russ, the head of marketing and the company’s highest ranking Black employee, who had been hired three months earlier.

In a brief phone interview, Mr. Russ would only say that he disagreed with Mr. Armstrong’s new position and left as a result.

On Oct. 8, Mr. Armstrong wrote in a letter to employees that 60 people had left Coinbase. He said he took solace in how many Black employees had chosen to stay.

In response, one Black employee wrote on Slack that her continued employment should not be “reassuring.” She said that she and many other Black employees were in low-ranking support positions, and that it was hard to leave at a moment of high unemployment in the pandemic, according to a copy of the message seen by The Times. The post got a black heart emoji from 153 other employees.

Ms. Milosevich said Coinbase hired a consultant over the summer who did interviews and looked at the company’s history, and found “no evidence of structural bias.”

“Employees reported a strong culture, fair employee treatment, high employee satisfaction and high energy for belonging, inclusion and diversity,” she said.

Managers in the customer support team, where many of the Black employees work, wrote their own report last month. It concluded that Coinbase’s executive team “hasn’t learned anything from the amount of time and labor put into listening sessions or the vulnerability expressed by Black employees,” according to a copy reviewed by The Times.

The report was presented to executives, two people with knowledge of the situation said. The executives, they said, have not acted on its recommendations.





No.17 article:
8 Rules for Skiing This Season

Being out on the slopes is a perfect pandemic escape. It’s everything around the skiing that’s hard. What you need to know to navigate this year.

As an activity in the Covid-19 era, skiing has a lot going for it — it’s outdoors, people naturally distance by spreading out all over a mountain, and they’re used to covering their faces. What’s tricky is everything around skiing: renting gear, waiting in lift lines, sharing gondolas and chairs, crowding at mid-mountain restaurants, socializing at après spots.

And so mountain resorts across North America are adjusting their operations to the new reality, from restricting the daily number of skiers and riders to modifying schedules — Jackson Hole, Wyo., for example, will load some lower-mountain lifts earlier so guests can spread out faster.

Naturally, skiers and riders are perplexed: What will the experience be like? If you decide to go for snow, here are a few tips to help you make the most of this unusual season.

This winter, forget about impulse decisions to waltz in for a few runs: Many resorts won’t have walk-up ticket sales and reservations will be key for almost everything from lifts to rental to lunch.

In Utah, the road to Alta and Snowbird will be closed to uphill traffic once the parking lots are full. Snowbird has online reservations for parking and many January and February weekends are already full.

Among the big multimountain pass groups, Epic, which is run by Vail Resorts, is instituting a system that prioritizes its passholders. “We’re confident that for the majority of days we’ll be able to accommodate everybody who wants to visit,” Johnna Muscente, the company’s director of communications, said in a telephone interview. “But we need to plan for every day: the busy holiday weekend, the powder day.” The Epic portal acts as a clearinghouse to book days, though you should also check each resort’s website or app for targeted directives.

Ikon holders must also make advance reservations via the Ikon website. Some popular ski areas on that pass, such as Copper Mountain, in Colorado, and Killington, in Vermont, are also implementing advance parking reservations along with controlled day lift sales, so make sure to get your ducks in a row before showing up at the mountain.

As for the Mountain Collective, it is instructing its pass holders to check with the resorts they are planning to visit. As the Ski Vermont trade group put it: “Know before you go.”

Similarly, check what your planned area’s policies are on distancing in lift lines and whether they will be loading the lifts in a way that lets skiers from different groups remain separate. 

With several major airlines getting rid of change fees, many skiers are securing cheap flights, just in case. Similarly, you can book many accommodations with no-penalty cancellations that allow for last-minute pivots — a chain hotel might be more flexible than an Airbnb, but it might also feature more common areas where social distancing is harder.

It could also be a good time to join a ski club to alleviate planning headaches. “We spent the spring negotiating with tour operators for never-before terms and conditions,” Joe Gilbert, co-chair of the Ski Club of Washington, D.C.’s Western/international committee, said over Zoom. “If there are any coronavirus-related issues, we have force-majeure clauses, so our members are protected.” Another advantage of ski clubs is that they often have already pocketed rooms at resort lodgings — remember, capacity will be limited in many places and there could be a pinch on certain weekends.

This won’t be the year to fly to Europe’s megaresorts or Japanese powder fields, but British Columbia or Quebec are likely to be off-limits, too, as the border between the United States and Canada remains closed for now. Domestic quarantine restrictions willmake interstate travel tricky as well. Right now, for example, New Mexico requires a two-week quarantine for visitors from high-risk states (and that means only Hawaii residents can skip it, as of Nov. 23). Vermont has some of the most stringent travel restrictions in the country, with either a 14-day quarantine or a shorter quarantine with a negative test. Check each state’s official website before even thinking of heading out.

Popular resorts like Park City, in Utah, Vail, in Colorado, or Mammoth, in California, can draw big crowds on weekends and holidays. Since they will operate at partial capacity, you may not be able to go on your preferred dates. (Some mountains are guaranteeing tickets to people who stay in resort-owned lodging, while others are not. Again, make sure to check.)

Why not venture elsewhere? Brad Wilson, general manager of Idaho’s Bogus Basin, pointed out on the phone that “nationally, there is a sense that small resorts will get a bump in business this year. It’s the soul of skiing,” he added. Maybe this is the time to finally try fiercely independent Wolf Creek, which boasts the most snow in Colorado and is implementing a gradual opening starting with just lifts and bathrooms — soul of skiing, indeed.

If you have your own gear, bring it, because rentals are going to be a bit of a hassle. Likewise, be ready to boot up in your car since locker rooms are likely to be either closed or restricted. In fact, think of your car as a home base and stock it with items that used to be easy to get on the slopes: water, snacks, tissues, sunscreen, lunch.

“Be ready to be outside all day, and that includes eating,” said Tim LeRoy, a spokesman for California’s Big Bear and Mammoth resorts, over Zoom. Colorado’s Monarch and Arapahoe Basin are among the several areas preparing to set up food trucks in parking lots. Others will set up roaming food stations on the slopes: In addition to its Taco Beast snowcat, Steamboat, in Colorado, will welcome the new Pizza Ranger, where people can either pre-order full pies or buy slices. In Utah, Powder Mountain is planning to move some food stations around its ski area to engage guests in fun scavenger hunts.

Lessons are never a bad idea, no matter how advanced you are, but this season they may also have practical repercussions as enrolling in ski school may be a way to secure access to a resort during busy periods. Note that some signature instruction programs may be suspended — Taos Ski Valley, for example, is not offering its famous Ski Week but only private instruction — and that class sizes might be smaller.

Book an entire resort. Utah’s Eagle Point is usually open from Friday through Sunday or Monday, but this year you can rent the whole place the rest of the week. A cool $15,000 a day gets you lift tickets, rentals and staff for up to 200 people.

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.





No.18 article:
Musical Travel Companions for a Year of Going Nowhere

In the early spring of 1989, the composer John Luther Adams set up camp near the confluence of the still-icy Tanana and Yukon rivers in Alaska. For days he held a solitary vigil, nursing heavy thoughts about his romantic and professional lives, in both of which he felt at a crossroads.

His dreams, he writes in a new memoir, began to fill with the sound of ice turning to water: “the glassy tones of candle ice swirling in whirlpools, the intricate arpeggios of meltwater dripping, and the ominous rumbling and grinding of icebergs.”

Finally the ice broke — and with it, his gloom. The rivers resumed motion and Mr. Adams returned to his desk in his off-the-grid cabin near Fairbanks, inspired to write music that would evoke the elemental forces of nature as he had experienced them — “at once terrifying and comforting, transpersonal and purifying.”

In the memoir, “Silences So Deep: Music, Solitude, Alaska,” Mr. Adams, 67, relates this story as one of several epiphanies on his path as an environmental activist and a composer — and often as both at once. In 2013, he wrote “Become Ocean,” a hypnotic orchestral work for which he won the Pulitzer Prize in Music. For 40 minutes, it immerses the listener in a sonic churn, ebb and roar that conjures a world inundated by rising sea levels. The critic Alex Ross called it “the loveliest apocalypse in musical history.” Taylor Swift was so taken by the Seattle Symphony’s recording of the piece that she donated $50,000 to the orchestra.

A box set released in September places that recording of “Become Ocean” together with its two companion works, “Become River” (2010) and “Become Desert” (2017). Heard together — in pandemic-enforced isolation, no less — the three pieces offer an intoxicating introduction to Mr. Adams’s psychoacoustic geology of the spirit. Together with his illuminating memoir, they make fine travel companions in this year of going nowhere.

The book is a love letter to Alaska, where Mr. Adams made his home for 40 years beginning in the late 1970s. As it retraces the way the region’s extremes of scale, light and temperature forged his personal development, “Silences So Deep” also makes a case for a shared human interest in preserving its ecological integrity.

For Mr. Adams the activist, the north is nothing less than “a place to rediscover our ancient roots in the earth and imagine new possibilities for the human spirit.” For Mr. Adams the composer, Alaska inspired the longing to create “music that could be heard only there, music that belonged there like the plants and the birds, music that resonated with all that space and silence, cold and stone, wind and fire and ice.”

He was born very far from there — in Mississippi, in 1953 — moved frequently as a boy and studied composition at the California Institute of the Arts. His commitment to environmental causes began with birds: He became obsessed with the fate of the California condor, which in the 1970s approached extinction because of urban development and toxic pesticides.

Birdsong filtered into his music from the beginning, generating works like “songbirdsongs” (completed in 1980) and “Strange Birds Passing” (1983). In the memoir, birds appear at key moments to convey humor, supernatural guidance or news of the changing climate of the Arctic. These passages help explain how the bird song transcriptions in works like his haunting “Canticles of the Holy Wind” (2013), for choir and percussion, manage to be both ornithologically precise and redolent with mystery.

Punctiliousness and awe, science and spirit, merge to powerful effect in the “Become” trilogy. All three pieces unfold as single masses of sound, deeply textured and ever-changing. Like the natural phenomena that inspired them, these works have a paradoxical combination of animation and immutability. They transfix even in the absence of any discernible event.

Their underlying logic follows nature. In the memoir, Mr. Adams relates his fascination with fractals — complexly involuted forms that we find buried in the shape of things like trees, coastlines and lightning bolts. Flying from Fairbanks to Anchorage one day, he looked down at Denali and Mount Foraker and devised what would become the compositional structure for several pieces, including “Become Ocean.” He sketched four undulating lines on top of each other, the first with seven waves, the next five, then three, then a single large wave. In practice, this concept resulted in sonic worlds of engulfing, constantly shifting movement.

Other composers have written music about oceans, rivers and deserts. Smetana’s “Moldau” gurgles and flows from source to city. Félicien David’s “Le Désert” has a caravan passing through it. Debussy’s “La Mer” personifies nature through its movement titles, with waves that “play” and a “dialogue” between wind and sea.

What sets Mr. Adams’s seething, shimmering, preternaturally patient sound forces apart is their absence of a definable human anchor. The pieces that make up the “Become” trilogy are neither stories about nature nor pictures of it. Rather, as Mr. Adams writes in an essay accompanying the excellent recordings, “this is music that aspires to the condition of place.”

For the European Romantics, nature held the promise of elevating and healing the self. For Mr. Adams the decision “to simply stay put and pay attention to where we are” opens a way to dissolve the distinction between self and surroundings. The invitation to the listener, he writes, is “to enter into the music, to lose yourself, and perhaps to discover oceans, deserts and rivers of your own.”

In their focus on the pure materiality of sound, they share elements with Mr. Adams’s installation-like pieces meant to be performed outdoors. A listener can wander at will through “Inuksuit” (2009), with its archipelago of percussion instruments. “Sila: The Breath of the World,” at its Lincoln Center premiere in 2014, sent singers wading through a reflecting pool, holding megaphones.

These are visual coups, even as they aim to be primarily sonic experiences. In concert, the “Become” works, too, engage the eye with novel arrangements of musicians. Audience members can track musical processes by watching different groups of players grow animated, or inactive. In “Become River,” the ensemble is raked according to range, with the highest-pitched instruments, including the violins, seated on risers far upstage, so that the sound flows downhill to the bass-register instruments closest to the audience.

But listening with eyes closed, in a home that has had to stand in for the world during the pandemic, the music’s momentum unfolds inward. “Become River” grows out of bright filaments of light rendered by violin harmonics. Metallic percussion instruments add tiny impulses that set off a downward flow of strings — in halting smooth waves at first, then gradually with growing insistence and confidence. Wind instruments join in imperceptibly, filling out the texture, and begin to impose their own undulating motion that creates crosscurrents throughout the orchestra. In 15 minutes, the river of sound darkens and broadens. I had the uncanny sense that as it moved forward, the music had pulled me under and back into the recesses of memory.

“Become Ocean” allows itself more time to do even less. The music burgeons and recedes, with different instrumental groups sometimes at odds with each other, sometimes in sync. When the crests align, a giant swell is created that registers somehow as both comforting and vertiginous. When the final notes receded, they left me with a stark craving for more, for a return into the amniotic embrace of sound.

Mr. Adams wrote “Become Desert” in the Sonoran Desert in Mexico and the Atacama Desert in Chile. As in “Become Ocean,” the duration, 40 minutes, is long enough to create an immersive experience gently animated this time by the blooming and subsiding of warm colors. The orchestra is joined by a choir — intoning the word “luz,” Spanish for “light” — that adds more voluptuous hues to the sound palette. Shiny percussion, flutes and high soprano voices evoke a desert heat that begins to shimmer in a state of sustained, quiet elation. The final notes — is that a tiny chime glancing off violin harmonics? — sound like the sun igniting a metallic vein in a rock. Light and matter seem to blend into one.

Light and matter — and time. In their featureless grandeur Mr. Adams’s works create containers for a kind of listening that dissolves expectation and constantly turns attention back to the present moment. In his memoir, he recalls a hike on the Arctic coastal plain, watching his companion ahead of him, feet steadily rising and falling, yet seemingly walking in place. With no landmarks to measure progress against, Mr. Adams observes, “we lose our sense of scale and distance — floating in undifferentiated space, suspended in time.”

With the “Become” trilogy he invites the listener along on the kind of journey that his friend, the Alaskan writer John Haines, imagined in the poem that gave Mr. Adams’s memoir its title:





No.19 article:
He Stopped by Her Table, and Then Into Her Life

Bamba Sama left a lasting impression on Khrehaan Ebah, who was having lunch two years ago at a TGI Fridays, where Mr. Sama was the general manager.

Khrehaan Ebah’s chat with the restaurant manager who asked if she had enjoyed her lunch in March 2018 wasn’t for the benefit of her niece and dining companion, Yaheemah Ebah. But she used it to make a point about the importance of being cordial anyway.

“When we left the restaurant Yaheemah was like, ‘Why were you talking to him?’” Ms. Ebah said. “I told her, ‘You’re 17 and you have a lot of growing up to do. You never know what somebody’s going to bring to the table.’”

She did not add that among the things a stranger might bring to the table is an accent beguiling enough to spark a love affair.

Ms. Ebah, 45, an Army veteran, is a personnel security specialist for the Veteran Benefits Administration. The day she met Bamba Sama, the general manager of a Philadelphia TGI Friday’s, she was visiting her niece from her home in Waldorf, Md. Their lunch was in the interest of mentorship. “She was a senior in high school and I was there to groom her for the college experience,” Ms. Ebah said. “My brother raised her as a single father, so I’m her mother figure.”

When Mr. Sama approached their table to ask if the service and food had been to their liking, Ms. Ebah replied with a curt, “We have no complaints.” But she was curious about the way he spoke, so she asked where he was from, to which he replied, Gambia.

“I told him I had a close friend who was married to a Gambian,” she said. “He was like, ‘Really?’” When she mentioned she was in town from Maryland, he told her he had recently transferred to Philadelphia from a TGI Friday’s in Forestville, Md. She left with his business card. And then, out of the restaurant and back in mentor mode, she chased thoughts of the polite West African from her mind.

Mr. Sama, 50, had done much the same. His priority in executing table visits is professionalism, not personal gain. “I liked talking to her, but I have a lot of passion for what I do, and even when I meet people, I’m loyal to the job,” he said. “I take my commitment seriously.” Proof is in his professional trajectory.

Mr. Sama came to the United States from Gambia in 1991, at age 21, to further his education, though he ended up not going to the college to which he had been accepted.

He took a job as a busboy at a TGI Friday’s in Washington. “I was fortunate for the chance to complete my education, but once I started working, the pay was good and I came across a lot of good people,” he said. He has worked for the chain in various locations, and at no other company, since then, becoming a general manager in the mid-2000s. “To go from cleaning tables to becoming a G.M. has been a blessing.”

He saw his transfer to Philadelphia from Forestville in 2017 as a perfect fit for someone with his religious background. “Philly has a heavy Muslim community,” he said. “There were not that many Muslims in Maryland. I thought, Wow, this is an amazing environment for my religion to get stronger. I told my boss, ‘I want to stay here.’ Then I met Khrehaan, and all that changed.”

Not right away, though. Ms. Ebah was going through a personal transition when she and Mr. Sama had their friendly exchange at the restaurant.

“I was trying to get myself together,” she said. “I wasn’t really grounded at the time.” After a divorce in 2015, she indulged her love of dancing by hanging out in D.C.-area clubs with girlfriends. Then, in 2018, she reconnected to her Islamic faith. “I needed to cleanse myself. I needed to stop doing things I shouldn’t be doing if I wanted to receive a husband.”

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

After six months of cleansing and Quran reading, she hadn’t forgotten Mr. Sama and his accent. Also on her mind was something Rashida Gaye, the friend who had married a man from Gambia, told her. “She was like, ‘Gambians are really good men and really loyal.’ When I said I had met this fellow, Bamba, she was like, ‘Don’t lose him.’”

By the time Ms. Ebah pulled out his business card six months after the restaurant encounter, though, she wasn’t sure he would even remember her. The first two times she called him, in October 2018, she blocked her number out of nervousness and he didn’t pick up. The third time, when she unblocked it, he did. “We have so much in common we haven’t stopped talking since then,” she said.

A first date, at a Starbucks in Philadelphia on Nov. 17, 2018, unearthed a few minor differences. Ms. Ebah is an avid runner — she was in Philadelphia to run the Rothman Institute 8-kilometer race — while Mr. Sama is not a runner. And while he enjoyed a daily Starbucks fix, she avoids coffee and drinks tea. On more important issues, though, they were perfectly aligned.

“I was nervous meeting her, because at my point in age I was only looking to meet someone special,” said Mr. Sama who was divorced in 2010. “When she started talking about her family and showing me pictures, I knew it could be special.”

Ms. Ebah describes her relationship with her mother, Cecelia Anne Gooding, and her sister, Raedad Ebah, and brother, Aelbahrah Ebah, as especially close. “I lost my father when I was 5, so my mother raised us in Philadelphia as a single mother,” she said. “She was very grounded and was all about higher education being the key to success.”

With the help of the G.I. Bill, Ms. Ebah earned a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice in 2015 from the University of Maryland. She has been working for the federal government since 2004.

Mr. Sama is similarly close to his daughters, son and grandchildren. His son, Yusapha Sama, and his namesake grandson, 2-year-old Bamba Sama, live in Beltsville, Md. His daughters, Binta and Fatou Sama, and his 2-year-old grandson, Bamba Ceesay, and 4-year-old granddaughter, Jainaba Ceesay, live in Gambia. He makes a point of seeing them at least once a year. “I miss them all the time,” he said.

After the Starbucks date, Ms. Ebah felt a stirring she hadn’t felt in years. Instead of driving home or to her mother’s house, she went to her friend Jovita Moore to tell her about the man who had charmed her with his values and good manners.

“Khrehaan and I have been friends since we were 12, and when she told me about Bamba, I could see she was happy for the first time in a long time,” Ms. Moore said. “She had been missing something in her life. Right away he gave her this sense of security that allowed her to be happy.”

By Thanksgiving 2018, Ms. Ebah and Mr. Sama were meeting regularly at highway exits between his home in Philadelphia, her home in Waldorf and Virginia Beach, where his son, Yusapha, was then living. It didn’t take long for them to decide they were in love and in a serious relationship.

“We talked about how we had the same objective, how we didn’t want to waste time,” Mr. Sama said. Soon, he was getting up at 4 a.m. to see her on his days off. That December, he became a regular on the Megabus from Philadelphia to Washington, where Ms. Ebah would pick him up in her car for weekend bursts of togetherness. “We would watch movies, cook at home and window shop for hours,” Ms. Ebah said. “We never skipped a week,” Mr. Sama said.

For Ms. Ebah, his consistency was a badge of love. “He said, ‘Khrehaan, I will see you every week,’” she said. “And he was disciplined about it. To this day I tell people, ‘When Bamba says he’s going to do something, he’s serious.’ I love that about him.”

On Aug. 2, 2019, Mr. Sama carried a diamond ring (he had secretly bought at Zales) and boarded the Megabus. He had taken the day off to see live music at Yards Park, an outdoor space in Washington. “I would go there every Friday to hear anything from jazz to soft rock to reggae, and then I would tell him about it,” she said. “I’d say, ‘Bamba, you need to get off work one of these weeks so you can come with me. It’s beautiful.’”

As a setting for his proposal, it did not disappoint. “There was a waterfall behind us, so it looked like it was raining,” he said. “We sat down and were having a moment. Then I got down on one knee and said, ‘Will you marry me?’ It was a good feeling.”

For Ms. Ebah, too. “I had no idea he was going to do it, and I was just in awe,” she said. “I couldn’t even cry. I was just, like, ‘Yes.’ I was floating.”

A week later, they took a first trip to Africa together. Ms. Ebah, enchanted by Gambia’s culture and Mr. Sama’s daughters and grandchildren, left looking forward to a reunion in the United States the following fall at the wedding for 110 they planned in Maryland.

When the world was hit with a pandemic this spring and the Gambian Embassy closed, complicating travel to the United States, that reunion was put on hold. Mr. Sama had moved in with her in Accokeek, Md., after transferring back to the TGI Friday’s in Forestville and proceeding with the wedding felt important.

“We wanted to do it around the anniversary of our first date,” Ms. Ebah said. “We both love everything about that time of year.”

They were married Nov. 8 on an outdoor patio before a masked and pared-down assemblage of 56 guests at the Historic Oakland, a wedding venue in Columbia, Md. As Covid-19 precautions, temperatures were checked by a venue employee and masks were handed out to guests before the ceremony.

Ms. Ebah, in a modest dress of pink silk and a flowing head scarf, walked unescorted down an aisle to Mr. Sama, in a light gray suit, and Mohamed Abdullahi, an imam at the Muslim Community Center in Silver Spring, Md.

“Allah says in the Quran that he puts love and mercy between you,” the imam said in a short ceremony, conducted in Arabic and English. “Love comes first, but you must be merciful.”

He pronounced them married after Aelbahrah Ebah, Ms. Ebah’s brother who was acting as her guardian for the ceremony, gave consent.

“Take care of my brother,” the imam said to Ms. Ebah. “And take care of my sister,” he said to Mr. Sama, before they kissed to make it official.

When Nov. 8, 2020

Where Historic Oakland, Columbia, Md.

Skip the Space Heaters An outdoor cocktail reception was held just after the ceremony on what turned out to be a balmy November day. Ms. Ebah and Mr. Sama danced to “their” song, Anthony Hamilton’s “Cool,” cued up by a D.J.

Brotherly Love During a handful of speeches, the groom’s brother, Alhagie Sama, reinforced what most already knew about his older brother’s character. “Give him your heart, and he will give you his whole heart back,” he said. “Close your eyes and he will walk you through the darkest forest of this life.”

Boss’s Blessings Among the guests was John Faison, a director of operations at TGI Friday’s and Mr. Sama’s boss. “Bamba has a beautiful spirit,” he said. “Everywhere he goes, everybody falls in love with him. We’re so happy for him.”

Keeping Track A few days after the wedding, the newlyweds sent an email to guests. “We ask that you all monitor your health and ensure you take proper precautions with your everyday lives. There were lots who didn’t wear masks or social distance throughout the affair,” they wrote, though no one has since reported contracting the virus.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.20 article:
Wildfire Smoke Is Poisoning California’s Kids. Some Pay a Higher Price.





No.21 article:
Want to Inherit the G.O.P.? Be Prepared to Dance Around the Truth

In February of last year, while interviewing Secretary of State Mike Pompeo for this magazine, I asked him about what happened the previous summer during the NATO summit in Brussels. It was widely reported that President Trump threw a fit at the July 12 session, berating German chancellor Angela Merkel about the United States paying more than its fair share. Two sources told me that senior members of the delegation, Pompeo included, feared Trump might pull America out of the alliance entirely. But when I asked Pompeo about the incident, citing the July 12 date in particular, he gave me absolutely nothing. It wasn’t that he demurred, or tried to spin the events of that day. Instead, he made a show of rejecting the question’s premise.

“If I’m remembering the meeting correctly,” he said, “what happened was no different than what happened on July 9, 10, 11, 13 or 14.” As he ticked off each date in a steady, even tone, the message seemed clear: He didn’t just want to be nonresponsive; he wanted me to see just how willful his nonresponse would be.

I thought about that interview again this month, after Pompeo held an instantly infamous news conference. It had been three days since The Associated Press announced that Joe Biden had won the election. Pompeo should have expected that he would get asked about the standoff then roiling the nation: The president was refusing to concede the race and spinning out baseless conspiracy theories about the result. But when the issue was raised by the first reporter to be called on, Rich Edson of Fox News, Pompeo seemed annoyed. Edson asked whether the State Department was “currently preparing to engage with the Biden transition team.” If not, he continued, could that “pose a risk to national security?”

With a frown and a shake of his head, Pompeo brushed aside the question of cooperating with Joe Biden. Instead, he made a declaration: “There will be a smooth transition to a second Trump administration.”

When the sentence was done, he nodded, flashed a quick smile and audibly exhaled through his nose. This gesture was recounted by many as a “chuckle,” but it didn’t quite sound like one; it was more like an amiable snort, which he used as his own transition to some less inflammatory rhetoric: The votes would all be counted. The Constitution would be obeyed. The State Department would do everything possible to assure the success of whoever has been sworn into the office “on Jan. 20, a minute after noon.” He spoke as though he hadn’t just made a flat pronouncement about who that person would be — the person whose chances were shrinking by the hour from slim to none, and who also happened to be his boss.

Almost immediately, the internet erupted with debate over whether Pompeo had been serious. Secretaries of state frequently issue statements to encourage fair and peaceful elections in other countries; Pompeo now seemed to be undermining the legitimacy of America’s own election from the department’s lectern. His echo of Trump’s denialism prompted further speculation about whether the administration’s actions could amount to a “coup.” Some political journalists tried to tone the moment down, claiming that the “chuckle” carried with it some degree of self-awareness, and that Pompeo had been kidding. On the other side were partisans on both wings, as well as foreign news services, who were inclined to take the American secretary of state seriously.

Trump’s win in 2016 adrenalized the career of Pompeo, who was plucked from his Kansas congressional seat to lead the C.I.A. Elected in 2010 with the G.O.P.’s Tea Party class, Pompeo was best known for his aggressive questioning of Hillary Clinton during the Benghazi hearings. Now 56, he is seen as a viable presidential contender, one of a small group of Republicans who could excite the Trumpist base without alienating the traditional G.O.P. establishment. Along with Pompeo, this group includes Tom Cotton, Nikki Haley, Ted Cruz and Mike Pence. The problem for this group is that Trump could himself run for a second term in 2024. As long as he remains in the picture, as a candidate or a self-styled shadow president, those who would claim to be Trump’s heirs will have to reside, at least in part, within the realm of his delusions. It is a place where there is no such thing as defeat, only broken scoreboards.

Rather than coming to terms with Trump’s loss, then, the whole party may, like Pompeo at that lectern, be forced to spend the next four years stuck in the denial phase. No ambitious conservative can afford to oppose Trump’s positions, even when they tip over into magical thinking. Most have avoided recognizing Biden as the president-elect, an omission that would have been unthinkable under previous Republican presidents.

In such a climate, attempting to unify the party, let alone the country, will be a heavy lift. The most a conventional politician can hope to do is communicate multiple messages, in a half-chuckled way that allows disparate constituencies to hear whatever they want to. In an interview on Fox, hours after the news conference, Pompeo repeated his points about vote-counting and the Constitution. When the host asked if he was serious about his transition remark, he avoided answering. Trump himself took notice of Pompeo’s stubborn commitment to living within the ever-changing borders of his boss’s fantasies, retweeting the “second Trump administration” clip with approval that night. The following week, Trump invited Michigan lawmakers to the White House in the clear hope of finding a way to deprive Biden, who won the state, of its 16 electoral votes. Trump was obviously not kidding about overturning the election result. Why should we think Pompeo was?

Given his assurance about a second term, it might seem reasonable for American allies to wonder if Pompeo was representing the whole of the U.S. government or an embittered, departing faction. For the next few weeks, at least, he could still get in the room with heads of state, and he soon departed on a trip to France, Turkey, Georgia, Israel, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Each of the countries he planned to visit had offered its official congratulations to President-elect Biden. Did Pompeo take issue with his counterparts engaging with Biden? “The business of State continues,” replied a senior Department official when asked in a briefing. “We have continuity of government.”

There was no mention of a Biden administration — or another term for Trump. It appeared that Pompeo was willing to meet reality halfway, even if his words had suggested otherwise.





No.22 article:
Learn a New Cookie Recipe or Make Invisible Ink

This week, listen to the music of Billie Holiday, attend a fashion workshop or get your tarot cards read.

Here is a sampling of the week’s events and how to tune in (all times are Eastern). Note that events are subject to change after publication.

On the eve of World AIDS Day, join a free virtual screening of the short-film series “Transmissions,” followed by a panel discussion with the artists, produced by the nonprofit Visual AIDS and co-hosted by the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Studio Museum in Harlem and the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. The six films in the program, which will be available on the Visual AIDS site beginning Tuesday, examine the impact of the epidemic outside the United States, in countries including India and Uganda.

When 6 p.m.

Where visualaids.org/transmissions

Help the young aspiring spies in your family crack secret codes and encode their own secret messages using eight different formulas for invisible ink thanks to the free activities provided by the Spy Museum in Washington. Just be prepared: Top-secret missives may start appearing throughout your home.

When Anytime

Where spymuseum.org

Pop in for the 31st installment of “Sonic Gatherings,” a weekly performance of new and improvised material from the dancer Brandon Collwes and the composer John King, as well as a rotating cast of collaborators. The pair, both previously affiliated with the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, were inspired in part by Mr. Cunningham’s site-specific “Events” — only this time, the “site” is Zoom; dancers frequently broadcast live from their homes. As a result, you’ll feel like you’re in on a joyous and intimate secret gathering.

When 6 p.m.

Where tiny.cc/SonicGathering

Join the comedian Wyatt Cenac for a lively evening of short readings that celebrate New York City: “Selected Shorts: New York Stories With Wyatt Cenac,” hosted by Symphony Space. Actors such as Matthew Broderick and Karen Pittman will read a selection of short stories, essays and poems by writers including Victor LaValle, Vinson Cunningham and Colum McCann. Tickets cost $15.

When 7:30 p.m.

Where symphonyspace.org/events

Listen to Paul Giamatti read Herman Melville’s “Bartleby, the Scrivener,” which Mr. Giamatti recorded while sheltering in place over the summer. Then tune in to a live conversation between Mr. Giamatti and the Melville biographer Andrew Delbanco, hosted by 92Y. Tickets cost $15.

When 7 p.m.

Where 92y.org/event/bartleby-the-scrivener

Take in a free streamed performance of Georges Bizet’s “Carmen”  by the Metropolitan Opera. Elina Garanca leads the cast as Carmen in this recording of a 2010 performance, alongside Roberto Alagna as Don José and Teddy Tahu Rhodes as Escamillo. This performance of the classic opera, choreographed by Christopher Wheeldon and conducted by Yannick Nézet-Séguin, is available to stream for free until 6:30 p.m. on Saturday.

When 7:30 p.m.

Where metopera.org

Let your middle-schoolers embrace their inner Christian Dior or Rei Kawakubo through a virtual fashion workshop, “Fashion of the Future,” hosted by the Metropolitan Museum of Art. During the three-hour course, which ties into the Costume Institute’s new exhibit, “About Time: Fashion and Duration,” kids will learn to design garments for paper dolls through collage and drawing. A separate workshop for high schoolers begins at 2 p.m.

When 10 a.m.

Where metmuseum.org/events/whats-on

Spread some joy this year with The New York Times Cookie Swap. Melissa Clark, a Times Food columnist, will demonstrate one of her delicious cookie recipes, as well as teach viewers the best way to pack cookies to ship out to friends and family. Ms. Clark, along with the cooking experts Dorie Greenspan, Sohla El-Waylly and Samantha Seneviratne, will answer baking questions submitted by viewers. R.S.V.P. to receive a link for the event.

When 11 a.m.

Where nytimes.com/interactive/2020/admin/live-events.html

Find some clarity (and hilarity) with improvised tarot readings hosted by the Tiny Cupboard performance venue and led by the comedian Brittany Brave. A panel of comedians and the psychic and astrologer Clarisse Monahan will read viewers’ tarot cards, to varying degrees of seriousness. Tickets are pay-what-you-can, with a minimum of $1; ticket-holders can pre-submit questions for a tarot reading by emailing improvisedtarot@gmail.com.

When 8 p.m.

Where eventbrite.com

Celebrate the genius of Billie Holiday with a tribute concert hosted by 92Y, featuring Veronica Swift, the Emmet Cohen Trio and the Grammy Award winners Catherine Russell and Tivon Pennicott. Tickets cost $15, and buyers will receive a link to a prerecorded performance at 3 p.m., which will be available to view until Dec. 9.

When 3 p.m.

Where 92y.org/event/billie-holiday-concert-celebration





No.23 article:
Watching What We Flush Could Help Keep a Pandemic Under Control

The failure to control the coronavirus pandemic has in many ways been a failure of real-time health data. Worldwide, clinical testing has not identified enough cases, or returned results fast enough, to enable either individuals or health officials to slow the surges without lockdowns. In private, however, nearly everyone does produce a biological sample every day that is then voluntarily sent to a central location to be processed — when they flush the toilet. And fecal waste carries with it a great deal of information about the people who generated it. “If you want to really understand what’s going on in a city on a basic chemical, biological level, you should be looking at the wastewater,” says Eric Alm, a co-director of the Center for Microbiome Informatics and Therapeutics at M.I.T. and the scientific director of Biobot Analytics, a company that collects health data from sewage.

As early as March, evidence began to emerge that the coronavirus is shed in stool and can be detected in sewage. Beginning on March 18, Alm and his colleagues compared a week’s worth of coronavirus concentrations in sewage from an urban treatment facility in Massachusetts with clinical diagnoses in the same area. The wastewater concentrations seemed startlingly high when set beside the number of cases, they reported in the July/August issue of mSystems, a journal from the American Society for Microbiology; to study why, the researchers waited several months and looked at waste samples taken from January to May. The virus first appeared in the sewage on March 3, increased significantly between mid-March and mid-April and then declined.

These changes preceded rises and falls in the number of positive tests by four to 10 days. According to another study by Alm and colleagues (which is a preprint, yet to be peer-reviewed), they have inferred that infected people may shed extremely high amounts of virus in their stool before they show symptoms — if they have them at all — and lower amounts later on. Similar results were reported in a paper published in the October issue of Nature Biotechnology. Jordan Peccia, a professor of environmental engineering at Yale University and his colleagues found that in New Haven an increase in the concentration of virus in sewage preceded by six to eight days an increase in the number of positive test results.

The findings in these papers suggest that sewage surveillance could warn public health officials of an uptick in cases about a week before clinical-testing data alone could, enabling them to issue advisories or implement closures sooner. This would give those measures a better chance of working. Had such monitoring been available early in the pandemic, we might have realized that the virus was spreading within communities on both coasts sooner and been better able to forecast where emergency medical workers and scarce supplies like personal protective gear and ventilators would be needed. “You would want any additional information you could get about the severity and location of the virus,” says Ted Smith, an associate professor of medicine and director of the Center for Healthy Air, Water and Soil at the University of Louisville Christina Lee Brown Envirome Institute. Early diagnostic testing was so limited, Smith says, that “our ability to see the prevalence of the virus was really compromised.”

Though uncommon, monitoring sewage for other infectious diseases has proved useful elsewhere. In 2013-14, Israel experienced a poliovirus outbreak. At first, no one noticed; the country believed it had eradicated the pathogen through vaccination. Polio can cause paralysis, but a vast majority of those who get it, typically through exposure to fecal matter from infected people, experience no symptoms. That means poliovirus, like the coronavirus, can circulate widely before being identified. Israel, however, was monitoring its wastewater for poliovirus. Once alerted, health officials quickly immunized a million children, halting the outbreak before any cases of paralysis were reported.

On a small scale, effluent from individual buildings — college dorms, prisons, nursing homes and homeless shelters — is increasingly being surveilled for coronavirus. “When you have congregate living, there’s no question about its utility,” Smith says. Indeed, more than 140 universities around the world have begun monitoring wastewater, according to a dashboard maintained by the Covid-19 Wastewater-​Based Epidemiology Collaborative. In those settings, where the transmission risks are high, it’s crucial to quickly identify and isolate positive cases. Testing a daily sewage sample from a building, Smith adds, is a “completely passive and much more cost-effective” way to make sure the inhabitants are virus-free than giving them diagnostic tests every few days. If the virus is detected in sewage, then follow-up diagnostic tests can be administered. In August, the University of Arizona made news when, using this process, it identified and successfully quarantined two asymptomatic students during the first week of classes.

On a larger scale, tracking sewage can serve as a check on whether testing regimens are correctly capturing the spread of the virus in given locations. “Many people will say, ‘There’s not an outbreak, we’ve just increased testing,’” Peccia says. “The wastewater doesn’t know where testing has increased.” In other words, sewage findings that mirror patterns seen in clinical-test reports reinforce their accuracy. Furthermore, while testing sites are often centralized, drawing users from a wide geographic area, sewage can be traced to specific neighborhoods, potentially providing more detailed information about the distribution of the virus. In their preprint, Alm and colleagues noted that in ZIP codes around Boston, the amount of virus present in sewage was not correlated with the number of people who lived there, as they had expected. Rather, the wealthier a neighborhood, the less virus in its effluent. That kind of information could allow local officials to more efficiently direct limited resources to disproportionately affected areas, whose residents may also have less access to Covid testing.

Surveillance could also “exacerbate and compound existing social inequalities,” Alm and co-authors note in a separate July paper in Water Research. Residents from heavily impacted regions could conceivably face harsher restrictions and penalties than, or discrimination from, those who have less exposure to the virus.

The larger the watershed being sampled, the more “anonymous” each fecal contribution becomes. That can alleviate privacy concerns but also make it harder to interpret and act on the results. In the case of coronavirus, for example, it’s still unclear how to estimate the number of individual infections that contribute to a given viral concentration in sewage. For starters, the amount of virus an infected person sheds in stool “can vary by six orders of magnitude,” says Kyle Bibby, an associate professor of civil and environmental engineering and earth sciences at the University of Notre Dame. “If my partner and I are sick, I might be extruding a million more times the virus than they do.”

It is also unknown how comparable sewage data from different regions are. Flow rate, collection methods and other variables can influence results. (The tests detect viral RNA, not an intact germ. “It’s really important people understand,” Bibby says, that it “doesn’t mean the water is infectious.”) In August, the C.D.C. announced the creation of a National Wastewater Surveillance System (N.W.S.S.) to collate local findings. “This is the first time that there has been a large coordinated use of wastewater surveillance in the United States,” says Amy Kirby, the head of the unit.

This sort of system could be valuable in ways that go far beyond catching outbreaks of infectious disease. Sewage monitoring could look for signs of antibiotic resistance, diabetes prevalence and other conditions that are hard to capture outside a hospital setting. Before the pandemic, Smith was checking sewage for signs of air pollution that can be found in urine, and Alm was detecting opioid use. The N.W.S.S. lead scientist, Mia Mattioli, says, “We really envision this being a long-term data-surveillance source” that will outlast the current pandemic.





No.24 article:
Sarah Fuller, With a Kickoff, Is the First Woman to Play Football in a Power 5 Game

Fuller, a goalkeeper for Vanderbilt’s women’s soccer team, was asked to play because the football team’s kicking unit could not practice because of the coronavirus.

Sarah Fuller became the first woman to play during a regular-season game in one of college football’s Power 5 conferences by booting a kickoff on Saturday for Vanderbilt to start the second half against Missouri.

Fuller, a senior and the starting goalkeeper for Vanderbilt’s women’s soccer team, was tapped to play football this week after every member of the Commodores’ kicking squad was forced to stop practicing when at least one of them came into contact with someone who tested positive for the coronavirus.

Fuller wore the No. 32 — the same number she wears on her soccer jersey — and a helmet with the phrase “Play Like a Girl.”

“It’s just so exciting that I can represent the little girls out there who wanted to do this or thought about playing football or any sport, really,” she said after the game.

Fuller helped Vanderbilt clinch its first Southeastern Conference women’s soccer title since 1994 with a 3-1 victory over Arkansas last Sunday. She was planning to head home to Wylie, Texas, for the Thanksgiving holiday when her soccer coach called her with the opportunity to kick this weekend, she told reporters after the game. “I’ll be there within the hour,” she recalled saying to Ken Masuhr, the team’s associate head coach.

Fuller gave the team a pep talk during halftime, when Missouri led 21-0, and said she wanted to see more energy on the sidelines. But she added that she had to keep herself calm to avoid getting too pumped up.

“Football is a lot slower, there’s a lot of lull time,” she said of the difference between the two sports. “In soccer, it’s just one after the other, you’re constantly engaged.”

“I was just really calm,” she added about making the kick. “The SEC championship was more stressful.”

With her parents watching from the stands while wearing handmade “Play Like a Girl” masks provided by one of Fuller’s friends, Fuller opened the second half with a low kick that bounced to the 35, where Missouri pounced on it for no return. The play was by design, Vanderbilt football Coach Derek Mason said.

Mason said he was impressed with Fuller’s willingness to try something new, especially when so many of the team’s players had either gone home for the holidays or been forced to quarantine. “She could have easily said no, but instead she prepared all week and did what she was supposed to do,” he said. “She was as prepared as anyone for this game.”

Fuller is not the first woman to play college football in the top tier of Division I, the Football Bowl Subdivision: Katie Hnida was the first woman to score in an F.B.S. game as a place-kicker for New Mexico in August 2003, and April Goss scored while playing for Kent State in 2015. Ashley Martin is credited as the first woman to score in any N.C.A.A. Division I football game for Jacksonville State University, which is in the Football Championship Subdivision. And Becca Longo became the first woman to receive an N.C.A.A. football scholarship to a Division II school when she signed to Adams State as a kicker in 2017 (she never kicked for the school because of injury, transferring to the Gila River Hawks of the Hohokam Junior College Athletic Conference in 2019).

Vanderbilt was blown out by Missouri, 41-0, and Fuller did not have an opportunity to attempt a field goal. Vanderbilt is 0-8 this season.

Fuller’s hasty addition to the team was one example of many of the virus’s impact on college football this season. The Commodores were originally supposed to play the University of Tennessee, but that game was postponed to accommodate for several postponements elsewhere in the SEC as teams struggle to contain the virus. Other conferences, like the Big Ten and Mountain West, have simply canceled games amid outbreaks, while the Ivy League halted fall and winter sports this year altogether.

“Contact tracing continues to be the biggest contributing factor to game interruptions,” SEC Commissioner Greg Sankey said in a news release about the schedule on Monday. “We will continue to manage the remaining weeks of the football schedule to allow for as many games to be played as possible.”

The virus has surged across the country in the past few weeks. In Tennessee, where Vanderbilt is located, hospital leaders published an open letter to residents on Wednesday urging them to limit gatherings and wear masks. The letter, signed by Dr. Wright Pinson, the chief health system officer at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, said that over the past month, hospitals in Middle Tennessee have had a 72 percent increase in Covid-19 patients and that they expected only more increases in weeks to come.

“If this trend continues, our hospital systems could soon be overwhelmed, and that would compromise the ability to serve all patients, not just those with Covid-19,” the doctors said in the letter.

Football players and female athletes alike offered Fuller words of encouragement posted to social media, among them Billie Jean King, Dak Prescott and Nick Folk, a New England Patriots kicker.

“Be as confident as you can, don’t worry about anything,” Folk said in a video posted to Twitter by the Patriots.

When asked after the game if the team would have Fuller kick against Georgia next week, Mason said: “If she wants to kick and she’s available, we’d love to have her.”

Fuller seemed up to the challenge.

“I would love to get out there and score a field goal,” she said.





No.25 article:
Welcome to Homeownership

New Yorkers who left the city and bought country homes during the pandemic are discovering there’s a lot to learn (and spend) while taking care of a house.

Joe DeVito, like many other New Yorkers who wanted more space to weather the pandemic, headed north and bought a two-bedroom house in the Catskills in late July. 

He learned almost immediately that there’s no such thing as turnkey when it comes to owning property. First, the outdoor wood-burning furnace didn’t provide enough heat for the 1,700-square-foot house, then the dishwasher needed replacing, then diseased trees needed to be cut down, the land needed leveling and he had to build a proper driveway. 

It was a crash course in homeownership for Mr. DeVito, 46, a content and marketing executive for the New York Mets who still rents an apartment in Astoria but now spends most of his time in the Delaware County house he bought for $230,000. And now as the region settles into cooler weather, he and other recent first-time home buyers like him will have to learn how to grapple with unanticipated but seasonal home maintenance issues and costs.

Does the house have or need storm windows? How much firewood will we need for the season? When and how do we clean the gutters? Should we have known that the boiler was on its last legs? How do you stop a house from being drafty?

The lesson that every appliance and fixture has a limited shelf life and that maintenance costs add up quickly has already sunk in for Mr. DeVito, particularly because it seems the home’s previous owners relied on D.I.Y. fixes around the house.

He has also realized some stark differences between city and country life. “We are spoiled by a lot of the ‘amenities’ that the city and our buildings provide,” like sanitation and snow removal, he said. And country living, he has discovered, is an exercise in patience. “It takes weeks to get someone to do appliance repair. Even Amazon packages take 10 days, not two days.”

He suspects this might be why previous owners frequently took repairs into their own hands. “If you hire someone for every little need, you’ll go broke while waiting way too long for anything to get done,” he said.

“First-year costs can be very high,” explained Sarah Gerecke, a former deputy assistant secretary for the Office of Housing Counseling at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and now the principal at SSG Community Solutions, a housing and community development consultancy based in New York City.

Ms. Gerecke warns buyers to apply caution as they rush to secure new homes, and to seriously reconsider any urge to skip home inspections or boost their offer without fully comprehending the significant costs of maintenance and upkeep.

One option: HUD-certified housing counselors, who are specially trained to help consumers — especially low- and moderate-income families — grapple with the inevitable vicissitudes of homeownership. They assist homeowners in establishing feasible home budgets and plans for unexpected disasters, and by providing tutorials for simple home maintenance tasks. Pre-purchase counseling and education is more widely available, says Ms. Gerecke, who explained that most HUD counseling is available to anyone at no cost, though some education programs have a nominal fee. 

For recent transplants interested in fostering a connection with their new community, an app like Nextdoor is one way to link up with locals to exchange information, goods and services. Stefany Elliott, a public relations professional, found the app invaluable for “getting to know our neighbors and the neighborhood in a pandemic.”

Ms. Elliott, 36, and her husband, Spencer Elliott, recently moved from a rental apartment in a doorman building in Manhattan’s Gramercy Park to a three-bedroom house they bought for $465,000 in New Jersey’s Lake Hopatcong community. The couple spent a few thousand dollars replacing a broken refrigerator and furnace oil pump, and updating their fireplace and chimney for the season. A smart video doorbell, which cost $300, was also purchased, to help them adjust to no longer having a doorman to greet visitors or accept packages.

The app was most helpful for solving more day-to-day queries. Within weeks of moving in, the couple successfully crowdsourced questions about local events, veterinarians, solar panels, and where to get fresh cut flowers.

Substantial traffic on similar apps like Sweeten, Thumbtack and HomeAdvisor (a brand affiliated with Angie’s List), which connect home service professionals with homeowners and their projects, underscores the degree of competition for contractors and handymen nationwide.

Customer demand for vetted contractors on Sweeten grew by 104 percent in the third quarter of 2020, compared to the same time last year. Thumbtack reported a jump of 138 percent year-over-year for appliance installation in the New York tristate area.

“Our professionals are busier now than ever before,” said Mallory Micetich, a communications representative for HomeAdvisor, who says the industry is currently experiencing a labor shortage of available service professionals across all skill sets.

Online, brands like Family Handyman and Better Homes &amp; Gardens offer seasonal maintenance checklists with helpful prompts for gutter cleaning, servicing the furnace and sealing drafty windows. “First-time home buyers don’t think about or plan for important home emergencies,” said Ms. Micetich, who revealed that the average cost of serious plumbing or weather-related emergencies is often around $1,200.

This was a lesson that Daniel Glass, a lawyer, learned the hard way.

In mid-July, Mr. Glass, along with his fiancé, Jordan Brodsky, left where they were temporarily staying on Long Island and closed on a two-bedroom house in Falls Village, Conn., in the town of Canaan in Litchfield County. They paid $550,000 for the property, which is on the Housatonic River. Shortly after they moved in, the air-conditioning stopped working.

“After being in apartments — and having a super to call for things — we were at a loss on how to find someone to investigate and make repairs as necessary,” said Mr. Glass, 35. A technician discovered that a mouse had chewed through wires, which caused a coolant leak. After a week and $1,000 out of pocket, they had functioning air-conditioning again.

Then, at the beginning of August, a brief but destructive tornado and hailstorm caused extensive damage to trees on their property and to part of their home. Power was out for two weeks, and damage from the storm cost several thousand dollars. While the house has a built-in propane-powered generator to run all electrical systems, it had to be switched off while workers were repairing the lines. “It proved useless for this situation,” Mr. Glass said.

He warns anyone transitioning from an apartment to a house to budget more and plan for the worst.

“Living in a rural area became amplified — it was difficult finding certain services, like a roofer or contractor, especially without electricity or internet,” Mr. Glass said, adding that the remote location meant fewer available options, and being new meant no support network they could yet rely on.

Experts suggest being proactive in building a go-to list of home professionals like an electrician, landscaper and plumber.

To help new arrivals acclimate to their surroundings, Megan Jo Collum, an agent with Country House Realty in the Catskills and Hudson Valley, makes a habit of asking sellers for a list of approved service professionals at closing. “That way the buyers get a little local services ‘Rolodex’ of people who have some recent history with the house, so the buyers aren’t starting from scratch,” she said.

Buyers who are clients of Amy Rosen, an agent with Ruth Gale Realty in Phoenicia, N.Y., likewise have asked for information on how to gird a home for changing seasons and against determined wildlife. “I am always asked for advice on trash management, a hot topic around here. Bears get into it all easily if you don’t know the tricks!” she said.

Ms. Rosen recommends putting trash out at the very last minute on the morning of pick-up day, or taking it directly to the dump, which often requires a small fee per bag and means more time in the car, another aspect of rural living. 

There are also services, like Home Sweet Hudson, a rental management company in Rosendale, N.Y., operated by Vanessa and Ray Vargas, that can help local and remote property owners looking to outsource tasks like home maintenance checks and repairs, snow plowing, and pest management. Rates start at $50 per hour.

The falling leaves and incoming chill of winter have others realizing they may be a little late in prepping for seasonal shifts.

In July, Katie King, 41, left a rental apartment in Brooklyn’s Prospect Lefferts Gardens with her husband and two sons, ages 6 and 4, and moved to a four-bedroom cabin in New Jersey with a wood-burning fireplace and views of Lake Shawnee, for which they paid $300,000.

“It’s colder here, that is surprising, and prepping for seasons has been different already,” said Ms. King of the property, which is 40 minutes west of Manhattan. Though they were recently able to get a cord of firewood for the short term, $275 for a supply lasting a month or two, they’re already strategizing for the future. “We now know that next year we’ll have to order months in advance before the cold season hits.” 

This is a sentiment echoed by Igor Tumasov, 30, a sales leader for IBM Watson, and his fiancée, Ally Tam, 29, who works in venture capital. In April, the couple closed on a two-bedroom home in a remote section of Mount Tremper, N.Y., near Woodstock, which was built in 1973. The soonest they can get their boiler serviced is January 2021, a scheduling setback that was unexpected. “Now I know for next year,” Mr. Tumasov said.

Turning to neighbors was an analgesic for adapting to full-time country living for Katie Deedy, founder of Grow House Grow, a bespoke wallpaper and tile company.

Though Ms. Deedy, 39, and her husband, William Robison, have owned their cottage in Stockport, N.Y., in Columbia County, since February 2019, a foreclosed property they bought for $75,000, the pandemic put an immediate halt to a series of vital home repairs that had been in motion.

In late March, the contractor they had been using suddenly disappeared. “Two weeks after we gutted the kitchen in March, we suddenly found ourselves quarantining and living there full-time. No sink, no stove, it was nuts,” she said.

Running her business full time, sans Wi-Fi, and settling their 10-year-old daughter, Ruby, into a remote learning routine only added to the pressure to bring functionality to the circa 1890 home. A $100 plastic utility sink provided a temporary fix.

A few weeks later, their water heater blew and they needed a new washer and dryer as well. It is an all-new and pricey reality for the longtime Brooklyn renters, who had been attending to piecemeal cottage repairs on weekends. The home now also needs gutters, updated windows and a new roof.

Since their daughter’s school went remote full time, the family spends about five days a week upstate. With a shortage of available contractors and the imminent winter weather, Ms. Deedy and her husband have bartered with neighbors. In return for assistance installing a wood stove, they will help one neighbor affix new siding to their house.

“Because of Covid, we’ve been able to make really special relationships with some of our neighbors,” she said. “We help each other, and it’s allowed us to get some work done we couldn’t have due to the contractor scarcity. They’re amazing. It really is the silver lining.”





No.26 article:
Arizona Settles In to Life as a ‘Magenta’ State

Democrats made historic inroads. But it’s a deeply divided place, and some say a “blood bath” is on the horizon in 2022.

PHOENIX — In the moonlight, dozens of people hollered and embraced, dropping the rules of social distancing as they celebrated a win after a long year: hundreds of thousands of Latino voters registered, calls made and doors knocked amid a pandemic that had devastated their communities. Though it would be days before the final result in Arizona was clear, the people working to shore up Latino support for Democrats in the state were already convinced that they helped shape history. They had come through the crucible of a pervasive anti-immigrant sentiment and a decade later, flipped the state and delivered wins.

“Tonight we claim victory because we showed up,” said Stephanie Maldonado, the political director for Lucha, a civil rights group that helped coordinate efforts for Democrats. 

Four days later, when the state was still uncalled but Joseph R. Biden Jr. had been declared the winner nationally, protesters who supported the president showed up at the state capitol. They waved Trump flags, some depicting the president as a Rambo-like figure, and many carried rifles and military-style guns of their own. The several hundred people gathered in the blazing sun were convinced, without evidence, that the election had been stolen from President Trump, and they were there to express their distrust — in the news media, in the electoral process, in almost any political figure other than Mr. Trump.

The two scenes — young Latinos celebrating victory, angry protesters refusing to concede defeat — are emblematic of the deep divide in Arizona. Though Mr. Biden won the state, making him only the second Democrat presidential candidate to do so since 1948, he did so with the thinnest of margins, receiving roughly 11,000 votes or 0.3 percentage points more than Mr. Trump.

And while there are examples of significant change, with the state sending two Democrats to the Senate for the first time in decades, it is far too early to declare the state blue. Instead, officials from both parties agree, the election was clearly a referendum on Mr. Trump, the most divisive president in recent history.

“It’s certainly not blue, and I’m not even sure it’s purple, it’s magenta, or the lightest shade of red,” said Mike Noble, the chief pollster at OH Predictive Insights, a nonpartisan research group based in Phoenix. “If there was such a Democratic surge, we would have seen in down ballot, but you didn’t see that impact.”

Instead, Democrats fell short of their goal of flipping several seats in the state legislature, which could have given them control of either chamber. And much like Kyrsten Sinema did in 2018, Mark Kelly won his Senate race by portraying himself as a centrist and holding up John McCain as an exemplary leader.

But Democrats and progressives in the state say they still see the election as a vindication of the decades-long effort to push Arizona to the left. They won several labor-backed ballot measures, including one that raised taxes to send more money to public schools. Both Mr. Biden and Mr. Kelly won with a coalition of white women, young and new Latino voters, as well as suburban moderates who have been repelled by the president’s actions.

“Arizona from a policy perspective is going to be really complicated, but I don’t think the public is going to fall in line with the current Republican leadership,” said Ian Danley, a longtime liberal organizer and executive director of Arizona Wins, which coordinated the work of more than two dozen organizations involved in voter outreach. Like other activists in the state, Mr. Danley credits local groups more than the state or national Democratic Party. “Here we offer a kind of model, but we’re not Democrats, we don’t walk around with a Democratic flag or even a candidate. Ultimately, voters don’t always connect the issues with the party, that’s a disconnection that has to be fixed.”

Niles Harris, a Democratic consultant in Arizona, said that Republicans have the potential to sweep state offices and the Senate seat Democrats won in this year’s special election. The last two elections show that path to victory for Democrats in the state includes avoiding issues such as taxes and border security, maintaining a financial advantage and offering a tailored message to Latinos that goes beyond immigration and the border, Mr. Harris said.

“If anyone thinks that 2022 isn’t potentially a blood bath, they’re out of their minds,” he added. (Because Mr. Kelly won in a special election, he is already up for re-election in two years.)

Mr. Biden’s win in Arizona was partly a testament to his strength as a moderate Democrat and partly a testament to the president’s weakness, but Glenn Hamer, president and chief executive of the Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry, doesn’t see Arizona’s purple status as a one-off episode for a unique election. Instead, he expects Arizona to become highly competitive for both parties and a top destination for any future presidential candidate.

“We are ground zero for being a true swing state at this point,” he said. “Maybe there’s a little Republican tilt, like you start a race a yard ahead of your opponent if you’re a Republican, or maybe a few more, like the five-yard line, but it’s pretty modest at this point.”

Still, Mr. Hamer noted that despite Mr. Trump and Martha McSally’s losses, Republicans won most state offices up for grabs, almost every available office in its most populous county, and held their majorities in the state legislature. In fact, despite losing one seat in the State Senate, the Republican majority will be more conservative, he noted, as several moderate Republican lawmakers were ousted in the primary election.

“Even though it’s the narrowest of margins in both houses, this is as conservative a legislature we’ve had probably since the supermajorities of 2011,” he said.

The election’s results are also showing just how much the state party is tied to Mr. Trump. Kelli Ward, the chairman of the state’s Republican Party, has refused to accept Mr. Trump’s defeat and repeatedly raised the possibility that cheating took place, without evidence, and has received support from two of the state’s congressmen, Paul Gosar and Andy Biggs.

Ms. Ward said in an interview that more lawsuits are on the horizon, and that the president has other options available to him even if his lawsuits continue to fail, though she declined to specify what those could be.

“There are more coming, and you don’t always have to have a lawsuit to get to the bottom of election fraud. There are a lot of irregularities, those are going to continue to come out,” she said.

After Republicans raised baseless accusations of wrongdoing, Katie Hobbs, the Secretary of State and a Democrat, received a stream of death threats. Ms. Hobbs said that her family’s personal information had been made public online and that armed protesters showed up to her house recently chanting “we are watching you.” Far more troubling than that, she said, are the long-term implications of Mr. Trump’s campaign to spread election conspiracies, and the readiness with which some Republicans have jumped on board.

“The harm that is being done to our free and fair elections is going to go far beyond this election,” she said. “What we’re seeing right now with Trump and his supporters is far beyond ‘we lost and we’re not willing to accept that.’ It’s to the point of ‘we’re not willing to accept it because you stole it from us.’ And that’s just absolutely not true.”

At a news conference last week, Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican who has carved out a reputation as a moderate, declined to firmly state that he accepted the results of the election.

“There are legal claims that are being challenged in court and everybody on the ballot has certain access, rights and remedies and if they want to push that, they are able,” he said. “Once those are adjudicated and the process plays out, I will accept the results of the election.”

Responding to a question about the security of the vote, Mr. Ducey did not identify anything alarming that he had personally observed.

“In terms of your question, specifically, any widespread fraud or irregularity — that I have not seen. I’ve heard about it, but I’ve not seen it,” he added.

In interviews with dozens of voters before the election, there were a number of indications that the electorate is deeply divided, with many voters saying they did not discuss politics with anyone with whom they did not see eye to eye.

Ed Harris, a retiree and Democrat from Oracle, Ariz., said he didn’t put a sign for Mr. Biden in his yard this year because he didn’t feel safe doing so in his conservative suburb of Tucson.

Most of his neighbors are fellow retirees, he said, and while publicly declaring his political affiliation might strain neighborly relations, he wasn’t worried about them necessarily.

“But the guys running around in pickup trucks with a Trump and American flag on it are scary to me,” he said. “They really do frighten me.”





No.27 article:
Bruce Boynton, Plaintiff in Landmark Civil Rights Case, Dies at 83

He was a Black man who wanted to sit in the white section of a bus terminal restaurant. The case reached the Supreme Court.

“All he wanted was a cheeseburger,” Judge Myron Thompson of United States District Court in Alabama said at an event two years ago honoring Bruce C. Boynton, “and he changed the course of history.”

The reference was to a moment at a bus terminal in Richmond, Va., in December 1958, when Mr. Boynton, then a law student traveling home to Alabama from Washington, tried to get something to eat during a 40-minute stopover. At a restaurant in the terminal, Mr. Boynton, a Black man, sat in the section reserved for white people because, he said later, the Black section was crowded, had water on the floor and appeared unsanitary.

There was an exchange of words with the assistant manager, a police officer was called, and Mr. Boynton was charged under Virginia law with a misdemeanor for remaining “upon the lands or premises of another, after having been forbidden to do so.” He was fined $10, but he appealed.

In 1960, the case, Boynton v. Virginia, reached the United States Supreme Court, with Thurgood Marshall, who would soon become a Supreme Court justice himself, arguing for Mr. Boynton. The court found in Mr. Boynton’s favor, ruling that as an interstate traveler he was protected from discrimination under the Interstate Commerce Act.

Though the ruling was not a blanket condemnation of discriminatory practices in restaurants, the case was a significant steppingstone in the growing civil rights movement of the early 1960s. And it led directly to the Freedom Riders protests of 1961, in which bus riders, both Black and white, traveled from Washington into the Deep South to test whether the provisions of Boynton v. Virginia and another case, Morgan v. Virginia, were being carried out.

The Freedom Riders — the future congressman John Lewis was one — were attacked, beaten and arrested. One bus was firebombed. Eventually, President John F. Kennedy’s administration intervened. The protests helped build momentum toward the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

Mr. Boynton died on Monday at a hospital in Montgomery, Ala., at 83. His daughter Carver Ann Boynton said the cause was cancer.

Mr. Boynton was a low-profile figure in civil rights history. Far more people knew of his mother, Amelia Boynton Robinson, who helped organize the famous 1965 voting rights march known as Bloody Sunday, during which she was beaten senseless by state troopers as protesters tried to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma. Ala.; photographs of her crumpled body appeared around the world. His mother, whom Mr. Boynton called a “tower of defiance,” survived the beating and continued to work for civil rights.

Mr. Boynton, on the rare occasions when he was interviewed about Boynton v. Virginia, spoke simply about it. “I was hungry and just wanted a cheeseburger and a cup of hot tea on that cold night,” he told The Montgomery Advertiser in 2016. “I also pointed out that, as an American citizen, I was entitled to get that burger and tea.”

Bruce Carver Boynton — his middle name was in tribute to his godfather, his parents’ friend George Washington Carver — was born in Selma on June 19, 1937. His mother, Amelia (Platts) Boynton, was a lecturer, author and civil rights activist, and his father, Samuel, was a county extension agent.

“I grew up watching my parents working hard to register Black people to vote,” he told The Advertiser in 2015. “My dad started doing that as far back as 1929, and my mother wasn’t far behind him.”

His father died in 1963. His mother, who remarried, died in 2015 at 104.

Mr. Boynton grew up in Selma and graduated from R.B. Hudson High School there when he was just 14. Four years later he earned an undergraduate degree at Fisk University in Nashville.

He was at Howard University Law School in Washington when he made the fateful bus ride home to Alabama in 1958. The case turned on a relatively limited question: whether the restaurant in the bus terminal was an extension of the bus line, Trailways, and thus whether it, like the bus, was subject to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, which prohibited discrimination on interstate public transportation. The Supreme Court, overturning the Virginia Supreme Court, decided that it was and ruled 7-2 in Mr. Boynton’s favor.

The case, although he won it, gave Mr. Boynton trouble for some years. After he graduated from Howard Law at age 21, not long after the incident in Richmond, the Alabama bar denied him a law license for six years while it supposedly investigated the circumstances of the case.

As a result, he began his law practice in Chattanooga, Tenn., working on civil rights issues. He was finally admitted to the Alabama bar in 1965, and he practiced in Selma for a number of years before establishing a practice in Washington. Later he returned to practice again in Selma.

Mr. Boynton married Alice Cutler in 1973; she died in 2001. In addition to his daughter Carver, from that marriage, he is survived by his second wife, Betty Strong Boynton, whom he married in 2008; another daughter, Aimee Emma Meredith, from a relationship with Charlye Frances Nolan; his stepchildren Valerie, Mark and Jackie Simmons and James, Annie Kate, Clarence and Marco Strong; two cousins who were his adopted siblings, Germain Bowser and Sharon Seay; and four grandchildren.

At the 2018 event honoring Mr. Boynton, Phillip McCallum, executive director of the Alabama State Bar, issued him an apology for the fact that his Alabama law license had been held up a half- century earlier.

On Monday, the day he died, the Dallas County Commission of Alabama voted to approve a resolution, put forward earlier, to rename an annex of the Dallas County Courthouse in Selma in honor of Mr. Boynton and another prominent Black lawyer, J.L. Chestnut Jr.

“Yesterday, I told him that the annex was going to be named after him,” Betty Boynton told The Selma Times-Journal, “and he looked at me and he smiled.”





No.28 article:
How Will Co-Living Survive the Pandemic?

The coronavirus drove vacancies up in co-living buildings, but companies are offering rent deals and flexible leases to bring demand back.

The core benefits of co-living took a big hit when the coronavirus struck New York City.

Instagram-friendly common rooms and co-working spaces sat empty last spring as residents complied with strict lockdown orders. Postage-stamp bedrooms became constant quarters. Tenants who had become accustomed to regular cleaning services suddenly had to disinfect on their own.

When New Yorkers fled the city in the early months of the pandemic, co-living companies — like many other rental companies — lost tenants and income. Their model, which includes perks like helping residents find roommates and providing fully furnished units, was no match for the virus. Co-living buildings have generally charged more than traditional rental buildings, in exchange for shared amenities and a dormlike atmosphere that provides instant community — an environment deeply challenged by the rules of coronavirus lockdown.

After the initial shock, most co-living companies coalesced around a few strategies to woo residents back. They offered rent concessions, promoted flexible lease lengths to tenants who didn’t know how long they would be able to stay in New York, and provided a smooth and easy move-in process. Now, eight months into the pandemic, co-living companies say demand is growing again, and a few are even restarting ambitious expansions they had put on hold when the virus first hit.

Several co-living companies initially responded to the pandemic with an effort to attract medical professionals who were coming to the city to serve Covid-19 patients. Outpost Club, which oversees 350 bedrooms across 20 buildings in New York, offered medical workers discounted housing with no deposit and flexible cancellation terms. Common, a national co-living company, and the Collective, a London-based company that transformed a former hotel in Long Island City into a co-living space, made similar offers.

By the time many medical workers left in July as infection rates leveled off, several co-living companies were offering rent deals to attract traditional tenants. Specials included rent reductions in the range of 30 to 35 percent, sometimes in the form of one or two months rent-free. 

Outpost Club’s chief executive, Sergii Starostin, said he saw students respond to his company’s rent deals first, and professionals followed. The company lost 120 tenants across their New York properties by the height of the pandemic in April, going from 300 people in January down to 180. Numbers started rising in June, but only until September, when Outpost Club signed 60 new leases, did the company regain the leases lost earlier this year. Now, they house a total of 323 tenants in the city. In October, they received 15 requests from landlords interested in working with them to convert traditional apartments into co-living spaces, a big jump from just two in October of last year. 

“Flexibility is now the number one thing that tenants want to have,” Mr. Starostin said. “Every second person is asking about it.” About half of Outpost Club’s newly signed leases in a given month are now one-to-three month commitments with a month-to-month option that follows. Before May, just five percent of tenants requested month-to-month options. 

Quarters, a global co-living network with four buildings in New York, made similar concessions to get similar results. The number of tenants in their buildings declined to roughly 70 percent in the second and third quarters of 2020, but the company hopes to see it increase to over 90 percent by January.

New York’s case mirrors a national trend. Susan Tjarksen, who studies multifamily capital markets at the real estate analytics firm Cushman &amp; Wakefield, said that occupancy rates at co-living properties hit a pandemic-low in June at 86 percent and rose steadily through the summer. As of October, rates are now in the low 90th percentile. 

Jorge Hurtado-Burgos, a 21-year-old student and bank client services representative, saw promise in co-living in the midst of the pandemic. In August, he was looking for an easy transition into an apartment after a summer of couch surfing. He chose a four-bedroom shared unit in an East Village apartment managed by Bungalow, a San Francisco-based co-living company that works with landlords to fill, furnish and oversee their investment properties. 

Unlike some co-living brands in New York, Bungalow doesn’t own any of the apartments or buildings it outfits. Instead it currently partners with 47 landlords to rent a total of 430 rooms. The company offered to waive Mr. Hurtado-Burgos’s application fee and he moved in within a week of finding the space. 

“It was very straight to the point and easy,” Mr. Hurtado-Burgos said. He signed a six-month lease agreement at $1,430 a month, which includes utilities and cleaning fees, but plans to extend his stay through next summer.

In another Bungalow building in Williamsburg, Nick Nevins, 26, a digital marketing manager, signed a 16-month lease in September, since some co-living companies offer reduced rents for longer lease agreements. On a 12-month lease, Mr. Nevins would have paid $1,515, not including utilities, for his en-suite room in a seven-bedroom apartment. Instead, he pays $1,485 a month plus an additional $150 for utilities and cleaning.

“It’s definitely the easiest move-in experience I’ve ever had,” he said, since the apartment came furnished and he only had to bring his own bedroom furniture. Mr. Nevins also looked at other apartment listings in Brooklyn, as well as two other Bungalow buildings. He was drawn to the rent-by-room model because he wouldn’t be responsible for replacing roommates.

Co-living residents often pay a higher price per square footage for a bedroom than what their neighbors in traditional buildings might pay. Mr. Nevins pays $1,485 a month and has three roommates, in a seven-bedroom unit where the monthly rent is more than $8,800. According to StreetEasy, the median monthly rent for a three-plus bedroom in Williamsburg is $3,600. In the East Village, StreetEasy puts an apartment with three or more bedrooms at a median rent of $4,400. But at Mr. Hurtado-Burgos’s four-bedroom East Village Bungalow apartment, total rent exceeds $5,000.

“Co-living isn’t necessarily targeting people who need affordability,” said Nancy Wu, a StreetEasy economist. “If you’re looking to sign a one-year lease, there are lots of opportunities out there for cheaper apartments with two-to-three months worth of concessions.”

Richard Lustigman, director of co-living at JLL, a real estate services company, agrees that right now, there is increased interest in the traditional rental market because prices are so low. But in the long run, he says, after the pandemic is over, people will be drawn back to the co-living properties that provide more than just a room to rent.

Some of the amenities that have motivated co-living tenants to pay a premium are gradually coming back. Companies that canceled their cleaning services for residents at the beginning of the pandemic, or provided residents instead with weekly “hospitality kits” to clean their own spaces, are now bringing professional cleaners back into buildings.

The most elusive amenity that co-living companies originally offered is that of community. Marketing materials showed young residents making friends and having fun together in beautiful common areas. In the pandemic, co-living companies have emphasized other aspects of their model, since many of their common areas are closed or limited, and meeting new people presents a health risk.

Despite social distancing, companies and residents have found new, pandemic-appropriate ways to build connections within buildings. Marcy Snyder, a 22-year-old New York University student who is applying to medical school while taking her final classes online, recently hosted a picnic in the park for some of the residents in her Common building in Williamsburg. Ms. Snyder said she knew many people who have three-month lease agreements that they keep renewing.

Chengwei Wang, a Columbia University master’s student, has tried everything from a rooftop flower arranging event to cooking classes on Zoom at Alta+, a high-rise residential building in Queens Plaza, where co-living brand Ollie operates 14 floors of shared apartments. Toussaint Campbell, 23, has also ventured out at Alta+. Recently, he did a socially-distanced Escape Room with about a dozen people. He’s thought about signing up for other events, but it’s a harder sell when events are virtual. “When I miss them, I wonder if I could have met anyone, but it’s a little less exciting,” he said.

The co-living industry was in the midst of general expansion at the beginning of the year, before the coronavirus arrived. Ollie has six expansion projects going on around the country, but nothing new planned for New York.

“It’s going to be tough to be a new co-living company in New York right now,” said Gregg Christiansen, Ollie’s president. “I would be concerned if you have a new project opening here.”

Some companies that entered the pandemic with expansion plans are moving forward. Quarters is slated to open a new location in North Williamsburg in December, and Common is planning a two-tower, affordable co-living project with L &amp; M Development in East Harlem, slated to open at the end of 2023. The company won a competition facilitated by the city’s Housing Preservation and Development Department last fall to create a more affordable version of co-living. 

“By the time we deliver these projects,” said Brad Hargreaves, chief executive and founder of Common, “we’ll be on the other side of this and people will be perhaps willing to socialize more than they did before, to make up for lost time.”





No.29 article:
Outdoor Winter Wedding Hacks

From heating lamps to snow machines, here are some must-have items and creative ideas for couples braving the colder weather.

Usually when temperatures drop, couples hold their wedding indoors, away from the cold. But with social-distancing requirements and restrictions on gatherings amid the coronavirus, more weddings will be taking place outdoors this winter.

That’s not necessarily a bad thing, so long as marrying couples embrace the elements. If you’re planning an outdoor winter wedding, here are some must-have items and creative ideas from professional wedding planners.

Portable heaters are a must in colder climates. Make sure to rent patio heaters with built-in safety features, such as a tip-over switch that shuts the heater off automatically if the unit is tilted, to reduce fire hazards. Expect to pay about $65 to $90 per heater for a one-day rental.

Ashley Paul, the owner of C &amp; A Event Planning, a wedding planning and floral design boutique in Central New York, also suggests providing hand warmers to guests for very cold days. You can buy them in bulk on Amazon, which offers a pack of 40 pairs for around $20.

Each guest should be provided with a plush blanket.

Ashley Pachkofsky, the founder of Poppati Events, a domestic and destination wedding planning company based in Minneapolis, suggests placing them at a welcome station, perhaps with a clever sign that reads “to have and to hold in case you get cold.”

Blankets embroidered with a couple’s initials and the phrase “feeling cozy” make for fun wedding favors, she added.

To protect attendees from snow, hail and other inclement weather, you will want to rent a tent. If you’re getting married at a picturesque locale, you might want to consider a clear tent that would allow guests to enjoy the scenic backdrop, said Kristen Maxwell Cooper, the editor in chief at the wedding website the Knot.

Dr. David Thomas, the director of the division of infectious diseases at Johns Hopkins Medicine, recommended leaving two sides of the tent open to allow fresh air to flow through the space.

“It’s simple: It’s about not having viruses, like the coronavirus, lingering in the air for a long period of time,” he said. “This doesn’t guarantee that guests won’t contract the coronavirus, but it reduces the risk of transmission.”

Most tent rental companies charge a fee for the tent and then an additional fee for each sidewall. For example, renting a 20-by-40-foot tent (able to fit up to 50 people, with some open floor space) for the day, with only two 40-foot clear side walls, would cost $476 at Special Events of New England, a party rental company based in Auburn, N.H.

The caveat? “Our tents, like many, aren’t insulated and they don’t support a snow load, so you wouldn’t want to use one on a very cold day or a day with heavy snowfall,” said Chris Riddell, an owner of the company.

A transparent tent that can shelter a small group of people, such as Alvantor’s 15-person Canopy Gazebo, which can be bought for $790, is a great setting for cocktail hour. Bring in a small portable space heater so that the space feels warm and cozy, even with the window flaps open.

These are also good sources for warmth, and can be purchased relatively inexpensively or rented. If the skies are clear, let guests gather around an open, wood-burning flame — and maybe even provide some s’mores kits to satisfy guests’ sweet tooth.

Renting a gas fire pit for your wedding day costs, on average, $100 to $200, depending on the size of the pit. (Note: A gas fire pit may be the better choice for some couples, since a wood-burning pit typically requires an attendant.)

Lighting

Proper lighting is important, especially since it gets darker earlier in many parts of the country. The right outdoor lighting can also help set the mood. “From string lights to chandeliers hanging from trees, couples can elevate any winter background wedding with larger-than-life lighting options,” Ms. Maxwell Cooper of the Knot said.

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

Winter-Themed Cocktails

Ms. Dentice recommended serving specialty cocktails, such as mulled wine, spiked Mexican hot chocolate or a cinnamon rosemary Old Fashioned, that celebrate the flavors of the season.

Peppermint-rimmed Champagne flutes are also a festive way of toasting a couple’s nuptials, Ms. Pachkofsky said.

Hot Beverages

Greet guests at the ceremony with a cup of hot apple cider, hot cocoa, or warm eggnog. Hot drinks could also be served at dessert tables next to a toppings station complete with whipped cream, cinnamon, marshmallows and nutmeg.

Comfort Food

Give the people what they want, Ms. Paul said, in the form of grilled-cheese-and-tomato-soup shooters, warm pretzels, mashed potatoes and mac-and-cheese bites.

Seasonal Desserts

Couples can serve guests seasonally inspired deserts such as spiced apple cake, gingerbread cookies, chocolate peppermint bars, or slices of warm apple pie.

Ice Sculptures

Krista Dentice, the owner of Weddings With a Twist, a wedding-planning company in Milwaukee, suggests having an ice sculpture as a showpiece. And placing a battery-powered LED light below the sculpture will make it stand out at nighttime.

The cost for an ice sculpture usually varies by size. For example, Ice Lab, which is based in Baltimore, charges $600 per block of ice used, no matter what the design is. The price includes delivery, setup, batter- powered LED lighting and drain gear.

Centerpieces and Place Cards

Tables can be decorated with centerpieces made of tree branches and pine cones spray painted in gold, Ms. Pachkofsky said, along with gray velvet tablecloths, bespoke silver charger plates, glass plates and clear acrylic dining chairs.

Ms. Pachkofsky recommends caramel apple place cards, each attached with a tag that says “Apple-Y Married” with the guest’s name and table assignment.

Wreath Decorating Station

If your wedding date is near the holidays, a station where people can build their own wreaths — choosing from a selection of winter greens and blooms — can provide a fun activity for guests during the reception, Ms. Pachkofsky said.

Statement Coats for the Bride and Groom

Ms. Pachkofsky suggested brides wear a faux fur cape, and grooms wear a plaid wool peacoat, at least for wedding portrait photos.

Monogrammed Hats, Gloves, Scarves or Socks

These wedding favors, when engraved with the couples’ initials and wedding date, provide warmth and a fun photo op, said Olivia Nicoletti, the owner and lead planner of Olive Fine Weddings &amp; Events in Chicago.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.30 article:
Guns, Drugs and Viral Content: Welcome to Cartel TikTok

Mexico is set to shatter another murder record, but that grim reality is nowhere to be seen on the TikTok videos that go viral by showcasing drug cartel culture.

MEXICO CITY — Tiger cubs and semiautomatic weapons. Piles of cash and armored cars. Fields of poppies watered to the sound of ballads glorifying Mexican drug cartel culture. 

This is the world of Cartel TikTok, a genre of videos depicting drug trafficking groups and their activities that is racking up hundreds of thousands of views on the popular social media platform.

But behind the narco bling and dancing gang members lies an ominous reality: With Mexico set to again shatter murder records this year, experts on organized crime say Cartel TikTok is just the latest propaganda campaign designed to mask the blood bath and use the promise of infinite wealth to attract expendable young recruits.

“It’s narco-marketing,” said Alejandra León Olvera, an anthropologist at Spain’s University of Murcia who studies the presence of Mexican organized crime groups on social media. The cartels “use these kinds of platforms for publicity, but of course it’s hedonistic publicity.”

Circulating on Mexican social media for years, cartel content began flooding TikTok feeds in the United States this month after a clip of a high-speed boat chase went viral on the video-sharing platform.

American teens were served the boat chase video on their For You page, which recommends engaging videos to users. Millions liked and shared the clip. Their clicks boosted the video in the For You page algorithm, which meant more people viewed it.

And once they viewed the boat chase video, the algorithm began to offer them a trickle, then a flood of clips that appeared to come from drug trafficking groups in Mexico.

“As soon as I started liking that boat video, then there’s videos of exotic pets, videos of cars,” said Ricardo Angeles, 18, a California TikToker interested in cartel culture.

“It’s fascinating,” he said, “kind of like watching a movie.”

Others began noticing the surge of cartel videos as well, and posting reactions to the deluge of guns and luxury cars filling their feeds.

“Did the cartels just roll out their TikTok marketing strategy?” asked one flummoxed user in a video viewed some 490,000 times. “Is the coronavirus affecting y’all’s sales?”

Asked about their policy regarding the videos, a TikTok spokeswoman said that the company was “committed to working with law enforcement to combat organized criminal activity,” and that it removed “content and accounts that promote illegal activity.” Examples of cartel videos that were sent to TikTok for comment were soon removed from the platform.

While cartel content might be new for most teen TikTokers, according to Ioan Grillo, author of “El Narco: Inside Mexico’s Criminal Insurgency,” online portrayals of narco culture go back more than a decade, when Mexico began ramping up its bloody war against the cartels.

At first, the videos were crude and violent — images of beheadings and torture that were posted on YouTube, designed to strike fear in rival gangs and show government forces the ruthlessness they were up against.

But as social platforms evolved and cartels became more digitally savvy, the content became more sophisticated.

In July, a video that circulated widely on social media showed members of the brutal Jalisco New Generation Cartel in fatigues, holding high-caliber weapons and cheering their leader next to dozens of armored cars branded with the cartel’s Spanish initials, C.J.N.G.

The show of force appeared online at the same time President Andrés Manuel López Obrador was visiting the states that make up the cartel’s stronghold.

“That is kind of a kick, a punch in the stomach to the government’s security strategy,” Mr. Grillo said.

Mr. López Obrador, who campaigned on a promise of confronting crime with “hugs not bullets,” has so far been unable to make a significant dent in the country’s soaring violence, with a record 34,582 murders registered last year alone.

But while some videos are still made to strike terror, others are created to show young men in rural Mexico the potential benefits of joining the drug trade: endless cash, expensive cars, beautiful women, exotic pets.

“It’s all about the dream, it’s all about the hustle,” said Ed Calderon, a security consultant and former member of Mexican law enforcement. “That’s what they sell.”

According to Falko Ernst, senior Mexico analyst for the International Crisis Group, a global think tank, some of the TikTok videos may be produced by cartel members themselves, especially young hit men or “sicarios” keen to show off the spoils of war.

Still, he said, most are probably filmed by young, lower-level operators in the gangs, then shared widely on the web by their friends or those longing for the lifestyle.

But whether they are made and shared by cartels or simply produced by aspiring gangsters, the ultimate goal is the same: drawing in an army of young men willing to give their lives for a chance at glory.

The gangs, Mr. Ernst said, depend on this “sea of youngsters.”

And while videos of bejeweled guns and decked-out cars have been circulating on Instagram and Facebook for years, TikTok has brought a new dimension to the cartel genre.

“The message has to be quick, it has to be engaging, and it has to be viral,” said Ms. León, the anthropologist. “Violence becomes fun, or even put to music.”

One video, which attracted more than 500,000 likes before it was removed, shows a farmer slicing unripe seed pods in a field of poppies, presumably to harvest the resin for heroin production.

“Here in the mountains, there are only hard workers,” says a voice-over. “Just good people.”

In another video, from a now-disabled account called “The clown of the CJNG,” in reference to the Jalisco cartel, a figure dressed in black with a bulletproof vest and an AR-15 rifle does a dance move known as the Floss.

Such videos may be intended for a Mexican audience, but for users in the United States who help promote them, they tap into an increasingly popular fascination with the cartel world, one propagated by shows like “Narcos” on Netflix.

That was in part the allure for Mr. Angeles, the California teenager, whose parents emigrated from Mexico before he was born.

Even as he acknowledged the real-world violence behind the videos, Cartel TikTok has become a way of connecting with Mexican popular culture from a safe distance.

“There’s a difference between watching ‘Narcos’ and getting kidnapped by one,” Mr. Angeles said.

The videos also provide a stark reminder of what life may have looked like had his parents not sought better opportunities north of the border.

“I could’ve been in that lifestyle,” Mr. Angeles said. But “I would much rather be broke and nameless than rich and famous.”





No.31 article:
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie on Barack Obama’s ‘A Promised Land’

A PROMISED LANDBy Barack Obama

Barack Obama is as fine a writer as they come. It is not merely that this book avoids being ponderous, as might be expected, even forgiven, of a hefty memoir, but that it is nearly always pleasurable to read, sentence by sentence, the prose gorgeous in places, the detail granular and vivid. From Southeast Asia to a forgotten school in South Carolina, he evokes the sense of place with a light but sure hand. This is the first of two volumes, and it starts early in his life, charting his initial political campaigns, and ends with a meeting in Kentucky where he is introduced to the SEAL team involved in the Abbottabad raid that killed Osama bin Laden.

[The editors of The Times Book Review chose the 10 best books of 2020.]

His focus is more political than personal, but when he does write about his family it is with a beauty close to nostalgia. Wriggling Malia into her first ballet tights. Baby Sasha’s laugh as he nibbles her feet. Michelle’s breath slowing as she falls asleep against his shoulder. His mother sucking ice cubes, her glands destroyed by cancer. The narrative is rooted in a storytelling tradition, with the accompanying tropes, as with the depiction of a staffer in his campaign for the Illinois State Senate, “taking a drag from her cigarette and blowing a thin plume of smoke to the ceiling.” The dramatic tension in the story of his gate-crashing, with Hillary Clinton by his side, to force a meeting with China at a climate summit is as enjoyable as noir fiction; no wonder his personal aide Reggie Love tells him afterward that it was some “gangster shit.” His language is unafraid of its own imaginative richness. He is given a cross by a nun with a face as “grooved as a peach pit.” The White House groundskeepers are “the quiet priests of a good and solemn order.” He questions whether his is a “blind ambition wrapped in the gauzy language of service.” There is a romanticism, a current of almost-melancholy in his literary vision. In Oslo, he looks outside to see a crowd of people holding candles, the flames flickering in the dark night, and one senses that this moves him more than the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony itself.

And what of that Nobel? He is incredulous when he hears he has been awarded the prize.

“For what?” he asks. It makes him wary of the gap between expectation and reality. He considers his public image overinflated; he pushes pins into his own hype balloons.

Obama’s thoughtfulness is obvious to anyone who has observed his political career, but in this book he lays himself open to self-questioning. And what savage self-questioning. He considers whether his first wanting to run for office was not so much about serving as about his ego or his self-indulgence or his envy of those more successful. He writes that his motives for giving up community organizing and going to Harvard Law are “open to interpretation,” as though his ambition were inherently suspect. He wonders if he perhaps has a fundamental laziness. He acknowledges his shortcomings as a husband, he mourns his mistakes and broods still on his choice of words during the first Democratic primaries. It is fair to say this: not for Barack Obama the unexamined life. But how much of this is a defensive crouch, a bid to put himself down before others can? Even this he contemplates when he writes about having “a deep self-consciousness. A sensitivity to rejection or looking stupid.”

His reluctance to glory in any of his achievements has a particular texture, the modesty of the Brilliant American Liberal, which is not so much false as it is familiar, like a much-practiced pose. It brings an urge to say, in response, “Look, take some credit already!”

The rare moment when he does take credit, arguing that his recovery act made the American financial system bounce back faster than any nation’s in history with a similar substantial shock, has a dissonant echo for being so unusual. His self-assessment is harsh even about his first stirring of social awareness in his teenage years. He passes an adult judgment on his navel-gazing politics, labeling it self-righteous and earnest and humorless. But of course it was; it always is at that age.

This tendency, darker than self-awareness but not as dark as self-loathing, seems to have fed in him something charitable, a wholesome humanity, a deep generosity; it is as though he is both freed and ennobled by having dealt himself the severest hand. And so he is lavish with forgiveness and with praise, giving the benefit of the doubt even to those barely deserving. He makes heroes of people: Claire McCaskill voting her conscience for the Dream Act, Tim Geithner’s grace during the upheavals of the financial crash, Chuck Hagel’s principled support of his foreign policy. His affection for his first-term inner circle — Valerie Jarrett, David Axelrod, David Plouffe, Robert Gibbs, Rahm Emanuel — is moving, as is the work culture he creates, of not looking for scapegoats when things go wrong. He makes a point of regularly reading the letters of ordinary Americans not just to keep abreast of the concerns of the electorate but to lift his own spirits and suppress his own doubts. On George W. Bush’s last day in the White House, Obama is angry to see protesters, thinking it “graceless and unnecessary” to protest a man in the final hours of his presidency. A lovely human response. But this being Barack Obama, self-indicter extraordinaire, he is quick to add that there is surely an element of self-interest in his position since he is now about to become president.

And yet for all his ruthless self-assessment, there is very little of what the best memoirs bring: true self-revelation. So much is still at a polished remove. It is as if, because he is leery of exaggerated emotion, emotion itself is tamped down. He writes exhaustively about the nuts and bolts of passing his landmark Affordable Care Act, but with an absence of any interiority. “I love that woman,” he says of Nancy Pelosi, after a phone conversation about the only way to bypass a Republican filibuster in the Senate — by passing the Senate version of the bill in the House. But we do not get anywhere near a measure of what emotional or even intellectual price he has paid for the many malicious Republican roadblocks which made that phone conversation necessary in the first place. “If I sometimes grew despondent, even angry, over the amount of misinformation that had flooded the airwaves, I was grateful for my team’s willingness to push harder and not give up,” he writes. And one immediately thinks: if?

The determined and deliberate Republican opposition to Obama feels astonishingly reckless in retrospect — members of Congress oppose bills they haven’t fully read, merely because they are Obama’s bills. It does not matter to them what the consequences might be for the country. One cannot help wondering if Obama imagines what his administration would have been without the Republican rancor. What if the billionaire conservative ideologues David and Charles Koch had not convened their sinister-sounding conclave of some of America’s richest conservatives with the singular goal of strategizing how to fight Obama? What if the Republican hostility had not shaped the way the media, and consequently the public, viewed his administration? That Obama himself uses the term “Obamacare” — which at first was a derisive term used by the right for the Affordable Care Act — is revealing in how much the right set the agenda during his administration. When he writes about realizing that it was not merely his policies that the Tea Party had demonized, but him personally, his sentences are edged with an elusive quality, something detached and impenetrable.

With foreign policy, he is less guarded. He even manages a kind of poetic jingoism, where nearly every criticism of the United States is mere preface to an elegant and spirited defense. In this sense Barack Obama defies the stereotype of the American Liberal for whom American failure on the world stage is not the starter course but the main. He is a true disciple of American exceptionalism. That America is not merely feared but also respected is, he argues, proof that it has done something right even in its imperfectness. “Those who complained about America’s role in the world still relied on us to keep the system afloat,” he writes, a reactionary position, as if it were innately contradictory to question America’s outsize role and also expect America to do well at the job it chose to give itself.

The highlight of the political memoir is the gossipy bit, the small detail that surprises or upends what we imagine we know. That rousing rallying cry of the Obama campaign, “Yes We Can”? It was Axelrod’s idea, which Obama thought corny, until Michelle said it wasn’t corny at all. Think of the iconic image of Jesse Jackson crying on the night Obama won the presidency. Here, we learn that Jackson’s support for Obama’s presidential campaign was “more grudging” than the enthusiastic support of his son Jesse Jackson Jr. And how odd, that the first family pays out of pocket for food and toilet paper. Who would have thought that it would be generals rather than civilians who counseled Obama for more restraint in the use of force throughout the eight years of his presidency? Or that he is actually a slow walker, with what Michelle called a Hawaiian walk, after so many images of him nimbly bounding up plane steps, striding across the White House lawn? Or, given his image of tireless discipline, that he is “messy” in that childlike absent-minded way that only men manage to be, knowing that someone will see to the mess. Someone usually a woman.

His loving friendship with Michelle sparkles in its solidity. He acknowledges the sacrifices she has made for him, and the pressures his political life thrust on her. When they first meet, she is “tailored and crisp, focused on her career and doing things the way they’re supposed to be done, with no time for nonsense.” She is also, briefly, his mentor. She is perhaps the reason, along with his grandmother and mother, remarkable and unusual women both, that he seems so genuinely alert to misogyny. He articulates the burdens women face, the double standards and unfairness, the contradictory impulses of a sexist world, with a fluidity and fluency that can oddly lead to a kind of resentment. It is like a beleaguered new mother in middle-class America, overwhelmed and leaking milk, who looks at her patient, helpful husband and feels a burst of rage because what she wants is not his empathy but a new world in which his empathy is redundant. Here at last is a man who gets it, and yet that he so perfectly gets it feels like an affront. Is it a clever metaphorical take on gender role reversal that he frequently describes the physical looks of men and not of women? We are told of the handsomeness of men like Charlie Crist and Rahm Emanuel, but not the beauty of women, except for one or two instances, as in the case of Sonia Gandhi.

More practically, he hires women and intervenes decisively when female staffers complain of misogynistic behavior from male staffers, but because of his history with Hillary Rodham Clinton, one cannot help scouring his portrayal of her for larger lessons on his view of women as equal political actors. His respect for Clinton rings true. In his early Senate days, his team looked to her as guide and inspiration. Their goal was to be, as she was, a “workhorse and not a showhorse.” He writes that her crying in New Hampshire, so unfairly mocked in the media, was a “rare and genuine show of emotion.” He clarifies his statement during their debate — “you’re likable enough” — which was meant to show his disdain for the question itself, how women are expected to be nice in ways that men never are. And just as this exegesis is about to end satisfactorily, he writes that he considered Clinton as his running mate but decided it would be too complicated. One can imagine perfectly sensible reasons for this complication, but the one we are given? The awkwardness of a former president roaming the West Wing without a clear portfolio. She doesn’t get offered the job because of her husband.

And then there are his biographical sketches, masterful in their brevity and insight and humor. Of the stone-faced Emily, a staffer on the Iowa campaign: “My charm and wit invariably crashed on the rocks of her steady, unblinking gaze, and I settled on trying to do exactly what she told me.” Vladimir Putin reminds him of the tough, street-smart ward bosses who used to run the Chicago machine. Also on Putin: “Physically, he was unremarkable.” Secretary of Defense Bob Gates and the Indian prime minister Manmohan Singh both come across as having a kind of impassive integrity. Gen. Stanley McChrystal has the manner of “someone who’s burned away frivolity and distractions from his life.” Rahul Gandhi has “a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject.” Joe Biden is a decent, honest, loyal man who Obama senses “might get prickly if he thought he wasn’t given his due — a quality that might flare up when dealing with a much younger boss.” Chuck Grassley would “hem and haw about this or that problem he had with the bill without telling us what exactly it would take to get him to yes.” Sarah Palin had “no idea what the hell she was talking about” on the subject of governance. What Mitch McConnell “lacked in charisma or interest in policy he more than made up for in discipline, shrewdness and shamelessness — all of which he employed in the single-minded and dispassionate pursuit of power.” Nicolas Sarkozy, bold and opportunistic, has “his chest thrust out like a bantam cock’s.”

In a private meeting, Hu Jintao reads from stacks of prepared papers, so monotonous that Obama considers suggesting “that we could save each other time by just exchanging papers and reading them at our leisure.” Lindsey Graham is the guy in the spy thriller or heist movie “who double-crosses everyone to save his own skin.” Harry Reid is brusque and decent and honest. “You can win,” he tells a startled Obama long before Obama thought he could. And with characteristic Camelot charisma, Ted Kennedy tells him, “You don’t choose the time. The time chooses you.”

If Kennedy’s words suggest a sense of destiny, it isn’t clear how much Obama himself wants it. He is a conflicted and sometimes reluctant participant in politics, a man who feels increasingly lonely as the size of his crowds swells, an unlikely leader with both a bohemian distrust of established politics and a realist’s resignation to it. And how unlikely his political ascent. He attended the Democratic National Convention in 2000, invited by a friend, his fortune in tatters, unable to rent a car because his credit card was maxed out, barred from the convention floor because his credential was too low-rank. And then four years later he gave the keynote speech that ultimately propelled him to the presidency.

There is, from the beginning, a sense that he is above the muck of politics. In the Illinois State Senate, a colleague doesn’t pressure Obama to support a less-than-ethical deal, because “Barack’s different, he’s going places.”

Obama risks a lot to run for the U.S. Senate — Michelle objects because she likes their privacy, and because they have little savings which would further shrink if he stopped practicing law — and puts in much effort, and yet there is a sense that were he to lose, he would not be crushed. “I don’t think you’ll be unhappy if you never become president,” Axe tells him during the campaign. Perhaps it is that he wants to be president but does not need to be, that he is interested in power not for power’s sake but for what he might achieve with it, and that he would take any route that might bring about change, even if it did not involve accruing personal power.

This might be why, after eight years as president, he still comes across as a kind of outsider, writing about the political process as though he were not participating in it but merely looking in. His jaded description of the State of the Union address — the ritualized drama of it, no bipartisan clapping except for any mention of troops overseas — has an undercurrent of ironic humor, but one with a broken heart at its center. He wishes things were different. He wishes that Senate confirmations were not made difficult merely to embarrass the administration in power, that issues important to ordinary citizens were not overlooked because they do not have expensive lobbyists roaming the halls of Congress on their behalf, that senators were not bullied into voting a certain way, as Olympia Snowe was by Mitch McConnell, when he threatened to strip her of her committee ranking post unless she backed away from supporting Obama’s bill.

So obvious is Obama’s longing for a different way, that he admires the friendship across party lines of the old bulls of the Senate — Kennedy, Orrin Hatch, John Warner — which is lacking in the younger generation of senators whom he describes as having the “sharper ideological edge that had come to characterize the House of Representatives after the Gingrich era.” Bipartisanship is important to him — he wanted Bob Gates in his administration, to help push against his own biases — and there is a lingering sense that he thinks as much, if not more, of those he has not won over as of those he has.

Some progressives are disappointed in Obama for not delivering what he never promised to deliver, and he seems keen to address them, writing that the image of him as “starry-eyed idealist” was not quite accurate. His is instead a pragmatic idealism, influenced by his grandmother. “She was the reason why, even in my most revolutionary moments as a young man, I could admire a well-run business and read the financial pages, and why I felt compelled to disregard overly broad claims about the need to tear things up and remake society from whole cloth.”

It is also why, as president, he is cleareyed about the reality of governance. “I didn’t like the deal. But in what was becoming a pattern, the alternatives were worse,” he writes, words that might apply to almost every major decision he makes. It says something about Obama and about the complicated nature of his presidency that he is sometimes called anti-business by Wall Street and a friend of Wall Street by progressives. And in case anybody was wondering, he admires the foreign policy of George H. W. Bush for managing the end of the gulf war. He did not support the Iraq war but considers Afghanistan a war of necessity.

He writes that Republicans are better at fighting to win, and there is a wistfulness to his unstated longing for a similar sense of tribal loyalty on the left. When the public option was stripped from the A.C.A. bill because it would not pass otherwise, many Democrats were understandably furious. Obama expected that they would share his pragmatism, that they would understand that he had no choice if he wanted the bill to pass. He makes a convincing argument here for accepting the imperfect A.C.A., because social welfare policies like the Civil Rights Act and New Deal started off imperfect and were built upon. Why did he not, publicly and consistently, make this argument then?

But it is on the subject of race that I wish he had more to say now. He writes about race as though overly aware that it will be read by a person keen to take offense. Instances of racism are always preceded by other examples that ostensibly show the absence of racism. And so, while we hear an Iowan supporter say, “I’m thinking about voting for the nigger,” we see many nice Iowans who just care about the issues. The racist incident is never allowed to be and breathe, fully aired out, unmuddied by that notion of “complexity.” Of course racism is always complex, but complexity as an idea too often serves as an evasive device, a means of keeping the conversation comfortable, never taking the full contours of racism to avoid alienating white Americans.

Obama recognizes, during his run for president, that while special-interest politics — by ethnic groups, farmers, gun-control enthusiasts — is the norm in America, it is only Black Americans who practice it at their peril. To focus too much on “Black issues” like civil rights or police misconduct is to risk the backlash of whites. During the Iowa caucus, Gibbs tells Obama, “Trust me, whatever else they know about you, people have noticed that you don’t look like the first 42 presidents.” In other words: We don’t need to remind them that you’re Black. What goes unsaid is that were Blackness politically benign, then it should make no difference if voters were reminded of it. There is something so unfair about this and yet one realizes that the approach was probably the most pragmatic, the only way to win, much as pragmatic brings with it a foul smell.

About the Black Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates, who was arrested by a white officer as he tried to break into his own home, Obama considers his view as “more particular, more human, than the simple black-and-white morality tale.” He argues that the police overreacted in arresting Gates, just as the professor overreacted to their arrival at his home, which feels like the kind of facile equating that is usually the forte of the racially naïve. Both sides were bad, as though both sides are equal in power. (And yet he learns from internal polling that the single incident that caused the biggest drop in support among white voters throughout his entire presidency was the Gates incident.)

There is a similar loftiness, if not a mild condescension, on the subject of Jeremiah Wright, the pastor of the church the Obamas sporadically attended in Chicago, whose fiery sermon criticizing American racism became a scandal during Obama’s campaign. Obama writes of his “rants that were usually grounded in fact but bereft of context,” and suggests that anger about racism was out of place in a congregation of wealthy successful Black people, as though class in America somehow cancels race. Of course Obama has a fine-toothed understanding of American racism but perhaps because of his unique parentage and history, he has cast himself as the conciliatory middle child, preferring to leave unsaid truths that might inflame, and insulating those said in various layers of cant.

He is brooding still about his infamous description of the rural white working class — “They get bitter, they cling to their guns or religion or antipathy toward people who aren’t like them, or anti-immigrant sentiment, or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations” — because he hates to be misunderstood, which is reasonable enough. He has empathy for the white working class and was after all raised by a grandfather with working-class roots. But in clarifying his position he writes, “Throughout American history, politicians have redirected white frustration about their economic or social circumstances toward Black and brown people.” It is a strange act of abdication of responsibility. Is white working-class racism merely the result of evil politicians hoodwinking hapless white people?

And so when he writes that John McCain never displayed the “race-tinged nativism” common in other Republican politicians, one wishes that there were more fully-fleshed examples of those, in a book that sometimes seems to conflate a sophisticated take on race and a dismissive one.

To reset the debate on the health care bill, Obama addresses a joint session of Congress. As he corrects the falsehood that the bill would cover undocumented immigrants, a little-known congressman named Joe Wilson, red with fury (racist fury, in my opinion), shouts “You lie!,” and in that moment he is partaking in that age-worn American tradition of a white man disrespecting a Black man even if that Black man is of a higher class. Obama writes that he was “tempted to exit my perch, make my way down the aisle, and smack the guy in the head.” His downplaying of the matter at the time is understandable — he is a Black man who cannot afford anger — but now, in this recounting, that he writes of his reaction using the childlike language of a hypothetical smack is bewildering. What does it mean to be publicly insulted, the first time such a thing has happened to a president of the United States addressing a joint session of Congress?

Yes, his assumed foreignness, his unusual parentage and name, played a role in the reception he got, but if his were a white foreignness, if his father were Scandinavian or Irish or Eastern European, and if his middle name were Olaf or even Vladimir, the demonizing would not be quite so dark. If he were not Black he would not have gotten so many death threats that he was given Secret Service protection very early in the primaries; long before he even knew he would win he already had bulletproof barriers in his bedroom.

And what does the “protective pessimism” of so many Black Americans, people convinced he would be killed for daring to run for president, say about America’s imaginative poverty on the subject of Black people? Why does Obama feel lucky to be in the White House with a middle name like Hussein? Why were we crying when he won?

During Obama’s presidency, I would often say, accusingly, to my friend and argument-partner Chinaku, “You’re doing an Obama. Take a damn stand.” Doing an Obama meant that Chinaku saw 73 sides of every issue, and he aired them and detailed them and it felt to me like subterfuge, a watery considering of so many sides that resulted in no side at all. Often, in this book, Barack Obama does an Obama. He is a man watching himself watch himself, curiously puritanical in his skepticism, turning to see every angle and possibly dissatisfied with all, and genetically incapable of being an ideologue. Early in their relationship Michelle asks why he always chooses the hard way. Later she tells him, “It’s like you have a hole to fill. That’s why you can’t slow down.” Indeed. Here, then, is an overwhelmingly decent man giving an honest account of himself. It is now normal to preface any praise of a public figure with the word “flawed,” but who isn’t flawed? As a convention it feels like an ungracious hedge, a churlish reluctance to commend the powerful or famous no matter how well deserved. The story will continue in the second volume, but Barack Obama has already illuminated a pivotal moment in American history, and how America changed while also remaining unchanged.





No.32 article:
The Genius of Spelling Bee

In the silence and darkness of Deb Koker’s Bedford, Mass., bedroom, the alarm rings and her eyes pop open. At 3 a.m., this would be an annoyance to most people, but Ms. Koker reaches for her cellphone and eagerly taps an icon on the screen.

This is an hour when most people on the East Coast are still asleep, but Ms. Koker, an engineer and a lawyer, does not have insomnia. The daily Spelling Bee game has just been published online and, while the rest of her family is slumbering peacefully, she can solve the beehive-shaped puzzle without interruption.

Spelling Bee — a puzzle in which players try to make words from a set of seven unique letters while using the center letter at least once — is the first of five digital games created by The New York Times Games team. The print version debuted in The New York Times Magazine in 2014, and the online game launched on May 9, 2018. And, while The Times does not share player information, the digital game has been a roaring success, both in terms of the number of subscribers who play the game and the passion that devotees show for it.

In less than an hour, on average, Ms. Koker has conquered the game and, sometime before 4 a.m., she logs on to Twitter to post her score. As is the case on most days, she has reached Queen Bee, an Easter egg level that is not part of the regular scoring of the game, which starts at Beginner and ends officially at Genius. Reaching Queen Bee meant that she had surpassed the Genius level and found all of the words on that day’s list.

Beeatrice, the game’s cartoon mascot, appears on Ms. Koker’s phone wearing a queenly crown.

Ms. Koker is clearly not a typical player. “Within a given week, about 25 percent of players will achieve Genius at least once,” said Luke Summerlin, a manager of data and analytics at The New York Times. “But this does not take into account whether or not they reached Genius every day, just once or somewhere in between.”

Those who do reach Genius — the number varies widely depending upon the difficulty of a given puzzle, but Mr. Summerlin estimated it at between 12 and 45 percent of all players — are greeted by Beeatrice donning a scholar’s mortarboard. They have cleared the Beginner, Good Start, Moving Up, Good, Solid, Nice, Great and Amazing levels to do so.

“I wake up early so I have time to get in my workout before I have to deal with reality,” Ms. Koker said. “Since I started trying to take Spelling Bee seriously, I starting waking up around 3 a.m. so I can do that first!”

Posting her score on Twitter is not a humblebrag on Ms. Koker’s part. It is a sort of call for word nerds to the “Hivemind,” as the community is known among followers of the Bee. They will chat with Ms. Koker on Twitter (using the hashtags #hivemind, #spellingbee and #nytsb) and help each other achieve the best score they can, even if they do not reach Queen Bee glory. As soon as they wake up, of course.

“The Spelling Bee followers on social media feel like my extended family,” Ms. Koker said. “These days, that’s more valuable than ever. It’s a lot of what gets me up at 3 a.m. every day. I’ve also learned a lot from them.”

Similar groups gather on social media platforms such as Facebook and Reddit to discuss the Spelling Bee. Readers of The Times’s Wordplay column, where self-described “puzzleheads” gather to chat about and get help with the daily crossword, have taken it upon themselves to devote a section in the column’s comments to a discussion about the Bee.

And they all formed words happily ever after, right?

Well, mostly. The game is not only highly addictive and satisfying to the many people who play it, but it can also be humorously infuriating to the devoted.

By most accounts, the puzzle community is a generous and friendly one, until a word that is believed by some to be “commonly known” is left off the list of accepted words for a given Spelling Bee puzzle.

Spelling Bee was created as an alternative game for those who might not be interested in the New York Times Crossword. As such, it is edited by the associate puzzles editor Sam Ezersky with an eye for words that can be considered familiar to a majority of solvers, as opposed to some of the tougher vocabulary that solvers see in crossword puzzles.

“It has to be frustrating to discover something you know is a word — one you might even use regularly — only to see it nullified by the game,” Mr. Ezersky said. “It’s all a balance, though. There’s only one master list for everyone. And one person’s expansive vocabulary or specialized knowledge is another’s obscurity or esoterica. So the playing field must be kept level somehow, and my guiding question these days is, ‘What feels fair for our audience?’”

When the hivemind feels that a word should be considered commonly known but is not accepted by the online game, the social media universe lights up in mock outrage at Mr. Ezersky, who works on the game on his own.

Not everyone is aware of that. The Twitterverse also likes to tweet at the Wordplay account and, in the early days of the digital game, one particularly incensed solver drove home the point that the word RAFFIA should be accepted, by mailing a package of the palm fiber ribbon to the home of crossword editor Will Shortz, to Mr. Shortz’s complete bewilderment.

While The New York Times does not endorse such methods, RAFFIA is now an accepted word and subsequently, players were given a much easier way to vote for the inclusion of certain words. Those who are inclined to do so may write to buzzwords@nytimes.com.

But we’re getting ahead of ourselves. First, there was the print version of the game.

Spelling Bee began its flight to word game stardom as one of three puzzles that Mr. Shortz and The Times Magazine’s editor, Jake Silverstein, agreed to add to the Sunday puzzle page. Mr. Shortz had seen a similar puzzle called Polygon in The Times of London, and he decided that a variant on it would help him broaden the scope of the games that the magazine offered its readers.

“I felt that The Times already had the ‘tough word puzzles’ audience covered with its crossword, Acrostic and cryptic,” Mr. Shortz said. “The readers we weren’t reaching yet were ones who’d like something easier and more accessible.”

He added, “So I planned three new things — Spelling Bee, a small word puzzle by Patrick Berry and a small grid-logic puzzle, usually by Wei-Hwa Huang — to fit on top of the harder variety word puzzles we were already running.”

Mr. Shortz modified the Times of London game by changing the shape to a seven-letter beehive and renaming it Spelling Bee. He also allowed players to reuse letters, which was forbidden in the British game.

The veteran puzzlemaker Frank Longo, who has worked as chief fact checker for the New York Times Crossword for the past 14 years, creates the magazine’s Spelling Bee from a computer program that generates lists of words containing seven unique letters, using the latest official tournament Scrabble word list as the source.

“When I submit the puzzle to Will, I always include two lists: One of words I would consider ‘common,’ and one of ‘questionably common’ words,” Mr. Longo said. “Then Will and his team go over each word on the ‘questionably common’ list (TACTILITY? BLINI? BLOTTO? REVIVER?) and decide if they believe it merits inclusion on the official published list.”

“And yes, sometimes naughty words show up,” he continued. “If they’re really bad ones, I will just not use the word. But very often, there are infelicitous words that are unavoidable because their letters are so common. For example, ENEMA and DILDO happen to come up a lot. In cases like that, we usually just shrug and leave them off the official answer list.”

By 2017, the New York Times Games team — then known as New York Times Crosswords — was looking for inspiration for a new project. The team had been given a mandate in late 2016 to create digital games that expanded beyond the Crossword, but there had been a lot of discussion and brainstorming about which type of game to tackle first.

Sam Von Ehren, the lead game maker on the team — yes, that’s his official title — knew that the group of developers and designers could come up with an original game, but that they also had legacy puzzle games they could digitize if needed. A multitude of solver requests for an online version of the Spelling Bee game — by then, it had become very popular in the magazine — made the decision easier. The relative simplicity of the game made it easy to code, and that sealed the decision.

“We prototyped and tested a few other games but Spelling Bee was in a league of its own,” Mr. Von Ehren said. “When it came time to start making full production versions of games, we knew we had to start with the Bee.”

In August, the team began production on the game. Nine months later, on May 9, 2018, Spelling Bee made its entrance into the world with its first set of letters: W A H O R T Y, with the W in the center of the hive. The pangram — a word that uses all of the letters in the puzzle at least once — was THROWAWAY.

Beeatrice was there to welcome players to the game. Robert Vinluan, a senior product designer who has worked on the Games team for four years, is responsible for her friendly face.

“I designed Beeatrice originally because I needed to fill some space,” he said. “When you start the game, players see an ‘Are you ready to start?’ screen like they do on the crossword, but it felt like it needed a visual. So I made a little bee that could be there to greet players and welcome them into the game.

“I also put her on the ‘Congrats!’ screen to make that moment feel more fun and congratulatory. Visually, I tried to incorporate a few letter B shapes in her design, not unlike how the FedEx logo has a ‘hidden’ arrow in it. Recently, some designers on our brand team helped redraw Beeatrice to keep her visually in-line with our other icons for our newer games.”

These games include the Mini crossword, Letter-Boxed, Tiles and Vertex.

So is everyone as smart as Ms. Koker? Does everyone reach Genius and beyond?

It turns out that for some players, reaching Genius is not really the point.

That Zen attitude works well for Taffy Brodesser-Akner, the author of the novel “Fleishman Is in Trouble” and a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine. She appreciates the fact that the game keeps her from feeling too competitive. “I look at the game as a way to relax,” Ms. Brodesser-Akner said. “I love reminders that you’re allowed to have fun without winning, right? And that is very good for someone like me, who has never been able to hold onto a hobby because I can’t stop myself from taking things to the next step. I love that there is no next step to this.”

“It makes me feel great!” said Reagan Fromm of Brooklyn, N.Y., who says she reaches the Amazing level most of the time. “It’s a tiny win to put in my pocket before I start the day.”

Peiling Tan of Singapore says that she reaches Great on most days, and she uses the game to learn new words. “I discover new words everyday thanks to the Spelling Bee,” Ms. Tan said. “It’s a lovely mental workout that I’ve started doing every day since the lockdown. In addition, my 5-year-old daughter enjoys playing alongside me and it helps her to learn new words too. We get to learn together. How lovely!”

Some players use puzzle solving as a way to take their minds off life’s stressors and to stay busy during the coronavirus pandemic. The novelist Laura Lippman, author of “My Life as a Villainess,” has since woven other pursuits into her self-care plan, but she enjoys Spelling Bee for its attempt to bring order to a mess of letters.

“I know it’s sacrilegious,” she said, “but I don’t particularly like Scrabble, because it’s not really about making words but making points. I like Spelling Bee because it’s just about making words. It’s about seeing things differently, creating new patterns with letters, finding meaning in seeming chaos.”

For others, like Brooks Swett of New York City, it’s about maintaining a sense of community when isolated. “Several months ago, my best friend put together a group text thread of people she had gotten hooked on the Bee during the coronavirus quarantine,” Ms. Swett said. “It has grown to a group of five players.”

“We reflect on words we missed from the day before,” she added. “We tell each other how we are getting on with the puzzle, offer encouragement, share words that we try in jest (why not YABADABADOO?) and air our grievances about glaring omissions of words that should be accepted, Sam.”

“Our group has big plans, once the pandemic subsides,” she said jokingly, “to eat lots of NAAN together, play the LOTTO and hang out with a TORO in a ROCOCO room.”

She continued: “We also cheer each other on without giving things away. The closest we ever get to giving each other clues is very occasionally to confirm whether a pangram is a compound word if a person is stumped or to reveal that there are multiple pangrams (we love those days). Often by 7:30 a.m., I already have four texts about the Bee. The thread has branched off into plenty of other topics as well.”

Ah yes, that pangram. There is at least one pangram in each game. Sometimes there are more. Entering the pangram in a game scores players a bonus of seven points, in addition to the points received for the length of the word.

Players get very excited when they find it.

Some of them write songs about finding it.

Discovering the pangram can be hit or miss. Some days, it pops right out at you. On other days, players find themselves endlessly typing in random letters or hitting the letter-shuffling button to gain a different perspective on the set.

The best way to discover the pangram, in this player’s opinion, is to join a community that shares hints. At some point, players will get stuck, and they are faced with a couple of options. They can put their devices down and walk away for a while — this almost always works, because it’s easier to see new words with fresh eyes — or they can join a solving community that will be happy to help pry the logjam loose.

Players have been known to create Slack channels at work around the Spelling Bee. Social media platforms are rife with such groups. And there is the particularly devoted one on Wordplay.

Doug Mennella, who lives in Tokyo, Japan, posts a grid every day in the column’s comments section based on a computer program he wrote. Others did it before him, and he has since picked up the mantle. No doubt that there will be others to carry on after he can no longer do it, because community requires continuity.

Readers are grateful for his work, and there is a lively discussion around each post, where players share hints to help one another break any mental logjams that might occur. And they celebrate players who post when they have solved the game for the first time on their own.

Of course, some players would like some help without letting others know that they need it. These people can rely on the increasing number of online solving programs that are popping up.

“I’ve always been a sucker for puzzles that challenge you to make new words from a small set of letters,” said William Shunn, a science fiction novelist from Manhattan. “Spelling Bee turbocharges that challenge by daring us to imagine we can hunt down and tame every last valid combination of seven unique letters.”

He continued: “Initially, I built the Solver just for myself. The original version was meant only to help me find the pangram once I became hopelessly stuck. The Spelling Bee discussion on Wordplay was crucial to the development of the program. I modeled my letter frequency grids after posts I had seen there, and I also adopted some of the jargon I picked up there.”

Christopher McLeester, of Clarksville, Md., built his program to share with others. “As a player of the Bee, I wanted to get more feedback about the words I missed and see some analysis,” he said. “And I wanted to do it while things were top of mind, not the next day. I assumed that others felt the same way.”

“I started thinking about what the page should look like,” he said. “I realized it could be a great way to teach my daughter, Evelyn, about coding, reading charts and how you can have fun doing cool stuff with a computer. And she already liked the Bee. When the online game started in 2018, Evelyn was learning about words and spelling. We started playing it as a family and it caught on as a daily tradition in the house.”

To recap, the Spelling Bee game — by most accounts — is fun to play, a way to challenge your brain while still relaxing, a diversion from stress, a way to learn new words and an opportunity to engage with a lively community of like-minded word lovers. A significant number of players have asked for an archive of the puzzles, so they can go back and play games that they missed or complete games that they were stuck on. That’s one sign of a game that has gotten under people’s skin.

It is also a chance, to some, to troll the game’s editor, Mr. Ezersky.

They do it well. There is a Twitter account called “Not a Spelling Bee Word” that posts words that have been left off the list (most of them are fairly esoteric) and humorously offers ones that might qualify for recognition in the game, if only they were real.

Then there are players with specialized knowledge in areas like physics, sailing or botany, who are bereft when a word they know — but a majority of other players are not likely to know — is not accepted. The word LUFF — the forward edge of a fore-and-aft sail, according to Merriam-Webster.com — comes up a lot among seafaring types. Physicists will gather on Twitter to loudly wonder in Mr. Ezersky’s direction as to why he does not consider PION to be a common word.

Sometimes it gets competitive. Never overlook the gardeners in favor of the techies, Mr. Ezersky. Gardeners work with sharp implements.

“I am often puzzled and frustrated,” said Colleen Bates Lance of Birmingham, Ala., in her response to a questionnaire posted on Wordplay — “that some simpler words, often having to do with flowers or plants — like vinca or Lantana — likely known to the large number of people who garden, are deemed unsuitable while technical terms that would seem to be familiar to a minuscule number of people are included.”

Mr. Ezersky sold his first crossword puzzle to The New York Times at age 17. He has since had more than 30 crosswords published in the newspaper, and hundreds more smaller puzzles of his have been published in the New York Times Crossword app.

Now 25 years old and a graduate of the University of Virginia, he works as an associate puzzles editor with Mr. Shortz on a variety of projects. This includes being the first pair of eyes to look at crossword submissions when they come in, as well as helping Mr. Shortz to edit puzzles that are accepted.

When Spelling Bee was being developed in 2017, Mr. Ezersky was chosen to become the curator of the word lists. He edits each one individually, and the first step is to make sure that the pangram or pangrams are not head scratchers. They should be words that are instantly familiar.

The next step is ruling out the obvious no-nos. This is where the human touch is needed, and he says that it is one of the most misunderstood parts of his job.

“There is a basic framework to the game, and that dictates how I edit,” Mr. Ezersky said. “I start with the following:

“We really do want solvers to find as many words in the complete list as possible,” he said. “If there’s a lot of esoterica in the list, what’s the point? Had the computer list for the puzzle (O) A D G N R U remained unedited, a part of the solution would have included words like OGDOAD, ONGAONGA, ORAD, ORGANON and OURANG.”

He continued: “Would you have been able to find them all? Computers alone can only do so much number-crunching to gauge a word’s familiarity.”

Mr. Ezersky is not without reference material. “I have a variety of online, up-to-date dictionaries at my disposal, including Merriam-Webster, New Oxford American and the Scrabble databases,” he said. “Another favorite resource of mine is Google’s News tab, which allows me to check if a word in question has made regular appearances in recent articles, especially in major outlets like The Times.”

“If there is anything I don’t recognize, I look it up to confirm that it isn’t just my own blind spot,” he continued. “But there are also what I call the ‘Scrabble words’ like PENK, TEIL and NIRL that I just know most players will not be familiar with and won’t try in the game. Anything that feels like a no-go — RAFFIA notwithstanding — is removed from the list.”

“Keeping all this in mind, I try to make a final call that feels as fair as possible,” he added. “I used to think that the phrase ‘commonly known’ was a good gauge, but I simply can’t dictate to all solvers what is and isn’t common. But isn’t that part of the fun of Spelling Bee, too? Who doesn’t love a game that gives them the chance to feel smart — smarter than its editor, even — as well as talk all about it with others?

“And when we learn more about each other, the world’s a better place,” he said.

Even so, players are hungry for more. Ms. Lippman ended her interview by saying: “I just want dirty words. Is that so much to ask?”

A final note to Mr. Ezersky and the Games team: Consider a “Spelling Bee After Dark” edition.

Join us here to solve Crosswords, The Mini, and other games by The New York Times





No.33 article:
Laura Benanti Says Goodbye to Melania and Watches ‘Ted Lasso’

The actress may be nearing the end as Melania Trump on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” but she has plenty of other projects and passions to keep her busy.

Laura Benanti is about to lose the job for which she’s best known. And she’s not sad about it.

For four years, the 41-year-old actress with a killer soprano and a nimble wit has been channeling Melania Trump for “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.” But Benanti knows her run will likely end at the same time as the Trump Administration.

“I feel thrilled,” she said. “I am more than willing to sacrifice this job in order to keep our democracy intact.”

The act has also paid dividends for Benanti, introducing her to those who may have missed her 12 Broadway shows, including a Tony-winning performance in “Gypsy.”

Thanks to the Colbert appearances, she said wryly, “People are finally taking me seriously as a comedian.”

The pandemic has been tough for Benanti: she and her husband each lost a grandmother to Covid-19. She is also remarkably busy, especially given that the coronavirus pandemic has stilled the careers of many performing artists.

Last month, Sony Music Masterworks released “Laura Benanti,” an album of contemporary and classic cover songs that she recorded late last year. It’s a mix of some of Benanti’s favorites, like “What Are You Doing the Rest of Your Life,” and “The Party’s Over,” and pop songs her producer suggested from the Jonas Brothers and Selena Gomez.

“At first I was really skeptical, because I didn’t want to sound like an old lady trying to be a teenager, but when I heard the arrangements, I was really blown away,” she added. “We were able to have 100 years worth of music on one album, and it all feels cohesive — it’s telling part of the same story.”

She is also the executive producer of “Homeschool Musical: Class of 2020,” a self-shot, documentary-style special that HBO Max is releasing Dec. 17. The show features performances by and interviews with high school seniors; it was inspired by Benanti’s invitation in March for students whose school shows were canceled by the pandemic to post clips to Twitter under the hashtag #SunshineSongs.

“It’s the artistic expression that they missed out their senior year of high school,” she said.

She is also back at work as an actor, shooting episodes of a “Gossip Girl” reboot for HBO Max and “Younger” for TV Land, and says being on set now “feels like being in a bad sci-fi movie.”

“It’s bizarre — it looks like you’re walking into a hospital, and everybody’s covered in P.P.E.,” she said. “I get a Covid test every single day — because they’re using different companies and will not rely on each other’s testing, the poor inside of my nose is raw — but I’m really impressed with the responsibility that they’re taking to keep everyone safe.”

In an interview from the new home in New Jersey she shares with her husband and their 3-year-old daughter (yes, Benanti is among those for whom the pandemic has catalyzed a move out of New York City), Benanti talked about her cultural essentials, crediting her sometime collaborator Ashley Van Buren with keeping her current. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

1. “The Queen’s Gambit”

Give me a period piece where a lady is doing something that women of that time didn’t do, and then is also addicted to alcohol and pills, and I’m in. Like, that’s just my genre. And Anya Taylor-Joy is just unbelievable.

2. “Stars in the House”

Seth Rudetsky and his husband James Wesley were doing two (web-streamed) shows a day, for a very long time, all to benefit the Actors Fund. Our Broadway family is decimated right now, and our health insurance is about to run out, and it’s really scary — it’s dire. They kept people’s spirits up, they kept their hopes alive, all while raising money for the Actors Fund, which does not just go to actors — it goes to everyone involved in the theatrical community. So for me that’s been a really wonderful thing to witness and to be a part of.

3. “What Kind of Woman”

Kate Baer just put out a book of poetry called “What Kind of Woman,” and I am obsessed with it. I can’t stop reading it. I devoured it one sitting and now I keep just going back and back and back. I found her through Instagram — I saw one of her poems — and I was like, “Who is this?” And we became friendly through social media, which is a new thing you can do, and every week she would post the poems, and I just became so enamored with her.

4. “Caste”

Another book I’m really loving is “Caste,” by Isabel Wilkerson. It’s never great to read about how Nazis were inspired by our systemic racism, but I think it’s a really important read, especially for white people and especially right now. It’s pretty shocking to me that if it were up to white people we would still have Donald Trump for a second presidency. We have Black people, and especially Black women, to thank, yet again, for saving a democracy that does the least for them. So I feel like, frankly, it’s my privilege and my duty to read books like that.

5. “Ted Lasso”

It’s the most feel-good television show you’re ever going to watch in your whole life. Look, it’s about soccer in England, which I could care less about. But I love a workplace comedy that does not require you to love the thing they’re talking about. It has that vibe for me, but it’s also laugh-out-loud funny. And I love that it’s unabashedly about a good person — a joyful, good person, going throughout life giving people the benefit of the doubt and seeing how that ripples.

6. Jordan Firstman and Caitlin Reilly

They are these two comedians, and they’re on Instagram and TikTok and they are doing impressions that are so next-level funny, so much funnier than any show on TV. Any time I’m needing a little pick-me-up I just go onto their pages and I’ll watch it over and over again. I’m also really excited by seeing how people are using social media and the internet to create their own content. It’s really hard in the corporate world of TV and film to make something really good that you’re proud of, and to be able to do it directly from your own house and onto your phone is kind of magical.

7. Virtual Museum Talks

I just think it’s so remarkable that you’re able now to basically sit in on a lecture at the Fashion Museum in Bath, England, and watch a lecture on fashion in the Jazz Age. Museums can feel really distant and stuffy, and the fact that people can now Zoom in, in their pajamas from the comfort of their own homes, is kind of miraculous. I am actually very bad at fashion, and I don’t really understand it. But I just like to learn about anything. I just like to get out of my own thoughts.

8. GenZHER

There’s a 15-year-old girl whose name is Zikora Akanegbu and she created an Instagram account, and now a zine called GenZHER, that connects young women and mentors, and gives advice on how to get your first job and a ton of really amazing things. And I just think it’s such an incredible example of what these young people are able to do.

9. #SunshineSongs

Am I allowed to say #SunshineSongs even though it’s my own thing that I started? For me, going and revisiting that hashtag, that people are still posting things to, and seeing all of these young people pouring their hearts out, and the incredible innovation. At a time where I feel like the language that we speak is mostly sarcasm, it’s so refreshing to see kids care about something. So that and also videos of people in Italy singing out their windows to each other. Seeing people pour their art out into a world that feels really dark — that to me is really beautiful.

10. “I Can’t Breathe”

I’m really inspired by H.E.R. in general — she’s so prolific — and this song in particular feels like something we all really need to hear. Music is so powerful in that it opens your heart to a place where you can then receive whatever message it is, and I think that that’s something that song does really beautifully.





No.34 article:
The 25 Greatest Actors of the 21st Century (So Far)





No.35 article:
Quotation of the Day: Drugs, Guns and Cash: This Is ‘Cartel TikTok’

“The message has to be quick, it has to be engaging, and it has to be viral. Violence becomes fun, or even put to music.”

ALEJANDRA LEÓN OLVERA, an anthropologist at Spain’s University of Murcia who studies the presence of Mexican organized crime groups on social media.





No.36 article:
The College Athletes Who Are Allowed to Make Big Bucks: Cheerleaders

During the three years Jamie Andries spent as a member of the University of Oklahoma cheerleading team, she cheered at two Big 12 championship football games, the Orange Bowl, the Sugar Bowl, the Rose Bowl and the 2016 Final Four.

And while the star football and basketball players in those games — including the Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Baker Mayfield and the future N.B.A. guard Buddy Hield — were forbidden to make money from their athletic fame beyond what the university provided to cover their attendance, Andries was receiving thousands of dollars through sponsorship deals with Crocs, L’Oréal, American Eagle and Lokai.

“Coming to OU for college was a big milestone for me but it has given me so many amazing opportunities like being able to cheer for the Sooners,” Andries said in an Instagram post in February 2016 that shows her wearing her cheer uniform and holding up her left wrist to display two Lokai bracelets. “This month I support @livelokai and the Alzheimer’s Association.”

The lucrative opportunities for Andries came because of her fame and a social media following in the cheerleading world — she is one of the top “cheerlebrities,” as such stars are known — and because the N.C.A.A. and its universities do not regulate cheerleading in the same ways they do other sports.

Long-held rules governing amateurism among college athletes do not apply to cheerleaders, meaning they can sell autographs, appear in commercials and wear their cheer uniforms while promoting products as social influencers, without fear of being disciplined. In sports governed by the N.C.A.A., athletes risk their eligibility to compete if they engage in similar activities, and their teams and universities can also be punished.

In 2011, for example, a scandal erupted at Ohio State when several football players sold awards, bowl-game memorabilia and other Buckeyes swag to the owner of a tattoo parlor, resulting in the resignation of the team’s coach, a skipped postseason and the loss of nine scholarships for the program.

The rules have also challenged some superstars to choose between college sports and the commercial markets. Simone Biles, the Olympic gymnastics champion, gave up a scholarship offer from U.C.L.A. when the financial reality of turning pro made participating in college sports seem like too much of a sacrifice.

The N.C.A.A. has long fought attempts to loosen its rules, but is now on a path toward allowing athletes to earn money from some endorsements, including through social media deals. The shift followed pressure from legislation in California and several other states, enacted by lawmakers who said the N.C.A.A.’s stance was no longer tenable given the significant growth of college sports as a moneymaking enterprise.

New rules are expected to be adopted by January and to take effect at the start of the 2021-22 academic year, creating a new market.

Andries said in an interview that she understands why the current restrictions for college athletes exist, but thinks that the rules can be changed in a way that is still palatable to universities — even if the athletes ultimately don’t get as much latitude as cheerleaders.

“I do think it’s a good way for players to benefit themselves and help other brands grow,” Andries said.

Since its inception in the late 19th century, cheerleading has evolved from yelling encouragement on the sidelines to a competitive hybrid of gymnastics, dance and acrobatics. Advanced tumbling skills and the ability — plus courage — to perform gravity-defying stunts are the norm at the collegiate level, where top cheerleaders can reach a level of fame akin to that of star quarterbacks, especially on Instagram.

The most popular cheerleaders draw crowds seeking autographs and pictures at cheer competitions, and develop large followings through impressive tumbling, high-flying basket tosses or displays of extreme flexibility.

In the early 2010s, Andries became one of the first cheerleaders to achieve social media stardom, building her following while competing with a club team in high school. Her first deals were with small companies that peddled cheerleading gear, including one that sold hair bows that she designed and autographed. She now has 429,000 followers on Instagram, and her account has been verified for the past five years.

As Andries’s follower count grew, so did the deals. She has been in partnerships with Nissan, Amazon, FabFitFun, Colgate, SmileDirectClub and Urban Decay.

Andries said that her coaches in college had no problem with her promoting products while wearing her cheer uniform; their main rule was that she wasn’t allowed to miss practice for outside appearances.

“Their only concern was anything that would affect the team,” she said.

Mackenzie Sherburn and Shannon Woolsey, who are now at Texas Tech, were featured in the Netflix documentary series “Cheer” while they were teammates at Navarro College, a Texas junior college. They were able to turn that buzz into financial gain, unlike the college football players who gained fame while appearing in another Netflix documentary series, “Last Chance U.”

Woolsey, who has a verified Instagram account with 255,000 followers, has posted sponsored content for the apparel company Reebok, the study-aid website Course Hero and the cosmetics company Vanity Planet. She can earn more than $5,000 per post through deals with larger companies, and sometimes receives $200 to promote smaller boutiques.

“A lot of companies like stories of me sitting and talking about the product and making it seem like it’s not an ad,” Woolsey said.

Sherburn said that along with free apparel, the entire Texas Tech cheer team gets discounts from local salons for services like tanning and manicures. “We have to post about it and say, ‘Thank you for taking care of me,’ in return,” she said.

Woolsey and Sherburn said they did not consult their Texas Tech coaches about posting sponsored content because they saw no need to ask for permission.

“I don’t think they really care, because it’s such a big thing in the cheerleading world now,” Woolsey said.

Cheerleading does not qualify as a sport, at least not in the eyes of the N.C.A.A. and federal regulators, in part because some universities have tried to circumvent gender-equality rules by granting varsity status to cheer teams at the expense of conventionally competitive opportunities for women. Yet some cheer teams get perks from universities that are similar to those provided for other athletic programs.

Some universities offer meal plans, small scholarships, access to athlete housing, tutoring services, early class registration and waivers of out-of-state fees. Taryn Burke, a former cheerleader and current assistant coach at the University of Central Florida, said that the team there gets “access to the same exact things as any other sport would have” and awards scholarships based on a cheerleader’s skill level, grades and seniority.

Cheerleaders may also receive free or discounted products as a result of companies’ sponsoring their teams. Jessica Pak, a former U.C.L.A. cheerleader, recalls receiving Vera Bradley bags and NARS makeup through sponsorships that were specifically tied to the spirit squad. The sponsors expected the gifted products to be used by the cheerleaders during games and to be promoted on the spirit team’s social media account.

“I don’t really understand why that rule is a thing,” Pak said of the N.C.A.A.’s restrictions.

Peg Fitzpatrick, a social media marketing expert and the co-author of “The Art of Social Media: Power Tips for Power Users,” said brands have focused on college cheerleaders for two particular reasons: The cheerleaders can directly reach a target demographic (people in their late teens and early- to mid-20s), and they present an opportunity for companies to tap into the excitement of college sports without N.C.A.A. interference.

“The image of a cheerleader is kind of like Chevrolet and hot dogs and apple pie,” Fitzpatrick said.

High school cheerleaders are also cashing in, with no risk of voiding their eligibility to cheer in college. Ryan Cummings, a 16-year-old from North Carolina, gained fame and 437,000 Instagram followers after a GIF of her making a sassy expression during a cheer routine in 2018 became an internet meme. She gets money for posts on TikTok and, like other cheerleaders, sells autographed bows and has hired an agent to help her negotiate deals.

Her teammate, Kenley Pope, 15, has had Instagram partnerships with Casetify, Novashine, Ivory Ella and Crocs, which paid her $2,000 for posts. Pope’s mother and coach, Courtney Smith-Pope, helps her determine which products to promote.

Smith-Pope owns Cheer Extreme Athletics, a gym in Kernersville, N.C., that has produced multiple cheerlebrities over the years. She said she doesn’t need to dictate the endorsements her athletes accept. “These kids own their own talents and their own abilities,” she said, a sentiment shared by many coaches.

Universities are preparing to assert more influence in an expanded market for college athletes. Texas, Nebraska and Louisiana State have partnered with marketing agencies to perhaps help broker some deals for student-athletes once the rules change.

Woolsey and Andries independently hired agents while in college to help manage their endorsement deals, and Andries, now a social media manager for the apparel company Rebel Athletic, still makes extra income from deals related to her popularity from her cheer days.

She said she had realized in college that she got “the best of both worlds” at Oklahoma.

“I was like, ‘Wow I get to cheer and I get to have this sort of side job that I get to focus on,’” she said, “‘and I get to make some money that I can save up for myself to use after college.’”





No.37 article:
In Key States, Republicans Were Critical in Resisting Trump’s Election Narrative

They refuted conspiracy theories, certified results, dismissed lawsuits and repudiated a president of their own party.

The telephone call would have been laugh-out-loud ridiculous if it had not been so serious. When Tina Barton picked up, she found someone from President Trump’s campaign asking her to sign a letter raising doubts about the results of the election.

The election that Ms. Barton as the Republican clerk of the small Michigan city of Rochester Hills had helped oversee. The election that she knew to be fair and accurate because she had helped make it so. The election that she had publicly defended amid threats that made her upgrade her home security system.

“Do you know who you’re talking to right now?” she asked the campaign official.

Evidently not.

If the president hoped Republicans across the country would fall in line behind his false and farcical claims that the election was somehow rigged on a mammoth scale by a nefarious multinational conspiracy, he was in for a surprise. Republicans in Washington may have indulged Mr. Trump’s fantastical assertions, but at the state and local level, Republicans played a critical role in resisting the mounting pressure from their own party to overturn the vote after Mr. Trump fell behind on Nov. 3.

The three weeks that followed tested American democracy and demonstrated that the two-century-old system is far more vulnerable to subversion than many had imagined even though the incumbent president lost by six million votes nationwide. But in the end, the system stood firm against the most intense assault from an aggrieved president in the nation’s history because of a Republican city clerk in Michigan, a Republican secretary of state in Georgia, a Republican county supervisor in Arizona and Republican-appointed judges in Pennsylvania and elsewhere.

They refuted conspiracy theories, certified results, dismissed lawsuits and repudiated a president of their own party, leaving him to thunder about a supposed plot that would have had to include people who had voted for him, donated to him or even been appointed by him. The desperate effort to hang onto office over the will of the people effectively ended when his own director of the General Services Administration determined that Joseph R. Biden Jr. is the president-elect and a judge Mr. Trump put on the bench chastised him for ludicrous litigation.

“Free, fair elections are the lifeblood of our democracy,” Judge Stephanos Bibas, appointed by Mr. Trump in 2017, wrote for a three-judge panel of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia on Friday as it dismissed the latest of dozens of legal claims filed by Mr. Trump and his allies. “Charges of unfairness are serious. But calling an election unfair does not make it so. Charges require specific allegations and then proof. We have neither here.”

Unfounded as it is, the president’s campaign against the results may leave lasting scars. With much of the Republican establishment endorsing or staying silent on Mr. Trump’s claims, and polls indicating that tens of millions of Republicans believe the election was somehow rigged, faith in American democracy, the fundamental tenet of the social contract established by the framers, has eroded in a dangerous way. And Mr. Biden, the incoming president, now faces a country where many of his constituents consider him illegitimate.

Those who defied Mr. Trump despite their own partisan backgrounds remain bruised by the experience too, in some cases questioning the political system that they have spent years upholding. They may pay a price if their fellow Republicans see what they did as acts of disloyalty rather than conscience. But those who have spoken out expressed no regrets.

“I’ve got a pretty thick skin, but it’s hard not to feel shook by it all,” Ms. Barton reflected the other day. “We take our job so seriously that it’s devastating to us to have something like that happen. I cried every day for a week, every time I thought about it. My biggest concern was, we’re already living in a time when so many people have so little confidence in the process and to give them more reason not to trust the results was absolutely devastating to me.”

The drama began within hours after the polls closed. The initial leads that Mr. Trump enjoyed in several battleground states began to dwindle as absentee and mail-in votes that favored Mr. Biden were slowly counted and added to the tallies released publicly. Mr. Trump portrayed the numbers as fraudulent and headed to court, filing lawsuits in multiple states.

In Arizona, where Trump allies complained that the use of Sharpie pens invalidated ballots because they bled through, Clint Hickman, the chairman of the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors and a Republican, sent an open letter with a Democratic colleague saying they were “concerned about the misinformation spreading about the integrity of our elections.”

Mark Brnovich, the state’s Republican attorney general who is widely expected to run for governor in 2022, announced he would investigate the use of the Sharpies. A day later, he tweeted he was satisfied that the pens did not influence the election in any way.

Passions continued to rise. The Democratic secretary of state received threats to kill her family and pets and burn down her house. Mr. Hickman stepped up again, issuing another letter calling on Republicans to “dial back the rhetoric, rumors and false claims.”

Rusty Bowers, the Republican speaker of the state House of Representatives, likewise pushed back against the conspiracies and resisted an “enormous amount of pressure” for lawmakers to choose their own electors to support Mr. Trump. “I took an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution and laws of the State of Arizona,” he said.

In Georgia, Mr. Trump and his allies were blocked by Brad Raffensperger, the Republican secretary of state. A mild-mannered civil engineer, Mr. Raffensperger is a staunch conservative who won his office two years ago with an endorsement from Mr. Trump and a platform of Trumpian goals, including a promise to protect the voting system from illegal immigrants.

But he bristled at unfounded claims from Mr. Trump’s team and other Republicans, including Senators Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, who called for his resignation. Representative Doug Collins, a Republican who had just lost a challenge against Ms. Loeffler, took over Mr. Trump’s efforts in Georgia and accused Mr. Raffensperger’s office of setting rules that “seem to be changing as we go.” Mr. Raffensperger took to Facebook to push back, calling Mr. Collins a “liar.”

The dispute landed before Judge Steven D. Grimberg, who was nominated to the United States District Court by Mr. Trump and was a member of the Federalist Society, which has provided lists of conservatives from which the president has drawn his Supreme Court nominees.

But if the Trump camp believed it would find a sympathetic ear, it was disabused in the opening minutes of the hearing when the youthful judge seemed increasingly perturbed by the answers he received to his pointed questions. The suit “would require halting the certification results in a state election in which millions of people have voted,” the judge noted.

The next day, Mr. Raffensperger spurned Mr. Trump and certified Mr. Biden’s victory in Georgia. “Numbers don’t lie,” the secretary of state said. Gov. Brian Kemp, a Trump ally, then certified Georgia’s electors for Mr. Biden while twisting himself to say that the decision now “paves the way for the Trump campaign to pursue other legal options.”

In Pennsylvania, the legal efforts found no more traction. The week after the election, Mr. Trump and his allies lost seven cases in succession. By the next weekend, they ended up in federal court before Judge Matthew W. Brann, another Federalist Society member and conservative Republican appointed by President Barack Obama at the behest of a Republican senator.

Judge Brann called the Trump team’s claim nothing more than “strained legal arguments without merit and speculative accusations” and refused to delay certification of the election. “In the United States of America, this cannot justify the disenfranchisement of a single voter, let alone all the voters of its sixth most populated state,” he wrote. Judge Brann’s ruling was the one upheld on Friday.

Mark Aronchick, a lawyer who represented the city of Philadelphia in several cases brought by the Trump campaign, said the past three weeks proved that the judicial system would not simply bend to the president’s will.

“This period of time, with all the things that the Trump campaign were throwing, I viewed as very much a stress test on what I will shout from the rooftops is the best legal system the world has ever seen, in terms of independence of the judiciary and the rule of law,” he said. “And at both the state and federal level, the system has come through with flying colors.”

Nowhere was the pressure more sustained than in Michigan even though Mr. Biden’s margin of victory of 154,000 was greater there than in other contested states. At one point, two Republicans on the Wayne County elections board bowed to the president’s wishes and refused to certify the results, only to reverse themselves later that night.

Mr. Trump then summoned the Republican leaders of the state legislature, the Senate majority leader, Mike Shirkey, and Speaker Lee Chatfield, to the White House in a bid to get lawmakers to substitute their own slate of electors. The two men, both rumored to be interested in higher office, were hesitant to go, according to people familiar with their thinking, but felt that if a president called, they had no choice.

Mr. Chatfield, 32, a graduate of Liberty University, the Christian school in Virginia founded by the Rev. Jerry Falwell, had been a vocal supporter of the president, even warming up the crowd at a rally in Muskegon before Mr. Trump arrived a week before the election. Mr. Shirkey, 65, has not been so visible, but had spoken at several rallies protesting coronavirus lockdown orders issued by Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, including on the same day the F.B.I. announced that it had foiled a right-wing plot to kidnap her.

But they rebuffed Mr. Trump nonetheless, issuing a statement shortly after leaving the White House affirming that they had seen no evidence that would change the outcome of the election and would let the winner of the popular vote stand.

But the Trump team seized on any routine mistakes or far-fetched allegations to advance the cause. In Rochester Hills, in Oakland County, votes in one precinct were posted in the absentee tally and then also posted in the in-person total without first being removed from the absentee count.

The mistake was quickly caught and rectified before the results became official, but Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, claimed that “we found 2,000 ballots that had been given to Democrats, that were Republican ballots, due to a clerical error.”

Ms. Barton, who has served as the Rochester Hills clerk for eight years, learned about Ms. McDaniel’s comment from a reporter and promptly took to social media to rebut the “categorically false” assertion. “As a Republican, I am disturbed that this is intentionally being mischaracterized to undermine the election process,” Ms. Barton said in a video she posted to Twitter, which was viewed more than 1.2 million times.

Ms. Barton, 49, is another graduate of Liberty University, where she earned a master’s degree after graduating from Great Lakes University in Michigan. She posts Bible verses online and has said that “God orders my steps.” She served for eight years as the deputy clerk in the Detroit suburb of Bloomfield Township before being appointed to the Rochester Hills post and has earned respect from both Republicans and Democrats.

She was initially reluctant to give Ms. McDaniel’s claim any validity by responding but decided she had no choice. “In relaying the truth, I was going to be opening myself up to criticism and if I ever thought about running for office again, that would be impacted,” she said. “But the real cost was in voter confidence. I told my deputy that all these things have to be put aside and I have to speak the truth.”

Soon she found herself the target of profane and threatening emails and telephone calls, and while she took comfort that she was safe because her husband is a sheriff’s deputy, they nonetheless upgraded the security system at home. “It’s just devastating to see what the response has been to our profession and how we have come, as a country, to think that violence and threats is the answer,” she said.

As an election official, she spent much of the last four years talking with other officials about cyberthreats to American democracy. Never, she said, did she realize that the real threat this year would come from within.

“But now we have to go back and rebuild voter trust and let people realize that our elections are not rigged,” she said. “We have to step back and say how do we restore public confidence in a system that is completely torn down.”





No.38 article:
Depending on the Kindness of Sound Engineers

Williamstown Theater Festival’s summer season is now a winter experiment, all on audio. That includes “A Streetcar Named Desire,” recorded in actor’s closets.

A little over a year ago, the director Robert O’Hara and Mandy Greenfield, the artistic director of the Williamstown Theater Festival, phoned Audra McDonald with a proposition. They wanted her to play Blanche DuBois in “A Streetcar Named Desire.” McDonald, a six-time Tony-winning actress, hesitated. The role frightened her. “It’s a recipe for disaster and failure,” she said.

And that was before she met her co-star: a lawn mower.

McDonald accepted the role, and had a pandemic not intervened, her “Streetcar” would have opened in June. But when Greenfield realized that this summer’s festival, a proving ground for new plays and a holiday camp for celebrity actors, could not go forward as scheduled, she reached out to Kate Navin, a producer with Audible, the Amazon-owned audiobook powerhouse.

Together they dreamed up a grand plan, which they announced in early April: They would create an acoustic record of a summer that wasn’t, producing deluxe recordings of each show that the festival had announced for 2020 and releasing all of them on Audible.

Which explains, mostly, why McDonald spent two days in late August huddled inside a closet, recording Blanche’s anguish while a neighbor’s mower revved and a dog barked and her toddler daughter shrieked “No, I don’t want to!” just outside the door.

“It was a very wild way of trying to dive in and fall into one of the most iconic female roles in the history of theater,” McDonald said.

Beginning on Dec. 3 with “Streetcar,” Audible will release seven shows, one per week, more or less. The later releases: Anna Ziegler’s “Photograph 51,” Dominique Morisseau’s “Paradise Blue” and the world premieres of Stacy Osei-Kuffour’s “Animals,” Shakina Nayfack’s “Chonburi International Hotel &amp; Butterfly Club,” Sanaz Toossi’s “Wish You Were Here” and Daniel Goldstein and Dawn Landes’s musical “Row.”

These aren’t exactly the shows that Williamstown first announced. The cast lists aren’t quite the same either. It turns out that cramming an entire summer season into a pair of headphones, easily the most ambitious project Audible’s theater wing has ever attempted, means flubbing a few lines on the way to opening night.

“The process,” Greenfield said, “has been exhilarating, exasperating and totally gratifying.”

Greenfield cold called Navin back in March, when it became clear that Massachusetts, where the festival resides, would not permit in-person gathering. Navin, the artistic producer for Audible Theater, didn’t pick up. So Greenfield left a message. “I have a crazy idea,” it began.

Actually, the idea wasn’t so crazy, especially as Audible had already had conversations about extending its resources to artists during the pandemic. After a few more calls, Audible agreed to finance, record and distribute the season, paying the actors at least what they would have earned at Williamstown.

The festival, which had to forego its entire season’s income, about $2 million, will not realize revenue from sales of the plays on Audible, though Greenfield hopes it might spur philanthropy.

With the project a go, Greenfield reached out to the artists, who quickly signed on. Nayfack, who also stars in her play, about a group of women all recovering from gender confirmation surgery in a hotel in Thailand, described the pivot to audio as a relief from “the murky purgatory” of quarantine.

“It was like, ‘Oh my gosh, I have a reason to get out of bed and start writing,’” she said. Further inspiration: An Audible performance can reach millions, while a festival performance seats only hundreds.

Navin and Greenfield set tentative recording targets for the summer, when they assumed that studios would have reopened to small groups. “That is how we have produced our theater titles to date,” Navin said during a phone call in May. “Multicast productions that we’ve done, we’ve put everybody in a room together so that they have their acting partners, so that the performance is really authentic.”

But the East Coast’s slow reopening, plus phase-in guidelines that didn’t distinguish between live performances with or without an audience meant delays, then a decisive shift. The project mostly gave up on studio sessions, instead sending actors personalized recording equipment: a computer, a microphone, headphones.

Even online, each show would still follow a truncated version of the Williamstown process, starting rehearsals with a virtual meet and greet, ending the run (which is to say, the recording sessions) with a computerized cast party. It would be up to Audible’s engineers to make it sound as though the actors occupied the same stage, squaring the acoustic difference between a bedroom and a bathroom, say.

The adjusted schedule meant that one show dropped out, Leslye Headland’s “Cult of Love,” replaced by Morisseau’s “Paradise Blue.” A few performers had to cancel as well, like Bobby Cannavale, cast as Stanley in “Streetcar.” Ariel Shafir, a theater and film actor, instead filled the role.

In spring, O’Hara, who directed “A Raisin in the Sun” at Williamstown in 2019, received the move to Audible with some disappointment. He and his designers had already begun to envision how the play, set in cosmopolitan, midcentury New Orleans, would look and feel.

“We were full speed ahead, and there were a lot of things in the works in terms of imagining it for the stage,” he said. Remote recording provided another disappointment, as it meant directing actors, like McDonald, whom he had never met face to face.

But by midsummer, a few weeks before recording, the possibilities had begun to excite him. “In audio I can instantly bring you into an intimate conversation, I can drag you right into the bathroom, right into the corner, right into a sexual moment,” he said. “I can actually present desire and the atmosphere right inside your ear and bring you close to it.” (“Streetcar” has been released on audio at least three times before, so there’s precedent.).

Carla Gugino, who plays Blanche’s sister, Stella, and also recorded from within a closet, had wondered how the cast would take what she called “one of the most physical, primal, tactile dramas that we have in the American theater canon,” and translate it to audio only. But during remote rehearsal, which O’Hara conducted with cameras off so that the actors wouldn’t have any more information than a typical listener, the cast discovered how to move closer to and away from the microphone to suggest distance and proximity.

Another discovery? Avoid pauses. “Silence doesn’t help you,” O’Hara said. “Most times it sounds like someone missed the line or there’s a been a mistake. Holding for dramatic silence doesn’t have any weight on the ear at all.”

The production’s sound designer, Lindsay Jones sourced and created expected sound cues — clinking ice, shuffled cards, that streetcar. But he also looked for effects that could convey greater intimacy, burrowing into Blanche’s unquiet mind. “We can go right into Blanche’s psyche on audio,” he said.

That said, when I listened to an hour or so of rehearsal in August, the conversation didn’t exactly center on the psyche, as Gugino wondered whether the microphone would pick up the rumbling of her stomach. It wouldn’t.

The recording sessions for “Streetcar” progressed a lot like traditional run-throughs, though run-throughs in which the actors appeared to each other as blacked out squares on a computer screen. “The play holds a lot of trauma,” O’Hara said. “So I made a very, very particular decision, before we even began that we would only do at most two takes.”

Playwrights and directors of the following pieces made other decisions and other adjustments, usually minor. Ziegler tweaked a few lines to explain unseen body language. “It’s fine,” one character now says, when a colleague accidentally brushes against him, “strangely my arm doesn’t fall off when something touches it.” Typically theater wisdom insists that you should show, not tell. Now telling was required.

Despite occasional hiccups — a storm that knocked out internet, apartments with thin walls, fire trucks — five of the shows had been recorded by the end of October and the sixth, “Row,” was preparing for a week in studio, though Covid regulations meant that no more than two singers could share a booth.

“It was sort of heartbreaking for me to realize that we wouldn’t be able to have all of the singers singing the material ever at the same time,” Dawn Landes, the composer of “Row” said of the recording sessions. Still, having even two singers together, without the microsecond delays that remote recording occasions, was something.

Each completed recording was sent to Audible’s engineers, who assembled a rough cut. Directors sent back suggestions. The cuts became less rough. Then sound designers took over. Jones, the “Streetcar” designer, added in the everyday noises of the apartment, crafting them down to the microsecond, then layered in jazz music he had composed online using virtual instruments. The audio had to stand in for the set, the costumes, the lights. “You’re trying to make a movie for your ears,” he said.

While Gugino called the recording, which she had heard in rough cut, “a beautifully distilled version of the play, stripped of any other distractions,” McDonald wasn’t sure what they had made. She had yet to feel Blanche in her body. “All I have right now are her words,” she said.

Yet relying only on language focused her performance, McDonald said. “You have no choice but to fully be in the moment.” She trusted that eventually she would perform Blanche live and visible. “But for now, this is what it is,” she said.

Since March 11, when Greenfield canceled the season, she has wondered if this — an all-audio season — was enough. That nearby theaters in the Berkshires received permission for some in-person performances have made the wondering more acute.

“Did I do the right thing?” she wrote in an email in late November. “Listen to Audra McDonald as Blanche DuBois, listen to Grace McLean sing ‘Row,’ listen to Kristolyn Lloyd in ‘Paradise Blue,’ and you can tell me.”

No live recording can replace the experience of live theater and these don’t try to. Greenfield would like to stage the 2020 plays at some point. “I want very much for their work to live,” she said. “We will have to see what’s possible ahead.” But she hopes that each recording provides “a meal in and of itself.” Beyond aesthetic satisfaction the audio-only season stands as placeholder and mile marker, an aural record of a fraught moment and a way to keep actors working, paid and in community, however remotely.

“We had the opportunity to come together and, and make a play, when no one else was getting to make a play,” Nayfack said. “That was a huge privilege.”





No.39 article:
Shut Down Your Computers, Kids, and Lace Up

Teens and tweens need exercise, period. Many parents are finding informal, creative and encouraging ways to get their isolated offspring outside safely.

As any parent overseeing homeschool knows: Zoom P.E. is hardly a hard-driving Peloton class. It’s more like your kid lying on the floor of the living room doing halfhearted leg-lifts by the light of her laptop.

Many students, particularly tweens and teens, are not moving their bodies as much as they are supposed to be — during a pandemic or otherwise. (60 minutes per day for ages 6 to 17, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.) A March 2020 report in The Lancet offers scientific evidence as to why your kids won’t get off the couch: As children move through adolescence, they indeed become more sedentary, which is associated with greater risk of depression by the age of 18. Being physically active is important for their physical health as well as mental health.

Yet with many organized team sports on hiatus and athletic fields, playgrounds and climbing gyms closed or restricted to smaller groups during shorter hours, what’s an increasingly lazy child to do? More accurately: What’s a mother or father of an increasingly lazy child to do?

Many parents are taking charge, finding informal and creative ways to entice their isolated tweens and teens off their screens and outside — with others, safely. To get your own younger ones moving, here are a few ideas from families around the country, all almost-guaranteed hits, even with winter coming.

In San Francisco, under rain, fog or blue skies (or even the infamous orange one), a group of sixth graders have been gathering in Golden Gate Park two times a week to run two miles. Their unofficial motto: “Safe Distance, Minimal Distance.” Masks are required and photo breaks are frequent, as is post-run ice cream. Started on a whim by local parents in late-August, the club has been such a hit, attracting anywhere from six to 20 kids each run, that some occasionally call for a third afternoon per week, even a 7 a.m. before-school meet-up (in which case they serve doughnuts). But treats are not the ultimate draw.

“I like the experience of being with my peers and actually doing something, all at the same time,” 11-year-old Henry Gersick said. “Instead of just sitting there.”

One of the most accessible, inexpensive, socially distanced sports is something you may not even realize is a sport. Since the pandemic began, jump-roping has become “a TikTok craze,” according to Nick Woodard, a 14-time world-champion jump-roper and founder of Learnin’ the Ropes, a program designed to teach kids and adults the joy of jumping. “All you need is time, some space and a $5 jump rope, and you’re good to go,” Mr. Woodard said.

Based in Bowling Green, Ky., Mr. Woodard and his wife, Kaylee (a six-time world champion in her own right), have been leading virtual workshops for children as young as 6, from Malaysia to Germany. A 30-minute class costs $35 for one child, and includes spiderwalk warmups, instruction, and challenges. (How many jumps can you do in 30 seconds?)

“They have so much fun, they don’t even realize they’re getting exercise,” Ms. Woodard said. But a selling point right now is that jumping rope — unlike team sports — is something you can do together, apart.

“My kids are reluctant to do anything outdoors, unless we’re meeting up with another family, then they’re totally into it!” said Ginny Yurich, founder of 1000 Hours Outside, a family-run Instagram account with over 112,000 followers that challenges youth to spend an average of 2.7 hours a day outdoors per year. “Make sure you have food, a first-aid kit and friends — friends are the linchpin,” she said. (Masks, too.)

Ms. Yurich, a Michigan mother of five, drags her children on day hikes, yes, but also on evening lantern-lit hikes, rainy hikes and snowy walks. She was inspired, she said, by the 2017 book “There’s No Such Thing as Bad Weather,” by the Swedish-American author-blogger Linda McGurk, who espouses the Scandinavian concept of friluftsliv, or “open-air living.” For Ms. Yurich and Ms. McGurk, experiencing the outdoors is paramount to children’s development and well-being.

If you prefer not to pod during the pandemic, follow the lead of Dave Rubenstein, a father of two in Lawrence, Kan., by enacting “Forced Family Fun Time.”

“We call it F.F.F.T.,” Mr. Rubenstein said of the weekly activity. “It usually involves a hike around the lake in town, but it could be any outdoor activity teenagers typically hate. And if they complain, the punishment is more F.F.F.T.”

“Kids are biking like never before,” said Jon Solomon, a spokeman for the Aspen Institute’s Sports &amp; Society Program, the nonprofit’s initiative to help build healthy communities through sports. Over the year, leisure bike sales grew 203 percent year over year, he said.

In one neighborhood in Denver, one neighbor has opened up a half-mile dirt bike track on his property to all the kids on the block. Wyatt Isgrig, 14, and his friends tackle it often by mountain bike, scooter or motorized dirt bike.

Ali Freedman, a mother of two in Boston’s Roslindale neighborhood, has loved watching children of all ages on her street playing together. “Every day around 3:30 p.m., kids we never knew before Covid come biking by our house asking ‘Can you play?’” Ms. Freedman said.

The young crew all wear masks — “Moms have a text thread going to check on enforcement when masks become chin diapers,” said Ms. Freedman, who peers out the window every so often — and best of all: “They stay out until dinner.”

In a September survey conducted by the Aspen Institute and Utah State University in response to the coronavirus pandemic, 71 percent of parents said “individual games” (like shooting baskets solo) were the form of sport with the highest comfort level for their kids, followed by classic neighborhood pickup games like basketball or tennis.

But inventing your own game has its own rewards. One otherwise boring day in suburban Maryland, Mr. Solomon and his son, 11, came up with something they call hock-ball. It involves a hockey stick and a tennis ball and an empty sidewalk or street.

Mr. Solomon attempted to explain. “You roll the tennis ball like a kickball — it could be smooth, or slow, or bouncy — and the person with the stick tries to hit it past the pitcher, then runs back and forth to home plate.” There are points and innings and it’s apparently fun for all ages. “Only problem is, the ball inevitably rolls under a parked car, ” Mr. Solomon said.

In Milwaukee, where daily high temperatures in winter often hover below freezing, Kendra Cheng said her seventh grader will be doing much of the same as she did over the summer, only wearing more clothes: kickball, trampoline tag or even “water-skiing on land” — which calls for two kids, a broken hammer, a rope, and Rollerblades (or cross-country skis).

But the hot new thing in Ms. Cheng’s neighborhood, she said, will be snow yoga, led by a certified yogi friend. Once it starts snowing, 10 to 20 people will gather  twice a week at a safe distance in a private backyard with a backdrop of Lake Michigan. “In Wisconsin, we love the cold,” Ms. Cheng said. “We love snowpants. We love barely being able to move because we have five layers on. And we’re all excited to do downward dog outdoors to create our sweat.”

Pay your kid — a dollar, a quarter, a penny — per minute to walk the pandemic puppy you just got.

“It gets them out of the house and out of my hair — and they earn some money,” said Murray Isgrig, parent of Wyatt in Denver. “Even though they don’t have anywhere to spend it.”





No.40 article:
New &amp; Noteworthy Poetry, From Eavan Boland to the African-American Canon

AFRICAN AMERICAN POETRY: 250 Years of Struggle &amp; Song, edited by Kevin Young. (Library of America, $45.) This vast anthology gathers voices both canonical and overlooked to build an implicit but unassailable case that Black poetry is central to American literature.

THE HISTORIANS: Poems, by Eavan Boland. (Norton, $26.95.) Boland, who died in April at the age of 75, was Ireland’s leading feminist poet; her final book extends that legacy through scrupulous attention to the neglected lives of suffragists and other women to whom she promises: “We will not leave you behind.”

MY NAME WILL GROW WIDE LIKE A TREE: Selected Poems, by Yi Lei. Translated by Tracy K. Smith and Changtai Bi. (Graywolf, paper, $18.) The Chinese poet Yi Lei (1951-2018) nurtured a love of nature and a spirit of puckish independence in her work, translated freely here by Smith in collaboration with Changtai Bi.

MEMORY ROSE INTO THRESHOLD SPEECH: The Collected Earlier Poetry, by Paul Celan. Translated by Pierre Joris. (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux, $45.) Compiling Celan’s first four books into one volume highlights his growth as a writer and thinker, paring language to its essentials.

THE MARBLE BED, by Grace Schulman. (Turtle Point, paper, $18.) Love and grief anchor Schulman’s plaintive new collection, haunted by the death of her husband and her yearning to seek “sudden joy” even in loss.

Of the books I’ve read recently, the standout is THE PROFESSOR AND THE MADMAN: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary, by Simon Winchester. A slender and quirky volume, it is primarily about W. C. Minor, a schizophrenic American army surgeon who was a prolific contributor to the research behind the majestic O.E.D. while confined in the Broadmoor Criminal Lunatic Asylum; he had gunned down a stranger during a paranoid delusion and eventually castrated himself. Minor found meaning in his sad life by mining his large book collection for quotations that the dictionary’s editors compiled to show how words had been used over time. Winchester intersperses diverting tangents into this mashup of erudition and melodrama, from a travelogue through a 19th-century London slum to a history of previous efforts to capture and tame the once unregulated and wild English language.

—Charlie Savage, Washington correspondent





No.41 article:
How the Singer Patty Smyth Spends Her Sundays

The frontwoman of the 1980s band Scandal talks about promoting her solo album during a pandemic and her 23-year marriage to the tennis star John McEnroe.

Patty Smyth, the husky-voiced lead singer of Scandal, known for its 1984 love anthem, “The Warrior,” would not have put out her first solo album of original songs in 28 years had she known the pandemic would last this long. “People ask me,” she said, “and I’m like, you think this is what I chose?”

Promoting the record, “It’s About Time,” hasn’t been easy with so much of the music industry shut down, but Ms. Smyth, a Brooklyn native, is doing her best. This month just after the presidential election, for example, she joined Jimmy Fallon for a rendition of another ’80s Scandal hit, “Goodbye to You.”

Ms. Smyth, 63, splits her time between Malibu, Calif., and the Upper West Side of Manhattan, where she lives with her husband, another warrior of sorts from the ’80s: the former tennis champion (and current ESPN commentator) John McEnroe.

ROCK STAR TIME I went into this business for a reason: so I don’t have to get up early in the morning. I open my eyes, and I’m looking at John, like, “Do we get out of bed?” We have a terrace so I can step outside, and I like the solitude of that. Leaves are falling off the trees, and I can hear people and their dogs.

WHAT DAY IS IT? I used to have a ritual where I would meet my girlfriends who live on the Upper East Side at the reservoir in Central Park, and we’d take a long walk, five or six miles. But now I don’t have a routine, man. That’s the truth. I think what’s happened is that nobody knows what day of the week it is; whether it’s Tuesday or Sunday, it all feels the same. I sort of stay home. Right now, my 21-year-old daughter is home with us from school. If she doesn’t have a friend with her, she might take me out to lunch. I’m OK with eating outside on the sidewalk, but there are buses roaring by, and that’s sort of nerve-racking. I’d like to be cool with it, but I’m not.

SECRET SAUCE We were at our house in California for a long time. My husband didn’t leave for about six or seven months. That was the longest time he hadn’t been on a plane since he was 16 or 17. Now he’s here with me. I think if you want to stay married, you better do things together. That’s the secret sauce. “Absence makes the heart grow fonder, but too much and the heart wanders,” or something like that. Also, it feels weird not to be together. I was in Nashville for a week, and now we’re here to deal with some stuff and figure out when we’ll move back to California.

THE VIRTUAL TOUR I’ve done a lot of Zoom interviews and a few little Zoom shows at my house. It’s weirdly challenging, just to stay focused. In L.A., I got used to doing it in the same spot and it wasn’t a big deal. Doing it here is harder because there’s more of my personal space to show. I’ve also done a lot of podcasts. I keep calling them iPods, which is ridiculous.

TURN IT UP John has gotten way better on guitar in quarantine. He’s spent a lot of time practicing. Practice makes everyone better. We’ve been playing more at home together, and if he’s in the area when I’m doing a show he’ll come out and do a couple of songs. He’s a musical encyclopedia. It’s a good thing for me that he loves music so much. My kids turn me on to music, too. They go anywhere from Kacey Musgraves to Cardi B and Lizzo. When they’re home, I try to remember to throw on some music and dance around the room.

ORDER OF THE DAY I’ve been watching “60 Minutes” for as long as I can remember. Sunday nights are “60 Minutes” and Chinese food. I like RedFarm. They have different kinds of dumplings and a crazy pastrami egg roll and bacon and egg fried rice. John won’t eat any of that but I will. He’s way healthier than I am.

PROCESSING Sundays are kind of a hard day in a way. It’s not that they’re bad, they just stir things up for me. I think a lot. I reminisce and get reflective. It makes me want to write, and that’s a good thing.





No.42 article:
The Rich Kids Who Want to Tear Down Capitalism

Lately, Sam Jacobs has been having a lot of conversations with his family’s lawyers. He’s trying to gain access to more of his $30 million trust fund. At 25, he’s hit the age when many heirs can blow their money on harebrained businesses or a stable of sports cars. He doesn’t want to do that, but by wealth management standards, his plan is just as bad. He wants to give it all away.

“I want to build a world where someone like me, a young person who controls tens of millions of dollars, is impossible,” he said.

A socialist since college, Mr. Jacobs sees his family’s “extreme, plutocratic wealth” as both a moral and economic failure. He wants to put his inheritance toward ending capitalism, and by that he means using his money to undo systems that accumulate money for those at the top, and that have played a large role in widening economic and racial inequality.

Millennials will be the recipients of the largest generational shift of assets in American history — the Great Wealth Transfer, as finance types call it. Tens of trillions of dollars are expected to pass between generations in just the next decade.

And that money, like all wealth in the United States, is extremely concentrated in the upper brackets. Mr. Jacobs, whose grandfather was a founder of Qualcomm, expects to receive up to $100 million over the course of his lifetime.

Most of his fellow millennials, however, are receiving a rotten inheritance — debt, dim job prospects and a figment of a social safety net. The youngest of them were 15 in 2011 when Occupy Wall Street drew a line between the have-a-lots and everyone else; the oldest, if they were lucky, were working in a post-recession economy even before the current recession. Class and inequality have been part of the political conversation for most of their adult lives.

In their time, the ever-widening gulf between the rich and poor has pushed left-wing politics back into the American political mainstream. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. trailed Senator Bernie Sanders, the socialist candidate, by 20 points among millennial voters in this year’s Democratic presidential primary. And over the last six years, millennials have taken the Democratic Socialists of America from a fringe organization with an average member age of 60 to a national force with chapters in every state and a membership of nearly 100,000, most of them under 35.

Mr. Jacobs, as both a trust-fund kid and an anticapitalist, is in a rare position among leftists fighting against economic inequality. But he isn’t alone in trying to figure out, as he put it, “what it means to be with the 99 percent, when you’re the 1 percent.”

“I was always taught that this is just the way the world is, that my family has wealth while others don’t, and that because of that, I need to give some of it away, but not necessarily question why it was there,” said Rachel Gelman, a 30-year-old in Oakland, Calif., who describes her politics as “anticapitalist, anti-imperialist and abolitionist.”

Her family always gave generously to liberal causes and civil society groups. Ms. Gelman supports groups devoted to ending inequality, including the Movement for Black Lives, the National Day Laborer Organizing Network and Critical Resistance, a leading prison abolition group.

“My money is mostly stocks, which means it comes from underpaying and undervaluing working-class people, and that’s impossible to disconnect from the economic legacies of Indigenous genocide and slavery,” Ms. Gelman said. “Once I realized that, I couldn’t imagine doing anything with my wealth besides redistribute it to these communities.”

According to the consulting firm Accenture, the Silent Generation and baby boomers will gift their heirs up to $30 trillion by 2030, and up to $75 trillion by 2060. These fortunes began to amass decades ago — in some cases centuries. But the concentration of wealth became stratospheric starting in the 1970s, when neoliberalism became the financial sector’s guiding economic philosophy and companies began to obsessively pursue higher returns for shareholders.

“The wealth millennials are inheriting came from a mammoth redistribution away from the working masses, creating a super-rich tiny minority at the expense of a fleeting American dream that is now out of reach to most people,” said Richard D. Wolff, a Marxist and an emeritus economics professor at University of Massachusetts Amherst who has published 12 books about class and inequality.

He said he has been professionally arguing against capitalism’s selling points since his teaching career began, in 1967, but that his millennial students “are more open to hearing that message than their parents ever were.”

Heirs whose wealth has come from a specific source sometimes use that history to guide their giving. Pierce Delahunt, a 32-year-old “socialist, anarchist, Marxist, communist or all of the above,” has a trust fund that was financed by their former stepfather’s outlet mall empire. (Mx. Delahunt takes nongendered pronouns.)

“When I think about outlet malls, I think about intersectional oppression,” Mx. Delahunt said. There’s the originally Indigenous land each mall was built on, plus the low wages paid to retail and food service workers, who are disproportionately people of color, and the carbon emissions of manufacturing and transporting the goods. With that on their mind, Mx. Delahunt gives away $10,000 a month, divided between 50 small organizations, most of which have an anticapitalist mission and in some way tackle the externalities of discount shopping.

If money is power, then true wealth redistribution also means redistributing authority. Margi Dashevsky, who is 33 and lives in Alaska, gets guidance on her charitable giving from an advisory team of three women activists from Indigenous and Black power movements. “The happenstance of me being born into this wealth doesn’t mean I’m somehow omniscient about how it should be used,” she said. “It actually gives me a lot of blind spots.”

She also donates to social justice funds like Third Wave Fund, where grant-making is guided by the communities receiving funding, instead of being decided by a board of wealthy individuals. The latter sort of nonprofit, Ms. Dashevsky said, “comes from a place of assuming incompetence, putting up all these hurdles for activists and wasting their time on things like impact reporting. I want to flip that on its head by stepping back, trusting and listening.”

Of course, an individual act of wealth redistribution does not, on its own, change a system. But these heirs see themselves as part of a bigger shift, and are dedicated to funding its momentum.

Any leftist trying to shake off an inheritance will, at some point, find their way to Resource Generation; all of the heirs in this article did. The organization, founded in 1998, is a politicization machine for wealthy 18- to 35-year-olds.

The nonprofit offers programming that encourages members to see capitalism not as a market-based equalizer promising upward mobility, but as a damaging system predicated on, as Resource Generation puts it, “stolen land, stolen labor and stolen lives.” In go young people knotted by tension between their progressive values and their wealth; out come determined campaigners with a plan to redistribute.

Maria Myotte, the organization’s communications director, said that membership grows each time the nation has a reckoning: Occupy Wall Street, the 2016 presidential election, and this year’s twin jolts of the Covid-19 pandemic and the uprising against anti-Black racism all attracted newbies. There are currently around 1,000 dues-paying members at local chapters around the U.S. According to the most recent internal survey, the wider Resource Generation network, which includes some nonmembers, collectively expects to control $22 billion in their lifetimes.

Heirs who want to redistribute their wealth said that, at first, they approached the task with the righteous fire of revolutionaries, castigating family members for their coziness with privilege. “There were many angry conversations around the dinner table where I was an impatient, arrogant brat,” said Sam Vinal, a 34-year-old in Los Angeles. But many have found that they can be more persuasive when they treat these conversations like friendly political canvassing.

When Mr. Vinal’s mother wanted to start a family foundation, an arrangement typically focused on a single charitable issue, Mr. Vinal saw an opportunity to instead create a vehicle for more comprehensive change. He set up conversations with leaders of various social movements to convince his mother to change the mission. “That was a light bulb moment for my mom, to hear directly from the front lines,” he said.

Since its creation in 2017, the foundation has supported radical organizations, with guidance from a group of activists. Mr. Vinal spends much of his time organizing other young people with family foundations to take theirs in this direction.

“I try to understand where people are coming from, the bubbles of race and class we get stuck in, so that I can help them be more imaginative about where we can go beyond capitalism,” he said.

The racial wealth gap means that heirs who want to redistribute their wealth are overwhelmingly white. People of color who are members of Resource Generation, for instance, tend to have access to less overall wealth, or will not inherit until later in life. The wealthiest are transracial adoptees or those who have a white parent. This makes the approach to redistribution a little more complicated.

“The narrative of giving away everything feels like it’s being framed by white inheritors,” said Elizabeth Baldwin, a 34-year-old democratic socialist in Cambridge, Mass., who was adopted from India by a white family when she was a baby. Heirs in her position, she said, must decide whether to redistribute to their own communities or others’, and what it means to give up economic privilege when they don’t have the kind of safety net that comes with being white. She plans to keep enough of her inheritance to buy an apartment and raise a family, enjoying the sort of pleasant middle-class existence denied to many people of color in the United States.

Because her adoptive family’s wealth originated in land ownership and slavery, she donates to anti-racist groups and will soon begin making low-interest loans to Black-owned businesses. “The money I’m living on was made from exploiting people that look like me, so I see my giving as reparations,” she said.

Ms. Baldwin has long-term relationships with Grassroots International and Thousand Currents, philanthropy networks working in many postcolonial countries, including India, whose impoverishment she sees as a symptom of Western capitalism. It is sometimes “strange,” she admitted, to be making reparations to her own people. “But no one else in my family talks about where this money came from, and I feel like I have to do it,” she said.

There’s another hitch: Because the stock market is both an engine of American capitalism and responsible in many cases for heirs’ massive individual wealth, few want anything to do with it.

“I get rich because other people aren’t getting rich, and I don’t want to keep making more wealth off investments in things like Coca-Cola and Exxon-Mobil,” said Ms. Baldwin. “I would rather put my money into a community that has been denied economic resources and disrupt the system.”

She is doing this by investing in what she and her peers call the “solidarity economy.”

In short, this means using their money to support more equitable economic infrastructures. This includes investing in or donating to credit unions, worker-owned businesses, community land trusts, and nonprofits aiming to maximize quality of life through democratic decision making, instead of maximizing profits through competition. Emma Thomas, a 29-year-old democratic socialist who is also taking her money out of the stock market, described what she’s now investing in as “an economy that is about exchange and taking care of needs, that is cooperative and sustainable, and that doesn’t demand unfettered growth.”

This summer, she was part of a team that organized about 250 people to support the Black Land and Power Project, moving money from asset portfolios to 10 Black-run land sites across the U.S. (Because of the nation’s history of economic racism, many solidarity economy projects include a racial justice element.)

To Ms. Thomas, the prospect of contributing to a solidarity economy is a refreshingly tangible expression of her values, compared to the abstraction of accumulating portfolio returns. “At some point, these numbers on a screen are imaginary,” she said. “But what’s not imaginary is whether you have shelter, food and a community. Those are true returns.”





No.43 article:
What Does Amazon Know About Your Thanksgiving Groceries?

Customers and sellers have relied on star ratings for decades, but the review system appears to have met its match: “Yellow Onion (Brands May Vary).”

For a business that started as an online bookstore and grew into one of the largest companies in the world, the Amazon of 2020 would feel, to an Amazon customer in 1999, at least a little bit familiar.

An ancient firm by internet standards, Amazon has grown like a medieval city, still defined by its distinctive old center but made a true megalopolis by vast sprawl. It has modernized substantially, but its basic features are still intact — and being used well beyond their imagined limits.

Take Amazon’s review system. Some of the site’s most prolific reviewers have been rating products on the same five-star scale for more than 20 years, and occasionally, their messages from the distant past surface on product pages. A customer browsing books about sailing might encounter a review written by Jeff Bezos himself in 2001, recommending one title as “intense and disciplined.” (Thirty-four people have found this review “helpful” since then.)

In the 1990s, Amazon reviews were both functional and, as a concept, anti-establishment: What if anyone could be a book reviewer? Then: What if anyone could do what Consumer Reports does? Then: What if anyone could review pretty much anything, for any reason at all?

The rating system has adapted to encompass reviews of shoes, cosmetics, athletic gear, medical equipment, TV shows, software, musical instruments and furniture. A more recent undertaking, however, is proving difficult: What can an Amazon review tell us about fresh food?

“Taste like an onion, did the job,” reads one recent review of a piece of produce. Another went further: “Tastes good.”

Not everyone reviewing Amazon’s “Yellow Onion (Brands May Vary)” gave it five stars, however. Ninety customers have rated the Yellow Onion as deserving just one. “They went bad too fast,” one reviewer warned. “Moldy and decaying, rotten outer layers,” another wrote.

Between satisfaction and disappointment, we find more nuanced takes on the onion. A reviewer who gave her onion four stars described it only as “Muy grande.”

Reading every single review of Amazon’s Yellow Onion leaves one with more questions than answers. Should I look elsewhere for our stuffing ingredients this Thanksgiving? Am I going to get a huge onion or a small onion? A dry onion or a moldy one?

More to the point, what are these people talking about, exactly? Are they reviewing their onion? Onions in general? Their regional onion supply chain? Their onion’s method of delivery? What connection does my future onion have with their past onion? On this, the listing for Yellow Onion, 4.7 stars, provides nothing.

Amazon reviews are deceptively challenging texts. Successful products often fall between four and five stars, which means consumers must also take into account how many reviews there are, how they’re distributed and what qualities are taken into account by reviewers.

Reviews of a movie tend toward attempts at criticism, while reviews of a budget USB battery usually focus on whether or not its size and charging abilities match the listing. Reviews that demand slightly more description — a shirt, for example — produce a range of subjective judgments and descriptions (“soft” or “boxy”) that a buyer can parse, alongside clues about what a reviewer values. As winter approaches, review sections for price-inflated propane patio heaters, many from brands that didn’t exist on Amazon a few months ago, are concerned with one question: Will this thing actually ship in the estimated time? If it doesn’t, will the company answer my calls?

Lots of Amazon review sections are filled with complaints about order fulfillment and customer service. Others are full of robotically positive reviews, leaving readers to guess, based on writing cues, which are actually real. 

Amazon is constantly intervening to maintain a review system that is, if not exactly healthy or even fair, at least usable. Separately, though, years of trying to extract useful information from Amazon product listings have made customers more skillful in the form, as readers and reviewers. Onion reviews, however, defy some of these expectations.

“These might be the last frontier of authentic reviews,” said Saoud Khalifah, the chief executive of Fakespot, a company that analyzes e-commerce reviews. His tools suggest that produce reviews are of “very high” quality, meaning that they’re likely written by real onion customers about authentic onion experiences.

Mr. Khalifah provided a few theories about why this might be the case. Most of Amazon’s produce sells directly through Amazon or Amazon-owned Whole Foods, meaning there are no third-party sellers jockeying for placement in search results who might be motivated to play dirty and seed fake reviews. There are no brands, either — just single listings for produce types. He compared it to Amazon’s early days, when fake reviews were relatively rare.

Authentic as they may be, the onion reviews are still confounding. Reached using a gray-market tool for acquiring Amazon reviewers’ contact information, reviewers for yams, yellow onions, lemons, garlic, salt and ginger did not respond to requests for comment.

A reviewer named LoLinda, who declined to share her surname, did not recall writing a review for russet potatoes. (“Divine,” she wrote, leaving five stars. “Believe it or not, not all potatoes are created equally. I’m a potato connoisseur and these are delicious!!!”)

“I seriously doubt anyone scrolls down to read potato reviews when buying,” LoLinda, 45, said. She posted hers only to clear the potatoes from her “Review Your Purchases” section. (I’m a neat freak and love to see things through to completion,” she said.)

An onion reviewer responded too. “I vaguely remember leaving the onion review,” said Katt Winter, 38. “I bet it was red onions and around 2017.” (It was April of that year. “Super tasty red onions. They make everything better. They are full of flavor and hold up well in the fridge crisper. Definitely recommend to onion fans,” she wrote.)

So what was Ms. Winter up to, exactly, reviewing an onion on Amazon?

Amazon Fresh was a fairly new feature when she wrote the review. “I thought I was reviewing specific brands of onions or produce by participating in it,” she said, “but now I assume my review could be out of context.” The listing contains many reviews like hers, about the onions and the experience provided by Amazon Fresh and its various local and regional suppliers.

“I have left tons and tons of reviews on Amazon,” Ms. Winter said. “I tried to review everything big and small hoping to make the Vine program someday.” (Amazon Vine is the program through which Amazon distributes products to reviewers in exchange for their opinions.)

If memory serves, she said, she ordered the onions to garnish sandwiches. They earned four stars.

Fresh food reviews are a fast-growing genre on Amazon, fueled by its acquisition of Whole Foods and further growth of its grocery delivery business during the Covid-19 pandemic. As it stands, the review process for fresh produce is the same as for any other product: same interface, same prompts, same style of output. Online, Amazon’s integration of Whole Foods has been swift and complete. Whole Foods was made to accommodate Amazon’s review system, not the other way around.

It’s unclear what value a customer might take from generic produce reviews sourced from different years or parts of the world. What about the company itself?

“Amazon processes customer feedback on grocery from several sources, including reviews,” said Craig Andrews, a spokesman for Amazon. “Like all businesses at Amazon, we continuously innovate to create the best shopping experience for our customer, so this feedback represents their voice and is analyzed for opportunities to improve our products and services.”

The company seems to have found the category challenging. Mr. Khalifah of Fakespot pointed to a peculiarity that he has noticed in many produce listings, most of which carry high star ratings and thousands of reviews. “I saw asparagus with 10,000 reviews,” he said, but only two of the five-star ratings had written reviews. What about the rest?

Last year, Amazon began testing a one-tap rating system, designed to encourage customers to leave a simple star rating in place of a full review. Its motivations were varied: It could help minimize the effect of fake reviews by dramatically increasing input from purchasers; overall, it produces more feedback for Amazon to work with; and it dramatically increases visible numbers next to overall ratings, which gives customers confidence. This experiment was met with some criticism from sellers, who worried that one-star ratings left them with no explanation or recourse.

This year, Amazon rolled out one-tap ratings much more widely, and they’re affecting star ratings across the board. Shoppers looking for a new iPad might come across a listing with 4.8 stars compiled from more than 49,000 public ratings. A deeper look reveals that fewer than 6,000 of those ratings are attached to actual reviews. In produce, the ratios are even more extreme.

As Amazon has expanded into product category after product category, the Amazon review has been stretched to the limit of its form. The most basic products of all might be bringing it to its breaking point.

Just 60 people have taken the time to write full reviews for the Yellow Onion on Amazon, while more than 6,000 have left ratings, averaging out to 4.7 stars. Some are complaints about a local Whole Foods, a particular shopper, or Whole Foods in general, while others seem to have been written by people who might not like onions very much in the first place. Others are jokes. (“In fact, we consider funny reviews part of our customer-focused culture,” Mr. Andrews said.)

A few reviewers have arrived at a sort of critical despondency, seeming to realize, not unlike Amazon itself, that there really isn’t much to say, here. A review titled “Onions,” posted in January, asks and answers: “What can you say about an onion.”

Amazon spent decades recruiting millions of customers to help build and operate a vast, complicated evaluative apparatus to extract and represent human desire, preference, and subjective, unknowable experience. When it fed that machine an onion, the machine replied: Onion. Yes.





No.44 article:
A Cat Is Said to Be Joining the Bidens in the White House

The last cat to live in the White House, India, belonged to President George W. Bush.

When he was running for president, Joseph R. Biden Jr. said it was time for a pet to be put back in the White House.

First it was announced that Champ and Major, the German shepherds belonging to the president-elect and future first lady Jill Biden, would roam the White House. And now, after an absence of more than a decade, a cat is set to also join the ranks of presidential pets, Jane Pauley of “CBS Sunday Morning” reported on Twitter on Friday.

In an interview with Fox 5 in Washington, D.C., Dr. Biden hinted that if her husband won the presidency, she would not mind getting a cat.

“I’d love to get a cat,” she said. “I love having animals around the house.”

The cat’s breed and name were not immediately available. Representatives for Mr. Biden did not respond to a request for comment on Saturday.

The Bidens will be restoring a tradition of presidential pets when they move into the White House in January, as President Trump opted not to have a pet during his term. But the Bidens’ cat won’t be the first in the White House.

Abraham Lincoln’s secretary of state, William H. Seward, gave him two cats, Tabby and Dixie, said Andrew Hager, historian-in-residence at the Presidential Pet Museum. Lincoln was a major “cat fan,” Mr. Hager said, and the president often fed Tabby from the dinner table despite his wife’s criticism.

“At one point, he told a friend that Dixie was ‘smarter than his entire cabinet’ and ‘didn’t talk back, which was a bonus,’” Mr. Hager said.

Other presidential cats include Tom Kitten, who belonged to Caroline Kennedy; Shan Shein, the Siamese cat of President Gerald Ford’s daughter, Susan; and Misty Malarky Ying Yang, who belonged to President Jimmy Carter’s daughter, Amy.

Probably one of the most popular cats in the White House was Socks in the Clinton White House.

The black and white cat was the protagonist of an unreleased Super Nintendo game, “Socks the Cat Rocks the Hill,” and often gained attention from the news media, as he was the only White House pet until the Clintons adopted a chocolate Lab named Buddy in 1997.

Jennifer Pickens, a White House historian and author of “Pets at the White House: 50 Years of Presidents and Their Pets,” said the emergence of the internet had added to Socks’s popularity as a cartoon version of the cat greeted visitors at the White House for Kids website.

The last cat to live in the White House, India (who also had the nickname Willie), belonged to President George W. Bush. Her time at the White House was often overshadowed by the Bush family’s two Scottish terriers, Barney and Miss Beazley, Mr. Hager said.

Protesters in Kerala, India, burned an effigy of Mr. Bush in July 2004 in protest of the cat’s name, citing it as an insult to their country, Mr. Hager said. (According to White House archives, the black shorthair cat was named after the former Texas Rangers baseball player, Ruben Sierra, who went by the nickname El Indio.)

India died in January 2009, just before President Bush left the White House.

Interest in presidential pets has grown over the years as the public has gravitated to more stories of life inside the White House, Ms. Pickens said.

Pets can help humanize presidents as well as soften their image, and with the Bidens’ newest addition, they could also represent a president’s hopes for the nation under new leadership.

“Maybe this is symbolic of Biden’s oft-repeated desire to unify the country,” he said. “I know that that’s kind of trite, but I’m very curious to see how this goes.”





No.45 article:
Time to Upgrade Your Mask?

New research shows adding a filter and improving the fit makes a cloth mask work even better.

Is it time to upgrade your mask?

By now most of us have settled on a preferred cloth mask to protect ourselves and others from coronavirus. But new research shows that a few simple upgrades in fabric, filters and fit are likely to provide even more protection.

Linsey Marr, professor of civil and environmental engineering at Virginia Tech and one of the world’s leading aerosol scientists, led the research, which tested 11 different mask materials. The findings confirmed what other labs have found: You don’t need a gold-standard N95 medical mask to stay safe from coronavirus. The right cloth mask, properly fitted, does a good job of filtering viral particles of the size most likely to cause infection.

But Dr. Marr and her colleagues found that small improvements to your mask can go a long way toward improving how well the mask protects you and others from potential infectious particles. They found that:

Three layers are better than two. The best mask has two tightly woven layers of outer material with a filter material sandwiched in the middle, Dr. Marr said. You can use surgical mask material or even a piece of a vacuum bag as a filter between two pieces of fabric. Coffee filters are an option, but can be less breathable. If you like your two-layer mask, you can just wear it over a surgical mask when you want added protection. A well-fitting fabric mask with a third filter layer can stop 74 to 90 percent of risky particles, the researchers found.

Flexible material is better. Stiff material creates gaps. Look for a mask made of tightly woven flexible material that contours to your face. Masks with wire that can be molded around the nose also fit better by closing gaps where air can escape out and seep in.

Ties are better than ear loops. Masks that tie around your head fit better and can be more comfortable. Ear loop masks can leave bigger gaps around your face and cause ears to become sore with longer use.

Face shields should be used with a mask. Face shields alone offered little to no protection. Although the clear plastic shield is impermeable, air seeps out and comes in around the edges of the shield. “It was the worst of everything,” said Jin Pan, a civil and environmental engineering Ph.D. student who was a co-author of the study. A face shield combined with a mask offers added protection, particularly for the eyes.

A well-fitted mask protects the wearer. Dr. Marr and her colleagues tested cloth masks for how well they protected others (outward protection) as well as the wearer (inward protection). Although masks are most efficient at filtering outgoing germs, they do stop incoming germs at nearly the same rate in most cases, the researchers found. Masks that did a poor job protecting the wearer were those made of stiffer materials and those worn loosely and with gaps around the edges.

A recent study from Denmark suggested that masks don’t protect the wearer, but Dr. Marr noted that in that study, many people weren’t using masks properly. “Fewer than half wore them as instructed,” Dr. Marr said. Although Dr. Marr’s findings come from a lab, rather than the real world, she said her group’s latest research should offer reassurance to people who wear well-fitted masks that they are getting additional protection from other people’s germs.

The research should also reassure people about the benefits of cloth masks, Dr. Marr said. She noted that masks can’t do “100 percent of the work,” and it’s important to combine mask wearing with other measures, like hand-washing and restricting social contacts.

“Something is better than nothing,” Dr. Marr said. “Even the simplest cloth mask of one layer of material blocks half or more of aerosols we think are important to transmission. If you go to a tighter weave and more layers, you’ll get even better performance.”

The Virginia Tech study was published online and has not yet been peer reviewed.





No.46 article:
‘Mr. Downstairs’ Had the Key to Her Heart

Elma Holder and Jerry Stallings met at a retirement community in Yukon, Okla. His apartment was directly under hers, one flight below.

Elma Holder couldn’t help feeling ridiculous on days when “Jerry Downstairs,” as she called him, would leave the retirement community building they lived in to visit his lady friend in town.

“He would disappear for a day or two, and I would think, ‘Oh, this is silly that I’m feeling these feelings of jealousy,’” Ms. Holder said. When she moved into the Residence at Yukon Hills in Yukon, Okla., in January 2018, Mr. Downstairs had at first seemed a minor pest.

Ms. Holder, 79, was transporting her belongings in on a wobbly cart when he presented himself unbidden. “Things were falling everywhere, and all of a sudden there he was, asking if he could help,” she said. “I told him, ‘No, I can do it myself.’”

Mr. Downstairs, whose real name is Jerry Stallings, did not insist. But he didn’t slink off, either. Instead he followed her to the elevator, where he helped steady the cart and showed her that his own apartment was directly under hers, one flight below. Within days she was running into him regularly in the community room and telling friends about the gentlemanly widower who lived downstairs. “I became enamored with him,” she said, a feeling that surprised her.

In 1975, Ms. Holder founded the National Citizens’ Coalition for Nursing Home Reform, now the National Consumer Voice for Quality Long-Term Care, in Washington. She ran it for 20 years; her advocacy work was her life’s passion. Though she married in 1960, the marriage was over in 1968. From then, she made do with a handful of “special friends,” she said. “I just lost interest. I certainly had no interest in ever getting married again.”

It would only take a few months before Mr. Stallings, 89, reversed all that. Ms. Holder made the first move. “I had some LPs I had saved for years and no way to play them,” she said. She knew he had a record player, so that spring, she invited herself over to his place. That took gumption: “I was so embarrassed I asked another woman to come with me.” After the threesome heard three long-playing records, she left his apartment with butterflies. “We discovered we both totally enjoyed Andrea Bocelli.”

Before their romance could bloom, though, Ms. Holder considered the competition. “I started noticing that he was the most attractive man in the place, and that other women were noticing him, too,” she said. The lady friend she had heard about outside the retirement community turned out to be that — just a friend. But her jealousy didn’t let up entirely until that summer, when she planned to take a four-week trip to Washington to visit friends.

“He walked me out to the car, and it was very hard for us to say goodbye,” she said. By the time she came back, she had fallen in love and had an inkling he felt the same. “But I still didn’t have a clue what his last name was.”

In the fall of 2018, Ms. Holder’s activist tendencies were ignited when a friend who had violated a retirement community rule where they lived was evicted. “It was a silly little thing, but I decided I was going to fight to keep her in,” she said. “Jerry joined me. We were in tune that way. We got a petition going.” By the time he signed it, she finally knew his last name. (In September she had sneaked a peek at a batch of mail on his dining room table.) And though the friend soon gave up her bid to stay and found another place to live, the couple’s devotion to each other grew.

In early October, they went to Yukon’s annual Czech Festival, a celebration of the local heritage. At the top of the Ferris wheel, Mr. Stallings asked Ms. Holder to marry him.

“It just came over me like I had been hit by lightning,” said Mr. Stallings, a native of Tulia, Texas, who spent the bulk of his professional life in agricultural sales. Ms. Holder, elated, said yes.

In February 2019, they moved out of the retirement community into a new home in Yukon. On Nov. 14, they had a small ceremony at home with only her brother and sister, O Williams and Peggy Long, and Mr. Stallings’s daughter, Cheryl Stallings Price as guests. Their friend Kathryn Schulke, who was ordained by the American Marriage Ministries, officiated.

Or so they thought.

A few days later, the Canadian County clerk rejected their license because they couple weren’t in the same room with their officiant, a legal requirement in Oklahoma. So, on Nov. 19, they gave it another try and were married in adjacent Kingfisher County, about 50 miles away, by Nikolas Dean Smith, an ordained minister who works in the county engineer’s office there.

“The marriage received the official gold seal on the spot,” said Ms. Holder, who, after being on her own for so long, decided to change her name.

“We know we’re going to be spending the rest of our lives together,” she said. “I want to spend it as Mrs. Stallings.”





No.47 article:
Corrections: Nov. 29, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Sunday, Nov. 29, 2020.

An article last Sunday about dividend payouts misstated the amount that American corporations have sold in bonds this year. Through Nov. 10, they sold $1.6 trillion, not billion.

A holiday movie list last Sunday misstated who wrote the script for “The Christmas Chronicles: Part Two.” Matt Lieberman worked with Chris Columbus; it was not written by Columbus alone.

A review on Nov. 8 about “The Mystery of Charles Dickens,” by A. N. Wilson, misstated where the young David Copperfield is sent to work. He washes, labels and corks bottles at a wine and spirits warehouse; he is not “sent to labor in a boot-blacking factory.” The review also misstated David’s age at the time; he is 10, not 12. (The 12-year-old Charles Dickens did work in a boot-blacking factory.) 

An article on Nov. 15 about insomnia misspelled the given name of the director of the Center for Sleep &amp; Wake Disorders. She is Helene Emsellem, not Helen.

The board game “Race to the White House,” in the Oct. 25 New York Times for Kids, included an incorrect statement in its answer key. The last Republican to win California’s electoral-college votes was George H.W. Bush in 1988, not Ronald Reagan in 1984.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.48 article:
Why This Billionaire Will Never Leave New York

For the cosmetics mogul and philanthropist Leonard Lauder, the city, with its museums, public transit and parks, is an explorer’s delight.

Why on God’s green earth would anyone choose to live somewhere besides New York City?

This, to Leonard A. Lauder, the philanthropist and chairman emeritus of the Estée Lauder Companies, the multibillion-dollar cosmetics corporation started by his parents, Joseph and Estée Lauder, is among the great mysteries of his lifetime.

Mr. Lauder, 87, has remained forever loyal to his city. As a child, he would visit museums free after school. As an adult, he paid it forward by endowing them with money ($131 million to the Whitney Museum, for example) and donating art (his $1.1 billion Cubism collection of 85 works by the likes of Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso has been promised to the Metropolitan Museum of Art).

He raised his children here with his wife, Evelyn H. Lauder, who died in 2011, and is now enjoying a new romantic chapter in New York with Judy Glickman Lauder, whom he married in 2015.

The couple has spent the pandemic in Mrs. Lauder’s house in Maine and their apartment in Manhattan, where he took a phone call to discuss why he will never give up on the city, which provides the backdrop for his new memoir, “The Company I Keep.” 

“In New York, you have the cross section of everyone, not the same people again and again and again and again,” he said. “You have to remember that the people who are still here — and there’s millions of people still here — these people truly love New York.”

The city is expensive, true, more so than when he was growing up just after the Depression and amid World War II. But, Mr. Lauder said, the value of today’s New York has been undersold: Museums offer inexpensive or free entertainment; city streets and parks are an explorer’s delight; and public schools, though lacking resources, still provide the formidable education of diversity, often using the neighborhood as a classroom in a way that can’t be replicated in a textbook.

“I love the New York City public school system,” said Mr. Lauder, who attended P.S. 87 and Bronx Science. His brother, Ronald S. Lauder, whose financial support of political candidates skews to the other side of the aisle from Leonard’s, first attended a private school before transferring to Bronx Science. “That was a step up,” Leonard said.

The following interview is an edited and condensed version of the conversation.

In your book, you write of roaming the city’s museums after school, as you waited for your parents to finish working. Museums were almost your babysitters.

Our museums are not just about art. I love the Museum of the City of New York. I love the New-York Historical Society. I love the American Museum of Natural History. I love every museum in New York City, and each one of them gave me an idea about the world and about history. I’ve learned so much from those museums. They babysat me, but they also taught me. They’re my teacher more than my babysitter.

Have you spent time in museums this year?

Yes! One of the things I love about the museums right now is this: When I was a little kid and I went to a museum during the week, the museum was empty. I had it all alone with only a few people around. Here I am in 2020. When you walk into a museum, it’s half empty also. It’s a totally different experience. You can dwell over looking at a picture or dwell over reading the explanation instead of people pushing by and saying, “Would you excuse me?”

Have you and Judy been able to enjoy the city at all? Have you ventured out or have you mostly been nesting in your apartment?

Covid-19 has changed our New York City life. We had been often going to dinner parties every night or every other night. No one does dinner parties anymore. Now, we’re doing dinners for four. Judy and I and one other couple. We’re eating mainly outdoors, sometimes getting very cold as a result. Eating at a restaurant, or we open up the doors to our penthouse and let the cold air roll in.

In your memoir you wrote about being a child in the city during World War II, the wearing of ID tags to identify bodies in case a school was bombed, and needing to pull down blackout shades so the city stayed dark at night. Are there any comparisons between those days of New York and New York right now?

Both eras had an enemy. In the air raids, it was, ‘Would the Germans bomb us?’ and with the virus, it’s ‘Will the virus catch us?’ We all had a common enemy then and today. Now, even when the drugs become available, it’s not going to be an overnight solution. It’s going to be slow, step by step, because we’re also living in the era of no trust. We don’t trust our drugs, we don’t trust our government, we don’t trust a lot of people. That is a difference from how we felt about our leadership in the 1940s. We trusted our leadership then. We have a challenge now. I won’t go much further than that.

What could Mayor Bill de Blasio be doing that he’s not doing?

I’m not going there. I’m not going there. I’m going to duck that one.

Is there anyone that you have your eye on to be the next mayor?

Ray McGuire is a friend of mine, and I really admire him. He’s a very special man. I’ve known him for years. He had been a banker, and he was on my board at the Whitney Museum. Then he became the chairman of the Studio Museum in Harlem. He did a great job there as the chairman. I love that man.

Who are the power brokers of the future in New York City?

You know something? In truth, I don’t know. I’ll tell you why. Up until about four or five years ago, I was in the middle of everything. I used to eat three days a week in the Four Seasons restaurant. I knew everyone at every table. I don’t know the power brokers anymore. The people I knew are all dead. I can’t even name one.

When Mike Bloomberg was the mayor, he was the ultimate power broker. He would call me up on the phone and say, “I need this and this and this, OK?” No one has called me to say that they need my help. Yeah, I got a couple of calls trying to see if I could help David Geffen Hall open faster, because that was going to be a great move for New York, opening now rather than in two years from now. But mostly, I hear nothing. Haven’t changed my phone number, but they can’t find me.

What can people in New York City do to support the arts right now, given the terrible trouble that Broadway and opera and ballet have been in? If you’re not a billionaire, are there ways to support the arts right now?

Do something little. Listen, I think you can rebuild a great city with small victories. I love singles and doubles. I don’t necessarily think home runs are what they need all the time. I think what New York needs is singles and doubles.

When we do get a vaccine and get to the point when Broadway theaters open again and the opera and the ballet are back in session, what can our institutions do to make things more affordable for average New Yorkers?

I’ve given the Whitney Museum a nice endowment which allows them to be open and stay alive. What would happen if every theater had an endowment? That you could, therefore, run a musical with a minimum ticket of, say, $15. How can we take the grandness of New York and break it up into smaller pieces that we can all afford to support? I think that’s an interesting challenge.

What’s one of your favorite performances you’ve seen in New York City?

Rex Harrison in “My Fair Lady.” Guess what I have on my iPhone? Rex Harrison in “My Fair Lady.”

What do you miss about the New York of your childhood?

The public double-decker bus. For 10 cents, you could take a double-decker bus and sit up high. In the summertime, it was open air. It was so wonderful. I’d like to see them brought back again.

If you could eat at a restaurant of your youth that no longer exists, where would you have a meal and what would you get?

Probably the Tip-Toe Inn. It was on 86th Street. I’d have shrimp cocktail with lots of red cocktail sauce and an open-faced hot turkey sandwich with lots of cranberry sauce on the side, because they’d never give me enough cranberry sauce. For dessert, either chocolate ice cream or apple pie à la mode with vanilla ice cream. But I do also miss Schrafft’s, and I do miss a little chain called Child’s, and I do miss this restaurant called the Griddle. They made pancakes in the window so you could see.

You know, every one of those little places catered to a neighborhood, and there are still many, many neighborhood restaurants now, but I fear a lot of them have gone out of business. New York can reinvent itself if it makes it easier for people to launch restaurants again. That’s New York’s motto: reinvention.





No.49 article:
The Exquisite Angst of Applying to College in a Deeply Anxious Year

As a new season for college applications begins, the coronavirus has upended the process, forcing millions of students to learn remotely, canceling college tours and standardized testing dates, and preventing legions of students from participating in sports and other extracurricular activities.

High school seniors and those who guide them through the admissions process say the level of uncertainty and disruption is off the charts as the virus surges across the country, forcing many schools to shut down classrooms once again, putting more families in financial crisis and making weighty decisions about the future more fraught than ever.

“It’s all a balance, and I’m not really balanced right now,” said Lea Caldwell, 17, a Detroit student who is working part time as she wrestles with her senior year course load and her college applications. Holly M. Markiecki-Bennetts, a guidance counselor at Ms. Caldwell’s school, Mercy High, in Farmington Hills, Mich., said, “We’ve had to hold hands a lot more.”

It is unclear if all the tumult will make it easier or more challenging for students to get into the Class of 2025, especially at competitive universities. Will holdovers from this year, when freshman enrollment was down, increase competition for spots next fall? Or will fewer people ultimately apply, giving more students a shot at their dream schools?

Final application deadlines are still to come, but the data on early-decision applications this month showed a slightly smaller number of students applying to college, especially from low-income families, although those that did were trying their luck at more schools than usual.

That data comes from the Common Application, which is used by more than 900 U.S. colleges and universities to screen prospective students. This year, the application added an optional 250-word essay about the virus’s impact, to give students a chance to explain their circumstances without it having to take over the rest of their application.

“I think it’s going to help us provide context, how the crisis has impacted their schools and their families and their communities,” said Jeremiah Quinlan, Yale’s dean of undergraduate admissions.

The coronavirus has left Chad Hicks, 17, a senior at the Urban Assembly Maker Academy in New York, wishing he could get more in-person attention as he makes his college decisions and fills out applications. “It would be so simple if my teacher could actually show me what to do,” he said.

His mother, a security guard, earned a high school equivalency diploma and took some community college classes, so she does not have the personal experience to give him the advice and guidance he needs, Mr. Hicks said. He visited Temple University while in middle school, and it is his top choice. He is still working on the application.

Although there is plenty of time — the regular application deadline at most colleges is Jan. 1 — admissions officers say they are hearing from many prospective students that they plan to wait as long as possible this year. The uncertainty concerns schools that hope a strong crop of applicants will help overcome falling undergraduate enrollment, down 4.4 percent this semester, and financial difficulties exacerbated by the pandemic.

“It is a severe disruption to our business.” said David Burge, vice president for enrollment management at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va.

Low-income students and those who would be the first in their families to attend college appear to be particularly hesitant, experts said, reflecting the personal and economic impact of the virus. The number of high school seniors who have filled out a free application for federal student aid is down 16 percent from this time last year, and early applications from poor and first-generation students are down 10 percent.

Jenny Rickard, chief executive of the Common App, called the numbers, particularly for first-generation students, “bleak” and said the trend would be hard to reverse by January’s regular admissions deadline.

Other early indicators, though, showed that while some students might be slower than usual to apply, others are taking a chance with more schools — perhaps because they were unable to narrow their choices without campus visits and college fairs.

Through mid-November, the number of students who had submitted applications to colleges remained 4 percent below the same time last year, according to Common App data. But the overall number of applications had risen 3 percent over last year because the smaller pool of students applied to more schools.

Colleges that went test-optional — some 1,600, at last count — were, not surprisingly, the biggest beneficiaries of the higher volume.

Thousands of students who would usually take the SAT or ACT this year have been frustrated as local testing sites have closed because of virus outbreaks; 30 percent of the 312,000 students registered to take the SAT in November were unable to, a number that was similar to test dates earlier in the fall.

Cole Strachan, 18, a student at academically selective Boston Latin, studied to take the SAT this spring, only to have test dates canceled in March and April. He was finally able to take the exam in September but did not receive his scores by Nov. 1, the early decision deadline. So he sent his application materials in without exam results — to seven colleges.

“I think if I were able to visit the schools, it might have changed my list,” he said.

Institutions that usually take test scores into account will have to find other ways to evaluate test-free applications like Mr. Strachan’s. At Yale, admissions officers will take a closer look at elements like teacher recommendations, high school transcripts and student writing, including the personal essay, said Mr. Quinlan, the admissions dean.

That aspect also gave Mr. Strachan difficulties: What to write about, and how to stand out? With his soccer and lacrosse seasons canceled, along with other extracurricular activities, he filled the time by starting a group called A Helping Elbow with friends and classmates, to deliver groceries to older people or those with compromised immune systems.

As the organization grew, the students started sewing hundreds of face masks. The experience became a dominant part of his college application.

Just as students have struggled with this strange admissions season, so have colleges. The databases they buy from testing companies have fewer names, test scores and demographic information this year, adding to the challenge of recruiting. Virtual college tours and other forms of online outreach make it more difficult to form personal connections.

“Everything’s on Zoom, which is hard,” said Peter Hagan, head of admissions at Syracuse University.

But others said virtual outreach removed the logistical difficulties of reaching possible applicants.

“We’ve connected with an incredible number of students,” said Mr. Quinlan, the admissions dean at Yale. “The barriers to information sessions — not getting to Topeka, Kan., or getting to New Haven — are gone.”

For Ms. Caldwell, who attends an all-girls Catholic school in the Detroit suburb of Farmington Hills, the last few months have been rocky. Her father, an autoworker, got Covid-19 early on but has since recovered. Neither of her parents finished college.

Her SAT was canceled the week that school shut down in March, she said. Instead, she took the ACT, which she had hardly prepared for. She did not do as well as she had hoped.

Her 20-hour-a-week job in a clothing store, on top of school and her personal life, is “a lot to juggle,” she said. She has applied to three colleges close to home but until this week was procrastinating about applying to others that she really wants to attend.

“Because of the pandemic, I feel like I’m knocked off my square,” she said. “I can’t really ask anyone in my family, so I’m taking it one step at a time. I’m going to get there.”





No.50 article:
The Most Popular Listings of October

The most popular listings on The New York Times’s Find a Home site in October all carried forward from the roundups of previous months; and all but one, a $359,000 co-op in Inwood, are expensive, from $1.295 million up to $88 million.

This massive, 50-acre “gentlemen’s farm” fell to fifth place from fourth in September, and has been among the most popular listings since June. A seven-bedroom main house is surrounded by three guesthouses, a pool, and a three-acre pond, for starters.

Broker: William Pitt/Julia B. Fee Sotheby’s International Realty

Moving from third place to fourth, this five-bedroom, 8,339-square-foot, bayfront house will attract lovers of the outdoors with its dock and heated saltwater pool — if they’re ready for the $5,895 monthly tax bill.

Broker: Century 21 American Homes

Moving up to third place after holding fifth in August and September, this modestly priced, 795-square-foot, one-bedroom, one-bath, renovated co-op in an Art Deco building is a block from 200-acre Inwood Hill Park.

Broker: New Heights Realty

Falling from the top spot in September, this 28,0000-square-foot Manhattan townhouse is cast accurately online as “gargantuan.” The term also describes the shadow of its former owner, Jeffrey Epstein, the convicted sex offender who died in jail in August 2019.

Broker: Modlin Group LLC

Stepping up to first place from second in September and fourth in August, this heavenly terrace has a one-bedroom, one-bath apartment attached. The new kitchen and bath and proximity to Central Park are bonuses.

Broker: The Corcoran Group





No.51 article:
Barroom Trivia Slayer? Get Your Quiz On Digitally

Though many bars are under lockdown restrictions, pub quiz companies still operate online. You provide the booze, they provide the brainteasers.

In the spring, just before lockdown hit North Carolina, Steve Bahnaman met some friends at a Cider Brewery, just outside Raleigh, for an evening of bar trivia. His team, Covid Operations (this was back before Covid-19 puns were “super tired,” he explained), won the competition that night. The prize: $40 in bar cash. “Which I’m probably never going to use,” said Mr. Bahnaman, who hasn’t visited a bar or played another game in-person since. “That is very sad.”

Lockdowns have shut some bars, while reducing capacity at others. Though this has had a withering effect on in-person bar trivia, it has also encouraged a proliferation of online games. Now you can test your knowledge of Episcopal sees or TV catchphrases from anywhere at any time, competing against other humans or just your own recall.

Bar trivia began in England in the 1970s. Designed to bring people inside to order drinks on slow nights, the competitions quickly gained popularity, providing both an economic bump for small businesses and a social occasion for bar patrons. In most quizzes, a host asks a series of questions — general, themed, audio or visual — and teams of patrons scribble answers as they down pints.  

A good trivia question has an interesting fact at its heart, something you might want to know if you don’t already. And it presents the query not in a “you know it or you don’t” way, but rather in a form that generates discussion and allows you to deduce your way to an educated guess. (One example: What is the only state in which both the name of the state and the name of the state capital have been one-word titles of Oscar nominees for best picture?) Prizes include cash, a cleared bar tab or simply the warm glow that comes from really nailing that multipart hockey mascot brainteaser.

Having proliferated on Zoom, Twitch and Facebook Live, quizzes look and feel different now, of course. While a few enable remote socializing — via chat functions or breakout room — you still can’t share jalapeño poppers or hunch around the same worksheet. But that’s the price paid for not having to share a table (and aerosols) with people outside your household as you try to recall China’s major rivers. Asynchronous quizzes, available daily, weekly or whenever, are enjoying a rush of popularity, too. Some still offer cash prizes, but many function as fund-raisers for struggling bars, food banks or the quiz companies themselves.

David Gallic, the director of content at King Trivia, which had games at 190 bars across the West Coast and the Southwest before the coronavirus intervened, misses the personal interaction of bar trivia. “On Twitch, when I’m hosting, it’s me on camera, and everybody else in a little chat box,” he said. But he enjoys the multi-timezone reach that an online format provides. Lynn Yu, a co-founder of Trivia LA, which generates monthly trivia question lists and offers private livestream games for a fee, likes that she doesn’t have to dress up. “They’re only seeing the top half of me,” she said.

O’Brien’s, a pub in Santa Monica, Calif., that hosts a weekly quiz thronged with “Jeopardy” champs, held its last quiz on March 11. The following Wednesday the quiz reappeared online and hasn’t missed a week since. “This is a way that maybe gets us to 90 percent of the feeling of being there live with people with basically zero percent of the risk,” said Dave Shukan, an occasional O’Brien’s writer and host.

Once a month, its rotating hosts present what they call a “Frankenquiz,” a best-of edition designed for a popular (if scarily knowledgeable) audience. On a recent Sunday, 17 teams handily fielded questions about film directors, sports teams, Ibadi Islam and a British foreign secretary, anagrammed. “It’s not a question of being smart,” said Paul Paquet, a longtime player and trivia columnist. “It’s just a neurological quirk where we remember things.” Debatable.

Admittedly, Google remembers what we may forget and the online format makes cheating easier. (Most outlets use the honor system; some ask players to keep their hands visible onscreen.) Quizzes have also altered form and methodology to make answers less searchable. America’s recent racial reckoning has also provided a moment to rethink quiz content.

“There was a very concerted call and an effort within the trivia community to make sure that you’re not just asking questions about white America and white Americana,” Ms. Yu said.

Newcomers to trivia, even those with decent general knowledge and a trove of weirder info lodged somewhere in the hippocampus, may find quiz questions difficult. “To be completely honest, a lot of the pub trivia I played online is too hard,” said Bill Patschak, a founder of the new site BPtrivia. But, as with any new skill, players improve through practice, learning not only facts but the types of questions asked, and the way writers might frame them.

“Everyone is an expert in something,” Ms. Yu said reassuringly. “And they do know more than they think they do.” And if thinking too hard about health crises or fraught transfers of power has you down, it can be relaxing to spend 10 minutes or a couple of hours immersing yourself in material that doesn’t matter at all.

“It’s testing knowledge, but it’s not testing anything important,” Shayne Bushfield, a founder of the exclusive quiz site Learned League said.

Here are some ways to play bar trivia from home, with or without pants. Just bring your brain, and your own booze.

Bar trivia without the bar

Many major trivia companies, like King Trivia, Geeks Who Drink, Brainstormer Trivia! and the Big Quiz Thing, have all migrated some of their live events online. While O’Brien’s weekly quizzes are invite-only, its monthly Frankenquizes, found via the pub’s Facebook and Twitter pages, are open to all. There are two rounds of 15 questions each, plus two handouts (now Google docs) that players work on in snatched minutes between rounds.

If you can assemble a dedicated squad, remotely, try Online Quiz League USA, which Mr. Bahnaman co-founded and described as a bowling league for the brain. Each week, your four-person team plays another via Zoom, Skype or Messenger. The season finishes with a cup tournament, when teams play for trophies and bragging rights.

Game on, camera off

If you prefer your quizzing on your own time, you can work your contacts to score an invite to Learned League, a 21,000-strong members-only club that lets you start or end each weekday with six synapse-tickling questions, delivered via email. Or try BPtrivia, which has daily, monthly and race-against-the clock quizzes, to be played in your browser anytime. (Some are free, others require a subscription.)

There are also plenty of apps, video games and online games, like Random Trivia Generator. Or if you need more incentive to answer questions correctly, try Jackbox Games’ Murder Trivia Party and try to stay alive.

Quiz shows, remotely

If you love trivia, you are probably mourning the recent death of the longtime “Jeopardy” host, Alex Trebek. But “Jeopardy” will continue, and you can still take the qualifying test, now available remotely. “Jeopardy” also offers a couple of apps so that you can practice phrasing your answer in the form of a question. A voice-only game lets you play even during drive time. If current events are more your speed, NPR’s news quiz, “Wait Wait Don’t Tell Me,” has created a play-along game for smart speakers.

Let the board quiz you or choose your own trivial adventure

Maybe you grew up with Trivial Pursuit or one of its seemingly endless iterations. If you make a few exceptions for the geography category, the game has aged well, and a 40th anniversary edition collects question best-ofs. For a more recent iteration of a board game quiz, and assuming you don’t room with Ken Jennings, try Wits &amp; Wagers: When a question is read, everyone in your household guesses the answer, then bets on which answer is correct.

If you would rather host your own quiz without having to do the work of writing questions, there are plenty of questions and answers available online. Start with Alpaca Farm, where Learned League alums post free quizzes, and interrogate family, friends and pets about 11-letter U.S. city names or Roberto Clemente.





No.52 article:
The Pandemic Work Diary of a Podcasting Tech Editor

Nilay Patel misses laughing at headline ideas and goofing around in the hallways of the Lower Manhattan offices of The Verge, the tech-news site he leads. Any other year, he and his staff would be buzzing around, having a field day with all of the big device launches that usually coincide with the holiday shopping season. Instead, they are comparing notes remotely, via Zoom and Slack.

The Verge, owned by Vox Media, covers technological advances, electronics reviews and who’s who in the realm of digital creation. In addition to overseeing coverage of the latest video game console or earbuds, Mr. Patel, 39, hosts two podcasts: Decoder, which focuses on how business, tech and government policy collide, and The Vergecast, which recaps the week in tech news.

Logging on from his family’s pandemic retreat north of the city, he still manages to indulge in a fair amount of goofing, like when the staff’s “camera nerds” recently staged what he described as a “webcam arms race.”

“I just bought a used Sony ZV-1,” he said, “after being shamed for the weird focus-hunting my old RX100 was doing on a call.”

But lately, Mr. Patel, The Verge’s editor in chief, is focused on more than just hyper-niche gear and its attendant jargon.

“To me, it’s beyond gadgets,” he said of tech’s impact on culture and politics, as part of our mid-November interviews. “The ability for technology to democratize the creation of culture and then to democratize culture itself is extraordinarily powerful, and we can see it all around us.”

9 a.m. I try to start every day by spending some time with Max, our 2-year-old daughter. One of the few bright spots of the pandemic pushing us out of New York City and into working from home full time is that I get to see her throughout the day. She is still obsessed with Halloween, so I stand behind the bedroom door and we play trick-or-treat until she gets bored. (She does not get bored.)

10 a.m. Today’s Slack fire drill is a fun one, if you think raw panic bracketed by waiting around for Adobe Premiere to export a video is a good time. We’re reviewing Apple’s newest Macs, and there’s a scramble as we realize that some of our test results may have been affected by a software glitch in Premiere. For a minute, it seems like we’ll have to make major edits to our reviews and even potentially miss our deadline, but it turns out we can work around the bug. Crisis averted.

11 a.m. I’ve got a list of pickups (rerecording a sentence or phrase) to record for Decoder, so I go into the basement bedroom I use as a podcast studio and knock those out.

11:30 a.m. I’m very late filing copy for my MacBook Pro review, but Dieter Bohn, The Verge’s executive editor, is reviewing the MacBook Air, so I graciously agree to edit his review so I can steal all of his ideas when I go to finish mine. In the entire history of The Verge, we’ve never given any product a perfect 10 review score, but we are seriously considering it. We debate this on and off for the rest of the day.

1 p.m. We have our weekly staff meeting on Monday afternoons. I’m generally opposed to meetings that could just be emails, but the staff has convinced me that it’s important to get everyone together and talk about what all the teams are doing. We clap for senior reporter Ashley Carman — it’s her fifth year at The Verge, which is one of those milestones that always reminds me that we’re not a scrappy upstart anymore.

1:30 p.m. I really have to finish writing this review, so I turn off all my notifications, close Slack and focus on getting it done.

4:30 p.m. I file my review copy and turn Slack back on to discover I have another set of Decoder pickups to record. It’s only our second episode, so we’re still smoothing out how to get everything done on time.

6 p.m. With our Mac reviews filed, we debate scores and headlines. It’s been a long time since people have been more excited about laptops than phones, which says a lot about how our relationship with tech has changed during the pandemic.

9 a.m. The Mac reviews publish. There’s always a flurry of activity after a review goes up to see what other reviewers said, what we missed and how people are reacting to them. The second episode of Decoder also publishes; it’s an interview with the Khan Academy C.E.O. Sal Khan. I have to remember to tweet about it and post a clip to my Instagram, which I always forget to do.

10 a.m. Jack Dorsey and Mark Zuckerberg are testifying at a Senate hearing today, and I’ll be on CNBC to talk about it later, so I open a stream and keep tabs on it in the background.

11:30 a.m. I find it impossibly hard to context-switch between “management and meetings” mode and “individual creative mode,” so I’ve set aside Tuesdays as a day for marathon meetings in an effort to free up creative time elsewhere. First, I check in with the Verge creative director Will Joel to talk about a big end-of-year editorial package and a merchandise store that’s launching soon.

Noon. I have my weekly check-in with my boss, Helen Havlak, the vice president of The Verge. She’s a genius — I hired her years ago to be our engagement editor and then editorial director. After a while, I realized I was going to business-side meetings, coming back and asking her what to do, and then just repeating what she said in the next meeting. So, we promoted her to be my boss; she’s in charge of our business while I focus on editorial, and it’s been terrific.

12:30 p.m. Time for our weekly leadership meeting. It’s the end of a punishing year, and everyone is unsurprisingly burned out. We talk about making sure people actually take vacations, and how to have our usual end-of-the-year planning meeting when we’re all remote. Most of our best ideas used to come from just hanging out at dinners and we obviously can’t do that now.

2 p.m. I have gotten substantially worse at email during the pandemic. Not having a commute means I don’t have a built-in time to work through my inbox. I stare at 1,303 unreads. They stare back at me.

2:30 p.m. I have nice light coming through the window for my CNBC appearance, but seconds before I go on the air, dark clouds roll in and it starts to snow. Minutes after I’m done, the sun comes out. It’s a striking visual metaphor for what sitting through a congressional hearing on Big Tech is like.

4 p.m. My formal workday usually ends at the end of our daily desk editor meeting. Then, I try to wind down and disconnect. But this week, everything I started just went long.

10 a.m. I block out Wednesday mornings to read, think and take notes. So much of my day-to-day is reactive, so I do my best to create time to slow down and think ahead. The best work advice I’ve ever gotten was from Microsoft’s C.E.O., Satya Nadella. I asked him how he found the time to do everything on his schedule. “It’s your time,” he said. “Be selfish about it.”

10:01 a.m. Hit by a wave of Slack messages. I am not great at being selfish about my time.

12:30 p.m. I usually have office hours on Wednesday afternoons, where I just hang out with reporters and talk about whatever stories they’re working on. It’s by far my favorite hour of the week. Sadly, I have to skip it because we’re trying to bank some Decoder episodes before the holidays.

1:30 p.m. We take a full hour before interviews so I can read the preproduction notes, watch and listen to other interviews with the guest, and edit my outline of questions. Interviews never really follow the outline, but the prep allows me to let things flow without going too far off the rails.

2 p.m. Podcast interview with Phil Spencer, the head of Xbox.

3:30 p.m. I take a short break and say hi to Max before diving into prep for my second interview.

10 a.m. I have a stack of things to read and notes to give on various stories. We have a big investigation coming — it’s looking into a company that went completely sideways — and I want to make sure we’ve got the tone exactly right. One of our great advantages is that people read The Verge because they are already interested in science and technology — so we don’t need to sit around explaining SpaceX or USB-C.

Noon. Nori Donovan, executive producer for video at The Verge, and I have a call with our partners at Netflix to discuss a new documentary series we’re producing.

1 p.m. Dieter and I record a short segment with Walt Mossberg for The Vergecast. Walt’s also been using the new MacBook Air, so officially, we’re talking about that. But really, we just love talking to Walt.

4 p.m. We record the rest of the Vergecast. It goes long. (It always goes long. If you know how long it’s supposed to be, please let me know.)

11 a.m. In today’s desk editors’ meeting, we’re trying to make sure our science team doesn’t get overwhelmed. The pandemic is getting worse, and there’s just a lot of news about schools and shutdowns that we don’t really cover, but which is obviously important to our team. Our science editor, Mary Beth Griggs, emphasizes to the staff what we’re focusing on: science and technology stories about vaccines, treatments and care.

12:30 p.m. Helen and I chat about our plans for next year. We’ve been so caught up in what feels like minute-to-minute issues since March that we want to spend a little time looking ahead before our companywide 2021 planning begins in earnest.

3 p.m. It’s been three weeks since I’ve had a full weekend, so I knock off a little early to hang with Max. I read her a lot of books. She loves to play pretend, so we have tea parties and I am put down for a “nap.”





No.53 article:
Hollywood’s Obituary, the Sequel. Now Streaming.

LOS ANGELES — “Hollywood’s like Egypt: full of crumbled pyramids. It’ll never come back. It’ll just keep on crumbling until finally the wind blows the last studio prop across the sands.”

David O. Selznick, the golden era producer, made that glum proclamation in 1951. A new entertainment technology, TV, was emasculating cinema as a cultural force, and film studios had started to fossilize into bottom line-oriented businesses. As Selznick put it, Hollywood had been “grabbed by a little group of bookkeepers and turned into a junk industry.”

Since then, Hollywood has repeatedly written its own obituary. It died when interlopers like Gulf + Western Industries began buying studios in the 1960s. And again when “Star Wars” (1977) and “Superman” (1978) turned movies into toy advertisements. The 1980s (VCRs), the 1990s (the rise of media super-conglomerates), the 2000s (endless fantasy sequels) and the 2010s (Netflix, Netflix, Netflix) each brought new rounds of existential hand-wringing.

Underneath the tumult, however, the essence of the film industry remained intact. Hollywood continued to believe in itself. Sure, we churn out lowest common denominator junk, studio executives would concede over $40 salads at the Polo Lounge. It’s how we make our quarterly numbers. But we can still generate the occasional thunderclap, with ambitious films like “Get Out” and “1917” and “Black Panther” and “Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood” arriving on big screens and commanding the culture for months on end.

In one breath: All is lost! Big Tech is going to eat us alive.

In the next: Everyone still loves us. Just look at all those pinwheel-eyed fans buying tickets.

But the moment of crisis in which Hollywood now finds itself is different. In the 110-year history of the American film industry, never has so much upheaval arrived so fast and on so many fronts, leaving many writers, directors, studio executives, agents and other movie workers disoriented and demoralized — wandering in “complete darkness,” as one longtime female producer told me. These are melodramatic people by nature, but talk to enough of them and you will get the strong sense that their fear is real this time.

Have streaming, the coronavirus and other challenges combined to blow away — finally, unequivocally — the last remnants of Hollywood?

“The last nine months have shaken the movie business to its bones,” said Jason Blum, the powerhouse producer whose credits range from “The Purge” series to “BlacKkKlansman.”

Streaming, of course, has been disrupting the entertainment business for some time. Netflix started delivering movies and television shows via the internet in 2007. By 2017, Disney was trying to supercharge its own streaming ambitions by bidding for Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox, ultimately swallowing most of the company for $71.3 billion in an effort to expand its library of content and gain control of Hulu.

In recent months, however, the shift toward streaming has greatly accelerated. With more than half of the 5,477 theaters in the United States still closed, more than a dozen movies originally destined for big screens have been rerouted to streaming services or online rental platforms. Pixar’s latest adventure, “Soul,” will debut exclusively on Disney+ on Christmas Day. It will compete with “Wonder Woman 1984” (Warner Bros.), which will arrive in theaters and on HBO Max on Dec. 25, a crossing-the-Rubicon moment in the eyes of analysts.

Meantime, the owner of Regal Cinemas, the No. 2 multiplex chain in North America, just took on emergency debt to avoid insolvency. Trying to keep his own company afloat, Adam Aron, the chief executive of AMC Entertainment, the No. 1 chain, quoted Winston Churchill on his most recent earnings call. (“We shall fight on the beaches!”) And the National Association of Theater Owners has found itself begging for a federal bailout. Deprived of one, the trade group warned, “movie theaters across the country are at risk of going dark for good.”

Without appearing on big screens, are movies even movies? Wrestling with that question alone has pushed Hollywood into a full-blown identity crisis. But the film industry is simultaneously dealing with other challenges. Outrage over the killing of George Floyd by a police officer has forced the movie capital to confront its contribution to racism and inequity. Coronavirus-forced production shutdowns have idled tens of thousands of entertainment workers. The two biggest talent agencies, Creative Artists and William Morris Endeavor, have been hobbled by the shutdown, resulting in a diaspora of agents, some of whom are starting competing firms, a once-unthinkable realignment.

There has been an abrupt changing of the guard in Hollywood’s highest ranks, contributing to the sense of a power vacuum. Nine of the top 20 most powerful people in show business, as ranked a year ago by The Hollywood Reporter, have left their jobs for one reason or another (retirement, scandal, corporate guillotine). They include the No. 1 person, Robert A. Iger, who stepped down as Disney’s chief executive in February, and Ron Meyer (No. 11), whose 25-year Universal career ended in August amid a tawdry extortion plot.

Retrenchments at Warner Bros. have also bruised Hollywood’s psyche. Over the years, as other film studios were lobbed between owners (Universal), downsized (Paramount) or subsumed (20th Century Fox), “Warners” remained virtually untouched, emerging as an emblem of stability and spending. In recent months, however, the studio has been streamlined by an aggressive new owner, AT&amp;T, resulting in the departure of a startling number of executives who had been there for decades. For now, Warner Bros. has 10 movies on its 2022 theatrical release schedule, according to the database IMDbPro. Last year, it released 18.

The black icing on the cake: The shutdown has stripped Hollywood of its internal culture, the otherworldly (some would say silly) rituals that have long served as a magnet for so many. It has been a year without red carpets. There have been no see-and-be-seen power lunches at Chateau Marmont. Zoom is the new awards ballroom.

In a recent phone conversation that felt more like a therapy session, one Warner Bros. executive told me that “the town” felt like a dismantled movie set: The gleaming false fronts had been hauled away to reveal mere mortals wandering around in a mess.

Or perhaps, he continued, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid conflict with his employer, the proper metaphor was a movie — perhaps “The Remains of the Day,” the 1993 drama starring Anthony Hopkins as an English butler. As Vincent Canby wrote in his New York Times review, the Merchant Ivory film was about “the last, worn-out gasps of a feudal system that was supposed to have vanished centuries before.”

Not everyone in Hollywood is walking around in a stupor. Some people even seem energized, especially those who have spent their careers wielding jackhammers against the Hollywood status quo. Ava DuVernay, for instance, has been outspoken about the need for studios to remake themselves — to dramatically diversify their upper ranks, which are overwhelmingly white and male, and to prioritize storytelling from a kaleidoscope of voices. Her production company, ARRAY, uses “change is ours to make” as its slogan.

“I see this as a time of opportunity,” Ms. DuVernay told me. “Sometimes you have to take it down to the studs and build something new.”

She continued: “It’s not going to go back to the way it was, nor do we want it to. We want to move forward. I hear people saying that they can’t wait for Hollywood to get back to normal. Well, I really resist that. Normal wasn’t good enough. All of this change in such a short amount of time really lays bare how shaky the ground was to begin with.”

Ms. DuVernay, whose film and television credits include “Selma,” “Queen Sugar” and “When They See Us,” grew more pointed. “Some folks are scared, and I have sympathy,” she said. “But it’s mostly the folks who are clinging to the idea that Hollywood is theirs and it was built in their likeness, and they will do anything to cling to it, even if that means destroying it.”

She concluded by rolling her eyes at the Chicken Littles who fret that moviegoing is over.

“Talk about dramatic,” she said. “Theaters aren’t going anywhere, at least not all of them.”

In fact, multiplexes may get a post-pandemic bump. Because so many studios have pushed back their biggest movies, next summer’s theatrical release calendar looks like a blockbuster heaven: “Black Widow,” “Fast &amp; Furious 9,” “The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It,” “Ghostbusters: Afterlife,” “Minions: The Rise of Gru,” “Top Gun: Maverick,” Marvel’s “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings,” “Hotel Transylvania 4,” “Venom: Let There Be Carnage.” (To name a few.) With any luck, studio chiefs say, the newly vaccinated masses will come out in droves, in part because they won’t take the theatrical experience for granted anymore.

In Japan, where cinemas are fully operating again (the country’s response to the coronavirus has kept cases and deaths low), more than 3.4 million people turned out last month to see an animated movie, “Demon Slayer: Mugen Train,” on its opening weekend. One Tokyo theater scheduled a jaw-dropping 42 screenings in one day to meet demand.

Popcorn for everyone!

“There’s a reason that the Roaring Twenties followed the 1918 pandemic,” J.J. Abrams, the Bad Robot Productions chairman, said by phone. “We have a pent-up, desperate need to see each other — to socialize and have communal experiences. And there is nothing that I can think of that is more exciting than being in a theater with people you don’t know, who don’t necessarily like the same sports teams or pray to the same god or eat the same food. But you’re screaming together, laughing together, crying together. It’s a social necessity.”

Streaming services and theaters will settle into coexistence, he predicted.

“I think going to a theater is like going to church and watching a movie at home is like praying at home,” Mr. Abrams said. “It’s not that you can’t do it. But the experience is wholly different.”

Over? Hollywood? C’mon. “I’m working on and excited about and hopeful about a number of theatrical projects,” Mr. Abrams said.

His most recent film, “Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker,” took in more than $1 billion at the global box office. It was one of nine movies to reach that threshold last year, with “Avengers: Endgame” collecting nearly $3 billion. All told, ticket sales stood at $42.2 billion, with weakness in North America ($11.4 billion) offset by an increase overseas ($30.8 billion).

The hoary tradition of exhibiting movies on big screens, which dates to the 1890s, may have vast challenges — not the least of which is a 78 percent plunge in domestic ticket sales for the year to date. But a business of its scale, as Mr. Abrams and others will tell you, does not vanish forever in the span of a few self-quarantining months.

But what happens in 2022, once the thrill of mingling together has burned off, studios have worked through their blockbuster backlogs and streaming services are stronger than ever?

Will young people — trained during the pandemic to expect instant access to new movies like “Hamilton” and “Borat Subsequent Moviefilm” — get into the habit of going to the movies like their parents and grandparents did? Generation Z forms a crucial audience: About 33 percent of moviegoers in the United States and Canada last year were under the age of 24, according to the Motion Picture Association.

Most young people will have gone a full year without visiting a cinema by the time vaccines are expected to be widely deployed.

“Yes, there is pent-up demand to see movies in a theater,” said Peter Chernin, whose Hollywood career has spanned four decades. “But people change their habits.”

Mr. Chernin, who oversaw the release of theatrical megamovies like “Titanic” and “Avatar” while running Mr. Murdoch’s empire from 1996 to 2009, has already voted with his feet. Last year, he aligned his Chernin Entertainment with Netflix, where he has more than 70 movies in development. The films in which he specializes — high-quality dramas like “Hidden Figures” and “Ford v Ferrari” — are a dying breed in theaters. It’s too hard to make money when marketing campaigns start at $30 million.

But the audience has also shifted. Sorry, film snobs: Most people seem fine with watching these films in their living rooms (sometimes, shudder, on their smartphones).

“Cinema as an art form is not going to die,” said Michael Shamberg, the producing force behind films like “Erin Brockovich,” “The Big Chill” and, rather appropriately, “Contagion.” “But the tradition of cinema that we all grew up on, falling in love with movies in a theater, is over. Cinema needs to be redefined so that it doesn’t matter where you see it. A lot of people, sadly, don’t seem to be ready to admit that.”

In other words, the art may live on, but the myth of big screens as the be-all and end-all is being dismantled in a fundamental and perhaps irreversible manner. Because of the pandemic, the film academy has decided for the first time to allow streaming films to skip a theatrical release entirely and still remain eligible for the Academy Awards, nudging the Oscars closer to the Emmys. (The academy deemed the move “temporary,” but some people, including Ms. DuVernay, one of the organization’s 54 governors, think it will be hard to backtrack.)

Imagine what that means to Hollywood’s sense of self. Since always, the film industry has swaggered into every room it has ever entered — Spielberg on line one, Scorsese on line two. Nothing less than “ensuring film’s legacy as the great art form of our time” is one of the stated goals of the soon-to-open Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles.

Mr. Abrams, as much a television wunderkind as a movie one, described the difference between small screens and big ones by summarizing something he once heard on National Public Radio. Television, he explained, is the child and the audience is the parent. It’s smaller than you. You can control it by changing the channel. With movies, the roles are reversed. You are the small one. You’re supposed to look up at them.

Exactly how does that work in the streaming age?

No wonder Hollywood has been experiencing, as the trade newsletter The Ankler recently put it, “a heart attack wrapped inside a nervous breakdown.”

Next week, the Oscar race will kick into high gear with the wide release of David Fincher’s “Mank.” Set mostly in the 1930s and filmed in black and white, the film focuses on Hollywood’s romantic heyday — back when pictures were pictures — by telling a story about the creation of “Citizen Kane.” (The Australian actor Toby Leonard Moore plays David O. Selznick.)

Critics have been transported. “Time-machine splendor,” wrote Owen Gleiberman in Variety. “A tale of Old Hollywood that’s more steeped in Old Hollywood — its glamour and sleaze, its layer-cake hierarchies, its corruption and glory — than just about any movie you’ve seen.”

You can find “Mank” on Netflix.





No.54 article:
Pope Francis: A Crisis Reveals What Is in Our Hearts

To come out of this pandemic better than we went in, we must let ourselves be touched by others’ pain.

In this past year of change, my mind and heart have overflowed with people. People I think of and pray for, and sometimes cry with, people with names and faces, people who died without saying goodbye to those they loved, families in difficulty, even going hungry, because there’s no work.

Sometimes, when you think globally, you can be paralyzed: There are so many places of apparently ceaseless conflict; there’s so much suffering and need. I find it helps to focus on concrete situations: You see faces looking for life and love in the reality of each person, of each people. You see hope written in the story of every nation, glorious because it’s a story of daily struggle, of lives broken in self-sacrifice. So rather than overwhelm you, it invites you to ponder and to respond with hope.

These are moments in life that can be ripe for change and conversion. Each of us has had our own “stoppage,” or if we haven’t yet, we will someday: illness, the failure of a marriage or a business, some great disappointment or betrayal. As in the Covid-19 lockdown, those moments generate a tension, a crisis that reveals what is in our hearts.

In every personal “Covid,” so to speak, in every “stoppage,” what is revealed is what needs to change: our lack of internal freedom, the idols we have been serving, the ideologies we have tried to live by, the relationships we have neglected.

When I got really sick at the age of 21, I had my first experience of limit, of pain and loneliness. It changed the way I saw life. For months, I didn’t know who I was or whether I would live or die. The doctors had no idea whether I’d make it either. I remember hugging my mother and saying, “Just tell me if I’m going to die.” I was in the second year of training for the priesthood in the diocesan seminary of Buenos Aires.

I remember the date: Aug. 13, 1957. I got taken to a hospital by a prefect who realized mine was not the kind of flu you treat with aspirin. Straightaway they took a liter and a half of water out of my lungs, and I remained there fighting for my life. The following November they operated to take out the upper right lobe of one of the lungs. I have some sense of how people with Covid-19 feel as they struggle to breathe on a ventilator.

I remember especially two nurses from this time. One was the senior ward matron, a Dominican sister who had been a teacher in Athens before being sent to Buenos Aires. I learned later that following the first examination by the doctor, after he left she told the nurses to double the dose of medication he had prescribed — basically penicillin and streptomycin — because she knew from experience I was dying. Sister Cornelia Caraglio saved my life. Because of her regular contact with sick people, she understood better than the doctor what they needed, and she had the courage to act on her knowledge.

Another nurse, Micaela, did the same when I was in intense pain, secretly prescribing me extra doses of painkillers outside my due times. Cornelia and Micaela are in heaven now, but I’ll always owe them so much. They fought for me to the end, until my eventual recovery. They taught me what it is to use science but also to know when to go beyond it to meet particular needs. And the serious illness I lived through taught me to depend on the goodness and wisdom of others.

This theme of helping others has stayed with me these past months. In lockdown I’ve often gone in prayer to those who sought all means to save the lives of others. So many of the nurses, doctors and caregivers paid that price of love, together with priests, and religious and ordinary people whose vocations were service. We return their love by grieving for them and honoring them.

Whether or not they were conscious of it, their choice testified to a belief: that it is better to live a shorter life serving others than a longer one resisting that call. That’s why, in many countries, people stood at their windows or on their doorsteps to applaud them in gratitude and awe. They are the saints next door, who have awakened something important in our hearts, making credible once more what we desire to instill by our preaching.

They are the antibodies to the virus of indifference. They remind us that our lives are a gift and we grow by giving of ourselves, not preserving ourselves but losing ourselves in service.

With some exceptions, governments have made great efforts to put the well-being of their people first, acting decisively to protect health and to save lives. The exceptions have been some governments that shrugged off the painful evidence of mounting deaths, with inevitable, grievous consequences. But most governments acted responsibly, imposing strict measures to contain the outbreak.

Yet some groups protested, refusing to keep their distance, marching against travel restrictions — as if measures that governments must impose for the good of their people constitute some kind of political assault on autonomy or personal freedom! Looking to the common good is much more than the sum of what is good for individuals. It means having a regard for all citizens and seeking to respond effectively to the needs of the least fortunate.

It is all too easy for some to take an idea — in this case, for example, personal freedom — and turn it into an ideology, creating a prism through which they judge everything.

The coronavirus crisis may seem special because it affects most of humankind. But it is special only in how visible it is. There are a thousand other crises that are just as dire, but are just far enough from some of us that we can act as if they don’t exist. Think, for example, of the wars scattered across different parts of the world; of the production and trade in weapons; of the hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing poverty, hunger and lack of opportunity; of climate change. These tragedies may seem distant from us, as part of the daily news that, sadly, fails to move us to change our agendas and priorities. But like the Covid-19 crisis, they affect the whole of humanity.

Look at us now: We put on face masks to protect ourselves and others from a virus we can’t see. But what about all those other unseen viruses we need to protect ourselves from? How will we deal with the hidden pandemics of this world, the pandemics of hunger and violence and climate change?

If we are to come out of this crisis less selfish than when we went in, we have to let ourselves be touched by others’ pain. There’s a line in Friedrich Hölderlin’s “Patmos” that speaks to me, about how the danger that threatens in a crisis is never total; there’s always a way out: “Where the danger is, also grows the saving power.” That’s the genius in the human story: There’s always a way to escape destruction. Where humankind has to act is precisely there, in the threat itself; that’s where the door opens.

This is a moment to dream big, to rethink our priorities — what we value, what we want, what we seek — and to commit to act in our daily life on what we have dreamed of.

God asks us to dare to create something new. We cannot return to the false securities of the political and economic systems we had before the crisis. We need economies that give to all access to the fruits of creation, to the basic needs of life: to land, lodging and labor. We need a politics that can integrate and dialogue with the poor, the excluded and the vulnerable, that gives people a say in the decisions that affect their lives. We need to slow down, take stock and design better ways of living together on this earth.

The pandemic has exposed the paradox that while we are more connected, we are also more divided. Feverish consumerism breaks the bonds of belonging. It causes us to focus on our self-preservation and makes us anxious. Our fears are exacerbated and exploited by a certain kind of populist politics that seeks power over society. It is hard to build a culture of encounter, in which we meet as people with a shared dignity, within a throwaway culture that regards the well-being of the elderly, the unemployed, the disabled and the unborn as peripheral to our own well-being.

To come out of this crisis better, we have to recover the knowledge that as a people we have a shared destination. The pandemic has reminded us that no one is saved alone. What ties us to one another is what we commonly call solidarity. Solidarity is more than acts of generosity, important as they are; it is the call to embrace the reality that we are bound by bonds of reciprocity. On this solid foundation we can build a better, different, human future.





No.55 article:
Tony Hsieh, Longtime Chief of Zappos, Is Dead at 46

In the early days of online retailing, he realized that the key to success was making people feel comfortable and secure shopping on the internet. 

Tony Hsieh, the technology entrepreneur and venture capitalist who built Zappos into a $1 billion internet shoes and clothing powerhouse, died on Friday in Bridgeport Hospital in Bridgeport, Conn.  He was 46.

The cause was injuries suffered in a house fire on Nov. 18 in New London, Conn., according to Megan Fazio, a spokeswoman for the Downtown Project in Las Vegas, a revitalization effort which Mr. Hsieh oversaw.

Mr. Hsieh (pronounced shay) was apparently visiting family at the time. His death was confirmed by Zappos in a statement from the company’s chief executive, Kedar Deshpande. Further details about the fire or its cause were not immediately available.

Mr. Hsieh stepped down as chief executive in August after 21 years with the company, which began selling shoes online in 1999. 

Having sold his first company, LinkExchange, an online advertising network, to Microsoft in 1998 for $265 million, Mr. Hsieh became a venture capitalist and invested in a San Francisco-based retail shoe start-up, then called ShoeSite.com. 

He quickly took over as C.E.O. and focused his efforts on building the company into an internet giant. (The name was changed to Zappos.com, an adaptation of “zapatos,” the Spanish word for shoes, according to the company website.)

ImageMr. Hsieh in 2014 with President Bill Clinton at the annual gathering of the Clinton Global Initiative. Mr. Hsieh’s 2010 book, “Delivering Happiness,” described his customer service philosophy. Credit...Brennan Linsley/Associated PressIn the nascent period of internet commerce, Mr. Hsieh was a visionary who realized that getting customers to feel comfortable and secure buying online was the key to success and growth. 

To do that, employees in the call center had to engage customers as if speaking to an old friend, with authentic-sounding welcoming banter. He also realized that buyers needed to try on shoes, so Zappos offered free overnight shipping and free return shipping, often sending customers multiple pairs at a time.

Mr. Hsieh surprised the Silicon Valley world by moving the company from San Francisco to a suburb of Las Vegas, where he built a culture of “fun and a little weirdness” that resulted in skyrocketing growth.

From $1.6 million in sales in 2000, Zappos surpassed $1 billion in revenues by 2009. In July 2009, Mr. Hsieh sold the company for $1.2 billion to Amazon.

Mr. Hsieh, a soft-spoken and introspective executive, developed a philosophy of business built around the idea that happy employees were the conduit to satisfied customers who would return again and again. 

An avid reader, he wrote a best-selling book, “Delivering Happiness,” in 2010, describing his customer service philosophy. 

During his tenure at Zappos, Mr. Hsieh launched the Downtown Project, aimed at revitalizing the once-neglected downtown of Las Vegas and turning it into a vibrant area where Zappos employees would live. The effort grew beyond Mr. Hsieh’s original concept and the area has attracted thousands of technology workers and entrepreneurs.

“Tony Hsieh played a pivotal role in helping transform Downtown Las Vegas,” Gov. Steve Sisolak of Nevada wrote on Twitter. 

Tony Hsieh was born on Dec. 12, 1973, in Illinois to Richard and Judy Hsieh, immigrants from Taiwan who met in graduate school at the University of Illinois. His father was a chemical engineer and his mother was a social worker.

The family moved to California when Tony was 5. The oldest of three boys, he grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area. 

Survivors include his parents and his brothers Andy and Dave, Ms. Fazio said.

Mr. Hsieh graduated from Harvard with a degree in computer science in 1995 and after a short stint at the Oracle Corporation, he co-founded LinkExchange.

Approached by Nick Swinmurn in 1999 with the idea of selling shoes online, Mr. Hsieh overcame initial skepticism and invested. As the concept gained traction, he contemplated ways to spur growth.

In a 2009 profile in Briefings magazine, Mr. Hsieh described himself as a lifelong skeptic who sneered at psychology and philosophy. But his computer science background led him to believe that happiness could be studied as a science. Rather than assuming happiness is achieved haphazardly, he began to read about the distinct characteristics that made people happy.

People assume that achieving a certain goal or winning the lottery will bring lasting happiness, he said, but it rarely does. “Most of the frameworks for happiness conclude that there are four things required: perceived control, perceived progress, connectedness (meaning the depths of relationships) and being part of something bigger than yourself.”

To that end, he argued that building a culture based on these tenets would lead to Zappos long-term success. The company attracted both technology types as well as refugees from the gaming and hospitality industries in Las Vegas. 

Zappos was extremely choosy, hiring just 1 percent of applicants. Word spread quickly about the corporate culture, and people started showing up at the company’s headquarters to take tours.

Over time, Mr. Hsieh pushed the culture envelope. In 2013, he announced that the company would eliminate all titles and managers to embrace a “holacratic” structure. A world without bosses had an appeal, but not to everyone. A few hundred employees, or 14 percent of the work force, uncomfortable in that structure, accepted a buyout and left. 

Mr. Hsieh refused to embrace the trappings of a conventional chief executive. He lived in a 240-square-foot Airstream trailer in a small trailer park that he built in downtown Las Vegas.

He insisted on a $36,000 annual salary and he sat in an unassuming cubicle among the other employees. When Zappos set up a new warehouse in Kentucky, he packed a pickup truck with materials, drove to Kentucky and got to work bolting together shelves and unpacking shoes.

Amazon had approached Mr. Hsieh about an acquisition in 2005 and Mr. Hsieh refused. But in 2008, with a recession hammering the economy, Amazon made a second overture and this time the Zappos board insisted that Mr. Hsieh take the offer. The feeling among some board members was that Mr. Hsieh’s business philosophy made for good public relations but would not spur growth in a difficult economy.

Visiting Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chairman in Seattle, Mr. Hsieh was impressed by the similarities in the two corporate cultures and also, the offer by Mr. Bezos that Zappos would operate as an independent entity with the same management team.

“I get all weak-kneed when I see a customer-obsessed company and Zappos is definitely that,” Mr. Bezos said in a video welcome to Zappos employees. “I’ve seen a lot of companies and I’ve never seen a culture like Zappos.’’ 







No.56 article:
Nice to Meet You, Mom. Now Let’s Go Into Quarantine.

For members of the world’s largest diaspora of adoptees, returning to the country of their birth was a rite of passage — until the coronavirus pandemic changed everything. Some found a way to make the trip anyway.

When a taxi deposited Mallory Guy in front of an apartment building in Cheonan, South Korea, groggy and dazed after a 14-hour flight from Atlanta, a Korean couple was waiting for her on the sidewalk with open arms.

It was the first time since she was 7 months old that Ms. Guy, 33, had been in the country where she was born. It was also her first time seeing her birth parents since she was sent to the United States more than three decades ago. They gave her up for adoption when they could not afford the surgery to repair her cleft palate.

Ms. Guy, who was adopted by a family in Mentor, Ohio, had taken a 23andMe DNA test in 2013 hoping to find information about her health. She checked the website each year, looking for a potential connection to her Korean family. Late last year, she matched with a relative in Seattle.

“Her mom thinks she knows who I am,” she said of her interaction. “If I am who they think, I’m her niece. And they’ve been looking for me.”

Around 200,000 Korean children have been sent to families overseas since the 1950s, primarily to white families in America, according to Kelly Condit-Shrestha, a historian in Minneapolis who studies adoption. They are the largest diaspora of adoptees in the world, she said.

In recent years, reunions between adoptees and their biological parents have become more common, thanks to the loosening of South Korean privacy laws surrounding adoption, as well as the increased use of social media and genetic testing.

For some adoptees, the reunions had become a rite of passage, one they have imagined and anticipated for as long as they can remember, like a wedding or the birth of a child. Then came the pandemic of 2020. The pilgrimages back to South Korea dwindled. Many adoptees canceled long-planned reunions after the government’s quarantine rules for foreign visitors made the trips too costly and time-consuming.

But Ms. Guy persisted. Her reunion with her parents would not be a brief chat in a coffee shop. She would be spending 14 days with them in their home.

Ms. Guy’s Korean family had been set to visit her in Ohio in March, but the virus derailed their plans. At the end of the summer, she was furloughed from her job at a restaurant.

“This is probably the best time to do it,” she recalled thinking. In September, she flew to Korea alone.

When Ms. Guy arrived, she did not know whether she would be allowed to spend the two weeks at her biological parents’ home or be forced to stay at a costly government hotel. The South Korean Embassy’s website said only that such decisions were made on a case-by-case basis.

At the airport, Ms. Guy, who spoke little Korean, clutched a certificate that proved she was the daughter of a Korean family. Officials called her Korean father to verify her identity.

When she hugged her parents outside their apartment in Cheonan, about 50 miles south of Seoul, she was no longer an infant with a cleft palate, but a grown woman with a repaired lip, an American husband and two children of her own.

Reunited by a genetic test, an intercontinental flight and a pandemic, Ms. Guy and her parents climbed four stories to the modest three-bedroom apartment where she would spend her first two weeks. The language barrier loomed large.

“I panicked a little bit inside,” Ms. Guy said.

Her fears were unfounded. They watched Netflix together, laughing at moments that were humorous regardless of language.

Her parents made Korean food for her and American snacks like peanut butter and jelly. (They also stocked up on milk, because they had heard that Americans love milk.) They even bought her an exercise bike, as she had told them during calls that she enjoyed using her Peloton.

“I didn’t get to feed my daughter for 33 years, so this is the least I could do,” said Lim Mi-soon, 59, her birth mother.

“They’ve been more than amazing,” Ms. Guy said in a phone call a few days into her quarantine, adding that she was “thankful I have uninterrupted time with my parents here.”

Emotions were flowing as Ms. Guy flipped through a photo album of the family, including Ms. Guy’s Korean siblings, a brother and a sister. “Seeing the pictures of everybody growing up made me miss them more,” she said.

Though the tears were mostly a response to seeing “how wonderful they are and what could have been,” Ms. Guy said, her mother was worried that she had upset her by showing her the photos.

“It was hard to tell her through the translator that I wasn’t mad,” she said.

Ms. Guy’s homecoming was far from normal. Reunions between birth parent and child are often stiff, formal meetings, stifled by a language barrier and the bureaucratic hold of adoption agencies. They often occur at a restaurant or a coffee shop, not unlike a blind date. Intensely emotional conversations — tearful apologies from the parent, for instance, or reassurances from the child — must be filtered through an interpreter.

In some ways the pandemic has changed things for the better. Kelsey Krantz, 33, an adoptee from Mound, Minn., said it turned out to be “almost a blessing in disguise that we had to wait.”

Instead, she developed a relationship with her biological family through video calls and daily chats on the app Line, which is popular in South Korea and can translate messages.

“We’ve talked so much that we kind of know each other a lot more intimately,” she said, adding that she hoped it wouldn’t be “so socially awkward when we finally get over there.”

Ms. Krantz and her father, Alan, had planned to go to South Korea earlier this year. After the death of his wife in 2018, Mr. Krantz told his daughter, “we should take that trip.”

Like many adoptive parents, Mr. Krantz was supportive of her search. “We never felt threatened by her meeting her birth parents,” he said. “I don’t feel any less connection with her at all because of this process.”

But the cancellation of a planned reunion can be especially devastating for someone who has slogged through an expensive and emotionally grueling search. “It takes some adoptees years to get ready to even search — to even file their paperwork,” said Christine Heimann, an adoptee who founded AdopteeBridge, a Minnesota-based nonprofit that provides tours of South Korea. The organization postponed tours planned for the summer and fall.

While some reunions are akin to a wedding, they can also feel like a long-delayed funeral. All adoptions start with loss, Ms. Heimann said: the loss of a family, a culture, a country.

Sometimes, the reunions are more practical than emotional. They offer adoptees a chance for the first time to confirm birth dates and ask about medical history. It’s also the first time many adoptees see their noses, hands or eyes reflected in another person.

Mia Reed and Megan Doerr had gone through life thinking their mother was dead.

The twins, now 48, were adopted together from South Korea when they were about 7 months old. Their file said their biological mother had died shortly after childbirth.

But in February, they got a phone call from a social worker at their adoption agency: Their mother was alive.

“I honestly was in shock,” Ms. Doerr said. “That makes my whole idea of what happened very, very different.”

Their biological father, who they were told was alive when they were adopted, had died 10 years ago.

The twins never imagined that they had Korean siblings, Ms. Doerr said. They have four; one of them, a sister, was adopted in Switzerland.

The twins’ mother is now 85 on a farm in rural South Korea, afflicted with dementia and Parkinson’s disease.

“When I heard that, I was very worried,” Ms. Doerr said. They became more worried when their June trip had to be postponed. Her condition is still mild, they believe, but the fear is “less and less of her memory will be available as she gets older.”

Their biological brother, who speaks some English, told the twins that their father wanted sons rather than daughters.

“Coming to terms with all that,” Ms. Doerr said, “has been an interesting ride for me.”

Undeterred by the prospect of two weeks in a hotel, Allison Young, 38, traveled in August from her home in Frederick County, Md., to South Korea with her husband and three biological children. She was returning as both an adoptee and a soon-to-be adoptive parent.

The purpose of the trip was to adopt their fourth child, now nearly 2 years old. Ms. Young and her husband had planned a lengthy stay to help their new son adjust to the family. But the weeks before they gained custody at the end of September also provided an opportunity for Ms. Young to try, for a second time, to meet her birth mother.

Two decades before, Ms. Young had studied abroad as a college student. She had found her birth mother and scheduled a meeting, but two days beforehand her mother canceled.

“Soo Eun Lee, don’t cry,” her Korean social worker told Ms. Young, using her Korean name. “You have to understand Korean culture.” The stigma of single motherhood is the impetus for many adoptions, which are also still viewed unfavorably. Her mother’s family did not — and still does not — know about her.

On Sept. 11, the two finally met with an interpreter at an adoption agency office in Seoul. Her birth mother had asked to meet her children and husband, who waited in a nearby cafe. Ms. Young’s family came into the room after she had a chance to speak with her mother.

“The children didn’t really understand the significance of the moment,” she said. “But my husband did. It was very surreal.”

Before the meeting, Ms. Young said that “there’s always this doubt in your mind” — that perhaps an agency could connect an adoptee with the wrong birth parent. But she knew when she saw her: “She had my eyes.”

As the clandestine meeting ended, Ms. Young’s mother told her something she had been bracing for: “This is the last time we’re going to contact each other.”

On Oct. 1, Ms. Guy celebrated the holiday Chuseok in South Korea. It is similar to Thanksgiving, with an emphasis on paying respect to ancestors.

She had a traditional meal, along with American and Italian food that she cooked. And she reunited with her aunt, who had taken her to the orphanage when her parents were too distraught to do so.

“She was the last family member to hold me,” Ms. Guy said.

Days before the holiday, after two weeks of immersion in her parents’ home, Ms. Guy took another coronavirus test, as mandated by the government, so she could leave quarantine.

When a testing administrator asked her when she had last left the country for the United States, “I told her 1987, and she looked super confused.”

The worker asked again, twice, and Ms. Guy confirmed that she was understanding the question correctly.

After telling her 1987 four more times, Ms. Guy said, “she finally wrote it down.”





No.57 article:
Closing Time for a Village’s Last Pub?

With a deadline looming, locals scramble to raise enough money to buy the White Horse Tavern — and save the soul of their community.

STONESFIELD, England — Seven pubs in this tiny village in West Oxfordshire have closed over the years, and some residents here still talk about each as if it were a beloved relative who had expired last week. The Black Head? Turned into a private home. Rose &amp; Crown? Demolished and replaced with a row of houses. The Boot Inn? Kaput.

So in July, there was concern, verging on alarm, when the owner of the White Horse Tavern posted a sign on the front door announcing that the place was up for sale.

It’s not just that the two-story stone-and-brick building has been serving beer since 1853 — the year the Crimean War started, for some perspective — and the setting for thousands of parties, benders, receptions and Sunday roasts. It is also the last pub in Stonesfield, population 1,500. Without it, the village would lose its social core, as well as an important selling point to the rest of the world.

“There are villages dotted all around West Oxfordshire, and if you’re not sure where to move, you tend to look for a place that has three things — a pub, a school and a shop,” said Steve Callaghan, who has lived in Stonesfield for 25 years. “We’ve seen reports that when a village loses its last pub, the real estate goes down by 10 percent.”

Mr. Callaghan, 63, was not going to sit around and watch the White Horse vanish along with a 10th of the value of his home. And the law gave him and like-minded locals an opening. Years ago, the government deemed the White Horse an “asset of community value,” a designation that imposed a six-month moratorium on any sale, so residents could try to raise money and make an offer for the place.

Since October, Mr. Callaghan and some neighbors have been doing just that. They formed the Stonesfield Community Benefit Society and have been scrambling to collect £395,000 (about $525,000), the asking price of the pub.

The group has sold shares for £50 apiece, washed cars, sold cakes, held socially distanced garage sales and organized something called an auction of promises, in which goods and services were put up for bid. The offerings included a ride on a white pony named Cobweb and a private show by a local band called the Village Idiots.

To date, the organization has raised £339,950.  With a self-imposed deadline of Nov. 30 looming — leaving time to process the paperwork before the moratorium ends in early January — another £55,050 is needed.

It looks like it’s going to be a squeaker.

And even if residents hit their financial target, a triumphant toast might be premature. Under the law, in January, the owner of the pub, John Lloyd, will still be free to sell to whomever he wants, and he’s told the society that he already has an interested buyer lined up.

Mr. Callaghan and others met the prospective buyer at the White Horse a few months ago, and the man told them he wanted to keep the White Horse as a pub. But the villagers were later disheartened to learn, from a post-meeting web search, that the buyer had spent years as a property developer.

Certainly from an investment perspective, turning the building into residences makes sense. As beloved as they are, pubs are low-margin propositions in the best of times; during pandemics they are sinkholes.

In fact, before Covid-19 began rampaging around the world, the number of pubs in the United Kingdom was already dwindling, down from about 60,000 at the turn of the last century to 47,200 now, according to the British Beer and Pub Association. More than 700 pubs in the United Kingdom are currently up for sale on a real estate site.

The problem is that taxes are high and beer is more available than ever in supermarkets and elsewhere. A smoking ban, imposed in 2007, didn’t help.

The pub owner, Mr. Lloyd, declined to speak on the phone and instead, sent a few text messages. All of them underscored how he thought the society had “zero probability,” as he put it, of raising the funds.

“They’ve got just 12 days to to raise £250,000!” he wrote on Nov. 18.

There is a back story to all this, and during a recent tour of the White Horse’s exterior and adjacent property, Mr. Callaghan and Claire Brooks, the society’s vice chair, provided it.

The day of the visit was overcast and soggy, giving the village, about 12 miles northeast of Oxford University, the look of a black-and-white postcard, circa 1905. The inside of the White Horse appeared, through a window, quaint and ready for business, with a wood-burning stove and a bar that lacked only a row of customers.

Beside the pub is a grassy garden where drinkers gather when it’s warm.

“He wanted to pave this,” Ms. Brooks said.

She was talking about Mr. Lloyd’s plan, proposed years ago, to turn the garden into a parking lot. So many people objected to this idea at a local council meeting that someone had to find extra chairs to fit everyone in the room. The council said “no.”

There was a second contretemps between Mr. Lloyd and town residents when he unveiled plans for the building he owned next to the White Horse. At the time, it housed a skittle alley, an ancient version of bowling. He wanted to turn that into a house. The proposal was approved over vocal opposition by Mr. Callaghan and others.

Many of the villagers who fought hardest against Mr. Lloyd in the last two tussles are now leading the society, which may explain some tension between them. In a text Mr. Lloyd said Mr. Callaghan and others “boycotted” the White Horse after the skittle alley skirmish.

Untrue, Mr. Callaghan said, although he also said he avoided the pub when Mr. Lloyd was bartending. So did others who say Mr. Lloyd never seemed particularly interested in hospitality.

“Even as a villager, you’d go in there some nights and it was like you had crawled under a stone,” recalled Leela Menon, who has not joined the society nor purchased any of its shares.

Mr. Callaghan is worried that if the place is perceived to be a failing business, a new owner could seek a “change of use” application from the local council, allowing the pub to be converted to residences.

If the council said no, a familiar game of chicken could commence, one that could last for years. The owner would be waiting for the council to find the eyesore so awful that it would fold and grant permission to refurbish. The council, meanwhile, would be waiting for an owner eager for a return on investment to either sell or reopen the pub.

Ms. Brooks envisions a cheerier outcome. She’s so certain that her society will succeed that recently she bought a pizza oven, which she intends to fire up as soon as the place reopens.

“Maybe I’m tempting fate,” she said, “but I like our odds.”





No.58 article:
Poem: The next what-have-you

Djelloul Marbrook’s poems have been described by Edward Hirsch as having “the energy of a young poet with the wisdom of long experience.” Over the years, Marbrook has mastered a warmly colloquial voice — the poems feel near and dear as an old friend speaking — delivering the philosophical ruminations of a life rich in experience and wonder. His poems feel as connected as charms on a weighty silver necklace from an older country, passed down from the grandmothers. They shine with honest hope. The last line of this poem could be the anthem of 2020. And they’re also funny. “I am used to being old” carries no whine or chagrin. It’s just true. Selected by Naomi Shihab Nye

By Djelloul Marbrook

                  Just as I am used to being old                the next what-have-you is death                  with all its possible variations.              I never rose to the usual occasions                   — birth love marriage sex —                    but I used my antennae well                    and they did me mercilessly                          as if to stay in shape.          I thought death might be a punishment                       for not respecting them,                and so this life as a flagellant             has had to be disguised in words         so as not to speak the unutterable one.      Our names are as inappropriate as we are     to the situations in which we find ourselves          Our grandeur is in how we improvise.


No.1 article:
UK deaths rise by 215 – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Australians are wasting more food during the coronavirus pandemic, mainly because of panic buying and food delivery services.

The annual bill for the country’s wasteful food choices has surged to $10.3 billion since the pandemic reached Australia, according to Rabobank’s 2020 Food Waste Report – up from $8.64 billion.

That is an all-time annual high of $1,043 per household, and an increase of around $170 each.

“It’s to be expected that food waste has been de-prioritised by Australians during this stressful year when our attention has been focused on other urgent issues,” Rabobank’s Glenn Wealands said in a statement on Monday.

“(But) the average household is now wasting nearly 13% of the groceries they buy and also spending more on food delivery and self-prepare food services.”

Labour is calling on the UK education secretary to ensure students who have faced significant disruption to their education during the pandemic are not unfairly disadvantaged in their GCSE and A-level exams.

Kate Green, the shadow education secretary, said thousands of pupils have missed out on essential learning because of the government’s failure to “get a grip” on the pandemic.

She reiterated a call for the education secretary to ensure pupils are assessed on what they have been taught, have reserve papers for all subjects so self-isolating pupils do not miss out and put in place a plan B in case exams do not go ahead.

Christmas carolling, attending church services, volunteering and taking a trip to Santa’s grotto will all be permitted in the run-up to Christmas, according to guidance for England published by the government.

However, the new rules vary across the different tiers that regions will enter when lockdown ends on 2 December. For example, the advice says school nativities will be able to take place, with those in tiers 1 and 2 able to attend in person, while those in tier 3 in England will have to watch streams or recordings.

Lanre Bakare has the details here.

Canada is prolonging its restrictions for all travellers entering the country, except from the United States, until 21 January, the government said on Sunday, in a bid to limit the spread of the virus.

Restrictions for people arriving from the United States will continue until 21 December and may be extended then, health minister Patty Hajdu said.

The ban does not apply to Canadian citizens, permanent residents and essential travel.

Brazil has registered 24,468 new coronavirus cases over the last 24 hours and 272 new deaths, the country’s health ministry said on Sunday. This compares with 51,922 infections and 587 on Saturday.

The country has now registered 6,314,740 total confirmed coronavirus cases and 172,833 deaths. 

Here’s a run-through of the latest coronavirus developments for anyone just joining us. 

France reported 9,784 new cases on Sunday, down from 12,580 on Saturday and 13,157 last Sunday.

The number of people in intensive care fell by another 21 to 3,756 and the number of new deaths fell to 198 from 213 on Sunday, health ministry data showed.

Children in Iraq have started returning to school for the first time since late February.

Schools will operate for six days a week, in a bid to maintain social distancing in classrooms.

Primary school pupils will attend class one day a week, while secondary school students will go in twice a week. Remote learning will be relied upon during the rest of the week – although online education remains out of reach for many. 

In England, police have apologised after a pastor was accused of breaking coronavirus regulations while holding a religious service online, PA reports.

The Rev Daniel Mateola said he was “treated like a criminal” when officers arrived at Kingdom Faith Ministries International church in Milton Keynes earlier this month.

Thames Valley police said there had been a “misunderstanding” by officers in “what is an ever-changing and complex area of enforcement”.

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has reported 143,333 further coronavirus cases, bringing the country’s total to 13,142,997. This compares to 176,572 cases reported on Saturday.

Deaths have risen by 1,210 to 265,166 – a slight decrease from 1,283 on Saturday.

The CDC figures do not necessarily reflect cases reported by individual states. 

NHS bosses plan to enlist celebrities and “influencers” with big social media followings in a major campaign to persuade people to have a Covid vaccine amid fears of low take-up.

Ministers and NHS England are drawing up a list of “very sensible” famous faces in the hope that their advice to get immunised would be widely trusted, the Guardian has learned.

Health chiefs are particularly worried about the number of people who are still undecided, and about vaccine scepticism among NHS staff. “There will be a big national campaign [to drive take-up],” said one source with knowledge of the plans. “NHS England are looking for famous faces, people who are known and loved. It could be celebrities who are very sensible and have done sensible stuff during the pandemic.”

Read the exclusive report by Denis Campbell here.

Lebanon will begin to slowly relax coronavirus restrictions imposed two weeks ago from Monday, as it looks to boost its struggling economy ahead of Christmas.

Acting health minister Hamad Hassan said restaurants will reopen at 50% capacity but bars and nightclubs will remain closed and weddings will be banned, while an overnight curfew will start from 11pm instead of 5pm.

Schools would also reopen but with some classes still held online, Hassan said.

Arcadia is expected to enter administration in the coming hours after the weekend failed to bring a last-minute rescue deal for Sir Philip Green’s retail giant.

The appointment of administrators by the owner of household names including Topshop, Topman, Miss Selfridge, Dorothy Perkins and Burton would be the biggest corporate failure of the pandemic.

Amid concerns among MPs and unions about the impact of possible job cuts from the 13,000-strong workforce and a shortfall in the group’s pension scheme, the company’s collapse was also expected to jeopardise a takeover by JD Sports of the department store chain Debenhams, which rents out space to dozens of Arcadia-owned outlets.

Turkey’s daily coronavirus death toll hit a record high for a seventh consecutive day on Sunday, with 185 fatalities in the last 24 hours.

The number of new coronavirus cases, including asymptomatic infections, decreased slightly to 29,281. Turkey only started reporting asymptomatic cases on Wednesday.

The total death toll stands at 13,558.

The government introduced tighter measures a week ago including nightly curfews at weekends, restrictions on movements of people of non-working age, a move to online schooling and limiting restaurants and cafes to takeaway services.

Greece announced 1,193 new coronavirus infections on Sunday, a significant decrease compared to recent figures and its lowest number since 2 November.

The total number of cases stands at 104,227.

There were 98 deaths over the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 2,321. Greece announced a record increase in deaths on Saturday, with 121 fatalities registered. 

The country’s public health system is close to capacity, according to a report in Kathimerini, with 603 patients on ventilators. In Thessaloniki, patients are being transferred to a private clinic requisitioned due to the crisis.

The WHO delivered 15 ventilators to hospitals in Gaza on Sunday as the Palestinian territory suffers a rise in Covid-19 infections.

The donation was funded by Kuwait and came a week after local and international public health advisers said the territory’s hospitals could soon become overwhelmed.

“These devices will help medical teams provide better service to patients, but it is not enough,” said Abdullatif Alhaj of Gaza’s health ministry, adding that hospitals had suffered acute oxygen shortages.

The health ministry said more than than half of the territory’s 150 ventilators were in use.

There are 342 Covid-19 patients in Gaza’s hospitals, including 108 in a critical condition.

New York City’s state schools will start to reopen on 7 December, beginning with primary schools, the mayor, Bill de Blasio, announced on Sunday.

Schools were closed less than two weeks ago when test positivity rates across the city passed the 3% benchmark agreed by the mayor and teachers’ union.

To go into school, students must have a signed consent form agreeing to weekly coronavirus testing or a letter of medical exemption from a doctor, the mayor said.

The top infectious disease expert in the US has warned that the country may record a “surge upon a surge” of the virus in coming weeks.

Dr Anthony Fauci said he did not expect current guidance around social distancing to be relaxed before Christmas.

“When you have the kind of inflection that we have, it doesn’t all of a sudden turn around like that,” Dr Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told ABC. 

“So clearly in the next few weeks, we’re going to have the same sort of thing. And perhaps even two or three weeks down the line ... we may see a surge upon a surge.”





No.2 article:
Exiled bookseller: &#x27;If they can take Hong Kong back, the next place is Taiwan&#x27;

After fleeing Hong Kong for Taiwan, Lam Wing-kee speaks of the danger the island faces and the ordeal of his detention in China

Lam Wing-kee leans forward in his chair, answering quickly and sharply to issue a warning to the people of his new home, Taiwan. “Be ready now,” he says.

“We should be more alert as citizens, we should get ready,” says the 64-year-old Hongkonger. “If they can take Hong Kong back, the next place, I feel, is Taiwan.”

It’s late in central Taipei at Causeway Bay Books mark II (the previous one in Hong Kong having had to be abandoned). On the 10th floor of a nondescript building, Lam, a wiry, grey-haired bookseller, sits at his desk with a bemused gaze behind thin oval glasses. The desk is neat but crowded with books and a cash register, with revolutionary banners pinned to the front and mementoes entombed under its glass top. Behind him is the single bunk bed where he sleeps.

The shop is crammed with shelves of books on history, culture, economics and politics – primarily Chinese, but there are also books on the Romanovs, Vladimir Putin and Edward Snowden, and books by Hannah Arendt. Near the front door are children’s books, including several Winnie-the-Pooh stories – a sly dig at the Chinese president perhaps. Facing them is a makeshift Lennon Wall of Post-it notes, a now-illegal symbol of the Hong Kong protests.

Lam and his live-in bookshop are both exiles. The bookseller fled Hong Kong to Taiwan last year, reopening Causeway Bay Books to sell a dissident’s education on how and why the Chinese Communist party (CCP) launched its unprecedented crackdown on the previously semi-autonomous city and accelerated its takeover by decades. He says Taiwan must heed Hong Kong’s cautionary tale.

Lam had spent decades selling critical, political and gossipy titles banned by the CCP before he and four others were disappeared from various locations in Hong Kong, mainland China and Thailand, re-emerging in Chinese detention. Lam has said he was grabbed by agents while crossing the Chinese border at Shenzhen with a load of books for distribution in the mainland.

“I never understood why this thing happened, but I understood I could be a threat to the Chinese government,” he says. “I’d shipped many different books, including those that were banned and others just not considered good, because I thought it was important for people in China to know exactly what was going on.”

He was held for five months in the city of Ningbo, where he taped a false confession for broadcast, and then was transferred to Guangdong province. He relates to the group known as the Hong Kong 12, young activists languishing in mainland prisons after they were arrested trying to reach Taiwan by boat.

“You can’t compare custody in Hong Kong to custody in China,” Lam says. “I was really scared in custody.”

He taps the side of his head. “It was mental pressure, not physical damage.”

Lam was allowed back to his home city briefly, where he skipped bail and stayed, telling his fellow Hongkongers that what happened to him could happen to them. In many ways that has come true quicker than he anticipated.

Lam left Hong Kong fearing he was high on the wanted list should the government pass its proposed extradition bill. The bill drew millions to the street in protest and was eventually withdrawn, but too late to stop the momentum of the pro-democracy movement. Beijing responded to the mass protests with a sweeping national security law it claimed had global jurisdiction. The scope of the law shocked even the most cynical observers and accelerated a crackdown in Hong Kong on even the most benign forms of dissent – including books – and the mass arrests of activists and politicians.

Half a dozen items within Lam’s reach would have him jailed.

“I was a little surprised by the sudden change in Hong Kong,” says Lam. “You can simplify everything and just say China is totalitarian … but there are a lot of reasons behind it. The first question we should ask, though, is: ‘one country, two systems’ [the relationship between China and Hong Kong agreed when the UK handed the territory back] still had 27 years until the end, so why did they decide to end it now?”

He sits forward and grabs a CCP-banned book on the history of China’s government. It’s important for people to read such works to understand what is happening and why, he says.

“We need to go back to the political climate changing in China, not in Hong Kong,” says Lam, pointing at the cover. “Who holds the power? Mr Xi Jinping. He’s like an emperor. He’s 67 years old. If he waits another 27 years [for Hong Kong to return] how old will he be? Will he still have power? Will he still be in good health?”

Over the past 18 months, while Hong Kong was being brutally crushed, pressure also increased across the Taiwan Strait. China’s belligerence was fuelled by the growing friendship and increasing arms sales between Taiwan and the US.

Lam moved to Taiwan because of its thriving democracy, where free speech and political differences are allowed, and recreated Causeway Bay Books with the blessing of the Taiwanese president. But while the CCP has never governed Taiwan, the party considers it to be a rogue province of the motherland, and has not ruled out “unifying” by force.

Lam has concerns about the readiness of Taiwan’s military and the cultural influence of China on the young people of Taiwan. He tries to talk to those who come into his shop or whom he sees at universities. He recently held a screening for students of Ten Years, a 2015 Hong Kong film that was supposed to be a dystopian imagining of political suppression 10 years in the future, only for much of it to become reality in five.

This month he will host an online book club discussing activism and opposition in Hong Kong and Taiwan, to encourage a deeper understanding of the political forces and culture behind China’s aggression.

When Lam left Hong Kong, he was accompanied to the airport by pro-democracy politician Claudia Mo.

Mo said it was clear at the time that Lam had no choice but to leave and cut off his local friends in a probable effort to protect them. Lam later confirms he has the phone numbers for the three other booksellers who have been released but fears that to contact them would only get them in trouble.

Mo says: “He is a lone wolf, a fighter, but also a sentimental person who would however prefer to put on a poker face to hide his feelings.”

Lam says he no longer sees a future for Hong Kong as it once was. He has hope but says he must be realistic and quotes a Bible passage: “And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love.” He looks now at the threat to his new home.

“For Taiwan it depends on the people here, how they defy it,” says Lam. “We have guns and cannons. What did Hong Kong have?”





No.3 article:
PM delivers upbeat message in effort to head off backbench rebellion over new restrictions

Boris Johnson has said there is “every reason” to believe “the worst is nearly behind us” as he seeks to win round a 70-strong group of sceptical Tory MPs to head off a backbench rebellion over Covid-19 curbs.

Ahead of Tuesday’s Commons vote on the strengthened three-tier system, the prime minister wrote to the Covid Recovery Group (CRG) – whose members have been pushing for a cost-benefit analysis of the economic, health and social impact of the measures – to quell concerns.

But dozens of Conservative MPs are expected to abstain or vote against measures that would put nearly 99% of England’s population in the top two tiers this week, banning mixing between households indoors and, in tier 3, forcing pubs and cafes to become takeaways.

At the weekend reports emerged that London only avoided being placed under tier 3 – as advocated by Michael Gove – after Treasury figures suggested half a million jobs could be at risk. Rebellious MPs are expected to focus on the economic impact of restrictions elsewhere in the UK this week.

Separately, on Sunday the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, warned the country was at risk of a third wave of coronavirus in the new year if the right balance was not struck on restrictions, and he did not rule out a third national lockdown.

In his letter on Saturday, Johnson set out a series of assurances to the CRG, including a commitment to publishing further analysis on Monday. 

Appearing to strike a conciliatory tone, Johnson wrote: “As all of us know too well, these are very difficult times for our country and the whole world. No government or parliament has had to grapple with issues of this difficulty and magnitude since the end of the second world war.

“Disagreement on approach is natural, and I hope you recognise that the government is seeking as far as possible to listen to criticism and respond positively to constructive proposals. 

“I do believe that the strategy set out is a balanced approach, which helps protect the NHS from being overwhelmed, keeps children attending school, and lets the economy open up in a safe way, and the best way forward.

“There is every reason to hope and believe that the worst is nearly behind us, so now more than ever is the time to demonstrate unity and resolve. As we move from winter to spring, the prospects offered by vaccines and testing mean we can begin the process of recovery in earnest and focus our energies once again on improving the lives of the people we were elected to serve.”

The government’s 80-seat majority is unlikely to be under threat if Labour does not oppose the measures. The party backed the government on previous restrictions but the shadow foreign secretary, Lisa Nandy, said Labour was seeking clarity on the new tier system and her party’s support was “not unconditional”.

The prime minister’s letter was different from one he sent to all Tory MPs on Saturday, pledging a “sunset” clause to end the tiers system on 3 February unless MPs vote to retain it. It will be reviewed every fortnight until then.

A report suggesting the Greater Manchester mayor, Andy Burnham, had been privately reassured that his region would be downgraded to tier 2 on 16 December, when allocations are first reviewed, was denied by him.

“I will make the argument for the whole of Greater Manchester [to be in tier 2] but it is not true that we have been tipped the wink,” he said.

On Sunday, the former Conservative chief whip Mark Harper, who chairs the CRG, renewed the group’s call for an impact analysis to be published, insisting it must be “hard evidence not hyperbole”.

He told the Guardian it was a “bit disappointing” they did not have the analysis already, explaining: “Given that these cabinet subcommittees made the decisions on Wednesday, you’d of kind of hoped that they’d have been looking at this information … to make their decisions. We need to see it and we need to see it tomorrow [Monday].”

Commenting on the new restrictions, he added: “It’s going to have a massive impact on businesses, potentially put many businesses under and put people out of work. 

“They’re really big decisions and I think it’s quite reasonable that we require the same information put before us that ministers have had before we’re asked to vote on them.”

Harper said he could not put a figure on the number of potential rebels but added: “All I can say is we’ve got 70 colleagues who agreed to sign the letter to the prime minister asking for the information but, to some extent … what people finally decide to do is going to depend on the information that’s made available.”

Separately, Johnson will on Monday announce a £20m fund to help the UK respond to future pandemics by increasing “the capacity and resilience of our medicines and diagnostics manufacturing supply chains”. 

On a visit to north Wales the prime minister will launch the government’s medicines and diagnostic manufacturing transformation fund.





No.4 article:
US hits four million monthly Covid-19 cases as Fauci warns of holiday surge

Warnings come as California’s largest cities impose stricter control measures and experts predict post-Thanksgiving rise in cases

The United States passed four million cases of the coronavirus for November on Saturday, more than double the record 1.9 million cases set in October.

Now experts have warned Americans to expect that sharp rise in cases to continue, due in part to the Thanksgiving holiday – potentially worsening heading into the December holiday season.

“What we expect, unfortunately, as we go for the next couple of weeks into December, is that we might see a surge superimposed on the surge we are already in,” Dr Anthony Fauci said in an interview on NBC News’ Meet the Press on Sunday.

The government’s leading infectious disease expert added officials “tried to get the word out for people, as difficult as it is, to really not have large gatherings” but ultimately the travel industry suggested many Americans didn’t heed calls to stay home.

Airline and transportation authorities report Americans traveled by the millions over the weekend, and amid Black Friday, retailers experienced large crowds and overnight lines despite government and merchant pleas to primarily shop online.

US surgeon general Jerome Adams acknowledged the surge on Sunday, adding that he expects the rise to continue. Covid-19 has now killed more than 265,000 people in America, with 1,192 new deaths from the virus reported on Saturday.

“I want to be straight with the American people, it’s gonna get worse over the next several weeks,” he told on Fox News Sunday. “The actions that we take in the next several days will determine how bad it is or whether or not we continue to flatten our curve.”

According to Covid-19 tracking data, more than 1.1 million people tested positive for the virus in the past week, an average of 170,000 people a day. On Saturday, public health officials reported a daily record of 91,635 hospitalizations.

In an interview with Fox News Sunday, New Jersey governor Phil Murphy said another state shutdown is not out of the question but, for now, he “would just beg folks, particularly in the holiday season, to keep [their] guard up.”

“In terms of a shutdown, I don’t anticipate it, and I sure as heck don’t want to go that route,” Murphy added.

Arkansas governor Asa Hutchinson later told the show a state lockdown is the last resort. “We’re not trying to shut down businesses that are doing a good job,” Hutchinson, a Republican, said. “We realize that you can really increase problems across the board if you start shutting down businesses, putting people unemployed going into Christmas season.”

In New York City, officials announced public schools will begin a phased reopening of in-person learning starting on 7 December.

Retailers had reported a far more muted Black Friday this year. “It’s not Black Friday. It’s not people waiting in line the way we’re used to,” Marshal Cohen, chief retail analyst at The NPD Group said, told NBC.

Meanwhile, health officials in California’s largest cities – Los Angeles, San Diego, San Jose and San Francisco – have now imposed the strictest stay-at-home measures since spring in response to the national case surge.

The state reported 15,614 new Covid-19 cases and 32 new deaths on Sunday, bringing the state count to 1,198,934 cases and the death toll to 19,121 since the pandemic began, according to figures released by the California Department of Public Health.

Los Angeles county will impose a lockdown calling for its 10 million residents to stay home beginning Monday.

Santa Clara county is banning all high school, collegiate and professional sports and imposing a quarantine for those traveling into the region from more than 150 miles away.







No.5 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Volunteering and church services also permitted but advice varies for different tiers

Christmas carolling, attending church services, volunteering and taking a trip to Santa’s grotto will all be permitted in the run-up to Christmas, according to guidance for England published by the government.

However, the new rules vary across the different tiers that regions will enter when lockdown ends on 2 December. For example, the advice says school nativities will be able to take place, with those in tiers 1 and 2 able to attend in person, while those in tier 3 in England will have to watch streams or recordings.

There is detailed advice on carolling, with special rules because singing increases the risk of transmitting the virus through the air. The rules for indoor performances say professional and amateur choirs may perform in “any indoor venue permitted to open” but add that any audience or congregation must not take part in any “singing, shouting and chanting”.

“If singing does take place, steps should be taken to reduce the risk of transmission, including limiting the number of people participating as far as possible,” the advice states.

Outdoor carolling will be permitted in any outdoor venue that is allowed to open and audiences may join in with singing. Professional singers or those taking part in a supervised activity for under-18s will “not be limited in number and do not have to adhere to gathering limits”, but all performances must adhere to performing arts guidance.

That advice, created by Public Health England, says singing must take place in well-ventilated areas and choir members must keep their distance from each other. Audiences must also wear masks and capacity must be managed at events.

Door-to-door carol singing is allowed but only in groups of up to six.

Last week, the government said up to three households would be allowed to mix for a five-day period between 23-27 December in “Christmas bubbles”.

All tiers can attend places of worship for services from 2 December, but the rules on who people can attend with changes depending on the tier in which they live. For example, there is no indoor mixing allowed outside of tier 1, but people in the same Christmas bubble can attend together. The advice says the Christmas bubble rules will no longer apply during New Year’s Eve.

callout-coronavirus

Nativity plays will need to be performed within existing school bubbles, while audiences in tier 1 and 2 areas will face certain restrictions, such as social distancing.

Santa’s grottos can open as long as appropriate Covid-secure measures such as social distancing are in place and they are in venues that are permitted to open according to the region’s tier level.

Christmas volunteering is also allowed, but those taking part are encouraged to do so from home.

The rules for weddings, civil partnerships and funerals will not change between 23 and 27 December and will depend on the different tiers.





No.6 article:
Thousands rallied across France after video of police beating a black music producer fanned anger about a draft law that is seen as curbing the right of journalists to report on police brutality





No.7 article:
Humanitarian workers say hospitals struggling to treat hundreds wounded in Mekelle 

Ethiopian officials say police and soldiers have launched a manhunt for the leaders of the ruling party in Tigray, a day after announcing federal troops had taken over the capital of the restive northern region and military operations were complete.

Humanitarian workers said the city of Mekelle, which fell to federal forces with almost no resistance on Saturday, was quiet but that hospitals were struggling to treat hundreds of injured.

The attack on Mekelle came almost a week after Abiy Ahmed, the Ethiopian prime minister, told the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) to surrender or face an assault on the city of 500,000. The TPLF appears to have withdrawn rather than fight for its stronghold.

The retreat signalled a probable end to any confrontations between TPLF forces and federal troops on the battlefield. But Debretsion Gebremichael, the TPLF leader, promised to continue to fight.

“Their brutality can only add [to] our resolve to fight these invaders to the last,” Debretsion told Reuters in a text message on Saturday. Asked if that meant his forces would continue fighting, he replied: “Certainly. This is about defending our right to self-determination.”

In the short term at least, the capture of Mekelle will be seen as a personal triumph for Abiy that will bolster his position as a national leader. But experts have warned federal forces could face a lengthy insurgency in the region.

Some experts point out that the TPLF’s battle against federal forces from 1975 to 1991 ended with the ethnically based party taking power in Addis Ababa, but others have said that with the Sudanese border closed and Eritrea now an ally of Ethiopia, the organisation is much more isolated than it was 30 years ago.

Thousands of people are believed to have been killed and many more displaced since the fighting began more than three weeks ago and there are still fears the conflict may destabilise the wider Horn of Africa region, one of the most fragile on the African continent.

Rockets launched from Tigray again targeted the capital of Eritrea, with the US embassy in Asmara reporting six explosions in the city at about 10.13pm local time (1913 GMT) on Saturday night and further unconfirmed reports on Sunday afternoon.

The TPLF blame Eritrea for offering Ethiopia military support for its campaign in Tigray.

Abiy launched the military campaign on 4 November, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal military camps in Tigray and seeking to destabilise the country. Ethiopian officials refer to the three-week-old conflict as a “law enforcement operation” and have repeatedly rebuffed international offers of mediation.

Late on Saturday, Ethiopian police issued arrest warrants for 17 more military officers charged with crimes in connection with the conflict that include treason and embezzlement of public properties, state-affiliated Fana TV reported. They add to the 117 warrants issued for senior military officers it says are connected to TPLF since the conflict broke out.

The Ethiopian human rights commission has also blamed TPLF-linked militia for a massacre in Tigray of many hundreds of labourers from the neighbouring Amhara region.

The TPLF denies all the charges, saying they are invented by the government as a pretext to launch a military operation to end its rule in Tigray. The party says it is defending its legitimate rights under Ethiopia’s devolved constitutional system and has accused federal forces of atrocities.

There were some reports of further clashes around the town of Shire on Sunday, while the TPLF claimed to have retaken Aksum and to have shot down a federal Mig-23 fighter plane. But a military spokesman, Gen Mohammed Tessema, said operations were proceeding “very well” and that soldiers were “doing their work peacefully”, but said he could offer no details. State television stuck to its usual Sunday programming of talk and music shows, while Tigray regional television did not appear to be broadcasting at all.

Humanitarian workers reported calm in Mekelle. “The situation in Mekelle today is quiet and we hope that we will be able to get urgently needed assistance here soon,” said Maria Soledad, the head of operations for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in Ethiopia, who visited Ayder Referral hospital in the city.

About 80% of patients in the hospital are suffering from trauma injuries linked to the fighting. “The hospital is running dangerously low on sutures, antibiotics, anticoagulants, painkillers, and even gloves,” said Soledad.

Abiy became prime minister when he was appointed leader of Ethiopia’s ruling coalition. Though his sweeping changes won widespread praise, they have allowed old ethnic and other grievances to surface. Some key measures, such as those allowing more media freedom, have been rolled back. There have been a number of arrests of journalists in Ethiopia in recent days.

The Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) topples Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam, the head of a communist junta that ruled the country from 1974. The coalition group is led by the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), guerrilla fighters who marched from their homeland in Ethiopia's north to the capital, Addis Ababa.

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s governing coalition for decades before Abiy came to power, and Tigrayan leaders complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions and blamed for the country’s problems.

The postponement of national elections owing to the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated tensions and when parliamentarians in Addis Ababa voted to extend officials’ mandates, Tigray’s leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal. The TPLF said central government was illegitimate.

Claims from all sides have been difficult to verify throughout the conflict since phone and internet links to Tigray have been cut and access tightly controlled.





No.8 article:
Thai protesters march to royal guard barracks in Bangkok

In practice, this means open discussion or critical reporting about the royal family is considered illegal.

The military junta, which seized power in 2014, has been criticised for using the law –&nbsp;which can see people jailed for up to 15 years on each count – to stifle opposition.&nbsp;

In 2015, a man was jailed for 30 years&nbsp;over six Facebook posts and the local printer of the New York Times refused to publish&nbsp;an edition with a story on the king.

Pro-democracy rallies have raised pressure on Thailand’s royalty and army in past week

Pro-democracy rallies have raised pressure on Thailand’s royalty and army in past week

Thousands of protesters marched to a barracks belonging to Thailand’s royal guards in Bangkok on Sunday, demanding that King Maha Vajiralongkorn give up control of some army regiments, the latest show of defiance against the country’s powerful monarchy and the military.

The protest came after days of rallies in the Thai capital, where a student-led pro-democracy movement that emerged in July has intensified pressure on the establishment. 

Over recent months, demonstrators have shaken the country by criticising the monarchy, an institution protected by a harsh defamation law, and demanding the king relinquish some of his vast power and wealth.

On Sunday evening, protesters marched to the 11th Infantry Regiment, one of two army units that the king brought under his direct command in 2019.

In a statement, protesters accused the king of having “expanded his royal prerogative in every way possible including [through] the military” and referred to the prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, a former army general, as the king’s “royal puppet”. 

Copies of the statement were folded into paper planes and flown in the direction of riot police who stood guard outside the barracks.

Protesters later splashed red paint on the ground in front of officers, referencing the deadly army crackdown on anti-government redshirt demonstrators in 2010. 

The army base was barricaded with buses, which were removed by protesters, as well as loops of barbed wire. Many on the frontline wore gas masks and hats for protection, though the evening passed peacefully.

Above their heads, protesters carried a flock of giant inflatable ducks, which have emerged as an icon of the movement after they were used by demonstrators to shield themselves from water cannon.

Yellow ducks can be seen everywhere at recent rallies: fixed on the top of protesters’ protective hard hats, sold on souvenir stalls and worn on hair slides. At one protest last week, protesters even gave out coupons that featured a duck wearing a crown, which could be exchanged for street food.

The authorities have responded to the recent protest movement by reviving the country’s strict lese-majesty law, reportedly summoning as many as 15 protesters to answer charges in the last week alone. Under the law, anyone who “defames, insults or threatens the king, queen, heir-apparent or regent” can face up to 15 years on each charge.

Among those facing charges is Parit Chiwarak, known also as Penguin, who has been accused over comments made at previous rallies. On Sunday, he challenged the king’s military power. “An army should belong to the people, not the king,” he said. “In a democratic system, the king is not responsible for directing command of the military.”

Strict lèse majesté laws make it a crime to criticise, defame or insult members of Thailand's royal family.

In practice, this means open discussion or critical reporting about the royal family is considered illegal.

The military junta, which seized power in 2014, has been criticised for using the law –&nbsp;which can see people jailed for up to 15 years on each count – to stifle opposition.&nbsp;

In 2015, a man was jailed for 30 years&nbsp;over six Facebook posts and the local printer of the New York Times refused to publish&nbsp;an edition with a story on the king.

Vajiralongkorn succeeded his father, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, in 2016, and has since asserted his authority, including by taking direct control of a palace fortune worth tens of billions of pounds. Last year, the 1st and 11th Infantry regiments were brought under his direct control, allowing him to sidestep the usual military chain of command.

Protesters said they had also decided to target the regiment over its role in previous coups, and in the suppression of anti-establishment protests 10 years ago.

About 90 people were killed in 2010 after the army launched a crackdown on protesters who had demonstrated on the streets for months. The military denies having used excessive force.

The recent pro-democracy movement argues that the royal family – and the military, with which it is closely aligned – must be transparent and accountable to the people if Thailand is to have a true democracy.

They have made three demands: reform of the monarchy, a new constitution, and the removal of Prayuth, who first came to power in the 2014 coup. Prayuth has refused to step down.

The palace has not commented on the protests, though the king said that he loves demonstrators “all the same”.

In a recent statement, the foreign ministry said protesters were able to exercise their rights to peaceful assembly last week “without any hindrance”.

The statement added that protesters must exercise their rights “in accordance with the relevant laws”.





No.9 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Scientists warn that scrapping or relaxing tier system too quickly could imperil NHS

Nearly a third of England’s hospital trusts have exceeded their first-wave peak of Covid patients undergoing treatment, as scientists warned that relaxing or scrapping the three-tier system too quickly could further hamper the NHS.

Hospitals trusts in South Somerset and Devon treated more than twice as many Covid patients on at least one day last week as they did at the peak of the first wave in spring, Guardian analysis shows. However, because tier decisions are based on a range of data, both areas will go into tier 2 from Thursday.

Conversely, Manchester Universities hospital trust last week treated 31% fewer Covid patients than it did in the busiest week of the first wave (295 compared with 428). The whole of Greater Manchester will go into the strictest tier 3 this week.

Although much of south-west England has avoided tier 3, more than half of acute NHS trusts in the region treated more Covid patients on at least one day last week than at their first wave peak. The same was true for half the trusts in the north-west and north-east, and a third of those in the Midlands – almost all of which are in tier 3.

The data comes amid a row over Michael Gove’s warning that the health service, including the emergency Nightingale hospitals, risked becoming “physically overwhelmed”.

The Cabinet Office minister intervened ahead of a Commons vote on the new three-tier system that triggered a backlash from Tory MPs, many of whom claim their constituencies will be subject to overly draconian measures despite low, stable or falling infection rates.

In an attempt to calm the rebellion, Boris Johnson signalled that some areas could be moved into lower tiers after a review on 16 December, if there was “robust evidence” that coronavirus was in sustained decline, with the tiers system potentially shelved in nine weeks unless MPs vote to keep it.

But his confidence in reducing infection numbers within weeks has been questioned by senior scientists and health leaders, while the Guardian’s hospital admissions data analysis points to the risks to the NHS in certain areas.

In the East Riding of Yorkshire, for example, some residents were angered to find themselves in tier 3 despite a lower infection rate (287 per 100,000) in the week to 21 November than several London boroughs, which will be in tier 2 (Havering, for example, had 338 per 100,000 in the same period).

Yet the area’s hospitals are now treating far more Covid patients than in spring. Northern Lincolnshire and Goole NHS foundation trust had 185 Covid patients in the week to 24 November, compared with 75 in its busiest week of the first wave.

Dr Layla McCay, a director at the NHS Confederation, warned: “The national lockdown might be coming to an end but NHS leaders are telling us that they are still facing the triple whammy of treating Covid patients, providing broader care services and preparing for winter.

“While hospital stays because of the virus continue to present massive challenges, this terrible disease is also stretching other parts of the NHS, including primary, mental health and community care, very thin.”

Dr Chaand Nagpaul, the chair of the British Medical Association, said it would be a mistake to relax restrictions too early. “If we are to prevent the NHS being overwhelmed this winter and left unable to provide both critical and wider care to all who need it, we must do everything we can to bring the spread of the virus back under control,” he said.

“We don’t know where we’ll be in two weeks’ time, let alone nine weeks, but whatever decisions are made at that time must be based on the most up-to-date data on infection levels and pressure on the NHS.”

Nagpaul described the previous tiers system, introduced in October, as inadequate and ineffective at stopping the rise in infections and warned that without tougher measures this time, another national lockdown would follow.

Scientists echoed the warning. Dr Simon Clarke, an associate professor in cellular microbiology at Reading University, and Peter Openshaw, a professor of experimental medicine at Imperial College London, said they did not expect enough data to have emerged by 16 December for restrictions to be relaxed.

callout-coronavirus

Clarke said that relaxing tier curbs would be more of a political decision than a science-based one. “It is inevitable that it will lead to an increase in the number of new infections. January and February are the worst months for respiratory infections anyway, regardless of the current pandemic. These factors combined will, inevitably, translate into more hospital admissions and fatalities,” he said.

Openshaw said: “We scientists are very concerned indeed about relaxation of precautions at this stage. The rates are still too high, there’s too many cases coming into hospitals, too many people dying. And if we take the brakes off at this stage, just when the end is in sight, I think we would be making a huge mistake,” he told the BBC.

An NHS spokeswoman said: “The number of hospitalisations for Covid-19 varies significantly across the country and while the national volume of patients in the second wave has not yet exceeded the first, some hospitals in certain areas of the country are indeed treating more Covid patients than they did in the spring.”





No.10 article:
Iranian nuclear chief&#x27;s body prepared for burial as anger focuses on Israel and US

Newspaper publishes comment urging retaliation with strike on Haifa that ‘causes heavy human casualties’

The body of Iran’s most senior nuclear scientist has been prepared for burial as anger at Israel and the US boiled over in the country following his assassination.

Mohsen Fakhrizadeh’s coffin, draped in the Iranian flag and topped with flowers, was transported to a Muslim shrine for prayers and last tributes, the country’s state news reported. His remains will be taken from the Imam Reza shrine to Fatima Masumeh shrine in Qom, south of Tehran, and then to Imam Khomeini’s shrine in the capital, according to the defence ministry.

Fakhrizadeh was killed on Friday on a highway near the capital in a military-style gun and bomb assault that has led to an escalation of tensions in the Middle East. A bodyguard was also killed in the attack. The assassination was carried out using an automatic machine gun operated with a remote control and not with gunmen on the ground, Fars news agency claimed.

 Fakhrizadeh’s funeral would be attended by his family and high-ranking military commanders, Iran’s defence ministry said on its website.

Israel has not claimed responsibility or officially commented on the attack. However, Tehran has long blamed its arch-foe for killing several of its nuclear scientists, with Fakhrizadeh considered the most senior, having founded the Islamic Republic’s nuclear programme in the early 2000s.

Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has promised a “definitive punishment of the perpetrators and those who ordered it”, putting Israel on alert for a potential military response in the coming days.

An opinion piece published by a hardline Iranian newspaper on Sunday suggested that Iran should attack Haifa, a port city in northern Israel. The Kayhan newspaper published an opinion piece by an Iranian analyst, Sadollah Zarei, who suggested a strike that destroys facilities and “also causes heavy human casualties”.

Such an attack would be an effective deterrent, he said, “because the United States and the Israeli regime and its agents are by no means ready to take part in a war and a military confrontation”.

Iran has attacked Israeli targets overseas. Its proxy in Lebanon, Hezbollah, has also conducted strikes during previous rounds of heightened hostility.

 Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, Iran’s parliamentary speaker, said on Sunday that Iran’s enemies must be made to regret the killing. “The criminal enemy does not regret it except with a strong reaction,” he said in a broadcast on Iranian state radio.

While Iran claims that its nuclear programme is non-military and focused on energy, Fakhrizadeh was the subject of US sanctions; Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has accused him of leading a secret atomic weapons operation.

The timing of the attack has led to suggestions that Israel, possibly with Donald Trump’s support, is attempting to stop any future attempt by the incoming president, Joe Biden, to reconcile with Iran. To Israel’s dismay, Biden has said he is willing to rejoin the Iran nuclear deal abandoned by Trump and lift some economic sanctions if Iran comes back into compliance with the agreement.

Ben Rhodes, deputy national security adviser when Biden was vice-president to Barack Obama, did not suggest who was to blame for the killing but criticised it as an “outrageous action aimed at undermining diplomacy between an incoming US administration and Iran”.

All future UN inspections of Iran’s nuclear sites should be ended as a result of the assassination of Fakhrizadeh, the Iranian parliament agreed unanimously on Sunday.

The response suggests the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, already breached by Iran’s breaking of the agreed limits on enriched uranium stockpiles, is going to come under severe pressure in the coming weeks as Iran responds to the attack. The parliament said in a reference to Israel that what it described as “the hand of the murderous Zionist regime” could be clearly seen in the assassination.

Tehran said those that thought negotiation with the US was the right path had been proved wrong. The parliament said Iran should withdraw from so-called additional protocol – the measure that gives UN weapons inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) access to Iran’s nuclear sites.

Such a move would probably be regarded as the effective end of the nuclear deal by its three European signatories: Germany, France and the UK. Iranian hardliners have long argued that Israeli spies operate within the IAEA inspectorate.

Parliament met in closed session on Saturday to hear an intelligence report on how the assassination happened, and to update on progress with the investigation.

Sunday’s statement on its own creates no legal duty on either the Iranian government or the country’s Atomic Energy Organization, but members of parliament are finalising a bill on the strategic act to revoke sanctions to create that obligation.

Numerous Iranian military and political officials have said Iran will not respond militarily to the assassination at this stage since it would play into the hands of those in Israel and the US wanting to foment a war in the Middle East before Trump stands down in January. But Iran is debating whether the assassination has shown diplomatic negotiations with the Biden administration will be pointless.

The former Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders tweeted: “The assassination of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was reckless, provocative, and illegal. As a new administration takes power, it was clearly intended to undermine US-Iran diplomacy. We must not allow that to happen. Diplomacy, not murder, is the best path forward.”

Biden has not yet commented, but his allies say he remains committed to the US rejoining the nuclear deal.

The UK foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, during an interview on Sky said the UK had seen no evidence regarding who was responsible for the attack, saying: “We are still waiting to see the full facts of what happened in Iran but I would say that we stick to the rules of international military law, which is very clear against targeting civilians.”

On Saturday the Iranian ambassador to the UK, Hamid Baeidinejad, urged the UK government to unreservedly condemn the assassination of Fakhrizadeh, saying he was a dedicated scientist and that the attack was “a clear violation of the international law as well as human rights’ values and standards”.

Raab said he was willing to meet Iranian leaders to discuss a way forward. He said: “There is an opportunity to look at the JCPOA [the Iran nuclear deal] again with the Biden administration, but there are a series of choices for them to go further and further down the track with its non-compliance with its obligations under the nuclear deal, and … right up to Christmas, I will be meeting with my colleagues, also with Iran, if they are willing to come into the tent, to make sure we hold them to account but also to try and find a peaceful path through.”

Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister, defended the negotiation of the nuclear deal, predicting some of the unnecessary tensions in US-Iranian relations could be removed under Biden. Trump, he said, had contracted his Middle East policy to Netanyahu, creating the worst era in US-Iran relations in 40 years.

Agence France-Presse contributed to this report





No.11 article:
At least 110 dead in Nigeria after suspected Boko Haram attack

Attack took place in village near Maiduguri, with assailants targeting farmers in rice fields

At least 110 people have been killed in an attack on a village in north-east Nigeria blamed on the Boko Haram jihadist group, according to the UN humanitarian coordinator in the country.

“At least 110 civilians were ruthlessly killed and many others were wounded in this attack,” Edward Kallon said in a statement after initial tolls indicated 43 and then at least 70 dead from the massacre on Saturday by suspected Boko Haram fighters.

“The incident is the most violent direct attack against innocent civilians this year,” Kallon said, adding: “I call for the perpetrators of this heinous and senseless act to be brought to justice.”

The attack took place in the village of Koshobe near the main city of Maiduguri, with assailants targeting farmers on rice fields. The Borno state governor, Babagana Umara Zulum, attended the burial on Sunday in the nearby village of Zabarmari of 43 bodies recovered on Saturday, saying the toll could rise after search operations resumed.

The assailants tied up the agricultural workers and slit their throats, according to a pro-government anti-jihadist militia. The victims were among labourers from Sokoto state in north-west Nigeria, about 1,000km (600 miles) away, who had travelled to the north-east to find work, it said. Six others were wounded in the attack and eight remained missing as of Saturday.

Kallon cited “reports that several women may have been kidnapped”, and called for their immediate release and return to safety.

The Nigerian president, Muhammadu Buhari ,condemned the attack, saying: “The entire country has been wounded by these senseless killings.”

The attack took place as voters went to the polls in long-delayed local elections in Borno state. The polls had been repeatedly postponed because of an increase in attacks by Boko Haram and a rival dissident faction, ISWAP.

The two groups have been blamed for increasing attacks on loggers, farmers and fishermen, whom they accuse of spying for the army and pro-government militias.





No.12 article:
Spanish archipelago has received 20,000 migrants and refugees this year, 8,000 in the last month

In the Canary Islands, 2020 will be remembered as more than just the year of the coronavirus.

The streets of Arguineguín, a small town on the island of Gran Canaria, are thronged not with tourists in search of winter warmth, but with police officers, health workers and journalists, all scurrying to and from the crowded dock, which has become the newest symbol of an old phenomenon.

Almost 15 years after the “cayuco crisis” of 2006, when about 36,000 people reached the Spanish archipelago in small and dangerous cayucos, or fishing boats, the Canaries are once again struggling to cope with the arrival of thousands of migrants and refugees.

Over the past 11 months, about 20,000 people have braved the Atlantic route from Africa to Europe, with more than 8,000 arriving in the Canaries in November alone. Last year, 2,557 migrants arrived in the archipelago, up from 1,307 in 2018.

Nowhere is the strain and chaos more evident than on the dock at Arguineguín. At the makeshift reception centre, cobbled together four months ago and intended to shelter 500 people, the number of occupants has swelled to almost 2,700 over recent weeks. Arguineguín, according to official figures, has a population of 2,309.

The people held at the temporary centre – officially for a maximum of 72 hours – are living in cramped conditions, some in tents, but many sleeping on the sun-baked, rat-infested bare dock. Most of their fellow arrivals have progressed to better-equipped temporary camps farther inland, government reception centres or hotel rooms.

There has been a rise in the use of the Atlantic route this year. Amid enduring conflicts, land border closures forced by the pandemic and increased controls in some north African countries, smuggling gangs have reactivated the long and perilous crossing, ferrying thousands of men, women and children between the two continents.

Those lucky enough to land on the Canaries find themselves pitched into a confused, disjointed and under-resourced system.

Spain’s public ombudsman has called for the Arguineguín camp to be shut down at once on the grounds that it could be violating people’s basic rights.

Last week, a judge decided that while the conditions at the camp were “deplorable”, they did not constitute a crime. The complaint had been brought by Onalia Bueno, the mayor of the municipality of Mogán, of which Arguineguín is a part.

Bueno despairs at the lack of coordination between central government ministries, citing the events of 17 November in particular. That day, as the dock centre was completely overwhelmed, 200 Moroccans were removed by police, put on buses bound for the island’s capital, Las Palmas, and left without anywhere to stay.

While the migration ministry finally stepped in and found accommodation for them, Bueno sees the event as symptomatic of a deep and troubling absence of political will.

“This lack of humanity from the government just can’t go on,” she says. “It doesn’t seem to be able to solve the problem at hand.”

And yet, she adds, Spain found its way through the “cayuco crisis” in 2006.

José Segura Clavell, who was the central government’s representative in the Canaries at the time, says the two situations do not bear comparison. He points out that the pandemic means repatriation flights are impossible, but says the migrants and refugees are not getting the “humanitarian reception” to which they are entitled.

If, however, Spanish authorities are failing to live up to their obligations, adds Segura, then so is the EU. “The EU’s behaviour is a mistake,” he says. “We don’t have a clear common policy.”

The lack of a clear, common – and fair – approach to migration was spelt out in the letter that Spain, Italy, Greece and Malta sent to the European commission last week in response to the EU’s new migration and asylum proposals.

“We believe that the solidarity rules and the related commitment of all member states must be clearly defined,” the four countries said.

“The frontline member states cannot face the migratory pressure on the whole European Union. We must find feasible and coordinated solutions to our common challenges.”

In the meantime, the pressure at the Arguineguín dock is, belatedly, easing. Each day, people are being transferred to a former military camp on the island, which can house up to 1,000 people. But there are fears the winter rains could turn the camp into a mudbath. About 6,000 people – including more than 455 unaccompanied children – are being put up in hotel rooms paid for by the Spanish government. More than 3,470 of them are staying in 10 hotels in Mogán.

But things are far from settled, and tempers far from cool. On Thursday, Bueno issued an ultimatum to the migration ministry, warning that “Mogán’s solidarity has a best-before date of 31 December” and asking the central government to remove the migrants and refugees from hotels and accommodate them elsewhere.

The secretary of state for migrations, Hana Jalloul, said the interior ministry was working to repatriate all those not eligible for asylum, but added that the new arrivals needed to be properly looked after.

“If I left those migrants on the streets right now, social services would have to take responsibility for them,” Jalloul said on Thursday.

“Do you think that the mayor has the resources to house 3,400 migrants?”

Sylvanus Kamara, a 22-year-old migrant from Sierra Leone, is one of those staying in a hotel. Although the interior ministry – which is trying to shut down the dock camp as soon as possible – says no one stays on the docks for more than 72 hours, Kamara spent eight days in the camp. On a recent visit, Human Rights Watch spoke to people who had been held there for more than two weeks.

Like many of his fellow migrants, Kamara clambered into a crowded boat in the Senegalese port of Mbour one day in October “in search of a future”. Faced with a lack of work and prospects, he decided to gamble on the dangerous sea crossing, leaving his five-year-old daughter in the care of his sister.

But unlike most of the new arrivals in the Canaries, Kamara has no plans to move to the mainland. One of the few items he brought with him is the strip of the local football team, UD Las Palmas, whose matches he used to watch back home.

Kamara says the Canaries – “a great place” – remind him of Africa. His dream now is to pick up the nascent football career he left behind in Sierra Leone. He rises at 6am every day to train on the beach 2 miles away and hopes his dedication will pay off.

“I was doing my exercises when a trainer from the local team came over and offered me the chance to train with them,” says Kamara.

Anything more permanent will depend on the young Sierra Leonean sorting out his papers, something the already overstretched Red Cross is trying to help him with.

The frustration and anger expressed by local people and politicians is echoed by some of the NGOs sharing the strain.

For Txema Santana of the Spanish Commission for Refugee Aid (CEAR), the conversion of the military camp “just goes to show that there could have been an alternative to the dock centre a long time ago”.

Like many others – not least the regional president of the Canaries – Santana sees clear parallels between what is happening on the archipelago and what has already happened in Lampedusa in Italy, and Lesbos in Greece. The numbers may differ but the response does not: the EU, says Santana, “views island territories as prisons”.

But for those less fortunate, the Canaries and the waters that lead to them are not prisons, but cemeteries.

In October, at least 140 people died when the boat carrying them from Senegal caught fire and capsized in the deadliest shipwreck recorded so far this year. Last week, eight people died when their boat ran into rocks as they attempted to land on Lanzarote.

According to the International Organization for Migration (IOM), at least 563 people have died on the Atlantic route in 2020. That figure does not take into account the Lanzarote deaths, nor the 10 other possible, but unconfirmed, shipwrecks that the IOM is looking into.

“Until we have a safe, legal and organised way for people to move about, we’re going to carry on seeing these irregular crossings,” says Santana.

“There will always be people ready to traffic other people and to sell them the dream of reaching another land.”





No.13 article:
&#x27;It&#x27;s impossible&#x27;: how Brexit has left British families unable to return to the UK

Up to 40% of Britons in dual-national relationships fear they do not fulfil the income requirement to return 

When Britain’s new immigration bill became law earlier this month, the home secretary, Priti Patel, tweeted her “delight, after many years of campaigning,” that free movement between the EU and Britain would at last end on 31 December.

But the bill does not just repeal EU citizens’ right to work and live in UK – a key Brexit ask – or British nationals’ right to do the same across the bloc. It will also make it very hard indeed for many Britons who have already moved to ever come home again.

As Brexit negotiations on a trade and security deal enter what foreign secretary Dominic Raab said could be their final week, many Britons and Europeans are facing major life changes regardless of what happens now.

“It will place a lot of people before an impossible choice,” said Jessica Frizell, 46, who has lived and worked in Italy since 1997. “I built my life on my EU rights. The fact I may not now be able to go back with my family is … a shock.”

Frizell, who works for a school textbook publisher, is a model for almost half a century of British EU integration. Her husband, Alberto, 44, is Italian, a sales manager for a textile company in Tuscany; the couple have a girl and a boy aged nine and 13.

Frizell’s mother, in her 70s, lives in Cumbria; her brother is in Poland, with a Polish wife and – like his sister – two dual-nationality children. “We’re very settled; we have careers and families,” said Jessica. “We’re not thinking of going home yet.”

But that may change. “My big worry is my mother,” Frizell said. “She’s fit and well, but if she needed looking after … Or if the kids go to university in the UK, settle, have families: we might want to move. Well, we could now – but not for much longer.”

At present, said Fiona Godfrey of British in Europe, whose tireless but ultimately futile lobbying helped secure a first defeat of the bill in the House of Lords, Britons in the bloc can move back to the UK with EU family members, “almost without restriction”.

That right, however, will end on 29 March 2022. “After that,” Godfrey said, “if you want to come back with your non-British partner, you’ll need to earn £18,600 a year, a lot more if you have non-British kids. And if your partner wants to move and be able to work in their own right immediately, they’ll have to meet the new points system.”

Godfrey said up to 40% of Britons likely to want to return feared they would not fulfil the income requirement, and most of their partners did not do jobs on the Home Office list. Associated costs – NHS surcharges, fees – could run into thousands of pounds.

“It’s just a massive change,” said Godfrey. “It basically asks people to decide now, in the next 15 months, whether they want to change their whole lives. For many, it’s asking them to choose between elderly parents in Britain and partners and children in the EU.

“It’s a terrible choice, and it’s really not one that any civilised government should be asking its citizens to make.”

Making matters worse is the fact that the act - whose full name is the Immigration and Social Security Co-ordination (EU Withdrawal) Act 2020 - actively discriminates against British citizens abroad compared to EU citizens living in the UK.

Under the settled status scheme, family members of EU nationals may join them in the UK from the end of the Brexit transition period on 31 December. “The government seems to have singled out its own citizens for harsher treatment,” Godfrey said.

“It’s extraordinary, really: why would you hurt your own people for exercising rights that you granted them? Punishing them for taking the opportunity to live abroad and marry foreigners. So much for Global Britain.”

According to a recent British in Europe member survey, more than 30% are under 44, have jobs, partners with jobs, and children in school in their host state - so might find it hard to move fast. Of the rest, those over 55 could have trouble finding a job in the UK.

While barely 10% are currently considering returning to the UK, the group says, 79% would like at least the option of being able to do so later. “The government said we wanted special treatment, to bypass the law,” Godfrey said.

“We just wanted to keep the rights we had. And we’re not talking about a never-ending stream of people – it’s a finite number, those in the EU on 31 December 2020, most of whom would be unlikely to come back anyway. It’s just nonsense.”

Some are more forthright. Arthur Wood, 60, lives in Geneva with his Norwegian wife, an EEA citizen who works for the United Nations. “Boris Johnson and many others promised that expats would not be affected by Brexit,” he said.

“We’ve been married for 25 years, have three dual-nationality children, pay UK tax on our London home – and if we don’t move back by March 2022, face a means test to be able to come to Britain with our families. My wife faces a choice between her career and her UK rights. It’s hard to see any moral or pragmatic argument for it.”

Emma Woodford, 49, has been in Belgium since 2009, Married to a Dutchman, with two daughters aged 13 and 15 born in Bangkok, she recently took Belgian citizenship – but cannot transfer her British nationality to her daughters because she, too, was born abroad.

“If we wanted to move back we’d have to go through so many hoops now,” Woodford said, “and we’re not sure we’d meet the minimum income. It’s seems unfathomable to me … Horrendously unfair, and such a waste of time and money.”

Sue Tremenheere, 57, who has lived and worked in Rome since 1986, said she and her Italian husband “could not possibly decide by March 2022” whether they might want to settle in the UK. It was possible, she said: one daughter was already at university in the UK, the other may follow suit.

“But how can we know now? What makes me most angry: my sister has been in Australia for years – she knew when she left she might have to go through the hoops to come back with a family. But this was a right I had that’s been taken away.”

In Thessaloniki, Fay Castling, 50, who first came to Greece as a Thomson Holidays rep in 1992 and never quite managed to leave, also has a son studying in Britain. She had always planned to accompany her daughter, who has a lung condition and needs special care, should she decide to follow.

“Brexit means I can’t do that now, because I don’t yet have a full residence permit, so I can’t leave Greece for more than three months,” she said. “Then we thought: perhaps my husband, Kyriakos, could take a year off and go instead of me. Now that’s not possible either, because of the Immigration Act.”

The couple would be “very unlikely” to reach the minimum income requirement were they ever to decide to move to the UK together, Castling said. “It just seems so sad,” she said. “So many people’s choices taken away – all those things my generation could do … And now it really seems like I may never be able to go back.”

Some in the UK are worried, too. Barbara De Vita, 69, and her Italian husband Piero, 76, returned to the UK in 1996 after 25 years in Italy. They have two sons, Christian, born in Italy but currently living in England, and Daniel, born in Britain but currently living in Sweden with his Franco-Swedish partner and their child.

“Daniel may want to come back – not yet, certainly, but at some stage,” Barbara said. “And what’s so absurd is that at the moment, our son who was born in Italy has more right to be in the UK than one born in Britain. Our MP, Matt Hancock, said this was about fair and equal treatment for all. It doesn’t look very fair or equal to me.”

• This article was amended on 1 December 2020 because an earlier version misnamed Thomson Holidays as Thompson Holidays.





No.14 article:
Indonesian volcano Mount Ili Lewotolok erupts, closing airport

No injuries reported but authorities create exclusion zone around the crater

Indonesia’s Mount Ili Lewotolok erupted on Sunday, releasing a column of smoke and ash 2.5 miles (4km) into the sky, triggering a flight warning and the closure of the local airport.

There were no reports of injuries or damage from the eruption in a remote part of the south-east Asian archipelago. But authorities raised the volcano’s alert status to its second-highest level as they warned of possible lava flows.

A 1.2-mile no-go zone around the crater was also expanded to 2.5 miles, while flights were advised to steer clear of the area as volcanic ash rained down on Wunopitu airport in East Nusa Tenggara, which was temporarily closed.

“People are advised to not carry out any activities within a 4km radius from the crater,” Indonesia’s geological agency said.

Indonesia is home to about 130 active volcanoes due to its position on the Ring of Fire, a belt of tectonic plate boundaries circling the Pacific Ocean where frequent seismic activity occurs.

In late 2018, Anak Krakatau, a volcano in the strait between Java and Sumatra islands, erupted and caused an underwater landslide that unleashed a tsunami, killing more than 400 people.





No.15 article:
The foreign secretary also refused to rule out the prospect of a third nationwide lockdown next year. The Commons will vote on Tuesday on whether to approve the three-tier system replacing the national lockdown





No.16 article:
Working in the NHS, it doesn&#x27;t feel like any end to Covid is in sight

The news about a vaccine doesn’t feel real to stressed and exhausted hospital staff, says a consultant

It turns out that a pandemic really is a marathon, not a sprint to a finish line. I guess that was obvious really.

It’s not all bad. We are no longer dealing with an unknown threat that we are having to discover as we go along. The disease is known, its presentation recognised, its complications understood.

We have treatments. Infection control pathways are in place, areas allocated to cohort suspected patients. However, the novelty has officially worn off now. We try to motivate ourselves, even though, in the words of a colleague this week, “Covid is so fucking boring”

For us in respiratory medicine, winter is high season at the best of times. There is a steady flow of patients with pneumonia, empyema, exacerbations of COPD and asthma, often themselves among the sickest of the medical patients in the hospital.

This comes alongside our usual outpatient work, often itself busier in winter as we try to keep people out of hospital. This time, however, we are also still struggling to get on top of the completely new task of following up hundreds of patients from the first wave as well as an enormous backlog of routine work from when our services were shut down.

There has been little help from other specialties, although I know there are pressures everywhere.

Into this mix comes another wave of patients with fresh Covid, their X-rays showing the classic appearances, looking stable one minute but coming close to dying the next; I feel like the virus is sticking two fingers up at us, laughing.

The patients we are admitting seem younger this time around, though maybe this is just my impression.

Mercifully there are fewer of them, though they are no less unwell.

The burden of looking after the sickest on the wards, before they need to go to intensive care, again falls to us in respiratory medicine. I feel a dull anger; it feels that we as a specialty are so disproportionately affected by this pandemic.

Many of my colleagues in the specialty feel the same. We are fighting fires on many fronts.

With all of this comes the unpleasant realisation that our infection control measures – based around making a clinical assessment as to who has the disease – are worryingly fallible now that the community prevalence is high again.

Without doing a rapid swab on every patient admitted, we cannot help missing asymptomatic cases, yet our daily allocation of these is about a 10th of the number of medical patients we usually admit; we are still fighting with one hand tied behind our backs.

Mini-outbreaks bloom on our wards and among our staff, many of whom have gone off work and some of whom have ended up being admitted unwell to our hospital.

This happened during the first wave and to see it happening again is truly heartbreaking.

The answer to this has been to transform the hospital into a cold, unfriendly place. Masks for everyone, security at the door to keep out relatives, bans on having lunch together or in-person meetings, no touching of anyone or anything without gloves, infection control teams patrolling the wards to pick up PPE infractions.

I have got used to having a temperature gun pointed at my head every morning and routinely failing to recognise my colleagues’ masked faces.

I have conversations with dying patients about their wishes for end-of-life care when they can barely understand a word I’m saying through my mask.

While all this is necessary, it reinforces the otherworldly reality in which we now live.

I remain immensely proud of my colleagues. Overall, the team-working, flexibility and dedication to a shared cause has been exceptional and, at times, deeply humbling.

That said, there has been a shift in attitudes this time around. People are tired, fed up, stressed by conflicting pressures.

There is understandable reluctance to continue being shifted between different areas, asked to fill in wherever there is a gap that morning.

People who perhaps were not so involved the first time around remain deeply anxious about the disease.

In this context, with exhaustion and emotions high, tempers flare and goodwill becomes strained. This is driven by anxiety and uncertainty, reflective of a workforce placed under unprecedented pressure, but each new clash leaves a sourness that takes days to fade. We are still pulling together, but the rope is fraying now.

The problem here is that it doesn’t feel like any end is in sight.

The news about a vaccine – astonishing, really, within a year of the disease emerging – still doesn’t feel real on the frontline. I can barely remember what my work used to feel like now. I believe I used to share lunch breaks, shake hands with people, go out for drinks with my colleagues, though those ideas seem strange now.

The idea that a vaccine will somehow return us to how we were, that we will shake our heads and pick up where we left off, feels utterly impossible. I can only hope I am wrong.

• The writer is an NHS respiratory consultant who works across a number of hospitals.





No.17 article:
10,000 turkeys to be culled after Yorkshire bird flu outbreak

No disruption to Christmas supplies expected after outbreak at Northallerton site

The government has sought to reassure consumers that the UK’s Christmas turkey supply is unaffected by an avian flu outbreak in North Yorkshire which will lead to the cull of more than 10,000 birds.

All 10,500 birds at the turkey fattening site in Northallerton will be humanely culled to limit the spread of the disease, while a 3km (2 miles) and 10km temporary control zone has been put in place to stop the disease spreading.

The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said avian influenza posed little risk to public health and that this particular strain of the virus (H5N8) did not affect food safety.

An estimated 9 million turkeys are reared in the UK every year for the festive market, but Defra said it did not anticipate any impact on the supplies of turkeys or other birds over Christmas. An investigation is under way.

Public Health England (PHE) and the Food Standards Agency also assured consumers that avian influenzas posed a very low risk to people, and that properly cooked poultry products – including eggs – were safe to eat.

The UK’s chief veterinary officer, Christine Middlemiss, who advises the government on animal welfare, said “immediate steps” were taken to stop the disease from spreading when it was detected at the farm on Saturday.

She added: “Bird keepers should remain alert for any signs of disease, report suspected disease immediately and ensure they are maintaining good biosecurity on their premises. We are urgently looking for any evidence of disease spread associated with this farm to control and eliminate it.”

Dr Gavin Dabrera, a consultant in acute respiratory infections at PHE, said the World Health Organization had never confirmed a case of the avian flu strain (H5N8) in humans.

He said: “As a precaution the local health protection team will offer routine health advice to those working on the farm. We will work with Defra to monitor the situation closely.”

About 13,500 birds were culled earlier this month following confirmation of an avian flu outbreak at a commercial farm in Helsby, near Frodsham in Cheshire.

UK and European farmers have been on alert after outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza among wild and domestic birds in western Russia and Kazakhstan. Wild birds migrating from mainland Europe during the winter period can spread the disease to poultry and other captive birds.





No.18 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

The foreign secretary said infection rates could rise if the right balance of restrictions is not struck

England is at risk of a third wave of coronavirus in the new year if the right balance is not struck on restrictions, Dominic Raab has warned, as Downing Street faces an angry rebellion from Tory MPs on its strengthened tiers measures.

The foreign secretary also refused to rule out the prospect of a third nationwide lockdown next year. The Commons will vote on Tuesday on whether to approve the three-tier system replacing the national lockdown.

Boris Johnson wrote to Tory MPs on Saturday in an attempt to head off a potential rebellion, saying the new regulations will have a “sunset” clause meaning they will end on 3 February, will be reviewed every fortnight until then, and will only continue with MPs’ approval.

Further analysis of the health, economic and social impacts of Covid and the measures taken to suppress them will also be published before Tuesday’s vote, Johnson said.

Asked if the country may face a third wave in January and February if the process does not work and infection rates rise again, Raab told BBC One’s The Andrew Marr Show on Sunday: “Well, there’s a risk of that if we don’t get the balance right, but so far the R level is coming down, and that’s really important. And that’s why we’re starting with the tiered approach, more restrictive than some people would like previously.”

Pressed on whether there could be another national lockdown early next year, Raab said: “We’re doing everything we can do avoid that,” citing the government’s five criteria for assigning tier levels.

Explaining the government’s exit strategy from restrictions, he added: “We move to localised, we aim for that vaccine being distributed in the spring. And the two things that are crucial are a tiered approach, from a position of strength and confidence, with areas coming down the level of restrictions once it’s safe and responsible to do so, and the community-wide testing … We’ve seen in Liverpool how that can really be a force for change, they’ve now come into a lower-level tier and that’s great credit to the authorities up there working with the government and, frankly, the forbearance and the stamina of the people in that area. We need to see that nationwide, that’s how we get to spring and a much better place.”

While Downing Street faces the task of persuading wavering Tory MPs to back its strengthened tier measures ahead of a Commons showdown, it has outlined the road ahead for Covid-19 restrictions. Here are some of the key dates

On Tuesday, MPs will vote on whether to approve the three-tier system replacing the national lockdown in England.

The current lockdown ends on Wednesday and the new strengthened tier system, if approved, comes into force with nearly 99% of England headed for the strictest two tiers. Only the Isle of Wight, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly are set to go into tier 1, with more than 32 million people in tier 2 and more than 23 million in the toughest tier 3.

In a letter to MPs on Saturday, the prime minister explained that the joint biosecurity centre and ministers will consider data weekly throughout the tiers period, while legislation requires a formal review of tiering allocations every fortnight. The first review point is 16 December, with new tier allocations announced the following day – decided by a cabinet committee chaired by the prime minister. They will come into effect on Saturday 19 December, Boris Johnson said.

For five days over Christmas there will be a UK-wide relaxation of rules to let up to three households form a 'bubble' so they can mix socially indoors and stay overnight to enjoy the festive period together. In Scotland, a maximum of eight people will be allowed but that does not include under-12s. In Northern Ireland, the window has been extended to 22-28 December to allow for additional travel time between countries.

Johnson has announced a “sunset” clause on the tiered restrictions, meaning they will expire on 3 February and require MPs’ approval if they are to be extended into March.

Labour has not yet disclosed how it will vote on the measures, although the shadow foreign secretary, Lisa Nandy, told Marr: “We very much share the view that there need to be public restrictions.” However, she stressed Labour was seeking clarity about the new tier system and that her party’s support was “not unconditional”.

On Thursday, the government announced that nearly 99% of the population in England would enter the highest two tiers when the measures come into effect on 2 December, where tougher restrictions include a ban on indoor mixing between households unless support bubbles exist. There is anger among Conservative MPs who argue the new system is too blunt, lumping together whole counties or areas into a single tier when there are localised distinctions in the prevalence of the virus.

Asked if the government was thinking of breaking down regions into smaller areas so restrictions could be lifted earlier, Raab told Sky News’s Sophy Ridge on Sunday: “Well, we’ll have a review every two weeks and of course there’ll be, I’m sure, debate this week on it.

callout-coronavirus

“We always look at all things, but the problem is … you’ve got to get the geographic size sufficiently effective that you don’t find the smaller enclaves of lower-level virus shooting up because they’re not subject to the restrictions in the higher level areas around them.”





No.19 article:
&#x27;World&#x27;s loneliest elephant&#x27; heads to Cambodia after Cher campaign

Update: Cher greets ‘world’s loneliest elephant’ in Cambodia

Kaavan, an overweight 36-year-old, to be rehomed following outcry at conditions

Update: Cher greets ‘world’s loneliest elephant’ in Cambodia

After years of public outcry and campaigning by the US singer and actor Cher, the “world’s loneliest elephant” has embarked on a mammoth move from Pakistan to retirement in a Cambodian sanctuary.

Cher has spent recent days at the Islamabad zoo to provide moral support to Kaavan – an overweight 36-year-old bull elephant – whose pitiful treatment at the dilapidated facility sparked an uproar from animal rights groups and a spirited social media campaign.

“My wishes have finally come true”, Cher said in a statement thanking her charity, Free the Wild.

“We have been counting down to this moment and dreaming of it for so long and to finally see Kaavan transported out of [the Islamabad] zoo will remain with us forever.”

Kaavan’s case and the woeful conditions at the zoo resulted in a judge this year ordering all the animals to be moved.

“Thanks to Cher and also to local Pakistani activists, Kaavan’s fate made headlines around the globe and this contributed to the facilitation of his transfer,” said Martin Bauer, a spokesman for Four Paws International, an animal welfare group that spearheaded the relocation effort.

Experts spent hours coaxing a slightly sedated Kaavan into a specially constructed metal crate, at one point using ropes to help pull him in. This was hoisted on to a lorry and taken to Islamabad airport on Sunday.

From there, Kaavan was to be sent via a Russian transport jumbo jet to Siem Reap in north-west Cambodia. 

Cher, 74, spent several days in the Pakistani capital to visit Kaavan before the trip to a 10,000-hectare (25,000-acre) Cambodian wildlife sanctuary, with the Pakistani prime minister, Imran Khan, personally thanking her.

She was due to fly to Cambodia on Sunday to be in the south-east Asian nation when the elephant arrives.

Officials said Kaavan would initially be kept in a small designated section of the park where he could see other elephants.

“Sending him to a place where he can be with other elephants of his kind … is really the right choice,” Pakistan’s climate change minister, Malik Amin Aslam, told AFP.

“We will be happy to see him happy in Cambodia and we hope he finds a partner very soon.”

Dubbed by the press as the world’s loneliest elephant, Kaavan was the only Asian elephant in Pakistan.

A team of vets and experts from Four Paws spent months working with Kaavan to get him ready for the trip to Cambodia, which included training the elephant to enter the massive metal transport crate that would be placed in a cargo plane for the seven-hour flight.

Zoo officials have in the past denied that Kaavan was kept in substandard conditions or chained, claiming instead the creature was pining for a new mate after his partner died.

But Kaavan’s behaviour – including signs of distress such as continual head-bobbing – raised concerns for his mental wellbeing.

Activists also said Kaavan was not properly sheltered from Islamabad’s searing summer temperatures.

Kaavan’s mate, Saheli, died in 2012.

Rights groups and conservationists have said the abysmal conditions at the Islamabad zoo resulted in part from the lack of legislation in Pakistan aimed at protecting animal welfare.

“There’s a lot of improvement to be made,” said Rab Nawaz from WWF Pakistan. “Kaavan is just one animal. There’s lots of animals in Pakistan … which are in miserable conditions.”





No.20 article:
UK woman who has travelled Europe for six years goes missing in Pyrenees

Urgent search under way for Esther Dingley, who was hiking alone in the mountains

A British woman who has spent six years travelling across Europe has gone missing while on a solo hiking tour in the French Pyrenees.

Esther Dingley, 37, had been travelling with her partner, Dan Colegate, since 2014, with the couple’s travel adventures well-documented in a blog and in the national press. She had embarked on a month-long solo trip when she went missing.

Dingley, originally from Durham, had taken their van on the lone adventure, which was due to come to an end on Wednesday, while her partner stayed in Gascony, France.

An urgent search is now under way after Dingley last spoke to Colegate via WhatsApp last Sunday when she was atop Pic de Sauvegarde on the French-Spanish border. According to him, they discussed how excited they were to see each other as she was on her last trip before driving back.

The previous day, Dingley walked from Benasque, Spain and planned to spend Sunday night at Refuge Vénasque in France. She was last seen at about 4pm last Saturday, with Colegate saying there had been no sign of her since.

The Peloton de Gendarmerie de Haute Montagne confirmed it was searching for Dingley.

In a Facebook post on Saturday, Colegate shared the last picture Dingley sent him before she vanished.

“The only purpose of this post is to ask for prayers, thoughts, candles and whatever you have,” he wrote. “I’ve not been saying anything, but this wonderful person believes in the power of positive thought and right now I’ll take anything if it means that she can be found.

“I need her back. I can’t face the alternative. I’m heading back up searching now so I can’t reply to comments or messages. Sorry for the haste and inadequacy of these words.”

The couple, who have been together for 18 years, hit the road in 2014 with their five dogs after Colegate almost died of an infection following surgery.

They regularly posted about their adventures on their blog, Esther and Dan, and seven days ago they were featured in a BBC article discussing how they swapped their careers and a permanent home for motoring through the mountains, valleys and coastlines of Europe.

Colegate said he had joined French police teams using helicopters and dogs in the search for Dingley. “She always tried to keep in touch but sometimes on her hikes was out of contact for a couple of days,” he said. “This is not looking good.”





No.21 article:
China hopes ‘vaccine diplomacy’ will restore its image and boost its influence

Trading allies such as Brazil are at the head of the queue for Beijing’s huge drug distribution programme 

There was no VIP on board the plane from China that arrived in São Paulo airport earlier this month, but the state governor, João Doria, nonetheless led a high-level welcome delegation gathered on the tarmac.

The masked dignitaries were there to mark the arrival of seven refrigerated containers of vaccines, posing for official photos with tiny vials that Doria hopes will end or at least slow the ravages of Covid-19 in the state he runs.

Brazil is among the countries worst hit by the pandemic, with over six million cases and nearly 170,000 deaths.

China has promised that 6 million doses of CoronaVac, made by the biotech firm Sinovac, will reach Brazil by January. São Paulo’s highly respected Butantan Institute, which is testing the vaccine, will get raw materials to make millions more.

The shipments to Brazil are part of a campaign of vaccine diplomacy that Beijing has mounted around the world. The fallout from the spread of Covid-19 has fuelled mistrust of China internationally, and damaged the global appetite for the exports which helped drive its growth.

A successful vaccine, provided at an affordable price, offers a potential route to address resentment and criticism of China’s early handling of the virus, as well as a financial boost for the country’s biotech firms. China manufactures around a fifth of the world’s vaccines at the moment but those are mostly for domestic use.

“The idea that the Chinese vaccine is going to be a global public good is very important for China right now, because it became the way they are fighting the propaganda war in the pandemic,” said Maurício Santoro, a professor at the State University of Rio de Janeiro who specialises in China-Brazil relations.

“They are trying to deflect blame for what they did in the early days of the pandemic … So if they have a really good vaccine, that would be very important for them. And Brazil is an important testing ground for Chinese ambitions.”

China has five vaccines in final-stage trials around the world, including in Brazil, Turkey and Indonesia. With the disease under control at home, there are not enough people getting infected to test them there.

It has also licensed three for emergency use at home; one developed by China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) has been taken by nearly 1 million people, despite the fact that there is little risk of infection inside China’s borders.

President Xi Jinping promised in May to share China’s vaccines with the world, a stark contrast to Donald Trump’s administration, which at the time was focused on buying up large swaths of production of new vaccines to protect its own population.

China has also promised to make sure countries can afford vaccines, in July promising Latin American and Caribbean countries a $1bn (£750m) loan to buy them.

And unlike the US, it has also joined the Covax international vaccine alliance, which aims to accelerate the development and manufacturing of vaccines, and enable the rapid and equitable global distribution of successful candidates.

Chinese officials have been talking of a “health silk road” since spring, when it began sending shipments of masks, other protective gear and even teams of medics to hard-hit countries after riding out its own first wave. The phrase captures the scale of Beijing’s ambition by evoking ancient trans-continental trade routes.

In those early months, China’s efforts to shift public conversation about the virus were often overshadowed by reports of faulty protective gear being shipped from its factories, resentment among governments forced to give effusive public thanks for help, and official Chinese glee at their success containing the virus as other countries slipped deeper into tragedy and economic chaos.

But a successful vaccine could have a much greater impact than shipments of PPE, by allowing countries to start rebuilding their economies and health services.

“Although China initially paid a diplomatic price for its failure to control the novel coronavirus, it is poised to repair its damaged reputation by reinventing itself as the public health provider for the developing world,” the China scholar Eyck Freymann and the medical researcher Justin Stebbing wrote in a recent essay for Foreign Affairs.

“If Washington keeps refusing to compete, it won’t just risk losing the vaccine race. It will allow China to win the prestige of a first-rate technological power, the goodwill of a slew of new potential allies, and a legitimate claim to global leadership.”

If proved effective, vaccines may also offer China a way to bolster political allies around the world.

In Brazil they have become a focal point for increasingly sharp political rivalry between Doria and the president, Jair Bolsonaro, who recently celebrated the temporary suspension of trials of the Chinese vaccine after a participant’s death, and was notable by his absence from the vaccine welcoming party at the airport.

Like his diplomatic and ideological ally Trump, Bolsonaro has taken a hardline anti-China position, while also attempting to downplay the threat from Covid.

His stance has put him at odds with much of the business community which relies on its ties with China, the country’s biggest trading partner by a long way. Exports to China are worth more than twice exports to the United States, Brazil’s next biggest trade partner, Santoro said.

Into the gulf opened by Bolsonaro’s position on Covid and China has stepped Doria, a centre-right politician with ambitions to challenge for the presidency. Aware of the importance of Chinese ties to the country’s powerful business interests, including mining and agriculture, he has nurtured ties, and recently signalled the weight he places on the relationship by opening a state trade office in Shanghai.

Although polls in Brazil show mistrust of China, which extends to doubts about taking a Chinese vaccine, nothing will be rolled out until the vaccine has passed rigorous tests by Brazil’s own respected regulators.

“It’s reasonable to expect the public will have more misgivings at first, but that acceptance will grow once people become aware that the risks are very small in comparison to the benefits,” said Adriana Abdenur, the executive director of the thinktank Plataforma CIPÓ.

“A recent survey published in Nature magazine shows that 85.3% of Brazilians are willing to be vaccinated against Covid-19 – second only to China itself.”

If Doria can launch a successful vaccination campaign with SinoVac’s candidate in January, both the economy in São Paulo and his own reputation are likely to benefit. That is unlikely to have escaped the notice of Chinese diplomats, who may be resigned to waiting out the Bolsonaro era, but would be happy to see it end as soon as possible.





No.22 article:
Long Covid: ‘Is this now me forever?’

Months after coming down with the virus, Eleanor Morgan is still struggling with ‘long Covid’. What is it and how can the burden be eased?

One night in early March, I had a fever that reminded me of being a child. My pyjama top stuck to me with sweat, my joints ached and, at some point, the walls looked like they were breathing. The next morning I started coughing and didn’t stop. It was pre-lockdown and, taking pity on me (I live alone in London), a friend in the countryside offered to be nurse. En route, in Paddington Station, I longed to curl up like a cat beside the warmth of the Upper Crust stall. One morning, my friend told me she’d poked her head round the door throughout the night to check I hadn’t coughed my aorta up into the bed.

Back in London, as lockdown began, unpredictable spells of fatigue started to hit me. Was it Covid? I had no idea; only NHS staff were being tested then. But it didn’t feel like chest infections I’d known. There was a crushing feeling in my chest for weeks, as if my ribs were a pair of bellows being squeezed. Adding to the fun, I’m asthmatic. On two occasions, things felt hairy and I called 111. Each time I was summoned to A&amp;E and given a nebuliser and steroids, which helped dramatically. But March became April, became May and the fatigue remained. Some days, it felt like a possession. I’d walk the dog in the morning then fall asleep on the sofa until 3pm. Eight months on, I still have mild, irregular breathlessness and chest tightness. I have been upgraded to a steroid inhaler that, generously, keeps giving me oral thrush. My GP thinks I may have long Covid.

Long Covid is not medically definitive, but a term that describes a portion of the population struggling with symptoms for weeks or months after being infected with Covid-19, and not just those who were seriously ill. In fact, there is no evidence that links severity of infection and ongoing symptoms like fatigue. Data from the app-based Covid-19 symptom study, being conducted in real time by the genetic epidemiology team at King’s College London (KCL), showed that up to 60,000 people had reported having symptoms for more than three months. Fatigue is the most common, but breathlessness, chest tightness, brain fog, gastrointestinal issues, joint pain, headaches and vertigo are among other reported manifestations, ranging from mild to debilitating. For many, the psychological effects are profound.

What is causing so many people to be knocked sideways like this? Preliminary data from the first study to assess the long-term impact of Covid-19 on multiple organ health in “low-risk” individuals (those who are relatively young and healthy) with ongoing symptoms shows 70% of the first 200 screened patients have impairments in one or more organs, including the heart, lungs, pancreas and liver, four months after they were first ill.

More data is needed, but an emerging theory regarding the ongoing fatigue people are experiencing is that long Covid could be a post-viral syndrome akin to chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). In fact, Professor Frances Williams, who is part of the genetic epidemiology team at KCL overseeing the app study, and who has been researching CFS for decades, believes Covid-19 may “finally unlock the black box of chronic fatigue, which is, truly, one of the last frontiers in medicine.”

Lee Bowen has made a career from his lungs. As an opera singer, harnessing the power of his breath is a daily practice. For the past eight months, his chest has not felt like a site of power but one of trauma. Throughout March, Bowen, 49, from Caerphilly, says he felt “chesty and fluey” with a cough and progressive, disabling fatigue. “I was walking to the shop one day and wanted to lie on the pavement and go to sleep,” he says. The cough persisted. One evening in late March, Bowen was so unwell he called 111. He was sent to A&amp;E, where x-rays showed his lungs “were in good shape”, but he wasn’t tested for Covid. Bowen cannot be certain he had the virus, but his GP feels his symptoms are Covid-related. Six months after his cough started, he still has “bizarre and unpredictable” fatigue as well as “brain fog” that stops him being able to read. “I see the words, but they don’t go in,” he says. Blood tests ruled out any serious problems, which led to Bowen’s GP diagnosing post-viral fatigue or long Covid. “It is hard,” he says. “Very hard.”

Bowen is one of 30,000 members of the Long Covid Support Group on Facebook. Many members report feeling unseen and desperate. Some are bed-bound, broke because they can’t work and, in some cases, facing homelessness. The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Nice) and the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (Sign) are now working with the Royal College of GPs (RCGP) to draw up guidelines to help those with long-term complications in both primary and secondary care. Understandably, many feel this official recognition has taken too long and that, with earlier intervention, their outcome might have been very different.

Professor Martin Marshall, chair of the RCGP, tells me that the college had “long been calling for the development of guidance to support healthcare professionals to deliver the most appropriate care and treatments to patients suffering with long Covid,” which he describes as “a dreadful condition”. Like all other aspects of Covid-19, he explains that, although we are starting to understand more, we “need to see more research so that GPs can deliver the most appropriate care and support in the community”. A network of 40 specialist NHS long Covid clinics are now opening, which will come as good news for people who have previously been rejected from oversubscribed services.

Amy Durant, 31, a digital publisher from Surrey, was recently rejected from a long Covid clinic. She was very unwell in March (“fever, aches and delirium”) and, throughout April, started to feel as if “something was crushing my chest.” She was seen by paramedics one evening, who were reassured by her vital signs and didn’t take her to hospital. This was encouraging, but a positive antibodies test and a CT scan (“which took six months to get”) identified damage to the airways in her lungs, and have left her feeling less hopeful. “I have no idea if this is permanent. Before this, I ran 15km a week on the Surrey Hills. Now, I have mornings where I turn the kettle on and have to go back to bed. I need some help.”

For those who have survived being seriously unwell with Covid-19, a protracted recovery is common. Life after such severe illness and the treatments required, such as intubation or mechanical ventilation in intensive care, is slow, basic and often very frustrating. Damage to the lungs and heart, and muscle atrophy, can leave previously healthy, spirited people feeling like a hologram of who they once were.

Nigel Heal, a semi-retired Welsh Ambulance Services NHS Trust manager, spent 12 days in intensive care in April. He describes his life now as being in “biometric opposition” to before he fell ill. “I’m normally up in the mornings at 5am, at my desk early and full of enthusiasm,” he explains. When Heal, 62, first returned home after hospital, he couldn’t move without shortness of breath or an increased heart rate. “Then it became muscle and joint pain. The fatigue has been constant, but so damn variable. I never know how the day will go when I wake up. Everyday tasks need pacing. Eight weeks ago, I was talking to my line manager about a phased return to work, but woke up the next day and felt dreadful.”

Heal is “slowly making progress” with the hospital rehab programme he attends with his partner, Rob, who was admitted to intensive care with Covid a week before he was. The couple were, at one point, “back-to-back in side wards”, but couldn’t communicate because they were bound by machinery and Heal forgot to give Rob his phone. Heal is thankful they’re on the recovery journey together – “my good day might be his bad day and we can look after each other” – but has thought at times: “Is this going to be us forever now?”

There is a gentle dejection in his voice. “I’m a happy person, but I can’t lie – this has been incredibly difficult.” An important part of Heal’s emotional recovery has been filling the gaps in his recollection of the hospital stay. “I had false memories,” he says. “I thought I was only on a ventilator for a few nights, but later found one of my selfies of me on a ventilator during the days. I submitted a subject access request for my medical notes and was able to join the dots. I saw that I really was in dire straits.”

Even people who were mildly ill with Covid-19 have been left with ongoing health issues. This can create a deep psychological wound. “A lot of people feel isolated and unsupported,” says Professor Williams. “This is why we are trying to provide useful, well-validated information on our website and feed the data into government.” From the beginning, the Welsh and Scottish governments were keen to engage. “It has been more difficult with ours,” she notes, pointedly. “We have used what we have learned to pressure the government into changing the list of ‘official’ symptoms. For example, they were reluctant to include loss of taste and sense of smell, despite it being a very obvious symptom cluster in our data.”

Williams explains that as-yet- unpublished data from the app (with 4.3m users at the time of writing) suggests “about 9-12% of people are still symptomatic at four weeks after illness onset,” with more women being affected than men. This provides an incredibly valuable, but not exhaustive, insight into how the virus is behaving among the UK’s population of 66m. But many people won’t have used the app, will not have been tested at the time of infection and are unable to access antibody testing – currently only available on the NHS for certain people who work in primary care, social care or education. (At an average cost of between £70 and £100, private services are too expensive for many.) So it’s impossible to know how many people could have long Covid. The underlying mechanisms are also shrouded in mystery, but theories are emerging.

The uniqueness of the way Covid-19 attacks the host seems to be making people more unwell than with other viruses, as well as causing lingering and evolving symptoms. One theory is that the virus has been eradicated from most of the body, but is lingering in small clusters. For example, if someone has long-term diarrhoea, the virus may still be “hiding” in the gut. The virus may also affect organ function and cause scarring; most obviously in the lungs if a person developed pneumonia. (Long-term impaired lung function has been seen after Sars and Mers infections, both types of coronavirus.) Novel effects have been observed in the blood of some people who have been hospitalised, too, including abnormal clotting and damage to blood vessels. The most widely agreed-on theory is that long Covid could be the result of the body maintaining an immune response longer than it needs to.

“The symptoms of long Covid are similar to other post-viral syndromes,” says Marshall. For example, some people who have had glandular fever will have fatigue that lasts for months. Williams agrees: “A likely scenario is that someone with long Covid has an immune system that has gone into overdrive.”

When the body is fighting a pathogen, chemicals called cytokines are released by white blood cells. This creates an inflammatory response, including swelling and increased blood flow to the area that marks the infection’s location and attracts more white blood cells. This causes those awful flu feelings: fever, aching limbs and exhaustion. The immune response is turned off once the infection has been fought but, for some people, the switch stays on, causing ongoing fatigue and other symptoms. Williams’s theory is that genetics inform the kind of exaggerated immune response people with long Covid may be having. Chronic fatigue syndrome is rooted in the same theory.

In 2018, the largest study to date on the causes of CFS suggested that the condition may begin as a result of an exaggerated immune response. CFS is often diagnosed when fatigue and other prolonged symptoms cannot be medically explained, but a “trigger” illness or event is commonly identified. The complex nature of CFS means that improved medical testing is only part of the picture for providing better help for those living with it. Exploring the emotional component is integral, because CFS is often informed by a person’s underlying mental health and past experiences. Fatigue is compounded by catastrophic thinking. Patience, empathy and validation, then, are key to any successful care pathway, particularly in light of the well-established link between CFS and those who have experienced childhood trauma. The precise underpinnings of this link are not fully understood, but it’s clear.

Dr Jonathon Tomlinson is a GP in east London, caring for one of the most socio-economically deprived communities in London. His key interest is “medically unexplained” symptoms. Tomlinson believes that a vulnerability to developing long Covid may be rooted in trauma. “The evidence so far is unsurprising. If someone has a history of mental distress and develops long-term symptoms after infection, they may have less resilience. The symptoms may be much more anxiety-provoking, which in turn makes the symptoms worse.”

For both doctor and patient, it may be impossible to distinguish between the symptoms of a fight-or-flight system at full tilt (breathlessness, dizziness, nausea, diarrhoea and increased heart-rate are classic) and those of a post-viral syndrome. But these conversations should be collaborative.

“Individualised, empathetic care is going to be key,” says Tomlinson. “We have to think about the heterogeneity of long Covid.” What does this mean? “Well, like most GPs I have a handful of patients with ongoing problems, but they are all so different. One man barely speaks English and has been very frightened by his symptoms. His experience is different to a middle-class white British woman who is able to find community in a Facebook group. Her experience is different to a single mother of three kids from a BAME community, who may be completely exhausted, but doesn’t have the time to engage with any referrals I could provide. None is ‘better’ than the other, but applying broad strokes to people’s experiences is unfair.”

Validation – a key aspect of helping those with CFS – may not be found for everyone in ongoing testing. “My experience is that people who have been very ill in hospital will have stuff found, like lung scarring, blood clots or pericardial effusions [fluid around the heart]. People who weren’t that sick rarely have things found,” says Tomlinson. 

“As GPs we are fairly parsimonious with tests. When you know the system, you know when someone is just doing every test they possibly can.” Why? To cover their backs? “Yes, but also to justify the funding.”

Understandably, some people may be reassured that a doctor is doing everything they can to get to the bottom of their symptoms. But there is also a risk that continued investigation could lead to more incidental findings that, however benign, may increase emotional distress in those with complex backgrounds.

“In some cases, you’re made sick by medicine,” says Tomlinson, who also identifies the risk of “long Covid-ising” people’s symptoms and missing the normal stuff (“GPs get three calls a day about dizziness; how can you possibly say it’s long Covid or Ménière’s disease?”) But there is also a risk in putting everything down to anxiety and delaying important diagnostic tests. “Really getting to know someone and their history is fundamental.”

“We really do need specialists to look at people,” says Durant, who feels “too much conversation among non-medical professionals” is dangerous. I agree. Finding online communities can be validating, informative and reduce feelings of isolation. But they can also become places of conflict that may influence already vulnerable people to undergo superfluous testing that reinforces a “disease” mindset and reduces feelings of autonomy. As with CFS, the problem lies in the lack of widespread individualised, holistic care.

That long Covid is more common in women – as is CFS – speaks to a stark truth: the persistent dismissal so many women with chronic symptoms feel from medical professionals – It’s your anxiety, madam! It’s the menopause! – makes them feel worse. If we are in pain and not listened to by someone we thought might be able to help, we turn that pain further inwards, where it stretches a claw into other parts of our being. On this point, Williams believes the lessons from Covid-19 could help inject more empathy into medical training: “If we don’t sort it out in the next couple of years, we’ll have failed.” 

If long Covid can be understood through the framework of CFS, medical investigation is important, but a psychologically informed approach that does not treat the symptoms as the entire story is crucial in helping people understand and manage how they feel. As Williams says: “What most people need more than anything is somebody with the time to really listen to them.”

Writing this piece and hearing the stories of others has made me realise how at sea I have felt in my own body this year. I steadily lost trust in my corporeal strength, but am now rebuilding it – something that only began to feel possible when I confronted the shame of the loneliness I have felt. I’ve never found it easy to say, “I’m struggling,” but clearly the pain hasn’t just been in my lungs. Emotion lives in the body. My thought patterns have affected my breathing and vice versa.

I have been referred to a long Covid clinic for some further tests, but wonder if this whole experience hasn’t also been a stark lesson in what removing regular human connection, and the opportunity to be heard, can do to a soul.

• This article was amended on 30 November 2020 to remove references to two of Dr Tomlinson’s colleagues.





No.23 article:
Afghanistan car bombing kills at least 30 security personnel

Bombing in Ghazni targeted a compound of the public protection force, officials say

A car bombing in Afghanistan’s central province of Ghazni killed at least 30 Afghan security force members, officials said, and casualties could increase given the intensity and location of the blast.

Baz Mohammad Hemat, the director of the provincial hospital in Ghazni, said 30 bodies and 24 injured people had been transported there. “All of the victims are security personnel,” he said.

The blast on Sunday targeted a compound of the public protection force, a wing of the Afghan security forces, local officials said. It damaged civilian residences around the compound and there could be more casualties from there, they said.

Tariq Arian, an interior ministry spokesman, confirmed there had been a car bomb blast but did not provide further information on the target or possible casualties.

No one has claimed responsibility for the attack.

The Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid did not confirm or deny responsibility when contacted by Reuters. 

Afghanistan has experienced a spate of car bombings over the last few months, despite peace talks being under way between negotiating teams of the insurgent Taliban and the government in the Qatari capital of Doha.

Violence in the country, at war for two decades, remains unacceptably high, say foreign governments and institutions, who have called for an immediate ceasefire between the Afghan government and Taliban.

Another bombing on Sunday in the eastern province of Zabul, targeting a top provincial official, killed at least one person and injured 23, said Gul Islam Syaal, the spokesman for the province’s governor.

Haji Ata Jan Haqbayan, the head of the provincial council of Zabul, suffered minor injuries in the attack on his convoy. 

No one has claimed responsibility for the attack on Haqbayan, an outspoken critic of the Taliban.





No.24 article:
Church plan to sell deanery ‘puts profit before community’

C of E accused of ‘riding roughshod’ over locals with sale of 15th-century building in Wells, Somerset

A 15th-century building in Wells, Somerset, England’s smallest city, is at the centre of a controversy that has led local campaigners to accuse the Church of England of “riding roughshod over community interests”.

The Old Deanery, part of the ancient cathedral estate, is being sold by the church after it moved its diocesan offices out of the Grade I listed building to new premises.

A community group, backed by the council, a local heritage organisation and the Conservative MP offered to buy the building for £1.25m, wanting to create an art gallery or museum, cafe and social hub. Their proposals included a profit-sharing partnership with the church. The venture, they argued, would create jobs and provide a space for “vibrant local activities of all kinds”.

“The church’s response was ‘we don’t want to know,’” Geraldine Peacock, a founder member of the Old Deanery Project and a former chair of the Charity Commission, told the Observer. She said the C of E was claiming that charity law required it to accept the highest possible price for the property. “The church has apparently received an offer of £1.6m from a private individual.”

But, she added, the church was misinterpreting the law. According to Charity Commission guidance, social value should be taken into account when determining whether the sale of a charity’s property maximises its assets, she said.

The community group fears the Old Deanery, which overlooks the medieval cathedral, could be redeveloped. “It would be a dreadful shame if it was turned into modern flats. The building is part of the integrity of Wells,” said Peacock.

The 18,000sq ft Old Deanery is “simply magnificent,” according to the agents handling its sale. “The architecture is as varied as it is stunning. The house is a treasure trove of rare and remarkable features; gargoyles on the parapets, imposing and original flagstones under foot, glittering stained glass in the windows, Jacobean panelling on the walls, and recessed window seats that sit beneath grandiose architectural styling.”

The building offers a “multitude of opportunities – both residential and commercial” to new owners, the agents add.

A spokesperson for the Diocese of Bath and Wells said there had been “many hours” of discussions with the community group, and the diocese was considering a number of offers for the property.

The church “was aware that wider considerations can be taken into account when disposing of charitable property, including issues of community benefit”, but added that “the proceeds will also help to relieve some of the financial burden on parishes”.

The row over the sale of the Old Deanery echoes the blocking of a plan to convert a former church school in Arkengarthdale, in the Yorkshire Dales, into affordable housing. The local parish council, backed by the Diocese of Leeds, rejected an offer from a community organisation, citing a legal requirement to accept the highest bid for the property.

Referring to the sale of the Old Deanery in Wells, Stephen Stubbs, chair of the Upper Dales Community Land Trust, said: “We thought ours may be an isolated case, but it has become clear that similar community asset stripping is happening elsewhere. It would appear that money is the only motivation.”

The Diocese of Leeds is also embroiled in a dispute over another former C of E village school in Rathmell, north Yorkshire. The building – owned by a charity, the Rathmell School Trust – has been used as a community hub since the school’s closure three years ago. But the diocese intends to “dispose” of the charity’s assets as it is no longer used for religious educational purposes. The church was “trying to snatch away our little charity in pursuit of their own greed,” said Jacky Frankland, the trust’s treasurer.

A spokesperson for the Diocese of Leeds said it was “committed to positive conversations with the local trustees of any closed school site, including those at Rathmell” but it was concerned that “some of the trustees are no longer acting in line with the charitable objects of the trust or Charity Commission guidance”.

The diocese had not benefited financially from the sale of the former Arkengarthdale school, “nor would it benefit from any potential sale of the former Rathmell school”.

David Blunkett, the former Labour home secretary, is backing calls for a review of the rules governing charities’ disposal of assets. He said: “It’s eight years since a bill was piloted through parliament to place emphasis on social value and not just monetary gain… Regrettably, not all those operating in the social sector or delivering services have got the message.”





No.25 article:
Life after Covid: will our world ever be the same?

From cities, to science, to politics, six Observer writers assess how a post-pandemic world will emerge into a new normal

Here are some things that the pandemic changed. It accustomed some people – those whose jobs allowed it – to remote working. It highlighted the importance of adequate living space and access to the outdoors. It renewed, through their absence, an appreciation of social contact and large gatherings. It showed up mass daily commuting for the dehumanising drain on energy and resources that it is.

These changes do not add up to the abandonment of big cities and offices predicted by more excitable commentaries, not a future of rural bubbles and of tumbleweed blowing through the City of London, but a welcome shift in priorities. There will always be millions who want to live in cities and millions who want to live in towns and villages, but there are also those for whom these are borderline decisions, with pros and cons on each side.

These decisions might be based on life changes, such as having children. If you no longer have to go to an office daily, you can live further from the city in which it is placed. If the magic spell of the big city, which kept people in the tiny and expensive flats that now look so inadequate, is broken, then you might consider living in cheaper, more relaxed locations that hadn’t occurred to you before. Those ex-urbanites, still valuing social contact and public life, might seek towns and small cities rather than a lonely cottage in a field.

Such changes could help to address, without the pouring of any concrete or the laying of a brick, the imbalance in the nation’s housing that was at breaking point before Covid. On the one hand there are overheated residential markets in London, Bristol, Manchester, Edinburgh and elsewhere. On the other there are towns and small cities with good housing stock, an inherited infrastructure of parks and civic buildings and easy access to beautiful countryside, which through their location suffer from underinvestment and depopulation.

This is not to say that no new homes should be built, nor that there won’t be problems with such a shift. It could simply be gentrification, if done wrong, at a national scale. And this vision assumes that Covid passes, and that it is not one of a future series of equally vicious viruses. But there is at least a chance that the travails of 2020 could lead to a saner approach to the places where we live and work. Rowan Moore, Observer architecture critic

The first kiss my baby niece blew me was bittersweet, because like so many pandemic interactions it happened not in person but on camera. Covid means that big chunks of her life have only been seen on a phone screen as she grows into a toddler. And I’m one of the lucky ones: I haven’t had to say goodbye to someone on FaceTime or break the worst news to someone over the phone.

If you live by yourself, you’ve made do without human touch for months on end; if you’re crammed into a small space with your partner, kids and your parents, you may have spent weeks craving time and space not encroached upon by other human beings. Totally different experiences of the same social earthquake: surely they cannot but profoundly change us for the long term?

I’m not so sure. Lockdown, then not-lockdown, then lockdown again have served as a reminder of just how adaptable we are as human beings. I was amazed at how quickly the idea of socialising with friends indoors became a fuzzy memory, then the norm, then distant again. The emotions I felt so acutely back in March – the sharp fear Covid could steal my parents, the communal endeavour of clapping for our carers every Thursday night – soon faded into a new normal, impossible to sustain even though many of the realities have barely changed.

The pandemic has underlined the extent to which digital interaction is no substitute for the real thing. In some ways, I’m more in touch with people than ever thanks to the numerous WhatsApp groups that revived themselves into a constant source of company. But tapping away in a couple of group chats while absent-mindedly watching the latest Netflix offering doesn’t come close to the wonderful feeling of hugging a friend, or spending three hours giving someone you haven’t seen for ages your undivided attention over a meal, or of having a conversation based not just on words but physical cues. I doubt the pandemic will seed a long-term distaste for crowds; if anything, I suspect that, if all goes well with the vaccine rollout, summer 2021 will see a crop of riotous street parties and carnivals.

But a return to life as usual will not mask the emotional toll Covid will have had on so many people. People who suffer from anxiety and depression; women in abusive relationships; children experiencing abuse or neglect at the hands of their parents: they have had it the worst, and their experiences of isolation and loneliness during lockdown could have consequences for their personal relationships that will not magically disappear with a vaccine.

And that is before you factor in the added strain of the intense financial hardship so many are being forced to endure. As a society, recovering from Covid is about much more than antibodies: it cannot happen without support for those who have experienced its worst financial and mental health impacts. Sonia Sodha, the Observer’s chief leader writer

Britain has had an uncomfortable year in its battle to contain Covid. Failures to test, trace and isolate infected individuals allowed grim numbers of deaths to accumulate while deficiencies in the acquisition of stocks of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) left countless health workers exposed to danger and illness. However, these deficiencies have been balanced by the manner and striking speed with which our scientists have turned away from existing projects in order to focus their attentions on ridding us of Covid. Their work has earned global praise for its swiftness and precision.

“The Brits are on course to save the world,” wrote leading US economist Tyler Cowen in Bloomberg Opinion about our scientists efforts last summer while the journal Science quoted leading international researchers who have heaped praise on British anti-Covid work. Science in the UK is perceived, correctly, to have done well in facing up to the pandemic.

A perfect example is provided by the UK’s Recovery trial, a drug-testing programme involving more than 3,000 doctors and nurses who worked with more than 12,000 Covid patients in hundreds of hospitals across the nation – from the Western Isles to Truro and from Derry to King’s Lynn. Set up within a few days of the pandemic reaching the UK, and carried out in intensive care units crammed with seriously ill people, Recovery revealed that one cheap inflammation treatment could save the lives of seriously ill Covid patients while two much-touted therapies were shown to be useless at tackling the disease.

No other country has come close to matching these achievements. “We had the people with the right skills and a willingness to drop everything else and contribute to the effort,” says one of Recovery’s founders, Martin Landray of Oxford University. “That made all the difference.” In a nation which had only recently reviled, openly, the concept of expertise, scientists like Landray have restored the reputation of the wise and the informed.

Fiona Fox, director of the Science Media Centre, also points to the willingness of our scientists to communicate. “Time after time, we have asked for comments from leading researchers, epidemiologists and vaccine experts on breaking Covid stories, and despite being inundated with work, they have taken the time to provide clear analyses that have helped to make sense of rapidly changing developments,” she says. “It has been extraordinary.”

And of course, the arrival of three effective vaccines against a disease that was unknown less than a year ago has only further enhanced the image of the scientist. Yes, they may be a bit geeky sometimes, but they have done a lot to help us win the battle against Covid. Robin McKie, Observer Science Editor

The more things change, the more they stay the same.

It may not feel like it at the moment, admittedly. But if this pandemic echoes other defining events in our recent history, from the 9/11 terror attacks to the 2008-09 banking crash, it will leave the political landscape utterly transformed in some respects yet wearily familiar in others.

Last week’s spending review, spelling out how the cost of battling Covid will shape national life for years to come, was a classic example. A public sector pay freeze, plus benefit cuts next April? Well, we’ve been there before; to many families it will feel like austerity all over again.

What’s different this time, however, is that Boris Johnson insists there’ll be no return to austerity-style spending cuts. Instead, taxes will rise. If he actually goes through with threats to target second-home owners or higher earners’ pensions, expect some mutiny in Tory ranks. (The bitter joke among Tory MPs is that they’re implementing more of Jeremy Corbyn’s manifesto than Corbyn ever will.) But the door to a long overdue debate about taxing wealth, as well as income, is at least now open.

The pandemic also seems to be changing what people look for in a leader. The last recession pushed angry, despairing voters towards populists with easy answers; make America great again, take back control. But Covid has been a brutal reminder that in life-and-death situations, competence is everything. Joe Biden isn’t wildly exciting but at least he doesn’t speculate aloud about the merits of drinking bleach. From New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern to Germany’s Angela Merkel and Scotland’s Nicola Sturgeon, the leaders whose reputations have been enhanced by this crisis tend to be pragmatists and consensus-seekers, not excitable culture warriors. Keir Starmer’s rising poll ratings suggest a hunger for steady-as-she-goes leadership in Britain too.

Optimists will hope that this collective near-death experience brings a renewed political focus on what actually makes life worth living, from supportive communities to the beauty of a natural world that sustained many through lockdown. Pessimists, however, will worry that calls to “build back better”, or reset society along fairer and greener lines, could be an early casualty of a hard recession that leaves people focussed purely on economic survival.

For it would be naive not to expect a backlash against all of this. Nigel Farage is already trying to whip one up via his new anti-lockdown party, targeting voters angry at having freedoms curtailed. But if the last crash unleashed an era of radicalism and revolt, it’s not impossible this one will leave people craving a quiet life. After such turmoil, don’t underestimate the longing to get back to normal, even if the normal we once knew is gone. Gaby Hinsliff, Guardian columnist

We know that the spaces from which “culture” emerges won’t look the same after 2020 as they did before. Many theatres, bookshops, music venues and galleries won’t survive the catastrophe of shutdown, and if they do emerge it will be with diminished resources. But what about the attitude and the focus of creativity. Will it be shadowed by the pandemic post-vaccine or will it celebrate liberation?

History suggests both. The terrible mortality, social distancing and economic hardship resulting from the 1918-19 Spanish flu epidemic that followed the war were shaping forces in both the doom-laden experiments of modernism and the high hedonism of the jazz age. The Waste Land and the Charleston emerged within months of each other. TS Eliot wrote much of the former while suffering from the after-effects of the influenza, haunted, as his wife Vivienne noted, by the fear that as a result of the virus, “his mind is not acting as it used to do”. Certainly, that poem’s most memorable lines, with their stress on the mass gathering, read more pointedly from our current vantage point: “Under the brown fog of a winter dawn,/ A crowd flowed over London Bridge, so many,/ I had not thought death had undone so many./ Sighs, short and infrequent, were exhaled,/ And each man fixed his eyes before his feet.”

But, contrarily, the spirit of the post-pandemic age was equally alive in the bathtub-gin excitement of the Cotton Club, and the rarefied decadence of the Bright Young Things: raucous celebrations of seize-the-day freedoms after the misery of war and virus.

Not much literature or music that directly responds to the current pandemic has yet emerged. Zadie Smith’s brief book of essays, Intimations, hazarded something of what that response might look and sound like. In a memorable phrase, she described the events of this year as “the global humbling”. That moment when we collectively realised that the confident certainties of what we used to call “normal life” were only ever a heartbeat away from unknown threats – and that the US, Smith’s adopted home, having led the world in many things, was now leading the world in death.

Will such experience engender a new and deepening age of anxiety in the books we read and the films we watch? No doubt that apprehension of apocalypse, of environmental emergency, that draws us to The Road or to Chernobyl will become more insistent. But as Eliot also noted, humankind “cannot bear very much reality”. After this year in which the young have been denied so many of their rites of passage – chances to sing, dance, drink or love – we can surely hope for a post-viral creative outpouring of all those things that make us most happy to be alive. Tim Adams, Observer writer

”Imagine there’s no commuting, it’s easy if you try”, is a popular refrain in discussions of the post-Covid world of work predicting the imminent demise of the office. Sometimes it’s combined with the claim that low-earning hospitality and leisure jobs that have dried up mid-pandemic won’t be coming back and so shouldn’t get support now.

These different predictions are likely to be wrong for the same reason: they pay too much attention to crystal balls, and not enough to rear-view mirrors. Yes, the pandemic itself has meant big changes to the world of work. It has changed where some people (generally higher earners) work while hitting the ability of many lower earners to work at all. But imagining a world without lockdowns is best done by focusing on those pandemic-driven trends that reinforce, rather than run against, patterns visible pre-crisis.

So, expect the pandemic’s turbo-charging of retail’s online shift (with Arcadia’s likely administration the latest example) to continue – there will be fewer cashiers and more delivery drivers. But don’t believe the hype on the decline of hospitality and leisure. Workers in those sectors are twice as likely to have lost their jobs or been furloughed as the pandemic has left us spending more on buying things than going out, but the long-term trend is the opposite: hotels and restaurants accounted for a fifth of the pre-pandemic employment surge.

Working from home (or living in the office, as it can feel like) has been the big change for professional Britain. But history warns against the idea that the office is finished. Only one in 20 of us worked entirely remotely pre-crisis. But three times that number worked at home at least one day a week, a trend that was rapidly growing. Hybrid home/office working is the future. But be careful about assuming this transforms Britain’s disgracefully big economic gaps: some will benefit from more choice about where to live but offices in poorer areas, rather than those in central London, may be the ones that end up empty. And remember, we’re only talking about a fraction of the workforce here. Post-Covid, waiters and cleaners won’t be doing their jobs from their spare room or kitchen table.

As well as predicting the future, we should be trying to shape it. Higher pay and more security for the low paid workers who faced the biggest health and economic risks from this crisis would be a good place to start. Torsten Bell, chief executive of the Resolution Foundation





No.26 article:
Exclusive: Matthew Gould was appointed without interview, and his job has yet to be advertised

The chief executive of an organisation championed by Matt Hancock to promote a “digital transformation” in the NHS remains in post a year after the health secretary appointed him, without interview, on a temporary basis.

NHSX has been heavily promoted by Hancock, who created it in 2019 to spur digital change in the health service. During the pandemic he has assigned it high-priority projects as part of the UK’s coronavirus response.

Excerpts from a draft Deloitte audit, compiled in January and seen by the Guardian, state that Matthew Gould, a former diplomat and civil servant, was appointed chief executive of NHSX by the health secretary on a “temporary” basis.

More than a year later, Gould remains in post and his position has not been publicly advertised. A spokesperson for the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said that Gould’s position “will be advertised shortly” and would be subject to a full and open competition.

A senior NHS official said Hancock directed that Gould should be given the top job at the body when it was created. The two men had previously worked together at the culture department, where Gould was digital director while Hancock was culture secretary.

Previously the British ambassador to Israel, Gould reportedly rose up the civil service after being tasked with compiling evidence of how Brexit would damage the UK, on the advice of George Osborne. The two men have been friends since they attended St Paul’s school together.

Launched in July 2019 to deliver Hancock’s “tech vision” for the health service, NHSX has been entrusted with responsibility for key pillars of the government’s coronavirus response, including the first iteration of a Covid-19 tracing app for mobile phones.

It was also tasked with creating a “Covid–19 datastore” to consolidate vast quantities of health data previously spread across multiple divisions of the NHS to assist ministerial decision-making, and has been given responsibility for some of the IT infrastructure surrounding the rollout of Covid-19 vaccinations.

The uncertain state of the organisation in January, as revealed by the draft audit, raises questions as to why Hancock entrusted essential planks of the government’s coronavirus response to a nascent and untested body.

“The NHSX CEO was appointed without advertisement in July 2019 under temporary arrangements,” according to the draft audit. It said ministerial approval to appoint the permanent post had been obtained and “will be advertised”.

The same audit also found that Gould’s contract and responsibilities were not finalised until several months after he had already started his job.

In May a National Audit Office report on digital transformation in the health service warned that NHSX’s creation had complicated responsibility for the expansion of digital technologies, and that “national governance arrangements for digital transformation remain confused, despite attempts to clarify them”.

Gould reports directly to Simon Stevens, the head of NHS England, while also reporting directly to Hancock.

A report by parliament’s public accounts committee from earlier this month said: “We are concerned that governance arrangements for NHSX have still not been finalised over a year after it was set up.” It added: “There is little transparency over its spending and activity.”

The chair of NHS Digital, which manages the digital infrastructure of the health service, has been tasked with overseeing a review of how responsibility for digital transformation is delineated within the various NHS bodies.

Laura Wade-Gery, who was appointed as the chair in July this year, has received the support of a team from the consultancy firm McKinsey at a cost of £588,000.

NHSX was thrust into the national spotlight after being tasked by Hancock with overseeing the creation of the Covid-19 mobile phone app, which would be installed by members of the public on their phones to help track exposure to the virus.

A DHSC spokesperson said NHSX had “played a vital part in the department’s coronavirus response”.

They added: “The creation of NHSX and the appointment of the chief executive followed due civil service process, with Mr Gould’s appointment approved by the civil service senior leadership committee.”





No.27 article:
Secretive licensing system allows UK weapons to reach ‘repressive regimes’

Campaign Against Arms Trade calls for reform of export regime that makes scrutiny difficult

Most UK arms are being sold via a secretive and opaque licensing regime that allows for the mass transfer of deadly weapons to “sensitive locations”, according to new analysis.

Researchers found tens of billions of pounds worth of missiles, bombs and machine guns had been sold under open licences, a mechanism that makes the tracking of arms sales more difficult.

It has prompted accusations that the government is attempting to mask the true extent of British-made arms export to repressive regimes – claims it denies.

Analysis of government export licence figures and military contracts from 2010 to 2019 by the Campaign Against Arms Trade (CAAT) indicates that around £44bn of the total £86.1bn have been sold through open licences. Critics said the figures were “extremely alarming” and called for the use of open licences to be stopped.

The research found that the UK government had approved at least 10,390 open licences since 2010, many to countries with poor human rights records. These include more than 200 to Saudi Arabia which is leading a coalition responsible for widespread bombing in a proxy war in Yemen that has killed thousands of civilians and displaced millions.

Almost 270 shipments went to India which has been accused of human rights abuses in Kashmir and whose police were found complicit in anti-Muslim violence. Another 167 licences were agreed with Turkey which has intensified its campaign against a decades-old Kurdish insurgency.

“By using this opaque mechanism, the government is making proper scrutiny of arms sales even harder,” said Andrew Smith of CAAT.

“The use of open licences needs to be stopped, and so do the policies and mindset that has allowed the arms sales in the first place. UK-made weapons are playing a devastating impact in the Saudi-led bombing of Yemen and beyond. These weapons could be fuelling abuses and atrocities around the world.”

The UK government also sells military goods across the world using standard export licences which are far more transparent, specifying the value of goods and destination. Open licences, however, allow an unlimited transfer of an agreed type of military equipment to a destination over a designated period of time, though the weapons transferred do not have to be accounted for and their totals are not made public.

More than 1,800 open licences involved small arms – including sniper rifles, assault rifles and ammunition. These included 87 to Sri Lanka, which has been accused of atrocities against the Tamils; 49 to Egypt whose government has faced criticism for state repression; and the Philippines whose brutal war on drugs has seen thousands killed by police.

There were also 199 open licences for teargas with destinations including Hong Kong whose police have been accused of brutality in clashes with pro-democracy protesters.

“These licences are only supposed to be used for ‘less sensitive’ goods but much of the equipment exported is extremely deadly and the locations it is sent to are often very sensitive,” added Smith.

A government spokesperson said: “The government takes its export responsibilities seriously and assesses all export licences in accordance with strict licensing criteria. We will not issue any export licences where to do so would be inconsistent with these criteria.”They added that no country published as much data as the UK about licensing decisions.







No.28 article:
Critical report details the trauma of families as soldiers describe midnight raids in the occupied territories

A damning report by three Israeli human rights groups has condemned the military’s widespread practice of entering Palestinian homes in the occupied territories, often in the middle of the night.

The report, which includes testimonies of soldiers, doctors and Palestinian families, claims that Israeli troops enter homes on average more than 250 times every month to conduct arrests but also for other purposes including “mapping” houses, to use roofs for observation posts or to search for money, weapons or for intelligence purposes.

Soldiers interviewed for the report, including several who spoke to the Observer, said they believed an important function of many raids was intimidatory – a claim denied by the Israeli military.

The product of two years of research by the groups Breaking the Silence, Yesh Din and Physicians for Human Rights Israel, the report details the severe psychological impact on individuals, families and wider Palestinian society of raids usually accompanied by no paperwork and whose arbitrary nature, the authors suggest, may be in breach of international law.

Describing the process the report says: “In the absence of an obligation, under military law, to obtain judicial warrants approving the intrusion into the private domain, soldiers do not present family members with any warrant or other document as to why they are invading the home or who approved the invasion.”

Avner Gvaryahu, the executive director of Breaking the Silence, who himself conducted home invasions while a sergeant in a sniper unit, described the report as exposing part of the occupation more often hidden from wider public view.

“Like checkpoints and the separation barrier it is part of the DNA of the occupation. For soldiers like myself it ended when we walked back to the jeep and went back to camp to sleep. But for Palestinians it is a long-term trauma. What it means is that you cannot feel safe in your own home or bed. For me the last memory is of the piercing looks of fear and hatred.”

The Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories followed the Six Day War in 1967. While the Oslo peace accords signed between Palestinians and Israelis were supposed to herald an end to the occupation, Jewish settlements – regarded as illegal by much of the international community – have continued to be built on land claimed by Palestinians for a future state, while the Israeli military continues to conduct operations both in areas ostensibly under full Palestinian control and areas still under Israeli administration.

Among some 40 Israeli soldiers who gave testimonies for the report, a number described rudimentary training and also often a lack of language skills for interacting with the Palestinian families they encountered.

For some, like Fadel Tamimi, the 59-year-old imam at a mosque in Nebi Salih on the West Bank, the raids have become familiar over the past 20 years. He says he has lost count of the number of times soldiers have entered his home, suggesting it could be more than 20 – most recently in 2019, just before the coronavirus pandemic.

“The reason they do this is to scare everyone. To show who is in charge. They never say why or show an order or piece of paper,” he told the Observer last week. “On one occasion, I remember I had gone to the mosque for the first early morning prayers. When I came back the soldiers were in my house. They had put all of my family in the kitchen. When I went into my bedroom I found three soldiers resting on the bed.

“The consequences are psychological. You feel your privacy is being invaded. It’s horrible for a conservative family and a traditional society. The aim is to control and humiliate.”

“What comes to my mind,” says Dr Jumana Milhem, a psychologist who works with Physicians for Human Rights Israel, “is that the process involves the dehumanisation of a whole society. [Its] point is to break their human spirit.”

At an individual level, says Milhem, the consequences can lead to trauma. “People are reporting stress weeks after these events.

“There are several risk factors for the PTSD [post-traumatic stress disorder] that we see in high percentages in Palestinian society in general. Here we are not talking about a single trauma but a facet of the continuous trauma of occupation. The feeling of being imprisoned in your own country. This feeling of being constantly exposed.”

For soldiers involved in the raids, who have spoken of their experiences, the issue has different layers of complexity. Two described their experience of raiding Palestinian homes as representing a turning point for them, not least in how they saw themselves as “nice” or “good” soldiers and individuals.

For “M”, a woman who was involved only once in a house invasion after volunteering to go on a raid as a non-combat soldier, the prospect at first seemed exciting.

“It wasn’t my job but they were looking for women to search Palestinian women [in Hebron]. I thought it was cool. I was 19 years old and playing war. I wanted to be part of it, to see how it was from the inside. In the end it was a turning point for me.

“When I got inside, the commander said, ‘you have to search the women’. The family was really scared. I have this strong image of this other soldier who I really liked. He had a small machine gun. He’s holding it in front of this cute three-year-old. He has a face mask on and he pulls off the mask and smiles at the boy. And I’m thinking this is so fucked up. It was like, it doesn’t matter how nice this soldier is.

“I had this strong idea that held my world together. Because I am nice, I’ll do it differently. But what matters is you’re in a home at three in the morning. We can’t be there without destroying their lives and creating the terror that later comes back to us.”

For Ariel Bernstein, 29, who served in an elite infantry unit, the Sayeret Nahal, his disquiet began during the period in 2014 when the Israeli military flooded the West Bank with soldiers in the search for three teenagers kidnapped and murdered by Hamas.

“We were shown an aerial image with each house numbered. We were told to choose four homes at random to enter and ‘flip’, which means turn over everything for anything suspicious. I thought it was strange I was getting the choice.

“The second home we entered was a large and fancy home. I decided to stay with the family. Neither I nor any of the soldiers spoke Arabic so communication was very limited. The family kept saying the same thing in Arabic again and again.

“And I’m getting frustrated and telling them to shut up. And they are begging me more and more dramatically and then suddenly the old man in the house is having a seizure and he’s shaking on the ground, foaming, and the family is hysterically crying. I realise they must have been talking about his medicine.

“I had no doubt that it was important to find the kidnap victims but also it was clear from the commanders that we should use the search to take advantage to squeeze the maximum out of each house we entered for anything suspicious.

“There’s always an official security reason to do ABC to protect Israeli lives. But in practice it does mean to control [Palestinian] civilians.”

A spokesman for the Israeli Defence Forces denied that entering homes was s;to intimidate, saying its frequency depended on security threats. “The entry of security forces into the homes of Palestinian residents in the Judea and Samaria area [the occupied West Bank] is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law in the area, which does not require the issuance of a preliminary judicial order.

“The main purpose of the security forces’ entry into those houses is for security and operational purposes, and is intended to thwart the carrying out of terrorist activity against Israeli targets. As a result of these operations, hundreds of terrorist operatives are arrested, many weapons and explosives are seized, as well as funds belonging to terrorist organisations and more.

“It should be emphasised that the number of entries to homes depends on the level of terrorist threats and the operational needs to thwart terrorist acts against Israeli targets.

“The claim that the entries to Palestinian homes in Judea and Samaria are used for intimidation is false.”





No.29 article:
What you need to know if you’re getting tested for Covid-19 before seeing family

With the holidays season in full swing testing negative for coronavirus does not necessarily mean you’re in the clear 

If you’re getting tested for Covid-19 before gathering with family and friends during the holidays season, even if your result was negative, you may not actually be in the clear.

Given that a negative Covid-19 test has become a ticket to skipping quarantine when traveling across many state lines, it is easy to believe that a negative test means you are risk-free of carrying the virus.

But the reality is much more complicated. A negative test does not mean you do not carry the virus, rather it means you did not have the virus during a specific snapshot of time, experts say. Covid-19 tests are not sensitive enough to pick up traces of the virus the day after someone is infected, and sometimes, it can take more than a week for a test to detect the virus after infection.

Amanda Simanek, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee and a member of Dear Pandemic, a social media public health campaign run by a cohort of female public health and economic experts, spoke to the Guardian about the main things people should know when relying on testing as a strategy to prevent the spread of Covid-19.

Covid-19 has an incubation period of between two to 14 days. About half of people who contract Covid-19 will develop symptoms within five days of exposure. But for some people, it could take up to two weeks.

“If up until the day you got tested, or even a few days before you got tested, you’re just going about your life as normal and not taking other precautions to prevent exposure to Covid-19, that negative test is really telling you you don’t have a detectable virus on that day,” Simanek said.

“You could be exposed, get tested on day two or three after that exposure, be negative, and then on day eight develop symptoms.”

Simanek cited fellow public health expert Megan Ranney, an emergency room physician and researcher based in Rhode Island, who compared the sensitivity of a Covid-19 to that of a pregnancy test. “Just like a pregnancy test cannot take the place of birth control, Covid-19 tests should not be seen as a substitute for robust strategies to reduce community transmission,” Ranney wrote in an opinion for NBC News.

That does not mean you should avoid getting tested, but means that testing alone cannot guarantee you will not transmit the virus. A Covid-19 test taken after five days of quarantining is much more informative about whether you have the virus than one taken without quarantining. “Then you know there’s a certain date at which a last known exposure could have occurred,” Simanek said.

If you want your Covid-19 test to be useful, you have to take your quarantine seriously.

It means you should be avoiding the grocery store and opting to get your groceries delivered. Parents of children who are going to school while quarantining are technically not quarantining. You, or anyone in your household, should not be interacting with anyone outside your household in-person. “It doesn’t mean running errands but avoiding everything else,” Simanek said.

If you are traveling, it means you should not be making contact with people en route to your destination. Airplanes, buses and trains are no exception.

“You should be isolating yourself from others, just do what you can to rule out any exposure.”

Simanek acknowledges that there are logistical challenges to carrying out such a strict quarantine. “That’s challenging for families that aren’t able to work from home or whose kids are in in-person school or are going to childcare because they themselves are an essential worker.”

But this type of quarantine is the best way to ensure that a negative test is not false.

Covid-19 tests are most useful for community-level action and monitoring the spread of the virus on a wide scale.

A handful of states have allowed travelers to bypass a mandated quarantine period for people who have tested negative for the virus, usually no more than 72 hours before their arrival. While that can be helpful to public officials trying to mitigate the spread on a broader scale, the same strategy is not so useful on an individual level.

“Testing is a vital component to the broader strategy to contain Covid-19 in your community,” Simanek said. But for people who want to visit family, a negative test “is not particularly informative and doesn’t necessarily change the course of action you should take”.

“If you’re talking about visiting your grandparents, you don’t know if you’re that 50% [of people] who get symptoms by day five. Getting a negative test and assuming you’re in the clear, that’s a risk that you’re going to transmit to your family members. That’s a risk I wouldn’t take, personally.”

This does not mean you should cancel all holiday plans, but underscores the need for additional safety precautions if seeing at-risk family and friends, even if you get a negative test and especially if you have not been properly quarantining amid potential exposure.

As guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) say, an outdoor celebration is much safer than indoors, where the virus is most likely to spread. Masks and social distancing are essential. When eating, try to stay far apart and use separate utensils.

Or have a virtual gathering, a guaranteed risk-free way to celebrate the holidays.

“The nature of this virus is such that you can have it and you don’t know it yet, you don’t have symptoms, [but] you can pass it to other people,” Simanek said. “It behooves us all to basically assume we have been exposed and act accordingly.”





No.30 article:
Fear and loathing in Dover, where Brexit and Covid meet

Residents of the Kent ferry port vent their fury at tier 3 restrictions about to be imposed on them 

With its fruit-filled orchards, Kent has long prided itself on being the Garden of England. But now there is anger that a couple of rotten apples – the boroughs of Swale and Thanet – have plunged the whole county into tier 3 status when lockdown ends on Wednesday.

Last week, seven Conservative MPs from across Kent wrote to Matt Hancock, the health secretary, to attempt to break the tier system down along district or borough lines. Although Swale has England’s highest Covid infection rate at 530 per 100,000 people, the Tunbridge Wells rate is less than a quarter of that and is below the national average

Hancock rejected the appeal, but in Dover, which has less than half Swale’s rate, his decision was not welcomed. The tiers brought forth tears.

“I cried when I heard the news,” said Sandra Malho, the proprietor of La Salle Verte cafe on Cannon Street in the town centre. Standing outside her empty business, she was worried what effect it was going to have on the town in general and on her clientele in particular.

“Dover is depressed,” she said. “The mental health is going down. Most of my customers are old and lonely. We call it a community cafe, somewhere people come to have a smile.”

Alan Valentine, a customer, said he had relied on the cafe since his wife died. “It’s my social life,” he said.

Gillian Campbell, a hairdresser, spray tan and nail technician, was also worried about the effect on small businesses like her own. “This time of year, I’m usually chock-a-block coming up to the party season,” she said.

With its famed white cliffs and overlooked by a medieval castle, Dover would seem a handsome, even prosperous town. It is, after all, a major gateway to Europe, thanks to the ferries that dominate its giant harbour. But there are signs of economic hardship and a heavy atmosphere of isolation, compounded by signs of social friction.

“Scumbags!’ barked Lyn Beckett on King Street, in answer to the question of what accounted for Dover’s rapid rise in infection – it has gone from 42 to 267 cases per 100,000 in a month.

She was referring, she explained unapologetically, to east Europeans, whom she blamed for the spread. Dover has a relatively small migrant population but several people expressed doubts about foreigners adhering to the rules, including Malho, who is originally from Portugal.

Other Doverians blamed schoolchildren outside school, shopkeepers not enforcing mask-wearing and alcohol drinkers mixing illicitly. Kevin Harris took me into his confidence. “Between you and me,” he said, “it has been done deliberately by China.”

Having jokingly advised his wife to watch her language, Beckett’s husband, Dennis, was mystified as to why Kent should be in tier 3. Bristol, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire are the only other places in southern England to be placed in the highest tier. “They started off closing down Liverpool and these places,” he complained, “and now they’re closing down Kent. We haven’t done anything!”

The potent mixture of exceptionalism and self-pity, often found at the root of xenophobia, was hard to ignore. Despite, or perhaps because of, being the closest point to continental Europe, Dover voted 62% in favour of leave in the referendum. If you wanted to find a town that embodied the apocryphal newspaper headline “Fog in Channel, continent cut off”, Dover wouldn’t be a bad place to start.

Although a no-deal Brexit would lead to an estimated 2% shrinking in an already battered economy, few people expressed any reservations about that outcome.

But Dover can also feel itself to be apart from the rest of the UK. It’s not much of a tourist destination, but somewhere people pass through on their way to somewhere else. It’s an arrangement that appears to breed resentment and relief in equal measure.

Scientific evidence shows that areas next to those with a high Covid rate will see an increase in their own rates. But some still believe Dover could have been protected and saved from the harshest restrictions.

“I feel there was an opportunity to create a barrier between Thanet and Medway and then leave the south and west of Kent open,” said John Harrington, a semi-retired business adviser. Harrington advises on “business survival”, and he was understandably concerned that tier 3 might finish off some of them. However, he didn’t see the approaching threat of a no-deal Brexit as anything to worry about. Like other locals he conveyed the impression that all such macroeconomic issues bypassed Dover, as if they came off the ferries and went straight through to the M2 or M20.

Erika Voiss, an inhabitant of some 25 years and originally from Germany, thought many of her fellow townspeople were dreading the lorry tailbacks and gridlock that Brexit was expected to unleash. “But they don’t regret the decision,” she said, “because it wasn’t a rational decision. It was emotional.”

The most evident emotion in Dover was anxious resignation, as if readied for a bleak winter. What was called for, argued Harrington, was some positive government PR. He thought there was too much talk about the Treasury’s deficit as a result of the pandemic and not nearly enough about the benefit of not paying money to Europe.

“I know the number on the bus was wrong but it must be a number that somebody knows,” he said.

Perhaps someone does know, though whatever the number is, it won’t begin to fill the vast hole in the government’s coffers. But then again … there might be blue pigs over the white cliffs of Dover – tomorrow, just you wait and see.





No.31 article:
A year after Wuhan alarm, China seeks to change Covid origin story

Reports in state media signal an intensifying propaganda effort to place the birth of the virus in other countries

Nearly a year after doctors identified the first cases of a worrying new disease in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the country appears to be stepping up a campaign to question the origins of the global Covid-19 pandemic.

State media has been reporting intensively on coronavirus discovered on packaging of frozen food imports, not considered a significant vector of infection elsewhere, and research into possible cases of the disease found outside China’s borders before December 2019.

The official People’s Daily newspaper claimed in a Facebook post last week that “all available evidence suggests that the coronavirus did not start in central China’s Wuhan”.

“Wuhan was where the coronavirus was first detected but it was not where it originated,” it quoted Zeng Guang, formerly a chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, as saying. A foreign ministry spokesman, asked about state media reports that the virus originated outside China, said only that it was important to distinguish between where Covid-19 was first detected and where it crossed the species barrier to infect humans.

“Although China was the first to report cases, it doesn’t necessarily mean that the virus originated in China,” Zhao Lijian told a briefing. “Origin tracing is an ongoing process that may involve multiple countries and regions.”

Chinese scientists have even submitted a paper for publication to the Lancet – although it has not yet been peer-reviewed – that claims “Wuhan is not the place where human-to-human Sars-CoV-2 transmission first happened”, suggesting instead that the first case may have been in the “Indian subcontinent”.

Claims that the virus had origins outside China are given little credence by western scientists. Michael Ryan, director of the health emergencies programme at the World Health Organization (WHO), said last week that it would be “highly speculative” to argue that the disease did not emerge in China. “It is clear from a public health perspective that you start your investigations where the human cases first emerged,” he told a news briefing in Geneva.

Reports of Covid circulating in Italy in autumn 2019, based on samples from a cancer unit, seem “weak”, said Prof Jonathan Stoye, a virologist at the Francis Crick Institute in London. “The serological data [from Italy] can most likely be explained by cross-reactive antibodies directed against other coronaviruses.” In other words, antibodies found in the cases in Italy had been triggered in individuals who had been infected by different coronaviruses, not those responsible for Covid-19.

“What appears certain is that the first recorded cases of the disease were in China,” added Stoye. “It thus remains most likely that the virus originated in China.”

And while traces of coronavirus have been found on frozen food packaging, scientists think that represents a very low risk for a disease now believed to be overwhelmingly transmitted through respiratory droplets.

A positive test “doesn’t indicate infectious virus, just that some signal from the virus is present on that surface,” Andrew Pekosz of the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University told AP. “I’ve seen no convincing data that Sars-CoV-2 on food packaging poses a significant risk for infection.”

But as the human and economic toll of the pandemic mounts, Beijing is keen to protect its reputation at home and abroad. Covid-19 has now infected over 60 million people and killed nearly 1.5 million.

Since recovering from the devastation of its own initial outbreak, China has sought to bolster its standing abroad with medical aid.

It is now also promoting several vaccines it has in late-stage development as part of its contribution to the “global good”, offering help with manufacturing and funding immunisation drives. But resentment at Beijing’s role in unleashing the pandemic may ultimately prove harder for China to tackle than the disease itself.

“China is still struggling to deal with the fact that it is held responsible for the “original sin” of the outbreak, which undercuts virtually every effort to salvage its image,” said Andrew Small, a China scholar and senior fellow with the German Marshall Fund, a US thinktank.

“Recent months have shown what a catastrophic impact the pandemic has had for China in international public opinion.”

He does not think there is any doubt in the minds of senior Chinese leadership about the origin of the virus, and sees the focus on reporting possible alternative origins as a propaganda campaign.

The reports fit an internal narrative of a strong China led by an efficient Communist party. Domestically, Beijing has promoted its enormous success in virtually eradicating the disease and returning life within its borders to something like normal. Internationally, China’s aims probably include introducing some doubt for global audiences who are likely to believe it, turning basic facts into a “contested, politically sensitive matter” in relations with Beijing, Small said.

China’s questioning of the origin of the virus in Wuhan might be more credible if it was supporting an independent investigation into the disease, but instead authorities have repeatedly proved obstructive.

WHO investigators who visited Wuhan earlier this year were not able to visit the food market linked to the initial outbreak. A new team is expected to head to China soon to build on initial work by a Chinese team, but they still don’t have a date for travel, with the WHO saying only that they will travel “in due time”.

Understanding the origins of Covid-19 is vital to efforts to prevent the next pandemic. Unfortunately, for now Beijing seems more focused on the question of who should carry blame for the disease, than on understanding where it came from.

“What we’re seeing at the moment is indicative of where the Chinese government wants all this to come out – and that place is certainly not an open, accountable effort to determine what went wrong and ensure that it never happens again,” Small said.





No.32 article:
Anything but the virus: Roman bar calls time on all Covid chat

Locals welcome chance to meet up and gossip about the weather and football in a more convivial atmosphere

The patrons of a bar in Rome can talk about history, gossip, culture, the weather – anything but coronavirus. Cristina Mattioli, owner of the aptly named Bar Feeling, banned all Covid chat after the mood became too heavy, spoiling the convivial atmosphere, especially over morning coffee.

She recently pinned two notices behind the bar. One of them reads: “Speaking about coronavirus is prohibited”, while giving examples such as prophesying over possible outcomes of the pandemic or what rules might be included in the next government decree. The sign next to it suggests alternative topics of conversation, including who will win this season’s Grande Fratello VIP, the Italian version of Big Brother.

“After nine months, it became too much,” Mattioli told the Observer. “Everyone had their theories about what would or wouldn’t happen... we are not virologists or part of a government that has to make important decisions. And while it’s important to follow the rules and be careful, it’s also important not to underestimate the psychological impact of this pandemic and so this was a playful way to say let’s not forget all the other subjects.”

The initiative has worked a treat. “Customers found it funny, with some saying they could finally have a coffee in peace,” Mattioli added. “They started to have other conversations. What was also lovely is that it gave a cue to customers who don’t know each other to start chatting. Yes, we have to maintain a physical distance, but we can still chat to each other.”

Rome is in the Lazio region, one of the few in Italy currently categorised in the yellow zone as part of the government’s tiered system of coronavirus restrictions. This means bars and restaurants can stay open until 6pm.

Bars in particular are woven into the fabric of Italian culture, with morning visits being an important ritual, not just for the coffee and pastries, but also to engage with others, even if fleetingly.

Mattioli, who lived in London for three years, said: “Italian bar culture is completely different. You don’t just walk in and walk out, or sit at a table with a laptop. It’s about conversation and being together.” Pre-Covid, the topics of football or politics would often dominate bar conversations.

Regulars at Bar Feeling, in the Ponte Galeria area of Rome, have appreciated Mattioli’s idea. “Cristina is great,” one told the news agency, Ansa. “All day she has to listen to the same people repeating the same things, every now and then you need a break.”

Others offered their own suggestion of alternative topics. “You can talk about the weather, or lovers or partners, you can talk about anything,” said one. “Coronavirus exists and that it has created problems as well as a lot of anxiety, for this reason we should try to let go of this anxiety and try to live with more simplicity.”





No.33 article:
Syria war photographer &#x27;wounded by police&#x27; during Paris protest

Press group says award-winning photojournalist Ameer Alhalbi fled Syria to take refuge from violence

A press freedom group has denounced the “unacceptable” injury of an award-winning Syrian photojournalist during a Paris protest against police brutality.

Ameer Alhalbi, a freelance photographer who worked for Polka Magazine and AFP, was covering the demonstrations against police violence and the government’s new law restricting the sharing of images of officers over the weekend when he was injured.

Photos show Alhalbi’s face appears bruised with much of his head covered in bandages.

Christophe Deloire, secretary general of Reporters Without Borders, tweeted that the 24-year-old had been wounded at Place de la Bastille by “a police baton” and condemned the violence.

“Ameer came from Syria to France to take refuge, like several other Syrian journalists. The land of human rights should not threaten them, but protect them,” he said in a second tweet.

Deloire also noted Alhalbi had been clearly identified as a journalist.

Dimitri Beck, director of photography for Polka, said Alhalbi had suffered a broken nose and injured forehead, and had been taken to hospital.

Alhalbi has won several international awards, including second prize in the spot news category for the World Press Photo in 2017, mainly for his coverage of the Syrian conflict in his home city of Aleppo for AFP.

Thousands of people across France have gathered in support of press freedom after film of police beating a black music producer fanned anger about a draft law that is seen as curbing the right of journalists to report on police brutality.

In Paris, protesters set street furniture on fire and clashed with police as they tried to block access to some streets. In Lille, Rennes, Strasbourg and other cities thousands more protested against the draft bill.

Jean Castex, the prime minister, has announced that an independent commission will examine and rewrite the controversial article in the draft bill.





No.34 article:
Suspected militants kill four Christians in remote Indonesian village

International rights groups called attack ‘a serious escalation’ against Indonesia’s Christian minority

Police in Indonesia were on Saturday hunting suspected militants accused of killing four people said by rights groups to be Christians, beheading one and burning down their homes.

Ten militants linked to a “terrorist” group beheaded one victim and slit the throats of the others on the island of Sulawesi on Friday, national police spokesman Awi Setiyono quoted a witness as saying.

Indonesia, the world’s biggest Muslim-majority country, has grappled with intermittent militant attacks recently.

“This attack is another serious escalation against the Christian minority in Indonesia,” Human Rights Watch researcher Andreas Harsono told Reuters.

Gomar Gultom, the head of the Communion of Churches in Indonesia, said the victims were Christian and urged the authorities to resolve the case.

International Christian Concern, a Washington-based advocacy group, said “an alleged terrorist” killed four Christians in the Sulawesi village, burning down a Salvation Army post and Christian homes.

According to witness reports, the perpetrators had asked for food from the victims, who were killed when they refused, Awi told Reuters. He denied the attacks were religiously motivated.

“We’re on the ground now, there’s about 100 people who will start chasing,” he told the news channel Metro TV.

The investigation, led by the Indonesian police and the military, may run into hurdles as the incident took place in a hilly, remote village near the region of Sigi in Central Sulawesi province, he said. 





No.35 article:
UK records 479 more deaths - as it happened

New South Wales recorded no new cases of locally acquired Covid-19 in the 24 hours to 8pm last night, meaning the state has now gone 22 days without any local transmission.

Four cases were reported in overseas travellers. This brings the total number of cases in NSW to 4,379 since the start of the pandemic. 

Health officials said there still may be transmission among people who have unrecognised infections with mild or no symptoms, and that anyone with symptoms was encouraged to come forwards for testing.

There were 10,256 tests reported to 8pm last night, compared with 12,106 in the previous 24 hours.

As large parts of the state swelter in 40C temperatures, NSW Health urged people who can cool their homes to stay there so as not to overcrowd public indoor spaces where people seek respite from the heat. Those heading to the beach or pool were also urged to keep 1.5 metres from people, and to swim and leave. 

That is all from me tonight. I am handing over to my colleague Rebecca Ratcliffe, from the Australian team, now. 

Here is a quick recap of recent events:

From the UK...

and around the world... 

Labour has urged the British government to suspend peak rail fares and provide mass Covid testing for transport staff to avoid travel “chaos” and ensure families are “kept safe” over the festive period.

The party is calling on transport secretary Grant Shapps to present a “comprehensive travel plan”, covering the lifting of travel restrictions from December 23 to 27, to parliament on Monday.

Around 1,000 protesters gathered outside Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s official residence in Jerusalem on Saturday night, pressing ahead with their months-long campaign demanding his resignation.

Demonstrators say Netanyahu should step down while he is on trial for corruption and because of his handling of the coronavirus in Israel. 

After two lockdowns this year, the nation’s economy is struggling, and hundreds of thousands of Israelis remain unemployed.

Another two million doses of a Covid vaccine, which trials suggest is 95% effective, have been secured by the government.

It brings the total number of jabs on order from the US firm Moderna to seven million - enough for around 3.5 million people in the UK.

Doses of the vaccine- which has yet to be approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency- could start being delivered next spring if it meets the standards. 

From Australian Associated Press:

The Australian state of Victoria has recorded its 30th consecutive day without a new Covid-19 case, having last week reached the benchmark for eliminating the virus.

The state recorded no new cases, no active cases and no lives lost on Saturday from just under 6,000 tests.

The last Covid-19 patient in a Victorian hospital was discharged on Monday.

Health authorities say 28 days with no new infections means the virus has been eliminated from the community, given that period represents two 14-day incubation periods.

New South Wales lifted restrictions for Victorian travellers on Monday, while Queensland and South Australia will reopen their borders from 1 December.

The UK’s largest academic union has told of its “grave concerns” over plans for mass coronavirus testing for students, warning that “flaws” in the government’s approach are a “recipe for chaos”.

Croatia’s prime minister, Andrej Plenković, has been ordered to isolate at home after his wife tested positive for Covid-19, the government’s spokesman has confirmed.

“Prime minister Plenković was tested on Saturday and the result is negative. He was ordered to remain in isolation at home for the next 10 days. He will continue performing his duties from home,” the spokesman said.

Boris Johnson has written to Conservative MPs offering them a second vote on the coronavirus tier system early next year, as he seeks to quell a backbench rebellion in the Commons on Tuesday.

In a letter to colleagues on Saturday evening, the prime minister said stringent regulations planned across much of England from 2 December would contain an expiry date of 3 February, with MPs offered the chance to vote to extend them. 

In a further olive branch to MPs, Johnson said he would publish more data and outline what circumstances need to change for an area to move down a tier.

Update: Police have arrested 155 people for offences including breaching coronavirus regulations, assaulting a police officer and possession of drugs following anti-lockdown protests in central London.

The Metropolitan Police said it used early intervention methods to disperse the illegal gatherings, including intercepting coachloads of demonstrators as they came into the capital.

Ch Supt Stuart Bell, policing commander for the event, said: 

On Friday, we made it very clear how we would police this event, warning those looking to attend that they risked facing enforcement action if they attended a gathering in London. Today’s enforcement action is a direct result of those individuals deliberately breaking the law and at times, targeting our officers with aggression and causing disruption to the road network. Our policing plan will continue well into the evening and I would urge anyone who hasn’t already dispersed to go home.

Police have stopped 110 drivers for Covid-19 offences during the first 24 hours of random checks in Cardiff, PA media reports.

Officers in the Welsh capital were granted powers to stop and fine drivers from 9am on Friday in an effort to prevent people from outside the nation travelling into Cardiff.

South Wales Police said they handed out 12 fixed penalty notices in the first day, and warned a further 15 people, instructing them to leave Cardiff.

Those found breaching the legislation included a couple travelling from Essex heading to Cardiff to give family Christmas presents.








