No.1 article:
Three Years After Family Separation, Her Son Is Back. But Her Life Is Not.

When Leticia Peren bid her 15-year-old son, Yovany, good night in a Texas Border Patrol station three years ago, he was still small enough that she, standing less than five feet tall, reached down a little when she placed her hand on his shoulder and urged him to rest.

Earlier that night, the two of them had concluded their long journey from Guatemala by walking for hours in the whistling desert wind, losing sight of their own feet in mud that felt like quicksand. The Border Patrol agents who apprehended them outside of Presidio, Texas, placed them in separate cells. Exhausted, Ms. Peren fell into a deep sleep, but woke up to a new nightmare.

Yovany was gone, sent to a shelter in Arizona. Ms. Peren had no money and no lawyer. When she next saw him, more than two years had passed.

At the time of their reunification, Yovany was the last remaining child in custody who the federal government considered eligible to be released. The bonds broken during their 26 months apart — when Ms. Peren was a voice on the phone more than 1,500 miles away, as Yovany made new friends, went to a new school, learned to live without her — have been slow to regrow.

By the time they were reunited, her son had matured into a young man, taller than her and with a deepening voice, one he could use to hold a conversation in English. Ms. Peren, frantic during the time it took to get him back, had lost some of her hair and developed a condition that, when triggered by stress, caused her face to sag on one side.

Years after the mass separations of migrant families spurred a national outcry because of the trauma they caused, much of the public outrage over the policy eased as thousands of parents and children were eventually reunited.

But for families like Ms. Peren’s, swept up by the Trump administration’s most widely debated attempt to deter immigration, the story did not end when the policy did.

To some degree, Ms. Peren and her son are lucky. They are being sponsored by an affluent family who took them into their spacious house in a well-heeled Brooklyn neighborhood. Volunteer groups have acted as informal social workers, tracking down doctors to provide free medical care and answering crisis phone calls at any hour.

But such groups are running short of resources now.

“Everybody’s tapped out emotionally, financially, caseload wise,” said Julie Schwietert Collazo, the director of one such group, Immigrant Families Together. “The need is kind of endless. There are cases where I’ve called so many people and nobody will help me.”

And it is sometimes confounding to Ms. Peren that she could feel so troubled in the home where she and Yovany are living, with its fancy appliances and art from around the world. Her childhood home in Guatemala had a dirt floor surrounded in part by chicken wire rather than exterior walls.

When she was 8, her mother sent her away to do domestic work in the homes of wealthier Guatemalan families who could afford to feed her.

At 16, Ms. Peren fell in love with a boy her age whose home she worked in. But the boy’s family rejected her because she was poor, uneducated and Indigenous. After Yovany was born, she continued working with her baby strapped to her back as she dusted, swept and mopped until on the verge of collapse.

“I would say to him, I’m your dad, I’m your mom, I’m your brother, I’m your sister, I’m your friend,” she said. “We’ve always been together, the two of us.”

But by the end of 2015, the lawlessness in her city was starting to intensify. Gang members were urging Yovany, then in middle school, to join their ranks. At one point, she said, a man held a gun to her head and threatened to kill Yovany if she did not come up with several thousand quetzales a month, which she did not have.

She decided to move north rather than risk what might happen next. Word of the family separations at the American border, which had only just begun, had not made its way to most of Central America.

After Yovany was taken from a Border Patrol station cell overnight, Ms. Peren spent seven months trying to figure out how to get him back. Finally, seeing no other option, she agreed to her own deportation, believing she could fight more effectively if she were free.

After her release, she and Yovany kept in touch regularly through WhatsApp messages. Ms. Peren did not want her son to know how much she was suffering. Yovany did not want to tell her that his life was improving.

After spending about nine months in a children’s shelter in Arizona that he called the saddest place he had ever been, Yovany had been released to a foster family in Texas that welcomed him warmly. The parents gave him a tablet computer, which he used to film music videos with the other Central American boys living in the home. Yovany bonded with the couple’s 3-year-old son and helped to take care of him. A couple of times, the family floated the idea of adopting him, but Ms. Peren shut it down immediately.

In March 2019, lawyers who were soliciting support for separated families made a presentation in a Hindu ashram in Queens, which Sunita Viswanath, an Indian-born human rights activist, occasionally attended. She and her husband, Stephan Shaw, figured that their large home, where they often housed multicultural artists and other activists passing through New York, could easily accommodate a mother and child.

They agreed to take full financial responsibility for Ms. Peren if she were allowed back into the United States to be reunited with Yovany.

The night before Ms. Peren arrived in New York, more than two years after her first journey to the United States, Mr. Shaw spent hours on Duolingo practicing his halting Spanish. He was the only one in his family with any knowledge of the language.

Sitting in their living room with a reporter, Mr. Shaw and Ms. Viswanath, along with her parents and two of the couple’s sons, greeted Ms. Peren with big smiles. She looked at them nervously as her lawyers translated the family’s questions:

How was your flight? Are you tired? Hungry?

They sat down to a meal of Indian food, which Ms. Peren had never seen before. She pushed the food around on her plate. Ms. Viswanath asked if she would be taking a citizenship test soon. Ms. Peren’s lawyers explained that such a possibility was years away. Her asylum case, a first step, had not even begun.

Ms. Peren said good night and settled into her room: the first in her life that she had not had to share. But she felt so lonely and unable to communicate that she cried herself to sleep.

Without a job, Ms. Peren fell into a familiar role as a house cleaner while she waited for the government to approve her son’s release. The family discouraged her, but she insisted that the scrubbing and dusting was calming, and that she had nothing else to do.

After nearly a month of waiting for Yovany, she met his flight at La Guardia Airport, but their relationship did not immediately fall back into place. Standing at the gate to greet him, Ms. Peren burst into tears and hugged him fiercely. But then they both recoiled a little. As they walked to baggage claim to retrieve Yovany’s things, they did not make eye contact. In the car on the way home, he video-chatted with the friends he had left behind in Texas.

Yovany’s presence eased any tension in the home as he lapped up the affection of the host family. Ms. Viswanath began tutoring him in reading. Her parents grew enamored of him because he did chores without asking. Yovany beamed on the brink of tears one afternoon when, after he had announced that he wanted to become a filmmaker, Mr. Shaw gave him a hand-me-down Canon camera. Their 12-year-old son, Satya, started teaching him to play piano.

Establishing relationships outside the home proved more difficult. Yovany tried to reconnect with some of the children he had met in detention, who had since moved to New York, but they lived in immigrant enclaves in Queens and the Bronx, and worked when they were not in high school.

When the coronavirus pandemic hit, the household quarantined together for a few months, after which Mr. Shaw, Ms. Viswanath and their son decamped to their second home in New Mexico. Ms. Viswanath’s parents eventually joined them, but Ms. Peren and Yovany had to stay in New York as a condition of their pending immigration cases.

Mr. Shaw and Ms. Viswanath made arrangements for Ms. Schwietert Collazo’s organization, Immigrant Families Together, to deliver groceries weekly, and left enough money for anything extra Ms. Peren might need. There were a few weeks when the groceries could not be delivered, but Ms. Peren did not want to ask for more money. She was ashamed that she had been reliant on the family for so long.

She stormed out of the house one afternoon and walked down the street at a frantic clip, asking anyone who appeared to speak Spanish if they knew where she could find a job. Most, she said, looked at her like she was crazy.

A Peruvian woman told her about a Hasidic neighborhood where she could line up for work cleaning houses, but warned that she would have to compete against others who spoke English. The first several times, Ms. Peren went home empty-handed. Eventually, she began getting work at least one day a week.

“It’s something,” she said one recent evening, “But I don’t feel any closer to being able to be independent.”

In some ways, Ms. Peren said, her life is much better than before. She and Yovany have warmed to each other again. They laugh and stay up late at night talking.

But even now, they keep the conversation light, not yet ready to share everything, or listen to an honest account of the more than two years they spent apart.

Ms. Peren says she has come to understand that being reunited with her son did not restore the bonds they once shared. Instead, she said, they are different people in a new place, building a relationship that is, in some ways, just beginning.

Advertisement





No.2 article:
Blunders Eroded U.S. Confidence in Early Vaccine Front-Runner

The Oxford-AstraZeneca effort held great promise to help arrest the pandemic. But a series of miscues caused it to fall behind in the U.S.

On the afternoon of Sept. 8, AstraZeneca officials had a conference call with the Food and Drug Administration. The discussion covered important ground: What would AstraZeneca need to do to win the F.D.A.’s blessing for the coronavirus vaccine it was developing with the University of Oxford?

But the AstraZeneca representatives neglected to mention a crucial development: Two days earlier, the company had quietly halted trials of its vaccine around the world, including a late-stage study in the United States. It acted after a participant in Britain fell ill.

A few hours after the conference call, the story broke about the halted trials. That was how key F.D.A. officials heard the news, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.

The F.D.A.’s commissioner, Dr. Stephen Hahn, was stunned by AstraZeneca’s failure to disclose the halt to regulators, one of the people said. The U.S. government had pledged more than $1 billion to AstraZeneca to finance the development and manufacturing of its vaccine and to supply the United States with 300 million doses if it proved effective. F.D.A. regulators expected to be kept in the loop.

The episode might have been chalked up to a simple miscue. But it was part of a pattern of communication blunders by AstraZeneca that has damaged the company’s relationship with regulators, raised doubts about whether its vaccine will stand up to intense public and scientific scrutiny and, in at least one instance, slowed the vaccine’s development.

The result is that a vaccine that was expected to account for a substantial portion — by one metric, as much as 60 percent — of the total vaccine supply in the United States faces an uncertain future. Two other highly effective vaccines are nearing federal authorization. But with more than 2,000 Americans dying daily, a delay of even a few weeks in deploying another effective vaccine could have deadly repercussions.

Federal officials and public health experts viewed AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is less expensive and easier to store for long periods than some rival vaccines, as a leading candidate to help bring a swift end to the pandemic.

AstraZeneca officials repeatedly said they hoped to roll out their vaccine in the United States as early as October. Today, though, AstraZeneca hasn’t even finished enrolling people in its U.S. clinical trial. A key reason: The trial was grounded for nearly seven weeks because the company was slow to provide the F.D.A. with evidence that the vaccine was not associated with neurological symptoms that had appeared in two clinical-trial participants, according to the people with knowledge of the discussions.

On Tuesday, Oxford researchers published detailed data from their clinical trials in the scientific journal The Lancet. The study built on findings that the developers had announced last month showing that their vaccine worked, but that its effectiveness varied widely depending on the strength of doses.

Regulators in Britain, India and several other countries, armed with data from clinical trials outside the United States, are expected to authorize the vaccine’s use in the coming weeks. But in the United States, where regulators have been frustrated with AstraZeneca and want to examine data from a greater number of participants, that approval appears further off.

Developing vaccines is hard, and it is common for the work to fall behind schedule. Moderna and Pfizer, whose coronavirus vaccines appear to be 95 percent effective and are awaiting federal authorization, also faced delays. And even with the problems, AstraZeneca and Oxford’s vaccine is likely to be among the fastest ever developed.

Yet independent scientists and industry analysts have criticized AstraZeneca and Oxford for not being sufficiently transparent about their early results, the design of their studies and safety issues. Most critically, it is not clear how well the vaccine works.

“The world bet on this vaccine,” said Dr. Eric Topol, a clinical trial expert at Scripps Research in San Diego. “What a disappointment.”

He added, “If they just were upfront on safety, on efficacy, on dosing, on everything, from the get-go, they’d be in such a better position. But what they’ve done now is diminish credibility, and I don’t know how they’re going to regain that.”

In an interview on Tuesday, Prof. Andrew Pollard, the lead investigator of the Oxford vaccine trial, said the Oxford team had been “as transparent as we can all along.” He noted the team’s publication of peer-reviewed articles and trial blueprints.

“We continue to share all data with the F.D.A. and other regulators around the world in a timely manner,” said an AstraZeneca spokeswoman, Michele Meixell.

An F.D.A. spokeswoman declined to comment.

Scientists at Oxford had been laying the groundwork for a vaccine for years.

The vaccine uses an approach that scientists have been testing for decades. It involves genetically modifying a harmless virus, known as an adenovirus, that causes the common cold in chimpanzees so that it can train the immune system to respond to a threatening virus — in this case, the one that causes Covid-19.

In 2018, Oxford researchers had run a safety study using a vaccine deploying that approach to protect against the coronavirus that causes Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS. Last December, as the virus now known to cause Covid-19 was spreading undetected in China, a second trial to test that MERS vaccine got underway in Saudi Arabia.

So when Covid-19 emerged, Oxford researchers had at the ready a vaccine platform that had been shown to be safe in use against a similar coronavirus.

When Chinese researchers released the genetic sequence of the virus that causes Covid-19 on Jan. 9, an Oxford vaccine researcher, Dr. Sarah Gilbert, was able to start work the very next day.

Dr. Gilbert’s team raced to insert genetic material from Covid-19 into its adenovirus platform. By March, the vaccine was being tested in monkeys in Montana.

A next step for Oxford was to find a pharmaceutical company to shepherd the vaccine through development — and, eventually, to mass-produce and distribute it.

At the time, the Trump administration was fighting for first-in-line access for certain vaccines. British health officials, who provided early funding to the Oxford team, believed that any homegrown vaccine should be quickly and easily accessible to Britons. “They made it pretty clear to me and others that they wanted to know about the deal and they were anxious about vaccine nationalism,” Dr. John Bell, an Oxford professor and a member of the British government’s vaccine task force, said in an interview in September.

AstraZeneca was not Oxford’s first choice. Dr. Gilbert’s team had been in discussions with “a previous company or two,” Adrian Hill, one of the Oxford scientists, said last month. One was the American pharmaceutical giant Merck, The Wall Street Journal reported.

But those talks fell apart, and AstraZeneca, a British company, emerged as a safe alternative. The company agreed to distribute the vaccine worldwide at cost — only a few dollars per dose — until at least July 2021 and in poorer countries forever.

The downside was that AstraZeneca, which is known for drugs to treat cancer, asthma and other chronic conditions, had scant experience with vaccines.

From the start, Oxford scientists expressed great confidence. In April, Dr. Gilbert told a British newspaper that she was 80 percent sure the vaccine would work, even though it had not been tested in humans. By then, Moderna had already started testing its vaccine candidate on people.

The Oxford team’s claims encountered skepticism from some scientists who expressed doubts about the approach and the ambitious timeline. “Some were a little cynical of the hubristic claims that were being made,” said Stuart Neil, a virologist at King’s College London.

The British and American governments nonetheless poured money into the vaccine.

Britain ordered 100 million doses, with the goal that 30 million would be delivered by September.

In the United States, Operation Warp Speed, the federal initiative to fast-track vaccine development, in May made what was then its biggest investment. The government awarded AstraZeneca up to $1.2 billion for development and manufacturing of the vaccine in exchange for 300 million doses. Alex M. Azar II, the health secretary, played up the deal as “a major milestone” in the program’s work. AstraZeneca’s stock hit a record high.

Those 300 million doses represent 60 percent of what the United States has ordered from the three manufacturers that have announced late-stage results so far. If other vaccines reach fruition or if the U.S. government exercises options to buy more doses, the reliance on the AstraZeneca candidate would decline substantially.

More countries soon placed orders. Even if other vaccines become available, the AstraZeneca offering is on track to account for 43 percent of all doses available in low- and middle-income countries, according to Airfinity, an analytics firm that tracks deals between vaccine manufacturers and governments.

AstraZeneca, however, would not begin testing its vaccine in the United States until August, three months after the Warp Speed deal. That was long after Oxford had started running trials elsewhere in the world — a delay that would prove fateful for the United States.

In Britain, Oxford researchers wrapped up their first safety trial in May. No serious problems surfaced. Their next step was a larger so-called Phase 2/3 study, involving thousands of British participants, to assess how well the vaccine worked.

Oxford hired an outside manufacturer to produce large quantities of the vaccine for the trial. But when researchers received a sample of the vaccine and measured its strength, they noticed something strange. Using a different measurement technique than the manufacturer, Oxford found the concentration of viral particles in the vaccine to be double the level that the manufacturer had found.

Oxford researchers didn’t know which measurement to trust. They decided to use a lower-strength dose. That way, even if their measurement was wrong, the dosage was sure to be safe, albeit smaller than originally intended.

Participants would get two injections, which were supposed to be about a month apart. Oxford began administering the vaccine. Within a few days, participants reported fewer side effects like sore arms or slight fevers than participants had during the first trial. The Oxford researchers later identified an ingredient in the outside manufacturer’s vaccine batch that had skewed their measurement upward. That confirmed they were using a half-strength dose.

When the confusion over the dosing emerged months later, it would complicate efforts by scientists and public health officials to understand how well the vaccine worked.

In the meantime, public health authorities were increasingly embracing the inexpensive, easy-to-produce vaccine. In June, Soumya Swaminathan, the World Health Organization’s chief scientist, called it “probably the leading candidate.” In July, the head of the British government’s vaccine task force, Kate Bingham, told lawmakers that it was “the most advanced vaccine anywhere in the world.”

Trump administration officials, too, were enthusiastic. The White House chief of staff, Mark Meadows, told congressional leaders on July 30 that the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine could win emergency authorization from the F.D.A. as early as September, two people briefed on the discussion previously told The New York Times. (A spokesman for Mr. Meadows disputed that he had discussed AstraZeneca’s prospects.)

Such optimism was premature.

Federal health officials had said in June that in order to authorize a vaccine, the F.D.A. would likely need to see late-stage data from at least 30,000 trial participants. By then, Oxford’s trials in Britain and Brazil were underway, and even if their results were pooled they would fall short of that F.D.A. threshold. (The agency has never closed the door on relying entirely on data from overseas trials to authorize a vaccine.)

AstraZeneca planned for its U.S. trial to include 30,000 people. But that trial was weeks away from even starting.

Then came a safety scare.

A British participant in the Phase 2/3 trial developed neurological symptoms consistent with transverse myelitis, an inflammatory syndrome that affects the spinal cord and is often caused by viral infections, according to a notice given to participants dated July 12. That trial was briefly paused.

Neither AstraZeneca nor Oxford announced the pause. Ms. Meixell, the AstraZeneca spokeswoman, said the company informed the F.D.A. about the illness on July 15 “in order to be as transparent as possible.” But at least some top F.D.A. officials didn’t learn about it, according to the people with knowledge of the discussions between AstraZeneca and the F.D.A. (The participant was later found to have multiple sclerosis, deemed unrelated to the vaccine.)

Later in the summer, another participant in the same trial fell ill with similar symptoms. It wasn’t necessarily a catastrophe: Transverse myelitis can be caused by a variety of factors. And a small percentage of people in any big vaccine trial are likely to develop conditions unrelated to the vaccine. Still, it was concerning, because there was a chance that it was linked to the vaccine.

On Sept. 6, AstraZeneca paused its global trials to investigate. The news became public two days later. F.D.A. officials were blindsided.

A day later, Pascal Soriot, AstraZeneca’s chief executive, compounded the problem. Instead of publicly releasing more information about the participant’s illness, he provided new details to investors in a private conference call organized by the investment bank J.P. Morgan.

In Britain, Brazil, India and South Africa, regulators allowed testing to resume in less than a week. In Japan, the pause was just under a month.

But in the United States, the delay dragged on. During the prolonged pause, new participants couldn’t be enrolled in the study — and that the small number of volunteers who had gotten their first inoculation in the early days of the trial couldn’t get their booster shot about a month later.

AstraZeneca was in part to blame for the delay, said the people with knowledge of the F.D.A. talks. The company was slow to provide the F.D.A. with all the data that regulators wanted to review before allowing the trial to start up again.

In late October, after 47 days, the F.D.A. cleared the U.S. trial to restart.

It was now even further behind the late-stage trials that Pfizer and Moderna had begun in the United States about a month before AstraZeneca’s trial started. One consequence was that, at least initially, AstraZeneca would not be able to combine the data from the U.S. and overseas trials in order to hit the F.D.A.’s 30,000-person threshold.

In November, Pfizer and Moderna each reported that analyses had found their vaccines to be about 95 percent effective. The spectacular results set a high bar against which to measure rival vaccines.

Still, the vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna had drawbacks compared with the Oxford-AstraZeneca approach. They were more expensive — and the companies had not pledged to forgo profits on them. Plus, they couldn’t be stored outside ultracold freezers for more than a few weeks.

As a result, the global public health community was hotly anticipating Oxford and AstraZeneca’s results. They came on Nov. 23.

The good news was that the vaccine seemed to work. It appeared safe. And no one who had been vaccinated had developed severe Covid-19 or been hospitalized.

Things got messier from there.

AstraZeneca and Oxford researchers said their vaccine was up to 90 percent effective, but only among those who received the initial half-strength dose. Among the larger group of participants who got two full-strength doses, the vaccine was only 62 percent effective.

That seemed counterintuitive. And the Oxford researchers couldn’t explain with certainty why the vaccine worked so much better when participants got a half-strength initial dose. In The Lancet on Tuesday, the scientists said they still weren’t sure.

The situation only got worse. The day after the results were announced, Dr. Moncef Slaoui, the head of Operation Warp Speed, told reporters that the promising half-strength dose had not been tested in people over the age of 55. That was concerning because some vaccines don’t work as well in older adults, who are also more vulnerable to Covid-19. It also raised the question of why the vaccine developers hadn’t themselves disclosed that important caveat.

The unclear results further sapped the confidence of American regulators. Absent a clear explanation of why the half-strength initial dose worked so much better, the results most likely “will not be sufficient for an approval,” Dr. Slaoui said last week.

Another wrinkle emerged on Tuesday. The Lancet article said some participants who got the initial half-strength dose didn’t receive their second shot until at least three months later. They were supposed to get the booster about a month after the first dose. For clinical trials that are usually carefully scripted, that represented another unusual deviation from the original plan.

Developers at Oxford and AstraZeneca have been frustrated by the torrent of questions overshadowing what they regard as their vaccine’s impressive efficacy.

“I’m very confident we have a vaccine that is effective,” a senior AstraZeneca executive, Menelas Pangalos, said in an interview.

But for Dr. Jesse L. Goodman, the F.D.A.’s chief scientist from 2009 to 2014, AstraZeneca’s missteps reinforce the importance of clear, transparent communication. “People need to know what is known and what is not known so they can trust in the process,” he said.

AstraZeneca is now considering a new global trial that will enroll several thousand participants to gather more data on the regimen involving an initial half-strength dose. Regardless, the vaccine is likely to become available soon in Britain and some other countries.

Not in the United States. As of last week, AstraZeneca’s U.S. trial was halfway to its goal of enrolling 30,000 people.

AstraZeneca executives said on Tuesday that, based on feedback from the F.D.A., they didn’t expect to receive federal authorization for their vaccine until after the company gets results from its U.S. trial. That could happen in January.

In the meantime, U.S. public health authorities are preparing to begin vaccinating a tiny percentage of the population using the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, which will soon be available in limited quantities.





No.3 article:
As U.K. Begins Vaccinations, a Glimpse of Life After Covid

A 90-year-old former jewelry shop assistant was the first to get a shot, followed, appropriately enough, by a man named William Shakespeare.

LONDON — In March, the emergency room doctor was bedridden with the first case of the coronavirus among his colleagues at a hospital in Wales. Within weeks, he was back in scrubs, tending to a crush of ill, breathless patients.

On Tuesday, after having weathered each turn in Britain’s ravaging bout with the coronavirus, the doctor, Farbod Babolhavaeji, was given one of the world’s first shots of a clinically authorized, fully tested vaccine — a step in the long, painstaking campaign to knock back a disease that has killed more than 1.5 million people worldwide.

Images of the first people to be vaccinated were broadcast around the country, led by Margaret Keenan, 90, a former jewelry shop assistant in a “Merry Christmas” T-shirt, and an 81-year-old man with the improbable name of William Shakespeare. They quickly became emblems of the remarkable race to make a vaccine, and the world’s agonizing wait for relief from deaths now numbering 11,000 a day.

Never before has Britain undertaken such a fiendishly difficult mass vaccination program. Given pizza boxlike trays of 975 doses each, hospitals stored them in deep freezers, defrosted them and, on Tuesday, drew them up into individual syringes and jabbed them into the upper arms of variously jubilant and needle-shy Britons. Every minute mattered: Defrosted doses that were not given by Friday would be wasted.

“We’re doing it with military precision,” said Fiona Kinghorn, the hospital administrator in charge of vaccines in the Welsh capital, Cardiff, where 225 doses, including Dr. Babolhavaeji’s, were planned for Tuesday. “And, in fact, we have had the military helping our planning.”

For the first recipients, among them older Britons and hundreds of doctors and nurses who pulled the National Health Service through the pandemic, the shots offered a glimpse at life after Covid-19, replete with plans for rescheduled wedding anniversaries and bus trips to the seaside.

Those hopes were bolstered by the Food and Drug Administration in the United States, which said on Tuesday that the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the same one being given in Britain, provided strong protection against Covid-19 within about 10 days after the first dose, sooner than had previously been believed.

But any such fantasies were tempered by the bleak winter ahead, with the virus still spreading and claiming, on average, more than 400 lives a day in Britain. The country only has enough doses now for 400,000 people, a tiny sliver of its population of 67 million. It will be months before shots are given to enough Britons, much less to enough people in poorer countries with scarce access to vaccines, that life can start returning to normal.

The United States is also grappling with how to get vaccines to its citizens. President-elect Joseph R. Biden, Jr. vowed on Tuesday to get “at least 100 million Covid vaccine shots into the arms of the American people” in his first 100 days in office. The Trump administration bought that many doses in advance from Pfizer, but with two injections needed for each recipient, that is enough for just 15 percent of the U.S. population, and the administration passed up an offer last summer to buy more.

Drug companies like Pfizer have run into inevitable manufacturing difficulties, forcing them to scale back plans for this year’s supply in Britain and around the world.

And some of Britain’s most vulnerable workers were omitted from the celebratory honor guards of nurses that vaccine recipients passed through on Tuesday. Dr. Babolhavaeji noted that people who deep-clean the rooms of coronavirus patients face among the highest risks of infection in a hospital. In Cardiff, those workers will be offered shots within weeks, he said, but the government has not said when hospital cleaners across Britain can be inoculated.

“I hope that very soon, the vaccine is offered to everyone,” he said. “That’s the only way to break the transmission.”

In beating the United States and the European Union last week to authorizing the vaccine, Britain kicked off a spirited debate about whether it had moved too hastily, or the others were wasting valuable time as the death toll mounted.

The White House, concerned that the move had embarrassed President Trump, heaped additional pressure on U.S. regulators to accelerate vaccine approval, but the F.D.A. stuck to its schedule. It is likely to authorize the shot within days.

The global fight to secure shipments heated up on Tuesday, as Mr. Trump signed an executive order proclaiming that the United States would not begin aiding other nations until all Americans had been inoculated. But the vague directive appeared to have no real teeth and does not expand the U.S. supply of doses.

For Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, who suggested at a London hospital on Tuesday that a needle-phobic vaccine recipient “recite some poetry” to calm down, the start of mass vaccinations was a coup amid a pandemic that has battered Britain and deflated his first year in office. For the time being, the shot is only being administered by 50 hospitals, owing to its ultracold storage needs.

Some health workers who had spent months treating Covid patients cried upon getting the shot. By and large, people said they felt no more pain than they had from any other injection, though they were asked to sit for 15 minutes to make sure nothing went wrong.

“It’s nice to have had it done, and I feel rather smug,” said Martin Kenyon, 91, of London, who described the injection itself as “quite boring.” Brandishing a wallet-sized card with a date for his second dose, Dec. 29, Mr. Kenyon said that he was excited to break the news of his vaccination to his family and to possibly see his grandchildren, aged 10, 8 and 7, for the holidays.

With Britain hoping to vaccinate tens of millions of people within months, hospital administrators spoke of using the first day of inoculations to resolve “teething problems.”

Some hospitals prioritized nurses, doctors and nursing home workers, while others gave the first shots to people aged 80 and over who already had visits with doctors or were being discharged. Nursing home residents, originally the top priority under a government advisory committee’s plans, will be vaccinated before Christmas, health officials said on Tuesday, once the government refines a plan for breaking down the trays of vaccines outside hospitals.

Unlike flu vaccines in Britain, which come in pre-filled syringes, the coronavirus vaccines arrived in vials of five doses each. That forced hospital pharmacists to rely on a delicate process for drawing out doses without contaminating the vial.

In Cardiff on Tuesday, the lead pharmacist, Darrell Baker, watched as a colleague filled a syringe with saline solution, shook off a droplet and then injected it into a vial of the vaccine, before drawing the mixture into five new syringes.

Having removed its tray of vaccines from an ultracold freezer on Monday, the hospital had five days to dispense the doses before they were rendered unusable.

Britain pre-ordered 40 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine. But health officials expect only four million to arrive by the end of the year, less than half of what they had anticipated as recently as last month. Manufacturing difficulties have halved Pfizer’s expected global supply for this month.

In an effort to hedge its bets, Britain pre-purchased hundreds of millions of doses of several different vaccine candidates in development. The country is expected to authorize the emergency use of one developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford. That drug’s more forgiving storage requirements make it easier to dispense at mass vaccination centers being assembled at racecourses and soccer stadiums. Doctors could begin administering vaccines in their offices as early as next week.

Some Britons who were eligible for the Pfizer shot said on Tuesday that they did not want it, an early sign of the hesitancy over vaccines that could complicate efforts to achieve widespread protection.

“It’s a bit too early,” said Carlos Pinto, 80, who was getting a blood test at a London hospital that had the vaccines. “I prefer to wait a bit longer.”

For Dr. Babolhavaeji, the shot could hardly come soon enough. He was holding an oxygen mask to the face of a wheezing patient in March when he caught the virus, he believes. He worried he would never again smell coffee or home cooking.

But he returned to work, joining a contingent of frontline immigrant doctors like himself who have paid a heavy toll for Britain’s pandemic, even as the country hurtles toward a final split from the European Union this month. Preparing to be vaccinated, he considered what might lie ahead if everyone agreed to get their shots.

“It’s an impending relief,” he said. “We have inhaled as much as we can, and we are just waiting for the moment when we can exhale, and maybe even get together outside of work and raise a glass and pat each other on the back, things we’ve not been able to do for a long time.”





No.4 article:
Chuck Yeager, Test Pilot Who Broke the Sound Barrier, Is Dead at 97

A World War II fighter ace and Air Force general, he was, according to Tom Wolfe, “the most righteous of all the possessors of the right stuff.”

Chuck Yeager, the most famous test pilot of his generation, who was the first to break the sound barrier and, thanks to Tom Wolfe, came to personify the death-defying aviator who possessed the elusive yet unmistakable “right stuff,” died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 97.

His death, at a hospital, was announced on his official Twitter account and confirmed by John Nicoletti, a family friend.

General Yeager came out of the West Virginia hills with only a high school education and with a drawl that left many a fellow pilot bewildered. The first time he went up in a plane, he was sick to his stomach.

But he became a fighter ace in World War II, shooting down five German planes in a single day and 13 over all. In the decade that followed, he helped usher in the age of military jets and spaceflight. He flew more than 150 military aircraft, logging more than 10,000 hours in the air. 

His signal achievement came on Oct. 14, 1947, when he climbed out of a B-29 bomber as it ascended over the Mojave Desert in California and entered the cockpit of an orange, bullet-shaped, rocket-powered experimental plane attached to the bomb bay.

An Air Force captain at the time, he zoomed off in the plane, a Bell Aircraft X-1, at an altitude of 23,000 feet, and when he reached about 43,000 feet above the desert, history’s first sonic boom reverberated across the floor of the dry lake beds. He had reached a speed of 700 miles an hour, breaking the sound barrier and dispelling the long-held fear that any plane flying at or beyond the speed of sound would be torn apart by shock waves.

“After all the anticipation to achieve this moment, it really was a letdown,” General Yeager wrote in his best-selling memoir “Yeager” (1985, with Leo Janos). “There should’ve been a bump in the road, something to let you know that you had just punched a nice, clean hole through the sonic barrier. The Ughknown was a poke through Jell-O. Later on, I realized that this mission had to end in a letdown because the real barrier wasn’t in the sky but in our knowledge and experience of supersonic flight.”

Nonetheless, the exploit ranked alongside the Wright brothers’ first flight at Kitty Hawk in 1903 and Charles Lindbergh’s solo fight to Paris in 1927 as epic events in the history of aviation. In 1950, General Yeager’s X-1 plane, which he christened Glamorous Glennis, honoring his wife, went on display at the SmithsonianInstitution in Washington.

His feat put General Yeager in the headlines for a time, but he truly became a national celebrity only after the publication of Mr. Wolfe’s book “The Right Stuff” in 1979, about the early days of the space program, and the release of the movie based on it four years later, in which General Yeager was played by Sam Shepard. He was depicted breaking the sound barrier in the opening scene.

In his portrayal of the astronauts of NASA’s Mercury program, Mr. Wolfe wrote about the post-World War II test pilot fraternity in California’s desert and its notion that “a man should have the ability to go up in a hurtling piece of machinery and put his hide on the line and then have the moxie, the reflexes, the experience, the coolness to pull it back in the last yawning moment — and then go up again the next day, and the next day, and every next day.”

That quality, understood but unspoken, Mr. Wolfe added, would entitle a pilot to be part of “the very Brotherhood of the Right Stuff itself.”

Mr. Wolfe wrote about a nonchalance affected by pilots in the face of an emergency in a voice “specifically Appalachian in origin,” one that was first heard in military circles but ultimately emanated from the cockpits of commercial airliners.

“It was,” Mr. Wolfe said, “the drawl of the most righteous of all the possessors of the right stuff: Chuck Yeager.”

In his memoir, General Yeager said he was annoyed when people asked him if he had the right stuff, since he felt it implied a talent he was born with.

“All I know is I worked my tail off learning to learn how to fly, and worked hard at it all the way,” he wrote. “If there is such a thing as the right stuff in piloting, then it is experience. The secret to my success was that somehow I always managed to live to fly another day.”

Charles Elwood Yeager was born on Feb. 13, 1923, in Myra, W. Va., the second of five children of Albert and Susie Mae (Sizemore) Yeager. He grew up in nearby Hamlin, a town of about 400, where his father drilled for natural gas in the coal fields. By the time he was 6, Chuck was shooting squirrels and rabbits and skinning them for family dinners, reveling in a country boy’s life.

He enlisted in the Army Air Forces out of high school in September 1941, becoming an airplane mechanic. One day he took a ride with a maintenance officer flight-testing a plane he had serviced and promptly threw up over the back seat. But he joined a flight program for enlisted men in July 1942, figuring it would get him out of kitchen detail and guard duty. He received his pilot wings and appointment as a flight officer in March 1943 while at a base in Arizona, and was commissioned as a second lieutenant after arriving in England for training.

In 2016, when General Yeager was asked on Twitter what made him want to become a pilot, the reply was infused with cheeky levity: “I was in maintenance, saw pilots had beautiful girls on their arms, didn’t have dirty hands, so I applied.”

He possessed a natural coordination and aptitude for understanding an airplane’s mechanical system along with coolness under pressure. He enjoyed spins and dives and loved staging mock dogfights with his fellow trainees.

He flew P-51 Mustang fighters in the European theater during World War II, and in March 1944, on his eighth mission, he was shot down over France by a German fighter plane and parachuted into woods with leg and head wounds. But he was hidden by members of the French underground, made it to neutral Spain by climbing the snowy Pyrenees, carrying a severely wounded flier with him, and returned to his base in England.

Downed pilots were not generally put back into combat, but his pleas to see action again were granted. On Oct. 12, 1944, leading three fighter squadrons escorting bombers over Bremen, Germany, he downed five German planes, becoming an ace in a day. In November, he shot down another four planes in one day.

After the war, General Yeager was assigned to Muroc Army Air Base in California, where hotshot pilots were testing jet prototypes. He was chosen over more senior pilots to fly the Bell X-1 in a quest to break the sound barrier, and when he set out to do it, he could barely move, having broken two ribs a couple of nights earlier when he crashed into a fence while racing with his wife on horseback in the desert.

The Air Force kept the feat a secret, an outgrowth of the Cold War with the Soviet Union, but in December 1947, Aviation Week magazine revealed that the sound barrier had been broken; the Air Force finally acknowledged it in June 1948.

But life continued much the same at Muroc. The pilots and their families had quarters little better than shacks, the days were scorching and the nights frigid, and the landscape was barren. The pilots flew by day and caroused by night, piling into the Pancho Barnes bar.

In December 1949, Muroc was renamed Edwards Air Force Base, and it became a center for advanced aviation research leading to the space program. In December 1953, General Yeager flew the X-1A plane at nearly two and a half times the speed of sound after barely surviving a spin, setting a world speed record.

In the fall of 1953, he was dispatched to an air base on Okinawa in the Pacific to test a MiG-15 Russian-built fighter that had been flown into American hands by a North Korean defector. Battling stormy weather as he took the plane aloft, he analyzed its strengths and weaknesses. In 1962, he became commander of the school at Edwards that trained prospective astronauts.

He commanded a fighter wing during the Vietnam War while holding the rank of colonel and flew 127 missions, mainly piloting Martin B-57 light bombers in attacking enemy troops and their supplies along the Ho Chi Minh Trail.

After serving as head of aerospace safety for the Air Force, he retired as a brigadier general in 1975. His decorations included the Distinguished Service Medal, the Silver Star, the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Bronze Star. He received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, from President Ronald Reagan in 1985.

NASA’s administrator, Jim Bridenstine, described General Yeager’s death in a statement as “a tremendous loss to our nation.” The astronaut Scott Kelly, writing on Twitter, called him “a true legend.”

General Yeager became a familiar face in commercials and made numerous public appearances. Flying F-15 planes, he broke the sound barrier again on the 50th and 55th anniversaries of his pioneering flight, and he was a passenger on an F-15 plane in another breaking of the sound barrier to commemorate the 65th anniversary.

His first wife, the former Glennis Dickhouse, with whom he had four children, died in 1990. He married Victoria D’Angelo in 2003. He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Susan Yeager and Sharon Yeager Flick; and a son, Don. Another son, Michael, died in 2011.

In his memoir, General Yeager wrote that through all his years as a pilot, he had made sure to “learn everything I could about my airplane and my emergency equipment.”

It may not have accorded with his image, but, as he told it: “I was always afraid of dying. Always.”





No.5 article:
The Most Tender Short Ribs, the Most Satisfying Soup

Left with some spare short ribs, J. Kenji López-Alt made them sing in a Taiwanese beef noodle soup.

Hmm, I thought to myself as I did an emoji-quality chin scratch by the light of the refrigerator door late one night last year. Hmm.

It was a quandary I’m sure you’re familiar with: I had found myself, quite unexpectedly, with a few spare short ribs in my fridge. Twenty pounds of them, in fact, each more meaty and perfectly marbled than the last. They were the leftovers from a beer-braised short rib dish I had been testing for my restaurant. The question was, what was I going to do with them?

I had recently been drooling over a post on The Woks of Life about Taiwanese beef noodle soup, a dish based on the mainland Chinese technique of red cooking, in which meat is simmered in a mixture of soy sauce, rice wine, stock and rock sugar, giving it a rich, reddish-brown color. The Taiwanese version includes a few extra aromatics as well as a dab of doubanjiang, a fermented chile-bean paste from Sichuan.

The broth is spicy and sweet, fragrant with warm spices, with an ultrarich, almost sticky texture that comes from the high concentration of gelatin extracted from the collagen in the beef tendons and shins it’s typically made with. It’s one of my favorite dishes of all time and, given the large proportion of collagen-rich connective tissue in short ribs, I thought they’d be a prime candidate for success with a beef noodle soup-style broth.

I threw together a batch that night, following the classic technique I use for beef shins: searing the beef in a pot and cooking down an aromatic base of onions, tomatoes, garlic, ginger, scallions and dried chiles in the browned drippings. Then, I toast a bouquet of spices: a cinnamon stick, star anise, fennel and coriander seed, and Sichuan and black peppercorns. (Of these, I found star anise to be the most essential.) Next, I added my broth ingredients and a dab of doubanjiang. (For stir-fries, I’d bloom it in hot oil before adding other liquids, but, in this soup, I didn’t detect any difference either way.)

After returning the short ribs to the pot, I let it cook just until they were done. If you stop as soon as the ribs are tender, they retain a pleasantly juicy bite. If overcooked, braised meat loses its ability to cling onto moisture as you chew, resulting in juices that gush out but leave the remaining meat with a dry, pulpy texture.

Letting the ribs cool overnight in their braising liquid, I immediately noticed that something was off the next morning: While broth made with shins and tendons comes out solidly gelled after refrigeration, my broth was still thin and watery. Turns out the amount of gelatin in short ribs is not nearly as much as I had anticipated. (In retrospect, it made sense. We typically have to reduce short rib braising liquid a huge amount to concentrate its gelatin into a rich sauce.)

There were two solutions. The first was to simply reduce the broth until it got nice and rich. With this method, the broth is more like a sauce that glazed the short ribs and dressed the noodles. The other solution was a simple one. The broth had plenty of flavor but was lacking in gelatin, so I used a trick I frequently employ to make store-bought stock more similar to a good homemade one: I added a packet of unflavored powdered gelatin.

The resulting soup was every bit as sticky and satisfying as the best tendon and shin-based soup I’d had, and the tender, meaty short ribs made me wonder if having extra short ribs in the fridge is really such a problem after all.

Recipe: Taiwanese Beef Noodle Soup

Rich, sweet and spicy dishes like this soup offer such a complicated palette of flavors and sensations that it makes little sense for home cooks to worry about precise wine matches. The idea instead is to pick wines that will be delicious and refreshing without clashing. Forget about very tannic or oaky wines. Don’t bother with subtle, nuanced bottles. Instead, look for easygoing, light, fruity reds that are energetic but not particularly complex. That would include the category broadly known as vins de soif, or thirst-quenching wines. They include simple Beaujolais and Beaujolais-Villages, and many others made using the method of carbonic maceration that is often used for Beaujolais. These sorts of wines can come from anywhere in the world, including the south of France, the West Coast and Australia. If in doubt, ask your merchant. ERIC ASIMOV

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.6 article:
A Kugel That’s Savory and Sweet (and Crispy, Too)

Yerushalmi kugel, a specialty of Jerusalem, is bound with caramel, seasoned with black pepper and filled with springy egg noodles.

I grew up in a family of savory kugel makers, whether my grandmother and her schmaltzy potatoes, Great-Aunt Martha with her crisp-edged egg noodle iteration or my mother and her elaborate, ever-changing vegetable combinations that veered into casserole territory.

On the other end of the spectrum were the kugels at my friends’ houses that my sweet tooth coveted, filled with sour cream and studded with raisins.

These sugary-savory poles made up the entirety of my kugel universe for most of my life.

Then I made a recipe for Yerushalmi kugel and saw I’d been missing an important middle ground.

A specialty of Jerusalem not often seen in the United States outside Orthodox communities, it was crisp, salty and spiked with a sinus-clearing shot of black pepper. But it was also sweet, suffused with a generous amount of caramel to mitigate the peppery bite. And it was completely unlike any kugel I’d ever tasted.

The recipe was by Adeena Sussman, author of “Sababa: Fresh, Sunny Flavors From My Israeli Kitchen” (Avery, 2019). Ms. Sussman, who grew up in an observant Jewish home in Palo Alto, Calif., learned about Yerushalmi kugel as a teenager on a trip to Israel, where she fell head over heels for its chewy, spicy sweetness.

“It’s not a noodle pudding like American Jews are used to,” she said. “It’s dense and sweet and peppery and very rich from the oil.”

As the kugel bakes long and slow, the outer layer becomes irresistibly crunchy while the center gets soft and a little bouncy. To me, this contrasting texture was as appealing as the flavors.

The only tricky part about making Yerushalmi kugel is the caramel, which requires patient stirring of oil and sugar for a good 10 to 15 minutes, until the mixture takes on the amber hue of good, rich honey. This caramel is then tossed with cooked thin noodles, where it may clump and harden.

“Don’t be afraid of the clumps,” Ms. Sussman said reassuringly. “Small clumps will dissolve when the kugel bakes.”

After it comes out of the oven, Yerushalmi kugel can be eaten warm or cold and reheated several times, making it a classic dish to serve on Shabbat, Ms. Sussman said.

Cozy and satisfying, this kugel is perfect alongside a roast chicken or a big pile of sautéed greens, on any day of the week.

Recipe: Yerushalmi Kugel

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.7 article:
The Behind-the-Scenes Assist That Made Beethoven’s Ninth Happen

Louis Antoine Duport, the Nureyev of his day, also managed the theater where the great choral symphony had its premiere.

By the time Beethoven completed his Ninth Symphony, he hadn’t presented any major new work in a decade. He was by that point almost completely deaf, and many thought him crazy. The Viennese had become obsessed with Italian opera, and the 53-year-old composer feared that he had gone decisively out of fashion. Still, he wanted to show the world that Beethoven was still Beethoven.

He planned a concert that would take place at the prestigious Theater am Kärntnertor, but first had to get the approval of its temperamental manager, Louis Antoine Duport. The violinist Ignaz Schuppanzigh warned Beethoven that Duport needed to be handled “very gently and courteously” or he could “make things hellacious.”

But it was Duport who ultimately made the event happen. Without his behind-the-scenes assistance, Beethoven’s final symphony might never have entered history on May 7, 1824.

Duport is usually identified merely as a former dancer, but he was the Nureyev of his day — famous for soaring leaps, dazzling footwork and the ability to pirouette 50 times on one leg. He specialized in the role of Zephyr, the west wind, for which he flew across the stage suspended on wires.

Born in Paris in 1781, he was the son of Joseph Robert Duport, a sculptor, and Maria Desseule. He had a sister, also a celebrated dancer, and at least two brothers. Little else is known about his early life, until his sudden appearance as a soloist at the Paris Opera on March 14, 1797.

But researching early ballet in America, the historian Lillian Moore discovered a child prodigy named Louis Duport who arrived in Philadelphia in 1790. This 9-year-old was accompanied by Pierre Landrin, who was dancing master at the Opera and may have taught music and dance to Marie Antoinette’s children.

Eventually based in Charleston, S.C., Louis gained prominence as one of the best young dancers in America. But after a performance in Savannah, Ga., on Aug. 19, 1796, he vanished without a trace. Was this the same Louis Antoine Duport who made his debut at the Paris Opera seven months later? It’s unclear, though they shared the same name, birth year and tour-de-force performance style.

What is certain is that, in 1804, Duport challenged Auguste Vestris, then the most famous dancer in Europe, to a contest of pirouettes and jetés-battus. (Vestris was 20 years Duport’s elder, and critics generously called it a draw.) Duport then began choreographing ballets with the intention of deposing the esteemed ballet master Pierre Gardel at the Opera.

Napoleon admired Duport but was increasingly outraged by his imperious behavior and salary demands. (Just 26, Duport had enticed the Opera’s management into paying him the same amount as the eminent Vestris.) In 1808, facing possible arrest, Duport, disguised as a woman, slipped out of Paris with a star of the Comédie Française, who was also Napoleon’s former mistress. He ended up in St. Petersburg, where he was so popular that Tolstoy would later mention him in “War and Peace.”

In 1812, he became the ballet master at the Kärntnertor in Vienna, choreographing the first dance adaptation of Charles Perrault’s “Cinderella.” After marrying his favorite ballerina, he went on to dance in Munich, London and Italy, performing in several ballets that allowed him to dance Zephyr, his signature role.

While at the Teatro di San Carlo in Naples, Duport met its flamboyant manager, Domenico Barbaja, who was eager to bring his composer discovery Gioachino Rossini to Vienna. Taking over the Kärntnertor’s lease, Barbaja asked Duport to help run it, and when Rossini and his new bride, the diva Isabella Colbran, arrived in 1822, the city greeted them with enthusiasm bordering on idolatry.

By February 1824, Beethoven was ready with both the Ninth Symphony and his “Missa Solemnis.” He had long wanted to set Schiller’s “Ode to Joy” to music and had incorporated its call for peace and unity into the symphony’s rousing choral finale. Given the sweeping popularity of Italian opera in Vienna, however, he toyed with the idea of presenting the work elsewhere. It was only after 30 friends and music lovers signed a petition of support that he began to look for a theater in the city.

The Theater am Kärntnertor was his first choice. One of two imperial theaters in Vienna, it was named for its location next to the Kärntnertor, or Carinthian Gate. (The Sacher Hotel now occupies the site.) In March, Beethoven’s brother Johann met with Duport, who was receptive but warned that the concert would need the permission of the Hofmusikgraf, the official in charge of music for the court theaters.

Beethoven’s secretary, Anton Schindler, also began secretly negotiating with the suburban Theater an der Wien. There was talk of the Burgtheater, which was the other imperial house, and the small Landständischer Saal as alternatives.

At the end of March, Schindler visited Duport to request the Great Hall at the Hofburg, or Imperial Palace, for a repeat Beethoven concert. (This hall was also under Barbaja’s administration.) Since plans hadn’t yet been finalized for the first concert, Duport may have been confused, but he agreed. It was an unsettling time for him. Barbaja was in Naples under house arrest, charged with attempting to burn down the Teatro di San Carlo to conceal accounting irregularities. He was eventually exonerated, but Duport, who had spent the previous year in Karlsbad taking the waters for an unknown ailment, was undoubtedly distracted.

For that planned repeat performance, Duport could only offer Beethoven the Hofburg’s smaller hall, prompting the composer to threaten to call off the concerts. As for the initial event, Schindler was still pushing for the Theater an der Wien, but Beethoven wanted Schuppanzigh as concertmaster. When the musicians balked at using outside workers, the An der Wien was out. The Kärntnertor was back in.

On April 24, Duport received a letter from Schindler with a lengthy list of demands. Beethoven wanted the date of the concert to be either May 3 or 4, and expected an immediate response; the situation was “urgent.” One can only imagine what must have gone through Duport’s mind; he had faced down Napoleon and now had to deal with the self-important Schindler. But Duport had deep respect for Beethoven and agreed to hold the first concert at the Kärntnertor and the second in the Hofburg’s Great Hall.

The Ninth required an 82-member orchestra and 80 singers, stunning for that time and more than twice what Duport could offer. As a result, Beethoven had to supplement with amateurs from the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde. And since Beethoven wanted the full forces onstage, Duport also had to approve the building of scaffolding and risers. The solo singers complained that the high notes were beyond their reach. Government censors interfered with the planned excerpts from the “Missa Solemnis.” Beethoven wanted to open the concert with his “Consecration of the House” Overture, but couldn’t find the score.

With the concert only a week away, Duport had yet to give Beethoven a formal contract; one of the composer’s friends suggested reporting the manager to the police commissioner. But on the evening of May 7, a large crowd began filing into the thousand-seat theater. Though Beethoven had hand-delivered invitations to members of the court, the imperial box was empty; the nobility had already left town for the summer. With only two full rehearsals and little time to study the score, the conductor, Michael Umlauf — with Beethoven at his side — made the sign of the cross before he gave the downbeat.

The concert was far from perfect and received mixed reviews, but the audience realized it had heard something unique. The response was at times rapturous; people applauded and shouted so loudly that a police agent called for quiet. The box office figures, though, were lower than expected. According to Schindler, when Beethoven saw them, he collapsed to the floor and accused Duport of swindling him.

True to his word, though, Duport went ahead with the second concert on May 23, insisting only that a Rossini aria be substituted for one of the “Missa Solemnis” sections. It was a sunny Sunday afternoon, and the hall was only half full. Duport lost money, but made sure that Beethoven received his full fee.

Duport eventually assumed the lease of the Kärntnertor, managing it until 1836, when he retired to Paris. He died in 1853 and was buried at Père Lachaise, where his tombstone is decorated with two female nudes, one appearing to sprout wings. Few who pass the monument probably realize that he was among the greatest dancers of his generation. Or that he played a major role in bringing Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony to the world. But whenever voices rise up to sing “Ode to Joy,” we have Zephyr to thank.





No.8 article:
Stop the Coronavirus Outbreak at Brooklyn’s Federal Jail

New York’s congressional representatives can make sure that prisoners are treated humanely.

Last week, at least 55 inmates at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn tested positive for the coronavirus, according to Federal Bureau of Prisons data.

Many months into this pandemic, the Federal Defenders of New York, a legal advocacy group, said officials at the jail aren’t following basic public health guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus, to care for sick inmates or to protect those who are most vulnerable. After case counts at the jail held steady for months this fall, they are now rising.

The reports from the Federal Defenders are disturbing. Corrections officers, they say, aren’t properly wearing masks, including while interacting with inmates. Sick inmates aren’t receiving proper medical attention and are being placed in cells with healthy individuals. One person incarcerated at the facility told an attorney with the Federal Defenders that severely ill inmates who asked for medical attention didn’t get it.

The group also says inmates have reported that water in at least one part of the jail is brown and undrinkable, and corrections officers have refused to provide an alternative; garbage from meals is piling up in cells, worsening the facility’s rodent problem; and the emergency call buttons in some cells aren’t working.

The Federal Defenders also said there is little contact tracing and no on-site testing for the staff.

Federal Bureau of Prisons officials declined to be interviewed. In a written response, Justin Long, a spokesman for the agency, refuted most of these claims. Mr. Long said transmission rates at the facility “generally mirror those found in their local communities” and that the “efficacy of the mitigation strategies can be seen in the very low number of hospitalized inmates.”

Mr. Long said that staff members at the Brooklyn jail are required to wear masks and that their compliance is monitored by supervisors. He said inmates showing symptoms or testing positive for the coronavirus are properly isolated, monitored and given access to medical attention, or if necessary, sent to the hospital; that staff members pick up trash daily; and that all inmates have access to clean drinking water.

But if the conditions are anything like what the Federal Defenders describe, they are an affront to human dignity and a threat to the public health of Americans in and out of the Brooklyn facility.

New York’s congressional representatives can help ensure the Federal Bureau of Prisons has properly carried out the policies and practices that are known to be effective to stop the spread of the virus.

Sick inmates should receive the medical attention they need and should be isolated from healthy inmates.

Corrections officers should receive on-site testing — a practice that Mr. Long acknowledges is not in place. They should also be required to properly wear their masks inside the facility and should face penalties for failing to comply.

It is vital that drinking water and other basic services are fully restored.

Since the jail is a federal facility, New York’s congressional delegation needs to do its part to make sure this gets done.

Representative Nydia Velázquez, whose district includes the jail, and Representative Jerrold Nadler wrote a letter to the warden, Heriberto Tellez, on Dec. 4, requesting information about the conditions inside the facility and more communication from jail officials. Nearly two years ago, in February 2019, Ms. Velázquez and other New York officials joined activists, legal advocates and family members of those incarcerated to demand better conditions at the facility, which at the time was enduring long stretches without heat or hot water.

The people living and working inside the Brooklyn jail need that kind of advocacy now.





No.9 article:
This Eagles’ No-Win Quarterback Predicament Isn’t Like the Last One

Jalen Hurts, a rookie, was named the Week 14 starter over Carson Wentz, a franchise quarterback, but Philadelphia is in no way suited for a rebuild.

The Philadelphia Eagles were too cursed for too long to finally win a Super Bowl without a “Twilight Zone”-worthy twist. Fate granted the Eagles a championship but denied them the franchise quarterback they thought they were getting with it.

Carson Wentz’s career has been clouded by skepticism since the moment Nick Foles hoisted the Lombardi Trophy at the end of the 2017 season. Three seasons later, Wentz’s benching in favor of Jalen Hurts, a rookie, casts doubts on his future and threatens to plunge the Eagles into a long, bitter rebuilding cycle.

Wentz is suffering through a catastrophic 2020 season. He leads the N.F.L. with 15 interceptions and has endured 50 sacks, 10 more than any other quarterback. While a revolving door cast of receivers and offensive linemen deserves a share of the blame, those players have nothing to do with the fact that Wentz’s throwing mechanics, accuracy, timing and decision-making have gone haywire. He is hesitant to throw to wide-open receivers, blunders into sacks while stumbling around the pocket and appears almost morally opposed to checking down for a safe 4-yard toss when he can force a 40-yard interception instead.

Worst of all, his 2020 performance looks less like an extended slump than the final stage of a three-year decline.

Wentz, the second overall selection in the 2016 draft, appeared destined for superstardom when he threw 33 touchdown passes and led the Eagles to an 11-2 record in 2017 before tearing his anterior cruciate ligament in December. Foles, a journeyman backup, relieved Wentz and led the Eagles through the playoffs and past the New England Patriots for the franchise’s first Super Bowl victory. Foles, not Wentz, outdueled Tom Brady, caught the “Philly Special” and was honored with a statue outside Lincoln Financial Field.

Anyone who studied ancient history knows that a general as triumphant as Foles either becomes emperor or is exiled to a barren Mediterranean island, and quarterback disputes are typically resolved similarly. Yet the Eagles retained both quarterbacks for the 2018 season. Wentz proved to be turnover- and mistake-prone when he returned to the lineup, and fracturing a vertebra in December of that year led to another late-season hot streak by Foles that propelled the Eagles into the playoffs.

The time had come for an exile, and for a confidence-boosting coronation. Foles signed with the Jacksonville Jaguars in the 2019 off-season. Wentz signed a four-year, $128 million extension, then battled through another mixed bag of a season. He threw for 4,039 yards and 27 touchdowns to lead the injury-ravaged Eagles to a playoff berth in 2019, but appeared to be malfunctioning for long stretches. His season ended with yet another injury in a playoff loss. Foles’s ineffectiveness in Jacksonville in 2019 silenced any second-guessers, but Wentz’s time without a challenger would be brief.

The Eagles ostensibly selected Hurts in the second round of this year’s draft to provide an insurance policy against further Wentz injuries and to add an occasional wildcat wrinkle to their offense. It was like a couple thinking an amicable third partner would somehow spice up their romance, and had about as high a likelihood for success. Hurts’s cameos on gadget plays took on increasing significance as Wentz flailed, but Coach Doug Pederson seemed reluctant to risk upstaging Wentz by giving Hurts more to do.

Hurts finally replaced Wentz with the Eagles trailing, 20-3, in the third quarter against the Green Bay Packers on Sunday, and did a better job of moving the offense, though that may have been the case only because the Packers were unprepared for the switch. Pederson named Hurts the starter against the New Orleans Saints for Week 14; the battle for the future of the franchise has officially been joined.

Moving on from Wentz, if the Eagles choose to do so, will not be as simple as reprinting the depth charts. Wentz’s contract guarantees him huge sums in staggered stages, insulating him from any hasty organizational decisions. Wentz will cost the Eagles almost $35 million in cap space to keep in 2021, but over $59 million to cut. So even if Hurts assumes the job and plays like Patrick Mahomes for the next month, Wentz will almost certainly remain on the 2021 roster.

Furthermore, the Eagles project to be $66 million over next year’s salary cap because of the backloaded contracts of many veteran Super Bowl holdovers. Any attempt at a cap purge could leave the Eagles with Hurts leading a lineup of minimum wage earners while Wentz eats a prohibitive chunk of the payroll to clap politely from the bench. The Eagles are in no financial position to begin rebuilding around a rookie quarterback, which circles back to the question of why they drafted one.

The Eagles’ no-win quarterback predicament reflects poorly upon Pederson, who supervised Wentz’s backslide into ineptitude, and upon General Manager Howie Roseman, who negotiated Wentz’s contract, drafted Hurts and strained the limits of team economics to keep much of the Super Bowl nucleus intact. Roseman has added almost no top-tier offensive talent in the last three seasons, and Pederson’s game plans have stagnated, making Wentz as much a symptom of the Eagles’ deeper problems as the cause.

However the Wentz-Hurts dilemma plays out, it will look nothing like what the Eagles were hoping for when Wentz’s ascendance led, indirectly, to a Super Bowl victory. Instead of enjoying the prosperity and stability that come with a young franchise quarterback, they’re trapped in a “Groundhog Day” cycle of desperate reruns, where the same creaky cast enters September with championship aspirations but reaches December wondering whether a backup will be able to bail out an increasingly battered, bewildered starter.





No.10 article:
Army Finds ‘Major Flaws’ at Fort Hood; 14 Officials Disciplined

Several officials were fired or suspended after an investigation into the culture at Fort Hood in Texas. Women were “preyed upon” but afraid to report sexual harassment, investigators found.

DALLAS — More than a dozen Army officials have been fired or suspended as part of a sweeping investigation into the climate and culture at Fort Hood, a sprawling military base in Texas that has been rocked by a series of violent deaths, suicides and complaints of sexual harassment.

The investigation released on Tuesday found “major flaws” at Fort Hood and a command climate “that was permissive of sexual harassment and sexual assault,” said Ryan D. McCarthy, the secretary of the Army.

“Unfortunately, a ‘business as usual’ approach was taken by Fort Hood leadership causing female soldiers, particularly, in the combat brigades, to slip into survival mode,” the report said, where they were “vulnerable and preyed upon, but fearful to report and be ostracized and re-victimized.”

The Army secretary ordered that 14 officials, including several high-ranking leaders, be relieved of command or suspended and vowed sweeping reform that would extend far beyond Fort Hood to affect more than one million soldiers and Army civilians nationwide.

“This report, without a doubt, will cause the Army to change our culture,” Mr. McCarthy said.

The damning report comes as the military faces mounting public pressure to address years of allegations that harassment and sexual assault among soldiers had gone unaddressed. A Defense Department survey released last year estimated that there were 20,500 instances of “unwanted sexual contact” in the 2018 fiscal year, up 38 percent from 2016, and that the uptick was driven almost entirely by an increase in assaults on women in uniform.

Fort Hood, the nation’s third-largest Army base in terms of population, has been at the center of the conversation amid a rash of homicides, suicides and violent crime this year. The investigation came in response to the slaying of Vanessa Guillen, a 20-year-old Army specialist, who disappeared on the base in Killeen, Texas, after telling friends that she had been sexually harassed; the authorities say she was killed by a fellow soldier who burned and dismembered her body.

The findings of the investigation were seen as a significant step by military observers, lawmakers, advocates for Latinos and representatives for Specialist Guillen, who welcomed the changes as an initial but necessary move toward justice.

“They told the truth and they let the heads roll,” said Natalie Khawam, a lawyer for Specialist Guillen’s family who credited the Army for taking on systematic change. “I’m getting phone calls from colonels and everyone you can think of, contacting me and telling me, ‘I have never seen anything like this in my 30 years in the military.’”

The Army’s investigation dealt potentially career-ending blows to two generals. Maj. Gen. Scott L. Efflandt, a deputy commanding general of the Third Corps, who was the senior commander in charge at Fort Hood when Specialist Guillen disappeared, was relieved of his leadership duties. Maj. Gen. Jeffrey Broadwater, the commander of the First Cavalry Division, was suspended pending an investigation.

Col. Ralph Overland, the commander of the Third Cavalry Regiment, Specialist Guillen’s unit, was also relieved of his command.

“The Army has a very low tolerance level for weaknesses in command and that’s clearly what they found at Fort Hood,” said Loren Thompson, the chief operating officer at the Lexington Institute, a conservative think tank in Arlington, Va., who said it was unusual to see so many officers disciplined. In addition to the named senior leaders, Mr. McCarthy said he had also ordered action against other unnamed officers up and down the ranks.

“There was a time when the institutional Army might have looked the other way,” Mr. Thompson said. “But it’s exactly the opposite now.”

Fort Hood stretches for miles across central Texas between Dallas and Austin and is home to tens of thousands of people. Physically larger than New York City, it is subject to the same crime and problems that any community might have.

But the report found that the base had higher levels of crime than other Army installations, including sex crimes, assault and battery, drug offenses, drunk and disorderly charges, and larceny. The report found that “serious crime issues on and off Fort Hood were neither identified nor addressed.”

Sexual assault and harassment were particular problems. After the body of Sgt. Elder N. Fernandes, 23, was found hanging from a tree in August about 30 miles from Fort Hood, his family said he had reported sexual assault by a superior and had been retaliated against.

The investigation documented a failure to properly staff and fund the sexual assault and harassment prevention program, and a culture in which women did not feel comfortable coming forward.

Of more than 500 female soldiers interviewed, investigators found 93 credible accounts of sexual assault; of those, just 59 had been reported, according to the report. They also found 135 credible instances of sexual harassment; just 72 were reported.

“If any of them see this, I want them to know, we believe you,” said Carrie F. Ricci, a retired Army officer who was part of the investigation team.

Perhaps the most serious finding of the Army’s monthslong review of Fort Hood was that no commanding general or subordinate senior commander proactively intervened to mitigate “known risks of high crime, sexual assault and sexual harassment.”

Still, the investigation determined that the culture was not attributable to any one leader, but rather that it developed and persisted over time. Exacerbating the situation, the report found, was the Army’s two decades of constant war since the Sept. 11 attacks, which created a climate in which military readiness was valued over all other responsibilities, to the detriment of integrity and respect between soldiers.

Lt. Gen. Pat White, the commander of Fort Hood, said he was taking ownership of the situation. He was deployed in Iraq when most of the recent incidents occurred and was not one of those disciplined.

“All of the Army is responsible for the culture, but commanders are responsible for the climate,” he said. “I own this, and I’m going to get after it.”

The report drew attention from military advocates and lawmakers around the country, including Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, a Democrat, who has been vocal about prosecuting sexual assaults in the military.

“These issues are not restricted to Fort Hood,” she said in a statement. “The current system continues to fail our service members and needs a complete overhaul.”

Specialist Guillen, who grew up in Houston, had dreamed of joining the military since childhood, when she would play with her brother’s toy pistol, family members said. Young and athletic, she enlisted in the Army at 18.

She later told friends and fellow soldiers that she had been sexually harassed, though officials said she had not made any formal complaints.

She went missing on April 22, and her remains were found in June. Federal investigators said that a soldier in her unit, Specialist Aaron D. Robinson, struck her in the head with a hammer and that he and his girlfriend dismembered and burned her body.

Specialist Robinson later killed himself as the police approached him, the authorities said. His girlfriend, Cecily Aguilar, faces a charge of conspiracy to tamper with evidence.

Specialist Guillen’s family spoke at an impassioned news conference in Houston on Tuesday, endorsing the Army’s decision to discipline the officers but also saying the action was long overdue, coming nearly eight months after Specialist Guillen’s death.

Her sister, Lupe Guillen, said that like so many others, Specialist Guillen was afraid to report harassment because she feared retaliation.

“I am saying this as a woman, as someone who wanted to sign up for the military,” she said, urging Army officials and Congress to get behind the “I Am Vanessa Guillen” Act, which would require that sexual harassment complaints involving service members be sent to an independent investigator.

“We don’t want another soldier going missing,” she said. “It will save lives.”

Gloria Guillen, Specialist Guillen’s mother, said she was pleased to see officers fired, but for her, it was not nearly punishment enough.

“Today I told the secretary of the Army, yes, it’s fine, they relieved them, they took a few out, but no, I want prison, and to discover the truth of what really happened,” she said. “What really happened to my daughter? Why that horrible murder? She was not a cockroach. She was an innocent human being.”





No.11 article:
Apps Are Helping to Gut the Restaurant Industry

High fees are cutting already thin margins to the bone.

The sudden onset of the pandemic in March sent the restaurant industry into a death spiral. Working in a notoriously low-margin business, many couldn’t withstand weeks of limited or no indoor dining. As a result, about one in six restaurants nationwide has closed permanently, and as of September nearly three million restaurant workers had lost their jobs.

Under pressure to pay rent and retain workers, some restaurants turned more of their attention to delivery, particularly from app-based companies like DoorDash, UberEats and Grubhub. Few restaurants that hadn’t done delivery in the past had the time or money to create their own delivery service, which typically brings in less money than dining rooms, where customers are more apt to order more profitable items like appetizers, desserts or a second round of drinks.

These restaurants have quickly found that the apps, with their high fees and strong-arm tactics, may be a temporary lifeline, but not a savior. Fees of 30 percent or higher per order cut eateries’ razor-thin margins to the bone. And a stimulus package that would bolster the industry has stalled in Congress, even as states and municipalities enact new limits on both indoor and outdoor dining.

Restaurants are entering a critical stage as a new coronavirus surge takes hold and outdoor dining becomes less appealing during the colder months. Lawmakers can help by extending federal grants to independent restaurants that will help them close the gap in lost sales and cover payroll and other expenses. But legislators also should consider caps on the fees the apps can charge, particularly amid the pandemic, as places like New York City, San Francisco, New Jersey and Washington State have done, or risk seeing additional restaurant casualties. Officials in Colorado and Santa Clara County in California are considering similar fee limits, though app firms are pushing back by imposing $1.50 to $2 per-order charges on customers in some cities.

App companies have said the high fees are necessary to pay drivers, acquire new customers and expand into new markets, and caps could force them to alter their service. But the fees are also funding a consolidation among the four largest players that together represent an estimated 99 percent of delivery market share and which will give them greater pricing power.

Though still unprofitable, Uber this month completed its acquisition of Postmates in a $2.7 billion deal. And DoorDash, also a money loser, is going public this week with hopes of raising more than $3 billion from investors. DoorDash’s I.P.O. will net already wealthy investors billions in profits, particularly galling as restaurants wither.

The apps’ fees have hobbled many restaurateurs that had viewed app-based delivery as a temporary solution until the coronavirus could be contained.

While several vaccine trials offer hope that indoor dining might safely resume next year, Stephanie Vitori, owner of the Cheeseburger Baby restaurant in Miami Beach, says she worries she will not be able to hold out that long.

The fees were acceptable when delivery represented less than 15 percent of her business last year, but with delivery now nearly 90 percent of her sales, DoorDash and others are taking a big chunk of her revenue. “It’s not sustainable at these rates; the fees are killing my business,” she said, noting her overall sales are down nearly 15 percent.

Even larger chains, which can negotiate lower fees, have had their profits nibbled away by the delivery apps.

A former Grubhub executive compared the apps to payday lenders. “They give you the sensation of cash flow, but at the expense of your long-term future and financial stability,” he wrote in May.

There are other causes for concern about the app companies, particularly the treatment of their legion of contract drivers who face inconsistent earnings and are denied health care and other benefits from the companies. DoorDash, Uber and Postmates, among others, pulled together $200 million to back a winning ballot proposal in California last month that circumvented the legislative process and entrenched a system ensuring drivers can’t attain status as employees or other benefits like consistent minimum wage guarantees and help with vehicle costs. The companies have since vowed to bring similar limits to other states.

Restaurants of course do not have to use the apps, but those that don’t or that refuse to pay marketing fees to push their eateries higher up in search results find that customers are funneled to competitors. Desperate to maintain typical profit margins of just 5 percent or less, some restaurants have fought back by encouraging customers to order directly through their websites for pickup. Others are slipping fliers into delivery boxes to promote less costly options, including a few new start-ups that charge lower commissions.

Ashish Alfred, who operates two restaurants in Maryland, implored customers to delete all delivery apps from their phones. “It’s a predatory business,” he said, noting Uber, DoorDash and others had been unwilling to negotiate lower fees with him even as sales slipped. “They say the onus is on us to make it sustainable, but this is not a service we asked for.”

With deep pockets, the dominant app companies have devised ways to put pressure on restaurant owners to sign contracts with them, including downloading menus without restaurants’ consent and then offering their own delivery. Grubhub registered internet domain names of tens of thousands of independent restaurants. Legislators should curtail such anticompetitive practices.

Dan Raskin, an owner of Manny’s Deli in Chicago, said his greatest frustration was the companies’ unwillingness to share customer information with him. That means he cannot verify their claims that they are bringing him new customers. Worse, they appear to be using that data to create competing virtual restaurants — which have no dining rooms, offer multiple cuisines from one location and operate only on the apps.

App-based food delivery will become only more vital to the industry as the coronavirus stretches into the new year and more communities issue shelter-in-place orders. With a vast on-demand work force, Uber and DoorDash do offer a service that is difficult and expensive to replicate.

But the power imbalance between restaurants and delivery apps willing and able to absorb billions in losses to maintain market share threatens to force more cherished dining establishments out of business.

Consumers can help by ordering directly from restaurants for pickup and by using the apps sparingly. And lawmakers too should wait no longer to extend workers a new stimulus package and help to limit the prohibitive fees the apps charge small businesses.

DoorDash’s I.P.O. will mint countless new millionaires. But is an industry designed to enrich the elite and built atop a growing heap of struggling restaurants truly worth celebrating?





No.12 article:
Two Ailey Stars Will Now Turn Their Focus to Baby Steps

After the birth of their son, Glenn Allen Sims and Linda Celeste Sims, longtime members of Alvin Ailey, decided it was time to retire from the company.

Glenn Allen Sims and Linda Celeste Sims did something many couples do: They had a baby. But they’re no ordinary couple.

As two treasured veterans of Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater — Glenn for 23 years, and Linda for 24 — they have long persisted in jobs that have pushed them to their physical limits. With the birth of their son, Ellington James Sims, in April 2019, they faced a new challenge.

Their last season at City Center, in December 2019, was exhausting — not that you would have known by their dancing: refined, impassioned and, as always, vibrating with life. Their coping mechanism? “We would go to the theater and fall asleep,” Mr. Sims, 45, said in a joint interview with Ms. Sims. “We would nap in our dressing room.”

At the time Ellington — now nearly 20 months old and happily chirping in the background — wasn’t sleeping through the night. “Initially, our plan was to continue to dance and stay with the company,” Ms. Sims, 44, said. “But with the Ailey company, the travel is really the issue.”

It’s not just the dancing that takes a toll on Ailey dancers; it’s the touring, which in a normal year can last five months or more. As they were making their decision to retire — before the pandemic hit — one question became increasingly easy to answer: “Do we take him on the road?”

“Why would I raise my child in a hotel?” Ms. Sims said. “And don’t get me wrong — touring two weeks, three weeks? That’s doable. But not months at a time. It was like we need the best for the baby.”

This Ailey season, a virtual one, will feature the couple’s farewell performance on Wednesday, which will include an array of video excerpts from their repertoire; as well as a new film of the romantic central duet in “The Winter in Lisbon,” a celebratory work to Dizzy Gillespie by Billy Wilson; and a discussion with the pair led by the choreographer Ronald K. Brown. But it’s not like they will never dance again.

“Guest artist?” Ms. Sims said. “I’ll be there if they need me. Or performing for certain special events.”

As for Mr. Sims, who said his “career has been spent in minimal clothing,” he won’t miss the those body-hugging unitards.

Just before the pandemic, in January, the couple moved from New Rochelle to a house in Mahopac, N.Y., where Ms. Sims has been teaching remotely at Marymount College, Ballet Hispánico and the Ailey Extension.

Mr. Sims is working on a degree from S.U.N.Y. Empire State College, where his focus is performing arts management. In an odd way, the timing of their decision to retire from Ailey during the pandemic has worked out. “We were able to leave and not feel the pressure of having to be in a workplace during this time,” Ms. Sims said.

When life returns to normal, Ms. Sims will become the rehearsal director for Ballet Hispánico, where she trained and danced. Mr. Sims is in discussions to become the company manager.

“I don’t feel that I am leaving anything or that I haven’t fulfilled my career,” Ms. Sims said. “I feel very well-nourished and fed. And I still feel like there still could be another story.”

Their tale first began at Ailey, where they met and started to date in secret. “We were really, really young — 19 and 20,” Ms. Sims said. “We wanted to keep that space of when we’re at work we’re professional. No lovey-dovey stuff.”

They married in 2001 and eventually began to be cast together. Sometimes couples don’t have the same chemistry onstage, but their partnership was a striking example of support and sophistication. In the most regal, understated way, they both remained in service to the choreography and showed themselves to their fullest power.

While Ailey has given them much — along with traveling the world, they’ve danced in nearly 100 works each over the years — Mr. Sims can pinpoint what he’s missed out on: family. “Our family has always been a part of us and around us, but now there are more opportunities to just talk to them whenever I feel like I want to talk to them,” he said. “And now we have our own.”

What follows are edited excerpts from a recent interview.

You filmed “The Winter in Lisbon” for the virtual gala just last month. What does that performance say about you?

GLENN This is who we are today.

LINDA When I watched it the second time, I thought, oh my goodness: How many people can actually say that at 44 they dance like this? As dancers we’re so hard on ourselves that we forget that we also have to be grateful. And so I am very grateful to still be able to do the things that I can do physically, even after a child.

What stood out in your last New York season together, when you were actually onstage?

LINDA Being away from the stage a whole year, it felt different. I was like, I hope I fit into all my costumes. And I did! But being onstage with Glenn was just beautiful. Dancing fixed me. We did a lot of “Revelations,” and the way I would just hear the music would be different. I just felt very mature.

GLENN I was more in tune, not only to my body, but I heard more nuances in the music because my life was filled with more nuances.

LINDA I did “Cry.” [The Ailey solo is dedicated “to all Black women everywhere — especially our mothers.”] I had two chances to perform it in the season and the first time I had so much to say — like when you’re dying to eat something and you eat it so fast, but you didn’t have time to savor it. I didn’t allow it to simmer. So I was like, what are you holding back? What are you afraid of? Why don’t you just go for it?

What did that feel like?

LINDA It was everything. I think I cried throughout the whole piece. I don’t know what it looked like! [Laughs] Sometimes ugliness can be beautiful; I allowed myself to be that vulnerable. There’s the whole experience of giving birth and — women don’t talk about it — how exhausting [motherhood] is. There are really ugly moments where it’s not just joy. It’s like your baby’s born, you’re going to feel this joy and love. And it’s like, no, it doesn’t instantly happen all the time. I was like, well, I’m going to talk about it. [Laughs]

You didn’t plan on having children. What changed your mind?

LINDA In Europe, traveling with the company, we would always go sightseeing, and I would see these families. I started to get the urge. It was pretty much when I turned 40. I feel complete with Glenn, so I don’t want this to sound wrong, but I still felt that there was something missing.

GLENN And I gave her these crazy eyes because then you have to look around. … I looked around our apartment and I was like, OK, everything’s going to change. The art on the wall, the glass table. Financially, how is it going to work? I started freaking out. It’s something that I’ve wanted for a long time, but I never, ever wanted to pressure Linda about children. Ever.

LINDA And that’s a beautiful thing. So after 18 years of marriage, we had Ellington.

Are you obsessed with Duke Ellington?

LINDA No! We weren’t obsessed at all. But one of the pieces I feel like we were molding onstage every time we performed it was “The River” [set to Ellington]. The musicality, the choreography of Mr. Ailey’s — it’s just one of our favorite pieces. We fell in love with [Ellington’s] music; it’s not that we hear it every day, but we actually get to perform with his music. So we just thought, how do we find a name that is a connection between the two of us, but also unique enough for him to be himself?

GLENN This is also about the partnership that Ailey had with Duke Ellington and tying in the way that we met — through Ailey. It was something that we could always carry with us. So how do we honor our own careers and honor our son as well? With a great name.





No.13 article:
Reviving a Crop and an African-American Culture, Stalk by Stalk

SAPELO ISLAND, Ga. — Fall is cane syrup season in pockets of the Deep South, where people still gather to grind sugar cane and boil its juice into dark, sweet syrup in iron kettles big enough to bathe in.

Homemade cane syrup used to be the only sweetener that some families in rural communities could afford. Not many of those sugar shacks remain, so a jar of well-made local syrup, with its sweet, grassy notes and molasses backbeat, is as prized as the first pressing of an estate olive oil.

This autumn, no cane syrup has been more significant than the batches Maurice Bailey and his friends made from the first purple ribbon sugar cane grown here on Sapelo Island since the 1800s.

The 11-mile-long barrier island is home to the Salt Water Geechees, who can trace an unbroken line back to about 400 West Africans who were enslaved and put to work growing a type of sugar cane that their descendants are now trying to revive. Almost all of the island’s 16,500 acres are in public hands, save the land in and around the community of Hog Hammock, where fewer than 50 people still live.

Members of the Sapelo Island Cultural and Revitalization Society hope that selling cane syrup will preserve Salt Water Geechee culture and protect the precious remaining pieces of property that haven’t been lost to developers or to pay tax bills. The 100 bottles they put up in November are part of a plan to build a boutique agricultural business that will produce Geechee red peas, indigo, sour oranges and a variety of island garlic that is used for cooking and medicine.

Growing enough cane to make syrup hasn’t been easy. The effort to bring purple ribbon cane back to Sapelo Island started in 2014, when David Shields, a professor at the University of South Carolina and culinary historian, met with Cornelia Walker Bailey, the author and unofficial historian for the island, who died in 2017. It was her idea to create an agricultural business.

Armed with a new mission, Dr. Shields worked with Clemson University plant geneticists to develop a close match to the original purple ribbon cane that was first brought to Georgia from the West Indies in 1814. The cane was recently added to the Ark of Taste, a catalog of distinctive foods facing extinction maintained by the international organization Slow Food.

Before she died, Ms. Bailey passed the agricultural project to Maurice, one of her six children. “My mother always said do your part, so I’m just trying to do my part,” he said.

The cane project is essentially a one-man operation, with a lot of sweat and support from Nik Heynen, a geography professor at the University of Georgia, and a rotating band of volunteers. Growing the cane, cutting it and figuring out how to make cane syrup has made the two men as close as brothers. Dr. Heynen is so devoted to the project that he had an image of one of the island’s wild bulls tattooed on his arm after he saw one while driving across the island with Ms. Bailey.

The first planting was a stand of cane only 125 feet long. Each year they’ve grown a little more. In 2017, just as they were getting the hang of things, Hurricane Irma nearly destroyed the crop. Last month, they harvested almost five acres, of both purple and white cane.

The purple cane is the real prize. Some say its flavor is more intense and complex, and done right the syrup has a lovely magenta tint. A small company with family connections to the island already sells something it calls Sapelo Purple Ribbon Sugar Cane Syrup ($95 for about 24 ounces). The company worked with Maurice’s mother to get the project off the ground, but Mr. Bailey says its product is not true Sapelo Island syrup because the cane was grown off the island. It’s a sore spot for him.

Mr. Bailey had hoped to make syrup on the island this year, but the pandemic made it difficult to finish the sugar shack. So the two men piled the cane into a dumpster, put it on the ferry and headed to a relative’s farm on the mainland.

The family hadn’t made syrup for a few years, and were happy to clean the equipment and give Mr. Bailey and Dr. Heynen a lesson in grinding cane and making syrup. By the end of the weekend, they had filled about 70 25-ounce bottles, which they plan to sell for $89 apiece.

Making syrup is a long, slow process. Ten gallons of starchy cane juice will boil down into about a gallon of syrup. The men strained the juice into a big plastic garbage can, then poured it into the kettle and heated it to a simmer. For hours, everyone took turns skimming scum from the surface. When the syrup was close to being finished, they dumped in baking soda to make it “jump,” or boil up over the rim and purge the last impurities.

In the old days, syrup makers would pour some onto a dinner plate and watch the way it dripped to determine whether it was done. (Just a few minutes too long, and it can turn into sticky candy.) Dr. Heynen used a hydrometer, which is more reliable. “The real test,” Mr. Bailey said, “is when you pull that biscuit or that cornbread through it. It’s got to stick to the bread, but not break the bread.”

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.14 article:
Shift to a Not-So-Frozen North Is Well Underway, Scientists Warn

“There is no reason to think that in 30 years much of anything will be as it is today,” one of the editors of a new report on the Arctic climate said.

The Arctic continued its unwavering shift toward a new climate in 2020, as the effects of near-record warming surged across the region, shrinking ice and snow cover and fueling extreme wildfires, scientists said Tuesday in an annual assessment of the region.

Rick Thoman, a climate specialist at the University of Alaska and one of the editors of the assessment, said it “describes an Arctic region that continues along a path that is warmer, less frozen and biologically changed in ways that were scarcely imaginable even a generation ago.”

“Nearly everything in the Arctic, from ice and snow to human activity, is changing so quickly that there is no reason to think that in 30 years much of anything will be as it is today,” he said.

While the whole planet is warming because of emissions of heat-trapping gases through burning of fossil fuels and other human activity, the Arctic is heating up more than twice as quickly as other regions. That warming has cascading effects elsewhere, raising sea levels, influencing ocean circulation and, scientists increasingly suggest, playing a role in extreme weather.

This year the minimum extent of sea ice in the Arctic Ocean, reached at the end of the melt season in September, was the second-lowest in the satellite record, the scientists reported. On land, the huge Greenland ice sheet and glaciers in Alaska and elsewhere lost mass at above-average rates, although the rate in Greenland slowed from last year.

Permafrost, or permanently frozen ground, continued to thaw and erode along Arctic coastlines, leaving Indigenous communities struggling to cope with damaged infrastructure.

And perhaps most stunning, snow cover across the Eurasian Arctic reached a record low in June. The drying of soils and vegetation that followed contributed to wildfires that burned millions of acres of taiga, or boreal forest, particularly across Siberia. The fires spewed a third more heat-trapping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere than the year before, according to European researchers.

The amount of snow that fell across the Eurasian Arctic was actually above normal this year, said Lawrence Mudryk, a researcher with Environment and Climate Change Canada and lead author of the section on snow cover in the assessment. “Despite that, it was still warm enough that it melted faster and earlier than usual,” he said.

The warmth was pervasive across the Arctic. The average land temperature north of 60 degrees latitude, as measured from October 2019 through September, was 1.9 degrees Celsius, or 3.4 degrees Fahrenheit, above the baseline average for 1981-2010 and the second-highest in more than a century of record-keeping.

The outsized influence of the Arctic is why the assessment, called the Arctic Report Card, has been produced annually for the past 15 years by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. More than 130 experts from 15 countries contributed to this year’s version, which was issued at the annual conference of the American Geophysical Union.

In recent years Arctic researchers have increasingly come to recognize that the region is moving from a climate that is characterized less by ice and snow and more by open water and rain.

In a study published in September, two researchers with the National Center for Atmospheric Research, in Boulder, Colo., argued that for sea ice at least, a permanent shift had already occurred. Ice extent has now declined so much, Laura Landrum and Marika M. Holland wrote, that even an extremely cold year would not result in as much ice as was typical decades ago.

Donald K. Perovich, a professor at Dartmouth College and the lead author of the chapter on sea ice in the assessment, said that 2007 was a critical year. “We had the largest drop in ice extent we’d ever seen,” he said. “While there have been these variations since, we’ve never returned to those levels before 2007.”

“It’s as though we’re in this new state,” he said.

The age of sea ice is declining as well as the region warms. Three decades ago, ice that was at least four years old made up about a third of the Arctic Ocean pack ice at the end of winter. This year, according to the assessment, old ice accounted for less than 5 percent of the pack ice.

The increasing dominance of younger, and thus generally thinner, ice has contributed to the reduction in sea-ice extent, Dr. Perovich said, since thinner ice is less likely to last through a single season.

The shift from old to young ice has also led to a decline in overall ice volume. Volume this year, measured at the end of the melt season in September, was the second-lowest in the 10 years that satellites have been making reliable measurements.

The assessment noted how conditions in the Arctic affected the Mosaic expedition, in which a German research icebreaker was deliberately allowed to freeze into the pack ice north of Russia and drifted across the Central Arctic for most of a year. The expedition, Mosaic, ended in October when the ship left the pack ice between Greenland and Norway and returned to Germany.

At the beginning of the expedition in September 2019, the ship struggled to find an ice floe to use as a mooring that was thick and stable enough to last through months of drifting. And as the voyage proceeded, the wind patterns that brought such warm temperatures to the Arctic also caused the ice and the ship to drift much faster than expected.





No.15 article:
For a Nation on Edge, Antacids Become Hard to Find

First it was toilet paper. Then it was meat.

Now, it’s antacids.

People searching online or in stores for over-the-counter tummy soothers are finding that they can’t easily buy antacid medications like Tums, Pepcid and its generic version, famotidine, in parts of the country. A few weeks ago, Wegmans Food Markets took the step of limiting shoppers to two packets of famotidine products per trip.

During a pandemic that has seen bursts of hoarding, this may be the most unexpected.

Americans are stressed. They’re concerned about the rising number of coronavirus cases. They worry about their jobs. Remote learning is a nightmare, and grocery shopping is no walk in the park. Not to mention the elections. And now, here come the holidays. The result is that some people are dealing with “Pandemic Stomach,” acid-churning episodes that are increasing demand for over-the-counter and prescription antacids.

And antacids have also been popular with those who have yet to have any indigestion or heartburn. People began stocking up on them after preliminary studies suggested famotidine could reduce the symptoms of coronavirus. Another buying wave hit this fall when President Trump was treated for coronavirus and White House officials said he was on famotidine, along with zinc and vitamin D.

For those in need of relief, the shortages are maddening.

When Maia Callahan, 24, a recent early-education graduate who is teaching families and tutoring remotely in Greenfield, Mass., tried to drop her usual order of Pepcid into her online Stop &amp; Shop cart in early September, it kept saying the product was out of stock.

“I thought, OK, I’ll put an order in through Amazon,” said Ms. Callahan, who has an autoimmune disorder and has taken medication to treat her heartburn since she was 17. “That was the worst. One of the heartburn medications was three times the price it usually was. I wound up taking Tums for two weeks.”

Physicians said that when quarantines were lifted this spring, they started to notice more patients reporting symptoms of heartburn and acid reflux.

“I think part of it is the stress of everything going on in the world,” said Dr. Lauren Bleich, a gastroenterologist in Acton, Mass., about 25 miles northwest of Boston, who said she had seen a 25 percent increase in patients reporting heartburn and similar symptoms.

But she also said the coronavirus, which has uprooted people’s normal lives and forced many to work from home, had led to many “dietary indiscretions,” which are triggering these symptoms.

“We’re more lax than we used to be with alcohol or sweets or our comfort food,” Dr. Bleich said. “And then there’s the lack of activity or exercise. Weight gain definitely contributes to heartburn and acid reflux.”

Another culprit appeared in early November.

“We had a lot of people with upset stomachs, heartburn and indigestion around the election,” she said.

Dr. Atul Maini, the medical director for the Heartburn Center at St. Joseph’s Health in Syracuse, N.Y., said that while the specialized center had not seen an increase in patients, it had noticed a big difference among the patients it had treated since coronavirus quarantines were lifted.

“The patients coming in with heartburn symptoms were now extremely anxious and depressed,” he said. “Something else had changed.”

Companies that make over-the-counter medications are trying to meet demand.

“We are aware that there may be pockets of supply constraints,” a spokeswoman for GlaxoSmithKline, which manufactures Tums, said in an email.

For some antacids, though, the spike in demand can be tied to various preliminary studies that suggest famotidine, the key ingredient in Pepcid, may reduce coronavirus symptoms.

In the spring, some patients with Covid-19 at Northwell Health in the New York City area began receiving famotidine intravenously as part of a clinical trial, after reports of its use in China. The trial was paused in May as patient volume fell, and no conclusions were made. An observational study released this fall by Hartford Hospital in Connecticut indicated that it, too, had seen positive results among coronavirus patients who were given famotidine.

Of the approximately 900 Hartford Hospital patients treated for coronavirus in the spring, 83 were given famotidine at some time during their hospitalization. Those who received famotidine had lower in-hospital mortality rates and were less likely to need help breathing from a ventilator, the hospital said in its research report.

Still, the medical community is cautious about the early results. In late June, the Infectious Diseases Society of America recommended against the use of famotidine unless in the context of a clinical trial because of insufficient data.

Even before the preliminary research reports were released, demand for famotidine and Pepcid had risen sharply after the Food and Drug Administration in April asked companies to stop selling all forms of the heartburn drug Zantac, and recommended that consumers who took the over-the-counter version, known as ranitidine, stop doing so. Low levels of a cancer-causing chemical had been detected in samples of the drug.

As consumers and physicians shifted from Zantac to generic famotidine and Pepcid, drug makers struggled to keep up. Some manufacturers have reported shortages of the drug to the F.D.A. this year.

Johnson &amp; Johnson, which manufactures Pepcid, said that while most major retailers have enough supply to meet consumer demand, “we understand supply may still be temporarily out of stock in some stores and online,” a spokeswoman for Johnson &amp; Johnson said in an email. “We are taking all possible measures to ensure product availability in a timely and quality-based manner.” In July, executives at the company said over-the-counter medicine sales grew 30 percent in the United States in the second quarter on strong demand for adult Tylenol, Pepcid and other products.

For those who have been on Pepcid or generic versions of famotidine, the past few months have been a struggle.

“I got one bottle in February but have not received any since then,” said Mackenzie Doyle, a 21-year-old student at the University of Nebraska at Lincoln, who takes prescription-strength Pepcid to treat her immune disorder. Finding over-the-counter Pepcid was also difficult this spring, she said. When she visited her parents in Alabama over spring break, Pepcid was sold out in the four stores they visited.

“When the first round of panic buying happened, it was impossible to find Pepcid,” said Ms. Doyle, who eventually found some generic famotidine at Walgreens and takes double the dosage to get her prescription-level strength.

Ms. Doyle admits she has mixed feelings about the preliminary studies around famotidine and coronavirus. While she supports the research, she wonders if the names of the medications being used could have been withheld until more was known.

And then there are the just-in-case hoarders.

“Those make me a little angry,” Ms. Doyle said. “There are so many people who have my immune disorder and who have it worse than I do and need that medication to stay alive. To have people buying it and storing it in their bathroom cabinet and never opening the bottle, that stresses me out.”





No.16 article:
Virtual Cycling and Real Cheating: Cracking Down on ‘Digital Doping’

A highly anticipated race on Wednesday, sponsored by the Zwift cycling app and the sport’s world governing body, will test new controls on cheating in virtual competitions.

The cat-and-mouse battle between athletes who cheat and those who try to find them has gone digital.

With a proliferation of online endurance events during the pandemic, catching cheats is the challenge faced by companies like Zwift, which produces an app that allows amateur and professional cyclists and runners to compete against one another from home. Now, the company is trying to crack down on so-called digital doping, or the practice of manipulating race data to either improve digital performances or cover up human or technical errors.

“There’s so much cheating in Zwift that I think a lot of people would like to see more accountability,” said Ray Maker, who writes the endurance sports technology blog DC Rainmaker.

Yet professional athletes publicly accused of gaming the system by Zwift said that they did not intentionally cheat and that they had been made scapegoats as the company tries to show it is taking the matter seriously.

The pressure has been on to get the process right, especially leading up to a new event, the U.C.I. Cycling Esports World Championships, which the Union Cycliste Internationale, the global cycling governing body, is hosting on Wednesday.

It will be a race of 50 kilometers (about 31 miles) on Zwift’s virtual island Watopia, with each of the more than 130 entrants from 22 countries represented by an avatar. Male and female winners will be awarded 8,000 euros, or about $9,700, and a rainbow-striped champion jersey (both digitally and physically). The second- and third-place finishers will receive 4,000 and 2,000 euros.

Instead of the race’s taking place in an arena, as originally planned, riders will compete from their place of choice because of the pandemic. And so in addition to traditional antidoping controls to bar the use of performance-enhancing drugs, there will be data analysis to avoid digital doping, too.

“We feel confident in the ability to catch cheaters and to police the races,” said Chris Snook, a spokesman for Zwift.

To try to prevent the use of performance-enhancing drugs, the U.C.I. requested that athletes be part of an antidoping pool, which includes having proof of a biological passport (a record of biological markers following tests), providing their whereabouts for random testing in and out of competition, and complying with World Anti-Doping Agency policies.

A group called Zwift Accuracy and Data Analysis, made up of sports scientists and technical experts, will analyze riders’ race data. It will look at the riders’ race files registered on Zwift and on a second device, and inspect metrics from power meters and heart rate monitors to compare the athletes’ digital race performance to their past data.

Cyclists will race on bicycles mounted to turbo trainers, which are static devices used for riding bicycles indoors. Participants will all use the same model of turbo trainer as it requires no calibration — removing one potential route to cheating — and allows more standardized readings.

The data that determine race rankings are captured from the turbo trainer and include power, power per kilogram of the rider, cadence and speed. Within 24 hours of the start of the event, participants will also have to submit their height and weight through a recorded video process, providing additional data that will influence the rider’s power per weight numbers and final rankings.

When the race is over, athletes need to manually upload the second race file that they record on a second device connected to a power meter (usually a pedal or another device in their crank arms or chain rings). This second file is crucial for double-checking the validity of the first file registered on Zwift.

There have been several accusations of digital doping since 2019, when British Cycling stripped Cam Jeffers of his Cycling eRacing Championship title; he was barred from all races, real and virtual, for six months.

In November, news broke that two racers had been barred for six months from Zwift races for “fabrication or modification of any data” and “bringing the sport into disrepute,” according to a sentencing decision by Zwift. 

The athletes — Lizi Duncombe of Britain and Shanni Berger of Israel — were accused of providing manipulated files.

Duncombe has denied cheating; instead, she wrote on Facebook, her bike computer ran out of battery during the race, which meant she could not find a complete race file to upload. “I had a file that looked like the warm-up, and it was the only thing I could find, so I sent it,’’ she wrote.

A friend offered to help her find a full file, she wrote, but Zwift disqualified her after recognizing that the first file was a warm-up file. The second file she uploaded ultimately seemed to be an incorrect file, too — at which point, she wrote, she was accused of tampering.

In Berger’s case, the initial problem was that she had linked the wrong device (her power meter, rather than her trainer) to her online race, Zwift wrote. This disqualified her. Berger’s team provided Zwift with additional data from the race to prove Berger’s results, but those files had been manipulated, Zwift concluded.

Berger said that she was still confused about the incident and that she did not intentionally commit any wrongdoing. “I was positive that I connected my trainer,” she said. “I don’t see any reason for me to connect my power meter. It doesn’t make any sense. I even did a test before and sent everything to the director.” As for the accusation that files were manipulated, she said she did not know: “I think now everything is possible, but I don’t want to blame anyone, and it’s not my place to say.”

Berger, 19, said she received numerous hate messages after being barred; she said she has suffered from anxiety and thoughts of self-harm. “Ms. Berger strongly and utterly denies all of Zwift’s accusations against her, and is examining the possibility of taking legal action against Zwift,” her lawyer, Iro Monitz, wrote in an email.

Zwift has stood by its decisions. 

But the discussion in the cycling community over their cases and how to make the competitions fair and clear of manipulation has continued.

Maker, who writes the endurance sports technology blog, said: “There is zero reason technically that anybody, whether pro or amateur athletes, should have to have a secondary device on their handlebars recording data for backup. That should be handled in-game.”





No.17 article:
Why Is the G.O.P. Refusing to Recognize Its Own Success?

Republicans not named Trump fared quite well in 2020, not that you can tell from listening to them.

Far from overwhelming the Republican Party and sweeping it out of power, the extraordinarily high turnout of the 2020 presidential election probably saved its political prospects.

The top of the ticket lost, of course, but otherwise Republican candidates thrived, fending off very well-funded Democratic challengers and winning back seats lost in the 2018 midterm “blue wave.” The conventional wisdom for both parties — that high turnout gives Democrats an advantage — was wrong.

Losing the White House means that it is too much to call this a success, but it appears to be a foundation for future growth and a sign, perhaps, that a future, less divisive Republican president could lead the party to an outright popular majority.

TWITTER CHAT Jamelle Bouie discussed this column and took readers’ questions on Twitter.

Republicans should be optimistic. Instead, the party and most of its leaders have retreated into fantasy, at least in public. With few exceptions, Republican lawmakers have either embraced the president’s attempt to overturn the election results using false allegations of voter fraud, given it their tacit support or quietly watched as the effort has unfolded, unwilling to say or do anything in opposition (assuming they’re opposed). Out of 249 Republicans in the House and Senate, according to The Washington Post, 27 acknowledge Joe Biden’s win over President Trump. Among Republican voters, likewise, most say the election was marred by fraud.

The upshot of all of this — the charges of fraud, the refusal to acknowledge the president’s defeat — is a party prepared to do even more than it already has to restrict voting. “This election has shown we need major reforms to our election systems, including voter ID laws across the nation, to protect against fraud and rebuild the American people’s trust in fair outcomes,” Senator Rick Scott of Florida said in a statement touting a federal bill that would introduce a strict ID requirement in addition to making it more difficult to get a mail-in ballot. Representative Dan Crenshaw of Texas has similarly called for new ID requirements and a crackdown on mail-in voting. And Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky told his Twitter followers to “look at the evidence” of fraud “and decide for yourself” while he shared a conspiratorial blog post on “anomalies in vote counts.”

The results of the election clearly show that Republicans can compete in high-turnout conditions as much as they can when there are fewer people voting. But they have persuaded themselves that voters are the obstacle and that a smaller electorate is their best path back to power. Or, as Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said just after the election, “If Republicans don’t challenge and change the U.S. election system, there will never be another Republican president elected again.”

The obvious question is why are they doing all this. The president’s decision to spread conspiracies about the election is part of the answer, yes, but the commitment to anti-majoritarian politics runs deeper than just fealty to Trump. One way to understand the dynamic at work in the reflexive Republican retrenchment against voting rights is to think of it as a habit, not in the conventional sense, but as defined by the philosopher and social theorist John Dewey.

In his 1922 book “Human Nature and Conduct: An Introduction to Social Psychology,” Dewey defined “habit” as “special sensitiveness or accessibility to certain classes of stimuli, standing predilections and aversions, rather than bare recurrence of specific acts.” This use of “habit” he explained,

A Deweyan “habit” isn’t simply an action that repeats itself. It is, instead, an “active disposition” that shapes one’s response to one’s environment. We don’t deliberate about many or even most of our actions, we simply react. And the exact nature of those reactions are habits, acquired through our interactions with others, shaped by the conditions set by “prior customs,” part of the embedded context of our lives. Here’s Dewey again:

In 2008, record turnout among young people, Black Americans and other underrepresented groups put Barack Obama in the White House. In the wake of that victory, Republicans introduced a host of new voting restrictions. “Following the Tea Party’s triumph in the 2010 elections,” wrote Ari Berman in his chronicle of the post-1960s fight for voting rights, “Give Us the Ballot: The Modern Struggle for Voting Rights in America,” “half the states in the country, nearly all of them under Republican control — from Texas to Wisconsin to Pennsylvania — passed laws making it harder to vote.” These measures — strict photo identification rules, limits on early voting and mass purges of voting rolls — targeted the groups that got Obama across the finish line.

Few Republicans of note came out against this effort. Just the opposite: A cottage industry of voices selling the myth of mass voter fraud to eager listeners emerged on the right. And the president, of course, has used his power and platform to do the same. Years of rhetoric and legislation and propaganda have inculcated both a fervent belief in mass fraud and a particular response to Democratic victories.

Republicans, in other words, have developed a habit — an active disposition ready for overt manifestation — toward restricting the vote when met with electoral setbacks. And this reflex is so powerful that it overwhelms the evidence that Republicans might actually be better off with more low-propensity voters in the electorate.

You can probably see the irony. If, with their hold on state legislatures, Republicans successfully restrict voting access next year, they may inadvertently remove from the scene some of the voters who helped them thrive in an otherwise difficult year. This habit, in other words, won’t just harm democracy, it will harm their own partisan interests.

Then again, the Republican Party has developed another habit — reliance on our institutions of minority rule — and so far, it doesn’t seem to have the will or desire to break itself of that reflex either.





No.18 article:
In Farewell Speech, Udall Says Senate Has Become ‘Graveyard for Progress’

Senator Tom Udall, a retiring New Mexico Democrat, used his parting speech as a call to kill the legislative filibuster, arguing that it had caused paralysis and prevented action on big issues.

WASHINGTON — Senator Tom Udall urged his colleagues on Tuesday to kill the legislative filibuster that he said had helped turn the Senate into a “graveyard for progress,” using his farewell speech to point up a state of dysfunction in Congress that had become painfully obvious to most everyone listening to him.

“I’m not the first to say this in a farewell address, and I won’t be the last, but the Senate is broken,” Mr. Udall, Democrat of New Mexico, said on Tuesday in what is likely his final speech after 12 years in the deeply divided institution.

“The Senate is broken,” he repeated for emphasis.

For months, Americans have watched in anger as Congress remained mired in partisan paralysis over more pandemic relief, allowing unemployment benefits to lapse as many suffer from joblessness. Fewer people approve of the job lawmakers are doing in Washington than at almost any time in recent history. And the government watchdog group Common Cause ranked the current Congress the “least productive in history,” noting that only about 1 percent of bills introduced became law.

Mr. Udall emphasized this dysfunctional state of affairs on the floor, calling on senators to gut the legislative filibuster — which effectively requires a 60-vote supermajority to advance any major legislation — and change a culture he said valued partisanship over the country’s best interests.

Mr. Udall was the second senator in two weeks to use his farewell speech to express disgust at the current state of the chamber under the leadership of Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and his Democratic counterpart, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York. The pair often use the better part of their speeches at the beginning of floor sessions taking jabs at other, while few bipartisan deals are struck.

Mr. McConnell’s friend Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, who is retiring after 18 years, described the Senate last week as “like joining the Grand Ole Opry and not being able to sing.”

“It’s a real waste of talent,” Mr. Alexander said.

In recent months, Congress has failed to pass an infrastructure package, notwithstanding the widespread support for such a plan, or unite around proposals for police changes, despite bills offered by both parties with a nation gripped by unrest after police killings of unarmed Black Americans. The logjam over a new stimulus package — with negotiators intent on playing hardball rather than compromise — has been a constant source of frustration.

In recent weeks, a bipartisan group of senators has tried to change the dynamic and create a new more centrist power center in Washington, putting forward a compromise stimulus plan to try to break the impasse. And there were glimmers of momentum on Tuesday after months of stalemate as lawmakers and the White House redoubled efforts to get something done before the holidays.

But the general lack of legislating has raised serious questions about whether Congress can still function, and whether President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. will be able to enact any of his policy agenda.

Mr. Udall, a former New Mexico attorney general and a member of a storied political family from the West, said he laid much of the blame for the state of the Senate on the filibuster, while others, like Mr. Alexander, argue that it is merely the culture of the place that needs to change, not the rules.

In an interview with The New York Times last week, Mr. Udall detailed why he saw the 60-vote threshold as an impediment to coming up with answers for the existential problems of the moment, such as climate change.

“The filibuster came to be through historical accident,” he said on the Senate floor Tuesday. “The reality of the filibuster is paralysis — a deep paralysis.”

Proponents of eliminating the filibuster have proposed changing Senate rules so legislation could be muscled through with a simple majority vote of 51. Should Democrats win both of the two Senate seats up for grabs in January runoff elections in Georgia — thereby winning control of the chamber — ending the legislative filibuster would allow Mr. Biden to circumvent Republican opposition and push through his policy priorities.

Under current rules, the majority leader unilaterally chooses which measures advance to the floor for a vote, a process that has resulted in the confirmation of more than 200 conservative judges nominated by President Trump while more than 400 bills, including many progressive proposals from the House, languish.

Mr. Udall also lamented the state of American politics, calling the country’s campaign finance system “out of control.”

“Secret money floods campaigns to buy influence, instead of letting the voters speak,” he said. “Voting rights are under attack. We can do our best to be good people in a system like that, but it’s no surprise that America’s faith in government is declining. These structures are anti-democratic. They reward extremism. They punish compromise.”

After Mr. Udall was finished speaking, Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, said the Senate would be wise to listen to his advice. Mr. Merkley, like Mr. Udall, said he favored keeping a “talking filibuster” in which a senator can slow down legislation he or she opposes, but must do so by actually continuing to talk on the floor.

Mr. Udall “cares about the function of this body and has shared with us idea after idea about how we might make it work better — ideas we should still work to consider in the months and years ahead,” Mr. Merkley said.

Not long after Mr. Udall finished his remarks, Mr. McConnell and Mr. Schumer lashed out at each other over the stimulus talks. Mr. McConnell called Democrats “a wholly owned subsidiary of the plaintiff’s bar,” while Mr. Schumer accused Mr. McConnell of “sabotaging good-faith, bipartisan negotiations.”

Without a deal, unemployment benefits for freelance workers and the long-term unemployed and protections against evictions are set to expire after Christmas.





No.19 article:
Supreme Court Rejects Republican Challenge to Pennsylvania Vote

In a one-sentence order, the court refused to overturn election results that had already been certified and submitted.

WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused a long-shot request from Pennsylvania Republicans to overturn Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory in the state, delivering an unmistakable rebuke to President Trump in the forum on which he had pinned his hopes.

The Supreme Court’s order was all of one sentence, and there were no noted dissents. But it was nonetheless a major setback for Mr. Trump and his allies, who have compiled an essentially unbroken losing streak in courts around the nation. They failed to attract even a whisper of dissent in the court’s first ruling on a challenge to the outcome of the election.

The court now has three justices appointed by Mr. Trump, including Justice Amy Coney Barrett, whose rushed confirmation in October was in large part propelled by the hope that she would vote with the president in election disputes. But there was no indication that she or the other Trump appointees were inclined to embrace last-minute arguments based on legal theories that election law scholars said ranged from the merely frivolous to the truly outlandish.

Mr. Trump and his Republican allies have lost about 50 challenges to the presidential election in the past five weeks, as judges in at least eight states have repeatedly rejected a litany of unproven claims — that mail-in ballots were improperly sent out, that absentee ballots were counted wrongly, that poll observers were not given proper access to the vote count and that foreign powers hacked into and manipulated voting machines.

Mr. Trump has not come close — even once — to overturning the results of a single state’s election, let alone the results in at least three states that he would need to take a victory from Mr. Biden. And around the country, judges have started to express their frustration with his attempts to have the courts substitute their will for those of voters.

Last month, for instance, the federal appeals court in Philadelphia rejected a different challenge to the results in Pennsylvania in scathing terms.

“Free, fair elections are the lifeblood of our democracy,” wrote Judge Stephanos Bibas, who was appointed to the court by Mr. Trump. “Charges of unfairness are serious. But calling an election unfair does not make it so. Charges require specific allegations and then proof. We have neither here.”

“Voters, not lawyers, choose the president,” Judge Bibas wrote. “Ballots, not briefs, decide elections.”

On Friday, Justice Brian Hagedorn of the Wisconsin Supreme Court issued an even stronger statement in an opinion rejecting a Republican attempt to overturn that state’s elections results. “Judicial acquiescence to such entreaties built on so flimsy a foundation would do indelible damage to every future election,” he wrote. “This is a dangerous path we are being asked to tread.”

On Tuesday night, after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in the Pennsylvania case, the Arizona Supreme Court unanimously rejected a challenge to the vote in that state, saying it had failed “to present any evidence of ‘misconduct,’ ‘illegal votes’ or that the Biden electors ‘did not in fact receive the highest number of votes for office,’ let alone establish any degree of fraud or a sufficient error rate that would undermine the certainty of the election results.”

In the Pennsylvania case, the justices said they would not block a ruling from the state’s highest court that had rejected a challenge to the state’s use of mail ballots on Nov. 3.

The request that the Supreme Court intercede had faced substantial legal hurdles since it was filed long after the enactment of a 2019 statute that allowed mailed ballots and was based on questions of state, rather than federal, law.

In late November, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled against the plaintiffs, led by Representative Mike Kelly, a Republican, on the first ground, saying they could have challenged the 2019 law allowing vote by mail for any reason more than a year ago.

“At the time this action was filed on Nov. 21, 2020, millions of Pennsylvania voters had already expressed their will in both the June 2020 primary election and the November 2020 general election,” the court said. “Petitioners failed to act with due diligence in presenting the instant claim. Equally clear is the substantial prejudice arising from petitioners’ failure to institute promptly a facial challenge to the mail-in voting statutory scheme, as such inaction would result in the disenfranchisement of millions of Pennsylvania voters.”

The plaintiffs had asked the state court to nullify mailed ballots after the fact or to direct the state legislature to pick Pennsylvania’s electors.

The filing in the U.S. Supreme Court took issue with the Pennsylvania Supreme Court’s interpretation of state law and sought an order telling state officials not to take further actions to certify the vote in Pennsylvania or “to nullify any such actions already taken” while the plaintiffs pursued an appeal.

The U.S. Supreme Court does not ordinarily second-guess such rulings.

In urging the justices not to intercede, lawyers for the state said the Republicans’ requests were “an affront to constitutional democracy.”

“Petitioners ask this court to undertake one of the most dramatic, disruptive invocations of judicial power in the history of the Republic,” they wrote. “No court has ever issued an order nullifying a governor’s certification of presidential election results.”

They said there were four flaws in the challengers’ arguments. In the U.S. Supreme Court, the challengers said the state law was at odds with federal constitutional provisions governing elections. But they had not squarely made that argument in their main filings in the state courts, and the Supreme Court does not ordinarily decide questions not first decided by a lower court.

Moreover, lawyers for the state wrote, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court’s decision turned on a question of state law. That “adequate and independent state-law ground” for the decision, they wrote, bars U.S. Supreme Court review.

They added that the challengers had not suffered the sort of concrete injury that would give them standing to sue and that the 2019 law was not at odds with the state Constitution.

In any event, lawyers for the state wrote, the matter was moot, since the state’s election results in favor of Mr. Biden have been certified and submitted. The challengers’ remaining argument, they wrote, was that the Supreme Court should simply overturn the state’s election results. That request, they wrote, was breathtaking and unconstitutional.

As the court was dismissing the Pennsylvania case on Tuesday, a second election case came before it, an audacious lawsuit filed directly in the court by Texas against four other states. It asked the justices to extend the Dec. 14 deadline for certification of presidential electors.

The suit, filed by Texas’s attorney general, Ken Paxton, said Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin had engaged in election irregularities that require investigation, and it asked the court to “enjoin the use of unlawful election results without review and ratification by the defendant states’ legislatures.”

Legal experts called the suit preposterous. “It looks like we have a new leader in the ‘craziest lawsuit filed to purportedly challenge the election’ category,” Stephen I. Vladeck, a law professor at the University of Texas, wrote on Twitter.

The Constitution gives the Supreme Court “original jurisdiction” to hear disputes “in which a state shall be party.” In such cases, the Supreme Court acts much like a trial court, appointing a special master to hear evidence and issue recommendations. Though the Constitution seems to require the court to hear cases brought by states, the court has ruled that it has discretion to turn them down and often does.

When the court does exercise its original jurisdiction, it is usually to adjudicate disputes between two states over issues like water rights. In 2016, the justices turned down a request from Nebraska and Oklahoma to file a challenge to Colorado’s legalization of recreational marijuana. The states said the Colorado law had spillover effects, taxing neighboring states’ criminal justice systems and hurting the health of their residents.

Texas asked the justices to put its case on an exceptionally fast track. The court did not adopt the state’s proposed schedule but did call for responses by Thursday.

In a blog post, Richard L. Hasen, a law professor at the University of California, Irvine, called the Texas filing a “press release masquerading as a lawsuit.”





No.20 article:
Is American Dietetics a White-Bread World? These Dietitians Think So

Long before she decided to help others eat better by becoming a dietitian, Jessica Wilson learned that the profession was unlikely to offer much to people like her.

Growing up as a Black girl in a mostly white area of Sacramento, Calif., she was bullied for her size and subjected to unpleasant visits with dietitians, who taught portion control with the aid of unappetizing plastic models of green beans and chicken breasts.

In her dietetics program at the University of California, Davis, Ms. Wilson was the only Black student. A single day was devoted to what the curriculum called “ethnic diets.” “It was not, ‘These are interesting and awesome,’” she recalled. “It is, ‘These are why these diets are bad. Next class.’”

Mexican food was dismissed as greasy. Indian food was heavy. Ms. Wilson was taught to prescribe a bland “kale-and-quinoa” diet. When she started treating patients — including many who, like her, are people of color or identify as queer — she learned how much those identities informed their perspectives on health, and how little she’d been taught about that.

“It makes people feel so guilty for not being able to eat what Goop would recommend,” said Ms. Wilson, 38. “I was no longer able to use the tools that had been given to me in school with good conscience.”

As the coronavirus pandemic has made Americans more aware of their health and eating habits, many have turned to registered dietitians like Ms. Wilson (or to nutritionists, who are not always required to obtain a specific education or certification). Yet the advice they get can sometimes seem more tailored to some past era than to the motley, multicultural nation the United States is in 2020.

In recent years — and particularly in the last several months, amid the national discussion about race — many dietitians have begun speaking out and reimagining the practice in a more inclusive way, often without institutional support.

Today, Ms. Wilson counsels many people of color on eating a healthy diet based on the foods they grew up with and love. Hazel Ng, 48, who runs a private practice in Alhambra, Calif., has created handouts for her Chinese clients that showcase produce found in Asian grocery stores, like bitter melon and lychees.

In June, Sherene Chou, 36, a dietitian with a private practice in Los Angeles, organized a group letter to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics — the largest and most powerful organization for food and nutrition professionals — outlining steps it should take to address systemic racism in the field, including antiracism training and more support for people of color. Leaders of numerous dietetics groups lent their support, signing the letter on behalf of 70,000 practitioners and students.

Many of these dietitians say the academy’s research, programs and articles ignore non-Western cuisines, or imply that they are unhealthy. They feel the profession places too much emphasis on consuming less and not enough on understanding individual eating habits. And, they add, it perpetuates an ideal of thinness and gender normativity that can exclude different body types and identities.

“It is a good-old-girls’ club where, as a person of color, you have to do so much to be invited,” said Jessica Jones, a dietitian in Richmond, Calif., and a founder of the inclusive dietetics website Food Heaven.

In response to these criticisms, the academy said it is working hard to broaden its ranks and resources to better reflect different cultures.

“Like other professions in health care and countless other fields, nutrition and dietetics has for many years experienced underrepresentation by persons of color in its membership and leadership ranks,” it said in a statement last week. “The academy knows change will not happen overnight. Still, we are making real progress that will create permanent change in our organization, our profession and our communities.”

The group is influential in setting the United States Department of Agriculture dietary guidelines that Americans are urged to follow; its members make up half of the 20-member committee that oversees those recommendations. In a July report, the committee acknowledged that the dietary approaches it studies don’t “qualitatively address cultural variations in intake patterns,” yet said the resulting guidelines allow a “tremendous amount of flexibility” that allows them to be tailored to an individual’s cultural and taste preferences.

The recipe database on MyPlate, the agriculture department’s healthy-eating website, includes 98 dishes classified as “American,” but just 28 “Asian” recipes and nine “Middle Eastern” ones. Though it lists 122 “Latin American/Hispanic” recipes, they include dishes like a “skinny pizza” made with tortillas. The Asian recipes include “Oriental Rice” and “Oriental Sweet and Sour Vegetables.”(A spokesman for the department said that “expanding the recipe database and other MyPlate consumer resources to reflect more diversity is one of our top priorities.”)

If the options seem narrow, they may begin with the narrowness of the profession. More than 71 percent of the nation’s roughly 106,000 registered dietitians are non-Hispanic white, according to the academy’s Commission on Dietetic Registration. Nearly 84 percent are women.

Entry requirements are steep: Practitioners must earn a degree from an accredited program, complete an internship (sometimes unpaid) or a supervised learning program, and pass a registration exam with a $200 entrance fee. Starting in 2024, a graduate degree will be required to take the exam.

“This is an expensive profession, with no guarantee that you are going to have a high salary,” said Lisa Sasson, a professor in the department of nutrition and food studies at New York University. She called the new graduate-degree mandate “unconscionable” and “an even greater barrier to people of color in our profession.”

The academy said that its charitable foundation provided more than $500,000 in scholarships and grants from 2017 to 2019 “for diverse individuals within the field,” and that those funds continue to grow.

Internships are highly competitive, and some even require the intern to pay. Alice Figueroa, 33, who runs a private practice in the East Village of Manhattan, said she struggled to afford food during her internship, even as she was advising others how to eat. Evelyn Crayton, 74, who was the academy’s first Black president, said many of the people in charge of matching students with internships are white, and may be more likely to select applicants who look like them.

Funding for dietetics programs at many historically Black colleges and universities, including Fort Valley State University and Grambling State University, has been cut since the 1970s. The number of Black dietitians fell by 18 percent, to 1,107, from 1998 to 2019, according to the academy’s Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics.

Even when Dr. Crayton was president of the academy, in 2015 and 2016, she felt out of step with its other leaders. “I have heard that behind my back they called me an angry Black woman, because I raised questions,” she said. Her nominations of Black dietitians for leadership roles, she added, were frequently snubbed.

Told of her comments, the academy responded, “We were not aware of this until now, and we are very saddened to hear that Evelyn was subjected to these inexcusable statements. They do not reflect the academy’s core values and we are moving swiftly to investigate this matter.”

The profession’s exclusivity goes beyond race. Kai Iguchi, 28, a dietitian working at Rogers Behavioral Health in Oconomowoc, Wis., didn’t feel comfortable coming out as nonbinary to graduate-school classmates. “When the program itself as a culture is very cisgender, thin, white and female,” they said, “it is hard to be different and succeed.”

Mx. Iguchi said what they learned at school did little to address the unique problems that transgender and nonbinary clients face — being misgendered by their dietitians and family members, or feeling discomfort with overtly feminine imagery on health materials. Adult transgender people are also at high risk of developing eating disorders, according to a 2019 study by the Stanford University School of Medicine.

Even some dietitians who teach the standard curriculum find it wanting. “I have reached my limit with my textbook,” said Maya Feller, an adjunct professor in nutrition at New York University, adding that it doesn’t take into account social factors that often explain why people of color are disproportionally affected by health issues.

She said she was also unhappy with educational resources like MyPlate, which recommends meals like salmon, brown rice and broccoli, but not the curried chana and doubles served by her mother, who grew up in Trinidad. (After her interview for this article, Ms. Feller was hired as a consultant to help make MyPlate more inclusive.)

“If I saw that plate and then looked at my doubles, I would be like, ‘Well, my food is no good.’”

Ms. Feller, 43, tries instead to promote an “ongoing and consistent education around cultural humility” — not telling patients what they can’t eat, but considering the foods they have access to, and embracing, not stigmatizing, their cultural preferences.

It rankles Ryan Bad Heart Bull, 36, a Native American dietitian who works with the Oglala Sioux Tribe in Pine Ridge, S.D., that many of his peers praise the nutritional value of traditional Indigenous ingredients like salmon and bison, without understanding how federal government policies have made it harder for Native Americans to hunt and forage on their own land. To be ignorant of this cultural and historical context, “and then to turn around and say bison meat is one of the best meats you can eat and here are the ways you can incorporate it into your diet,” he said, “it is insulting and saddening.”

In 2019, he published a guide for the American Indian Cancer Foundation to educate Native cancer survivors about the nutritional value of their traditional foods.

Diksha Gautham, 27, a nutritionist in San Francisco, tells her mostly South Asian-American clientele that a healthy diet can include palak paneer and aloo tikki. As a child, she said, she harbored a blind perception that anything that wasn’t dry chicken and broccoli, including the dal and rice her mother cooked, “was bad for me.” No nutritional database she has encountered includes Indian ingredients, so she created her own guides to healthful Indian food.

A Toronto dietitian, Nazima Qureshi, 29, has self-published “The Healthy Ramadan Guide” with her husband, Belal Hafeez, a personal trainer. It includes meal plans that adhere to fasting guidelines, with recipes like stuffed dates and za’atar roasted chicken, and exercises to give people energy going into daily prayers.

Some of Dalina Soto’s Hispanic and Asian clients in the Philadelphia area have been told by other dietitians that they can’t eat white rice. “They shut down,” she said. “Either they go way to the extreme, where they are no longer eating any of their cultural foods, or the other side is, ‘I am just not going to manage my disease.’”

“My goal is to bring them in the middle,” said Ms. Soto, 32. She’ll suggest a salad alongside their rice and beans.

Still, many of these practitioners feel frustrated as they try to nudge the dietetic establishment toward change.

The profession is governed by the academy’s board. One subsidiary organization, the Commission on Dietetic Registration, sets professional requirements and fees; another, the Accreditation Council, certifies programs. Together, these entities and their majority-white leadership act as gatekeepers, their critics argue, limiting deep-rooted change.

The academy, which has about 100,000 members, funds research and hosts the largest annual conference for dietitians, the Food &amp; Nutrition Conference &amp; Expo. In 2016, it announced the Second Century Initiative, an effort to expand its reach and teachings around the globe.

The academy has had a diversity and inclusion committee since 1987. But, like all the academy’s committees, it is filled by volunteers. Teresa Turner, 37, a member from 2015 until May, said the academy offers the panel few “resources or benchmarks.” “Its only purpose,” Ms. Turner said, “is to make the academy look like they are doing something.”

The academy denied those assertions, saying the committee plays an active role, recommending strategies to recruit people from underrepresented groups to join the profession, and the academy, and promote their advancement.

A group that calls itself Audit the Academy (whose members include Ms. Turner, Ms. Figueroa and Ms. Chou) said the academy research it has seen is largely conducted by white dietitians studying nondiverse populations; if they study communities of color, they often do so from a white perspective. Members also see little representation of transgender and nonbinary people.

“If we are invisible in the research,” said Sand Chang, 42, an Oakland, Calif., psychologist who specializes in the transgender health and eating disorders, “we are going to be invisible in assessment and treatment.”

The academy, however, said it “offers materials, programs and educational opportunities to help its members provide care to a diverse array of clients,” including articles about treating transgender individuals.

In June, the organization responded to pressure from disaffected members by committing to developing action plans to address inequities in the profession. It has created a new Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Group, and conducted virtual forums to hear the concerns of 126 randomly selected members.

Shannon Curtis, 30, a Houston dietitian who helped found a group called Dietitians for Change, attended one of the sessions. “Although it was empowering to know that we are not the only ones screaming about this,” she said, “it was kind of a waste of time, in my opinion, because I am not exactly confident that they will take this information and put it into an action plan they will actually act on.”

Other organizations have emerged to address the inequities in the profession, like Diversify Dietetics, founded in 2018 by Tamara Melton and Deanna Belleny. It offers resources like mentors and educational materials to help students of color pass the registration exam.

In response to criticisms that it is harder for nonwhite dietitians to succeed in the profession, the academy offered an interview with Kristen Gradney, a senior director at Our Lady of the Lake Children’s Hospital in Baton Rouge, La, and one of several registered dietitian nutritionists who speak on behalf of the academy.

Ms. Gradney, 40, said that while the academy “has really missed the mark” in preparing dietitians to deal with diverse populations, it is starting to make progress. Still, she said “true change” would probably not come from the academy, but from grass-roots initiatives like Diversify Dietetics, where she serves on the advisory board.

In 2018, Dr. Crayton, the academy’s past president, hosted a conference in Montgomery, Ala., where she lives, for World Critical Dietetics, an organization that champions a more inclusive approach to dietetics. Panels discussed the role that unconscious bias plays in education, and whether the registration exam was fair to all students.

Dr. Crayton took participants to the Edmund Pettus Bridge, in Selma, where in 1965, peaceful protesters marched for civil rights. “I could never have done that with the academy,” she said with a laugh. She said events like that could help pave a path toward sweeping change.

“I don’t know how to get to people’s hearts, but it is a heart thing,” she said. In a discipline that deals with such a deeply personal matter — one’s eating habits — “there has to be a change of heart, where people really feel empathy for groups who they are trying to include.”

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.21 article:
House Passes Defense Bill Overwhelmingly, Defying Trump’s Veto Threat

The $741 billion measure passed with a veto-proof majority, setting up a potential showdown with President Trump in the final weeks of his term.

WASHINGTON — The House overwhelmingly passed a $741 billion defense policy bill on Tuesday that would require that Confederate names be stripped from American military bases, defying President Trump’s veto threat and moving lawmakers one step closer to a potential showdown in his final weeks in office.

The 335-78 bipartisan vote to approve the legislation that authorizes pay raises for American troops reflected optimism among lawmakers in both parties that Congress would be able to force the enactment of the bill over Mr. Trump’s objections, in what would be the first veto override of his presidency. The margin surpassed the two-thirds majority both the House and Senate would need to muster to do so.

It also amounted to a remarkable break from the president by Republicans, who refused to defer to Mr. Trump’s desire to derail the critical bill as his time in the White House comes to a close.

“Today the House sent a strong, bipartisan message to the American people: Our service members and our national security are more important than politics,” said Representative Adam Smith, Democrat of Washington and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. 

Congress has succeeded in passing the military bill each year for 60 years, with lawmakers in both parties relishing the opportunity to project strength on national security issues and support for the military. But Mr. Trump’s objections have threatened to upend that tradition, as he has warned since the summer that he would veto the bill.

He did so at first over the mandate — broadly supported by lawmakers in both parties in both chambers, as well as at the Pentagon — that the Defense Department strip the names of Confederate figures from military bases. More recently, Mr. Trump has shifted the focus of his threat, demanding that the bill include an unrelated repeal of a legal shield for social media companies.

“I hope House Republicans will vote against the very weak National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which I will VETO,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Tuesday in the hours before the vote. “Must include a termination of Section 230 (for National Security purposes), preserve our National Monuments, &amp; allow for 5G &amp; troop reductions in foreign lands!”

All but 40 Republicans — many of whom oppose the defense bill each year as a matter of principle — disregarded that appeal. Mr. Trump’s late demand to include the sweeping rollback of legal protections for social media companies in the military bill has divided his party. Some Republican leaders have publicly described the move as untenable and privately called it unreasonable.

Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, has said he will try to override a veto and has been privately lobbying the president to support the bill. But while Representative Kevin McCarthy, Republican of California and the minority leader, said on Tuesday that he would support the measure, he told reporters he would not vote to override an eventual veto, suggesting that members of the president’s own party should not join such an effort.

“Section 230 needs to get done,” Mr. McCarthy said, referring to the repeal of the legal liability for social media companies.

Senior lawmakers shepherding the legislation have hoped that mustering a veto-proof majority in favor of it would cow Mr. Trump into signing the bill. But they privately conceded that the president’s mercurial nature made it difficult to predict what he might do.

The sheer willingness of Republican leaders to mow over Mr. Trump’s objections — after initially laboring for weeks to try to accommodate them — was a stark departure from the deference the president has normally received on Capitol Hill from his own party. It underscored lawmakers’ impatience with Mr. Trump’s attempt to derail the national security measure over a social media provision that has nothing to do with it.

“As important as this issue is, it falls outside the jurisdiction of this bill, and deserves its own domain, and a separate vote,” said Representative Don Bacon, Republican of Nebraska and a member of the Armed Services Committee. “Do you think you’ll get a better bill in two months? The answer is no.”

The legislation contains a number of noncontroversial, bipartisan measures, including new benefits for tens of thousands of Vietnam-era veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange, a 3 percent increase in pay for service members and a boost in hazardous duty incentive pay.

But it also includes a slew of measures pushed by Democrats that were expressly intended to constrain some of the impulses that Mr. Trump displayed during his time in office. One Democrat, Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, voted present.

The bill would take steps to slow or block Mr. Trump’s planned drawdown of American troops from Germany and Afghanistan, and would make it more difficult for the president to deploy military personnel to the southern border. Lawmakers also included language that would compel the president to impose new sanctions against Turkey for its purchase of a Russian antiaircraft missile system, a step Mr. Trump has been reluctant to take despite the urging of lawmakers in both parties.

The legislation also directly addresses the protests for racial justice spurred over the summer by the killing of Black Americans, including George Floyd, at the hands of the police. It would require all federal officers enforcing crowd control at protests and demonstrations to identify themselves and their agencies. And it contains the bipartisan measure that directs the Pentagon to begin the process of renaming military bases named after Confederate leaders, a provision that Democrats fought to keep in the bill.

“We cannot ask today’s young servicewomen and men to defend our nation, while housing and training them and their families on bases honoring those who betrayed our country in order to enslave others,” said Representative Anthony G. Brown, Democrat of Maryland, and one of the sponsors of the provision. “America’s proudest achievements are defined by men and women who expanded the promise of freedom. That’s the history and those are the people we should honor.”

The legislation is slated to be considered this week in the Senate, where it is expected to pass overwhelmingly before it is sent to the president’s desk.

If Mr. Trump were to follow through with his threatened veto, the House would be the first to try at an override.





No.22 article:
U.S. Leaves Behind Afghan Bases — and a Legacy of Land Disputes

The U.S.-led coalition seized land for hundreds of military bases, most now held by the Afghan military. Villagers have fought for years to collect compensation and to get their property back.

At harvest time, as neighbors and relatives reap their crops, 80-year-old Jamal Khan can only look in despair on the plot of land that was the source of his family’s livelihood — until the American forces arrived over a decade ago.

Just before sunset one day, armored vehicles drove into fields of knee-high corn stalks, claimed about 30 acres that were co-owned by about as many families and quickly cordoned off the area with barbed wire. This was now Combat Outpost Honaker-Miracle, one of the roughly 1,000 military installations the United States and its coalition partners would prop up across Afghanistan.

“In the whole vastness of the lord’s world, I had this plot of land and this house that I am living in and nothing else,” said Mr. Khan, who lives the Watapur District of Kunar Province, in eastern Afghanistan. “We told them this is our private land, how do you suddenly put up here? They said nothing.”

Mr. Khan is one of countless Afghans whose land became a casualty of the U.S.-led war and the sprawling military infrastructure born from it. They have been forced to navigate a maze of Afghan and American bureaucracy and indifference, stoking a growing bitterness toward coalition forces and the Afghan government alike.

Despite the drawdown of American forces in Afghanistan from more than 100,000 in 2011 to fewer than 5,000, some of the property they occupied has not been returned. Instead, the bases and the land have been transferred to Afghan security forces.

The Americans have left Watapur but Mr. Khan does not have his land back, and similar conflicts linger across wide swaths of the country. In at least half a dozen of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces, The New York Times has found land disputes involving owners who said they had simply been shut out.

In a country where due process is nearly impossible in the face of corruption and state erosion, the U.S. presence has added to a long history of land disputes that have often served as an underlying cause of local conflicts.

The Taliban touts the swift resolution of disputes in its shadow courts as a strength, and the unresolved discord over land bolsters the insurgents’ message that not only are Afghans deprived of justice under the American-backed government, but that the U.S. military presence has added to the injustice.

Mr. Khan still carries a pile of documents: petitions to the government, and even confirmation letters from the U.S. Army that say he is the rightful owner. On several occasions, he says, delegations from Kabul came to investigate — and they asked the villagers for money to cover their expenses during the stay.

But the most painful reminder of the trespass is his collection of small receipts. Although the Afghan army now occupies his land, Mr. Khan is still required to pay tax on the plot.

Over the years of fighting, the size of the U.S.-constructed installations varied greatly. Some bases were sprawling, even housing their own fast-food chain restaurants. In other cases, coalition forces would briefly occupy empty Afghan homes, destroying or modifying walls for defensive purposes before leaving.

The Americans sometimes negotiated temporary leases with local farmers, but those agreements were vulnerable to manipulation by corrupt local warlords and strongmen who brokered deals. During shorter stays, homeowners were rarely compensated.

A Pentagon spokesman, Army Maj. Rob Lodewick, deferred specific questions about land disputes to the Afghan government.

“It would be the responsibility of the government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to adjudicate and compensate, as appropriate, any and all entities that claim ownership to areas and facilities” provided by the Afghan government for use by U.S. forces, he said.

The Afghan defense ministry, despite repeated requests, did not comment.

Today, most installations are controlled by Afghan security forces; the few U.S. bases that remain are shuttering now as part of the U.S. deal with the Taliban.

In northern Balkh Province, the U.S.-led coalition forces built a base next to the provincial capital’s airport. Amanullah Balkhi, a local businessman, says the installation occupied about 20 acres of his land.

The defense ministry said it was government land, Mr. Balkhi was told, but if he proved he owned it, the coalition would compensate him and pay rent. He says he fought a six-year legal battle that cost him about $2 million, which he covered by selling two of his apartment buildings, renting out more land and taking on $500,000 of debt.

“I have the deed, and the government and the courts have attested that this is my land,” he said. “But the Americans still have the land and they still deny me.”

Mr. Balkhi has become deeply depressed, he said, adding, “I have ruined my life to get my right, but I have gotten nothing.”

The story of a base in Panjwai, in southern Kandahar Province, is almost identical — and speaks to the troubling legacy the United States has left behind.

About 10 years ago, dozens of coalition vehicles arrived at the small village and eyed about 10 acres of vineyard owned by half a dozen villagers. They even tasted the grapes before getting to work building a new base.

“They didn’t carve a road where there was a trek, where we came and went — they carved a road for themselves through people’s lands, people’s gardens,” said Fida Muhammad, a tribal elder from Panjwai and one of the vineyard’s owners.

In the initial days, there was word that the coalition forces were offering compensation, but the area was so restive that approaching the base for money meant taking potentially lethal risks. Villagers feared the Americans would mistake them for the Taliban. And they knew that if they did manage to get their money, the Taliban, who were everywhere, would know and come after them for profiting from the occupiers.

The area was so lush that “you had to squint your eyes to find a dry patch,” said Rashid Gul, a village resident. But these days it’s desolate except for one small patch of vineyard.

“It ruined the irrigation system too — for five years, the irrigation canals were ruined, the land dried,” Mr. Muhammad said of the coalition base. “Many families left the area. They went to the city for daily labor.”

As one of the village elders, Mr. Muhammad took the lead in trying to get compensation and reclaim the land, to no avail. When the Americans ran the base, he said, the villagers’ claim was simply lost in bureaucracy; come tomorrow, come the next day, he was told repeatedly.

“We have lost hope of finding someone who can get us our right,” said Mr. Muhammad, who said he had made about 30 trips with petitions. “It’s just tiring ourselves, losing more money, but we can’t find a door to knock on for justice.”

When a base was transferred to Afghan control, the forces stationed there were often too preoccupied with defending it against Taliban attacks to pay much attention to land claims. Many of the Afghan commanders who rotated through simply did not care about the local residents’ grievances, which they saw as an issue between the farmers and the Americans.

Mr. Gul worried that even if one day the plot of land in Panjwai were returned, figuring out which piece belonged to whom could spark new disagreements.

Land disputes have been one of the main issues of conflict in the village, he said. Just two weeks earlier, Mr. Muhammad had to quell a feud because one farmer’s tractor had crossed the boundary of another man’s land.

“All this land is mixed up now, no one knows which piece is whose,” Mr. Gul said. “You will be amazed at what kind of fights will break out between people over this.”

Resolving those conflicts would require digging through government archives, hoping to find old property demarcation records.

Asked about how long that would take, he smiled a tired smile.

“This is Afghanistan,” he said.





No.23 article:
Quotation of the Day: What’s in a Name? A Patient Adds Shakespearean Flair

“It could make a difference to our lives from now on, couldn’t it?”

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, an improbably named 81-year-old from Warwickshire, England, who became one of the first people on earth to get a clinically authorized, fully tested Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday.





No.24 article:
Obama, the Best-Selling Author, on Reading, Writing and Radical Empathy

He invited authors and historians to the White House and had already published a best-selling memoir. That didn’t make writing his latest book, “A Promised Land,” any less of a grind.

Barack Obama’s new memoir “A Promised Land” is unlike any other presidential autobiography from the past — or, likely, future. Yes, it provides a historical account of his time in office and explicates the policy objectives of his administration, from health care to economic recovery to climate change. But the volume is also an introspective self-portrait, set down in the same fluent, fleet-footed prose that made his 1995 book “Dreams From My Father” such a haunting family memoir. And much like the way that earlier book turned the story of its author’s coming-of-age into an expansive meditation on race and identity, so “A Promised Land” uses his improbable journey — from outsider to the White House and the first two years of his presidency — as a prism by which to explore some of the dynamics of change and renewal that have informed two and a half centuries of American history. It attests to Mr. Obama’s own storytelling powers and to his belief that, in these divided times, “storytelling and literature are more important than ever,” adding that “we need to explain to each other who we are and where we’re going.”

In a phone conversation last week (a kind of bookend to an interview I did with him during his last week in the White House in January 2017), Mr. Obama spoke about the experience of writing his new book and the formative role that reading has played, since his teenage years, in shaping his thinking, his views on politics and history, and his own writing. He discussed authors he’s admired and learned from, the process of finding his own voice as a writer, and the role that storytelling can play as a tool of radical empathy to remind people of what they have in common — the shared dreams, frustrations and losses of daily life that exist beneath the political divisions.

Mr. Obama speaks slowly and thoughtfully but with the conversational ease that distinguishes his books, moving freely between the personal and the political, the anecdotal and the philosophical. Whether he’s talking about literature, recent political events or policies implemented by his administration, his observations, like his prose, are animated by an ability to connect social, cultural and historical dots, and a gift — honed during his years as a community organizer and professor of constitutional law — for lending complex ideas immediacy and context.

Talking about his favorite American writers, Mr. Obama points out that they share certain hallmarks: “Whether it’s Whitman or Emerson or Ellison or Kerouac, there is this sense of self-invention and embrace of contradiction. I think it’s in our DNA, from the start, because we come from everywhere, and we contain multitudes. And that has always been both the promise of America, and also what makes America sometimes so contentious.”

Mr. Obama’s thoughts on literature, politics and history are rooted in the avid reading he began in his youth. As a teenager growing up in Hawaii, he read African-American writers like James Baldwin, Ralph Ellison, Malcolm X, Langston Hughes, Richard Wright, Zora Neale Hurston and W.E.B. Du Bois in an effort “to raise myself to be a Black man in America.” And when he became a student at Columbia University in the early 1980s, he made a concerted effort to push aside the more desultory habits of his youth — sports, parties, hanging out — to try to become “a serious person.”

He puts “serious person” in quotes, he explains, “because I was very somber about this whole process and basically became a little bit of a recluse for a couple of years, and just was going to classes, wandering the city, mostly by myself, and reading and writing in my journals. And just trying to figure out what did I believe, and how should I think about my life.”

Mr. Obama says he “was very much the list keeper at that time.” He would “hear about a book, and then I’d read that book, and if it referenced another book, I’d track that one down.” And, sometimes, “It was just what was in the used-book bin because I was on a pretty tight budget.” He read everything from classics by Hemingway, Dostoyevsky, Cervantes, to novels like “Under the Volcano” by Malcolm Lowry, Doris Lessing’s “The Golden Notebook,” and works by Robert Stone. He read philosophy, poetry, history, biographies, memoirs and books like “Gandhi’s Truth” by Erik Erikson.

Not only did he read books voraciously, but he inhaled and synthesized the ideas he found in them, assimilating ones that resonated with his personal experiences and values. In those years, Mr. Obama recalls, “everything was just fraught with existential weight,” and he did not really regain his sense of humor until he moved to Chicago and began work as a community organizer.

“I got outside myself, right? You know, the self-indulgence of young people who take themselves too seriously, who have the luxury — because they don’t really have responsibilities — of wondering who they are and should I eat this peach? And suddenly, I was in neighborhoods where people are trying to pay the bills and keep their kids safe and make sure that neighborhoods don’t fall apart and they’ve been laid off. And my job was to help, and the wisdom, the strength, the fortitude, the common sense of the folks I was working with — who were all my mother’s age or older — reminded me that work wasn’t about me.”

While in Chicago, Mr. Obama began writing short stories — melancholy, reflective tales inspired by some of the people he met as a community organizer. Those stories and the journals he was keeping would nurture the literary qualities that fuel “A Promised Land”: a keen sense of place and mood; searching efforts at self-assessment (like wondering whether his decision to run for president stemmed, in part, from a need “to prove myself worthy to a father who had abandoned me, live up to my mother’s starry-eyed expectations”); and a flair for creating sharply observed, Dickensian portraits of advisers, politicians and foreign leaders. He describes then Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as a leader whose voice evinced a “practiced disinterest,” indicating “someone accustomed to being surrounded by subordinates and supplicants,” and, at the same time, a man who curated his photo ops “with the fastidiousness of a teenager on Instagram.”

The reading Mr. Obama did in his 20s and 30s, combined with his love of Shakespeare and the Bible and his ardent study of Lincoln, Martin Luther King Jr. and Reinhold Niebuhr, would shape his long view of history — a vision of America as a country in the constant process of becoming, in which, to use the words of the 19th-century abolitionist Theodore Parker, frequently quoted by Dr. King, that “the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice.” By looking back at history — at the great sin of slavery and its continuing fallout — while at the same time calling for continued efforts to bring the country closer to a promised land, Dr. King and John Lewis situated the civil rights struggle within a historical continuum, while invoking the larger journey in Scripture from suffering and exile toward redemption.

From his studies of these thinkers and activists, Mr. Obama took what he called the “Niebuhrian” lesson that we can have “a cleareyed view of the world and the realities of cruelty and sin and greed and violence, and yet, still maintain a sense of hope and possibility, as an act of will and leap of faith.” It’s a deeply held conviction that animates Mr. Obama’s most powerful speeches, like his commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Selma march and his 2015 “Amazing Grace” speech, delivered in the wake of the massacre at the Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C. That determination to find “hope in the face of uncertainty” also sustains his optimism today — he’s been buoyed by the engagement of a new generation of young people, demonstrated so powerfully during last summer’s George Floyd protests.

The personal and the political are intimately entwined in African-American literature — from the early slave narratives to autobiographies by Frederick Douglass and Malcolm X — and while the young Mr. Obama was constructing the philosophical tentpoles of his beliefs, he was also writing a lot in his journal, sorting through the crosscurrents of race and class and family in his own life.

His belief that Americans are invested in common dreams and can reach beyond their differences — a conviction that would later be articulated in his 2004 Democratic convention keynote speech, which introduced him to the country at large — not only echoes the ending of Ralph Ellison’s “Invisible Man” (in which the narrator concludes that “America is woven of many strands,” that “our fate is to become one, and yet many”), but is also an intrinsic part of his family history, with a mother who was born in Kansas and a father who grew up in Kenya.

In high school, Mr. Obama says, he and a “roving pack of friends” — many of whom felt like outsiders — discovered that “storytelling was a way for us to kind of explain ourselves and the world around us, and where we belonged and how we fit in or didn’t fit in.” Later, trying to get his stories down on paper and find a voice that approximated the internal dialogue in his head, Mr. Obama studied authors he admired. “As much as anybody,” he says, “when I think about how I learned to write, who I mimicked, the voice that always comes to mind the most is James Baldwin. I didn’t have his talent, but the sort of searing honesty and generosity of spirit, and that ironic sense of being able to look at things, squarely, and yet still have compassion for even people whom he obviously disdained, or distrusted, or was angry with. His books all had a big impact on me.”

Mr. Obama also learned from writers whose political views differed from his own, like V.S. Naipaul. Though frustrated by Naipaul’s “curmudgeonly sort of defense of colonialism,” the former president says he was fascinated by the way Naipaul constructed arguments and, “with a few strokes, could paint a portrait of someone and take an individual story or mishap or event, and connect it to larger themes and larger historical currents.”

So, Mr. Obama adds, “there’d be pieces of folks that you’d kind of copy — you steal, you paste, and you know, over time, you get enough practice that you then can trust your own voice.”

The scholar Fred Kaplan, the author of “Lincoln: The Biography of a Writer,” has drawn parallels between Abraham Lincoln and Mr. Obama, pointing out that they share a mastery of language and “a first class temperament” for a president — stoic, flexible, willing to listen to different points of view.

Like Lincoln’s, Mr. Obama’s voice — in person and on the page — is an elastic one, by turns colloquial and eloquent, humorous and pensive, and accommodating both common-sense arguments and melancholy meditations (Niagara Falls made Lincoln think of the transience of all life; a drawing in an Egyptian pyramid makes Mr. Obama think how time eventually turns all human endeavors to dust).

The two presidents, both trained lawyers with poetic sensibilities, forged their identities and their careers in what Mr. Kaplan calls “the crucible of language.” When Mr. Obama was growing up, he remembers, “the very strangeness” of his heritage and the worlds he straddled could make him feel like “a platypus or some imaginary beast,” unsure of where he belonged. But the process of writing, he says, helped him to “integrate all these pieces of myself into something relatively whole” and eventually gave him “a pretty good sense” of who he was — a self-awareness that projected an air of calmness and composure, and would enable him to emerge from the pressure cooker of the White House very much the same nuanced, self-critical writer he was when he wrote “Dreams From My Father” in his early 30s.

Although Mr. Obama says he didn’t have time as president to keep a regular journal, he would jot down accounts of important moments as they transpired. Like the time at a climate summit in Copenhagen, when he and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton crashed a meeting of the leaders of China, Brazil, India and South Africa because they were “avoiding me and a deal we were trying to broker that would, ultimately, many years later, lead to the Paris Accords.” After the meeting, he wrote down what had been said and what the scene felt like — he knew it was a good story.

Whereas 20 years ago, Mr. Obama says, he would have needed an army of researchers to help him with a presidential memoir, the internet meant he could simply “tap in ‘Obama’ and then the date or the issue, and pull up every contemporaneous article — or my own speeches, or my own schedule, or my own appearances — in an instant.” The actual writing remained a painful process, requiring him to really “work at it” and “grind it out.”

“This is a really important piece of business that I’ve tried to transmit to my girls and anybody who asks me about writing,” he says. “You just have to get started. You just put something down. Because nothing is more terrifying than the blank page.”

Mr. Obama wrote “A Promised Land” — the first of two volumes about his presidency — much the same way he’s worked on speeches and earlier books. Because he thinks the computer can lend “half-baked thoughts the mask of tidiness,” he writes his first drafts longhand on yellow legal pads; the act of typing it into the computer essentially becomes a first edit. He says he is “very particular” about his pens, always using black Uni-ball Vision Elite rollerball pens with a micro-point, and adds that he tends to do his best writing between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m.: “I find that the world narrows, and that is good for my imagination. It’s almost as if there is a darkness all around and there’s a metaphorical beam of light down on the desk, onto the page.”

While he was writing “A Promised Land,” Mr. Obama did not read a lot of books — maybe because he was “worried about finding excuses to procrastinate,” maybe because he gets swept up in books he particularly enjoys and can hear those authors’ voices in his head. But when he finished writing “A Promised Land,” he eagerly turned to his friend Marilynne Robinson’s new novel “Jack,” the latest in her Gilead series, and Ayad Akhtar’s “Homeland Elegies,” which he describes as “a powerful and searching examination of contemporary American politics and attitudes.”

What literature would he recommend to someone who just arrived in America and wanted to understand this complex, sometimes confounding country?

Off the top of his head, says Mr. Obama, he’d suggest Whitman’s poetry, Fitzgerald’s “The Great Gatsby,” Ellison’s “Invisible Man,” Steinbeck’s “The Grapes of Wrath,” Morrison’s “Song of Solomon,” “just about anything by Hemingway or Faulkner” and Philip Roth, whose novels capture that “sense of the tension around ethnic groups trying to assimilate, what does it mean to be American, what does it mean to be on the outside looking in?”

As for nonfiction: autobiographies of Frederick Douglass and Malcolm X, Thoreau’s “Walden,” Emerson’s “Self-Reliance,” Lincoln’s Second Inaugural Address, Dr. King’s “Letter From Birmingham Jail.” And Alexis de Tocqueville’s “Democracy in America,” which makes us remember, Mr. Obama said, “that America really was a break from the old world. It’s something we now take for granted or lose sight of, in part because a lot of modern culture so embodies certain elements of America.”

The last several years, Mr. Obama says, have made it clear that “the normative glue that holds us together — a lot of those common expectations and values have weakened, have frayed in ways that de Tocqueville anticipated” and that “atomization and loneliness and the loss of community” have made our democracy vulnerable.

“You don’t have to be glued to the news broadcasts to sometimes feel as if we’re just locked in this Tower of Babel and can’t even hear the voices of the people next to us,” he says. “But if literature and art are good at “reminding us of our own folly and our own presumptions and of our own selfishness and shortsightedness,” he adds, “what books and art and stories can also do is remind you of the joys and hope and beauty that we share.”

“I think whether you’re talking about art or politics or just getting up in the morning and trying to live your life, it’s useful to be able to seek out that joy where you can find it and operate on the basis of hope rather than despair. We all have different ways of coping, but I think that the sense of optimism that I have relied on is generally the result of appreciating other people, first and foremost, my own children and my family and my friends. But also the voices that I hear through books and that you hear through song and that tell you you’re not alone.”





No.25 article:
Elizabeth J. McCormack, Innovative Educator, Dies at 98

A former nun, she transformed Manhattanville College as its president before becoming a philanthropic adviser to major foundations and the Rockefellers.

Elizabeth J. McCormack, a former Roman Catholic nun who was the catalyst for sweeping changes at Manhattanville College in the 1960s and ’70s, and who later advised major foundations on philanthropic strategies, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 98.

Her grandson Nicholas Arons confirmed the death.

In recent decades Ms. McCormack had been one of the nation’s most influential philanthropic counselors, guiding the Rockefeller family, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation and other donors on the arts of humanitarian giving.

But she was best known to an earlier generation as the audacious president of Manhattanville, an independent liberal arts college in Purchase, N.Y., in Westchester County, from 1966 to 1974. She oversaw Manhattanville’s transformation from a women’s college to a coeducational institution. It was an era of cultural turmoil, when the relevancy and even the survival of small Catholic women’s colleges were in doubt.

To many traditional Catholics, Ms. McCormack had some unthinkable ideas. She recognized a contradiction in a college culturally bound to church traditions but dedicated to intellectual freedom. And in what the church regards as a cardinal sin but what she called compassion, she quietly advised a student on how to obtain an abortion.

Ms. McCormack was a nun for 30 years, but as she came to question church teachings on a number of issues she obeyed her conscience and left her order, the Society of the Sacred Heart. At 54, she married a divorced Jewish father of five children.

In her eight years as the college’s president, she never kept a paycheck, secretly turning each one over to her order. Later, as an adviser to philanthropies on the distribution of vast fortunes, she earned millions of dollars in salary herself and gave much of it away.

“I think now in retrospect I didn’t want the life that I would have had, had I not become a nun,” she told Charles Kenney for his book “No Ordinary Life: The Biography of Elizabeth J. McCormack” (2012). “I actually, from many points of view, had a much fuller life. I had a career. I was educated. I learned leadership. It really gave me an awful good life.”

Founded by a Catholic religious order as an academy for women in 1841 and reorganized as a college in 1917, Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart had long been a school of choice for young women from affluent and middle-class Catholic families. Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy and some of her daughters and daughters-in-law were among the graduates.

While not funded or controlled by the church, the college had always been identified with Roman Catholicism. Prayer and Masses were elements of life. Gregorian chant was a required course. Many teachers were Sacred Heart nuns. Ms. McCormack, a 1944 Manhattanville graduate, wore the order’s black habit for much of her presidency.

But to win state and federal grants, as well as more students, single-sex education and ties to Catholicism had to go. As she told Mr. Kenney: “It became clear to me that it was change or go out of business, and what the change had to be was making the college available to a larger pool of students — Catholic, Protestant, Jewish, male, female. It was change or die.”

In stages, Ms. McCormack transformed an elite, traditionally Catholic women’s school into a nonsectarian coeducational college with a new name, progressive curriculums and a more racially, ethnically and religiously diverse student body and faculty.

“I did some very difficult things, which were important for the future of the college,” Ms. McCormack said in an interview for this obituary in 2017. “I received praise and blame. But I believe one has to make difficult decisions and stick to them.”

Dismantling the school’s Catholic identity meant dropping the Sacred Heart name and cherished symbols of Christianity, including hundreds of crucifixes. Ms. McCormack and three young nuns gathered them up from all over the campus and, with groundskeepers’ shovels, buried them in the woods behind a playing field.

They did it on a Good Friday, the commemoration of the burial of Christ. “We thought it was an appropriate day,” she told Mr. Kenney.

She introduced curriculum changes over four years, eliminating grades and course requirements for graduation in favor of a “portfolio system,” with students charting their own courses of study and keeping portfolios of their work and extracurricular activities. A faculty board judged their achievements for graduation.

There were painful adjustments. In 1969, Black students occupied a classroom building, accusing the college of tolerating racism. Ms. McCormack did not call the police, but in five days of talks with protesters, she insisted that racial justice and the rights of the college community were valid causes. She made no definitive promises, and the protesters left peacefully after a week.

Manhattanville began admitting men in the 1971-72 academic year. A dormitory became coed, and curfews were dropped. By the end of her tenure, enrollment, 935 students when she started, had more than doubled, to 2,000, and government grants and private endowments were starting to roll in.

Over the years there were fusillades of protest from parents, alumnae and traditional Catholics, and once a bomb threat. Ms. McCormack said she received a picture of a stained-glass window depicting Judas kissing Jesus.

“This is you, Sister,” an anonymous alumna wrote.

“My thought was, ‘We certainly didn’t teach you Christian charity,’” Ms. McCormack told The Times.

But, Mr. Kenney wrote, “many of her accomplishments drew little controversy and set her mark upon the institution for many years to come.” He added, “The changes Elizabeth made almost certainly saved the college from closing.”

Even before stepping down as Manhattanville’s president, she had begun to question Catholic teachings on celibacy, birth control, divorce, homosexuality and abortion. She also questioned her own vocation. In 1974, she was released from her vows.

By then, she said, she was in love with Jerome Aron, whom she had hired as the college’s chief financial officer in 1969. After his divorce, they were married in 1976 by a rabbi, and then in 1978 in a Catholic ceremony. Mr. Aron died in 2004.

In addition to Nicholas Arons, her grandson, Ms. McCormack is survived by four of Jerome Aron’s children, Nan, Peter, Betsy and Mark Aron; six other grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.

Elizabeth Jane McCormack was born in Manhattan on March 7, 1922, one of two children of George and Natalie (Duffy) McCormack. Her father was the president of an architectural firm. In 1926, the family moved to Larchmont, N.Y.

She attended St. Augustine’s Academy in Larchmont, and in 1940 she graduated from Maplehurst, a Catholic girls’ boarding school in the Bronx. She read voraciously, especially the Romantic poets Shelley, Keats and Coleridge.

Ms. McCormack attended Mass daily at Manhattanville and was in her senior year when she decided to become a nun. She took her final vows in Rome in 1952. After four years as headmistress of a Catholic high school in Greenwich, Conn., she earned a master’s degree at Providence College in Rhode Island and a doctorate at Fordham University in the Bronx. She joined the Manhattanville staff in 1958 and was a dean and administrator before becoming president.

Ms. McCormack became a philanthropic adviser to the Rockefeller family in 1974. She had little money, and a Rockefeller lawyer asked about that.

“She pulled out past checks that she had received as salary for being the college president — seven years’ worth of checks, and every one — one after the other — was signed over to the Society of the Sacred Heart,” Mr. Kenney recalled. “She had never cashed her paychecks.”

She began advising 22 Rockefeller cousins, the great-grandchildren of the patriarch, John D. Rockefeller. Their interests were scattered. But her personalized guidance focused on conservation, health, education, the arts and other beneficiaries.

Ms. McCormack, who lived in Manhattan, became a trustee of the Population Council, chairwoman of the MacArthur Foundation and a director of the Atlantic Philanthropies, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and dozens of other foundations, corporations and colleges.

“To use your money to make a difference is something one has to learn,” Ms. McCormack wrote in a 2004 article for The Chronicle of Philanthropy. “You have to think broadly, and in my opinion, give narrowly.”





No.26 article:
Nepal and China Say Mount Everest Is Two Feet Higher

In a sign of their increasingly close ties, the two countries jointly announced a new measure for the peak: 8,848.86 meters, or 29,031.7 feet.

KATHMANDU, Nepal — On Tuesday, Mount Everest grew by more than two feet.

So agreed China and Nepal, two countries that share a treacherously mountainous border and increasingly warm relations. They announced that they had determined the exact height of the world’s tallest mountain, a subject to which the Nepalese government has attached increasing symbolic importance over the years.

Officially, according to Kathmandu and Beijing, Mount Everest stands at 8,848.86 meters, or 29,031.7 feet. For 65 years, the consensus height had been 8,848 meters, or 29,028.87 feet.

As Mount Everest has grown, said Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, Nepal’s foreign affairs minister, in a joint virtual briefing with his Chinese counterpart, so have ties between the world’s second-largest economy and its 101st.

The China-Nepal relationship “will rise across the Himalayas, and it will reach a new height,” Mr. Gyawali said.

Xi Jinping, China’s top leader, endorsed the new measure. The announcement fulfilled a promise Mr. Xi made a year ago during a visit to the Nepali capital, where he announced with his Nepali counterpart, Bidya Devi Bhandari, that the countries would jointly measure the mountain.

China’s relations with its other Himalayan neighbors have not been as warm. Tensions with India soared in June when unarmed troops from both countries brawled in perilously craggy territory that they both claim, killing 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number on the Chinese side, though the two sides have pledged to ease tensions. China also recently completed a village built in territory claimed by Bhutan, another Himalayan country.

Beijing has been more deferential to Nepal. Communist parties friendly with Beijing won elections there in 2017. China views Nepal as key to its Belt and Road Initiative, which envisions highways, railroads and other big-ticket projects built with Chinese financing across the old Silk Road routes that once connected China to the West. China has moved closer to Nepal as the Himalayan country’s relations with India have worsened.

Against that backdrop, India’s surveyor general offered in 2017 to remeasure Mount Everest. With wounded pride, Nepal said its surveyors were plenty capable of measuring the mountain on their own.

Nepal also initially declined an offer from China but eventually agreed to make it a joint project. Earlier this year, with the mountaineering season canceled because of the coronavirus pandemic, China sent a survey team up to Mount Everest’s summit with global satellite receivers to measure its northern side.

Nepal had measured the southern side the year before. Nepalese climbers had to work with Indian survey data when it came to precise sea level, since the country is landlocked. From there, they climbed Everest’s snowy ridges in May 2019 carrying the global navigation satellite receiver and an antenna. They stood on the world’s highest point for nearly two hours to capture satellite data.

According to Khim Lal Gautam, the survey officer who led Nepal’s measurement expedition team, it was the first time a surveyor had captured satellite data at that point. Previously, he said, Sherpas, or mountain guides, had done it.

“We made it possible,” Mr. Gautam said.

Though it looks immutable, even Mount Everest shifts with time and tectonics. In the aftermath of a devastating 2015 earthquake, it was widely speculated that several Himalayan peaks, including Mount Everest, had shrunk. The new dual measurements suggest the opposite.

Scientists say Everest is getting taller. As the Indian plate slips under the Eurasian plate, it lifts up the Himalayas. But earthquakes can reduce peaks’ heights.

Even without those variables, people have pegged Mount Everest at different heights. In the 19th century, Sir George Everest, the former surveyor general of the British-India Survey Office, and his team measured the peak at 8,840.07 meters, or 29,002.85 feet. Since then India, China, the United States, Italy and Denmark have put forth their own measurements.

Nepal has rejected them all — and it has long eschewed the mountain’s colonial-era name, too. During the joint briefing on Tuesday, China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, referred to the mountain as “Qomolangma,” its Tibetan name. Nepal’s foreign minister, Mr. Gyawali, called it “Sagarmatha,” its Nepali name.





No.27 article:
Two Presidents, Two Messages, One Killer Virus

In split-screen assessments of the coronavirus pandemic, President Trump focused on the “medical miracle” of vaccines and President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. warned of a “very dark winter.”

WASHINGTON — One president all but declared victory over the pandemic, hailing new vaccines as a “medical miracle” and congratulating himself for doing what “nobody has ever seen before.” The next president declared the pandemic deadlier than ever, calling it a “mass casualty” event that is leaving “a gaping hole” in America with more misery to come.

“We’re here to discuss a monumental national achievement,” President Trump boasted on one screen. “From the instant the coronavirus invaded our shores, we raced into action.”

“We’re in a very dark winter,” President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. said minutes later in his own speech on another screen. “Things may well get worse before they get better.”

Rarely has there been a single hour on a single day that saw such discordant messages emanating from Washington in a time of national crisis. In the middle of a transition of power that has already proved more unsettling than any in more than a century, the departing and incoming presidents on Tuesday offered the American people vastly divergent assessments of the state of their union.

The split-screen speeches beamed from the White House and the headquarters of the next administration in Wilmington, Del., could hardly have underscored the differences between the 45th and 46th presidents more starkly. Mr. Trump offered told-you-so triumphalism as he bragged about the “incredible,” “amazing” and “unprecedented” development of vaccines for the coronavirus. Mr. Biden projected feel-your-pain empathy, urged resisters to wear masks and warned that “this mess” would not end quickly.

At Mr. Trump’s event, dozens of officials and guests crowded into an auditorium, most of them wearing masks, which is a change for this White House. But they were still not socially distant. The president himself, who was hospitalized with Covid-19 in October, wore no mask as 15 members of his team gathered behind him for the signing of an executive order meant to prioritize the vaccine for Americans over people in other nations.

At Mr. Biden’s event, where he formally announced his top health care nominees and advisers, only a handful of people were present, all masked and sitting far apart. Some of those whose appointments he announced beamed in their remarks remotely. Shortly before the event, the Biden team made its regular announcement that the president-elect had once again tested negative for the virus.

The contrast comes at a perilous moment for the United States as coronavirus cases keep rising to new peaks, hospitals are overwhelmed with sick patients and the number of virus deaths is spiking. The new vaccines developed on Mr. Trump’s watch may be approved within days. But only health care workers and the most vulnerable Americans will get inoculated in the short term, and most Americans will likely not get access to lifesaving shots until spring.

The American tradition of one president at a time during the 10-week period between election and inauguration days has fallen by the wayside as Mr. Biden seeks to assert moral leadership even without the instruments of power. Mr. Trump spreads evermore outlandish claims about an invented conspiracy to steal the election and evermore desperate efforts to overturn the will of the people.

More than 53,000 people have died of the coronavirus in the United States since the Nov. 3 election, and at the current rate another 97,000 could die by Jan. 20 when Mr. Biden takes over — roughly the equivalent of every man, woman and child living in Albany, N.Y., or Dearborn, Mich., or Erie, Pa.

But Mr. Trump, who repeatedly claimed during the campaign that the pandemic was “rounding the corner,” has shown almost no interest in talking about it since then. Nor has he offered any guidance to Americans about how to protect themselves beyond trumpeting the new vaccines.

“People that aren’t necessarily big fans of Donald Trump are saying whether you like him or not, this is one of the greatest miracles in the history of modern-day medicine or any other medicine, any other age of medicine,” Mr. Trump said during his “Operation Warp Speed Vaccine Summit” on Tuesday.

Intent on claiming credit and disproving his critics, the White House played a videotape mashing together clips of pundits and doctors — including Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, a member of Mr. Trump’s own coronavirus task force — cautioning against expecting fast action on a vaccine. The tape did not note that many experts warned that any vaccine would not be widely available until next spring, which is the timetable now envisioned, nor did it show Mr. Trump promising as far back as March that a vaccine would be available almost immediately, which it was not.

But Mr. Trump was correct that with his administration prodding Operation Warp Speed, the vaccine was developed faster than any has been produced before in medical history. It represents a major breakthrough that should change the course of the pandemic, even if not as quickly as the president has previously claimed.

“Nobody thought it was even remotely possible to do what we’ve done in a period of less than nine months,” Mr. Trump said. “And we took a lot of heat when we said this is our goal.”

Now, he said, “we want to just get back to normal, get back to where we were a little more than nine months ago, when we were doing incredibly, and in many respects, we are still doing incredibly, with our stock markets and everything else, which are hitting all new highs.”

The new highs he did not want to talk about were the coronavirus cases. When a reporter asked about the message to Americans as they wait for the vaccines to become available, Mr. Trump brushed it off, noting that protocols devised by public health experts “are very important guidelines” before quickly pivoting back to the vaccines. “The vaccine was our goal,” he said. “That was No. 1 because that was the way it ends.”

He likewise dismissed concerns about Christmas parties that he has been hosting in recent days at the White House with crowds far larger than public health guidelines dictate. “Well, they’re Christmas parties and frankly, we’ve reduced the number very substantially as you know,” he said. “And I see a lot of people at the parties wearing masks.”

From his own stage in Wilmington, Mr. Biden presented the situation quite differently, painting a grim picture of grief and suffering. He noted that last week the coronavirus was the No. 1 cause of death in the United States and that Black, Hispanic and Native American people were dying in far greater numbers proportionately.

Unlike Mr. Trump, who made no mention of the victims of the pandemic, Mr. Biden addressed them directly. “For families and friends left behind, there’s a gaping hole in your heart that will never be fully healed,” he said. “As a country, we’ve been living with this pandemic for so long, we’re at risk of becoming numb to its toll on all of us. You know, we’re resigned to feel that there’s nothing we can do, that we can’t trust one another, that we must accept death, pain and sorrow.”

Mr. Biden said that he would “credit everyone” involved in developing the vaccine without mentioning Mr. Trump, but said that “developing a vaccine is only one herculean task.” He also expressed concern that under the Trump administration plan, vaccinations would stall after the initial doses are administered unless Congress approves more money.

Waiting for a shot, however, is not enough, he said. He vowed to require mask wearing on federal property and on interstate planes, trains and buses while encouraging Americans in other settings to also cover their faces at least for the first 100 days of his presidency to break the back of the outbreak.

“We need your help,” he said. “Wear a mask for just 100 days. It’s the easiest thing you can do to reduce Covid cases, hospitalizations and deaths. Help yourself, your family and your community. Whatever your politics or point of view, mask up for 100 days once we take office, 100 days to make a difference. It’s not a political statement. It’s a patriotic act.”

But as he faces the prospect of taking over a country afflicted by disease, he sought to leaven his grim message with hope, promising to channel hardship into commitment for action. “Out of our collective pain,” he said, “we’re going to find collective purpose, to control the pandemic, to save lives and to heal as a nation.”





No.28 article:
Biden’s Pentagon Pick Reignites Debate Over Civilian Control of Military

Congress would need to approve a waiver for Lloyd J. Austin III, a recently retired general, to serve in the civilian post, four years after President Trump’s first defense secretary received one.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s intention to nominate a retired Army general as secretary of defense has run into bipartisan resistance on Capitol Hill, where there are growing concerns about another former commander leading the Pentagon in a nation that has a long tradition of civilian control of the military.

Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, a four-star Army general who retired in 2016, was named on Tuesday by Mr. Biden as his pick — and would be the first Black defense secretary. But General Austin would need a congressional waiver to serve, required for any Pentagon chief who has been retired from active-duty military service less than seven years.

Rejecting a waiver for such a historic nominee could be tricky for lawmakers, especially those who four years ago approved a similar measure for President Trump’s first defense secretary, Jim Mattis, a retired four-star Marine officer. But many lawmakers said Tuesday they do not want the practice enshrined into American political life.

“I have the deepest respect and admiration for General Austin,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat who serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee. “His nomination is exciting and historic. But I believe that a waiver of the seven-year rule would contravene the basic principle that there should be civilian control of a nonpolitical military.”

Many lawmakers said they reluctantly voted for a waiver for Mr. Mattis to provide a seasoned counterbalance to Mr. Trump’s inexperience and bombastic style, and now question the need to violate a cornerstone of American national security policy so quickly again. An approval for General Austin would underscore how deeply Mr. Trump has altered the norms in civilian oversight of the military.

“I supported a one-time waiver in the case of Secretary James Mattis with the belief that the circumstances at the time warranted a rare exception, not the establishment of a new precedent, which erodes the basic principle of civilian control of the military,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. “I would need to take a hard look at the Biden administration’s justification for such a waiver before reaching a conclusion on whether or not one is warranted in this case.”

The chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, said on Tuesday that he did not see an issue with the waiver. General Austin has several weeks to make his case to lawmakers, which many on Capitol Hill and in the military policy community believe he can do successfully. Mr. Inhofe’s nod will be important. And, as was the case with Mr. Mattis, it is possible that General Austin will receive more support from Republicans than Democrats.

Congress and the American public historically have been unwaveringly opposed to the military operating outside the control of civilian authorities, something common in authoritarian and unstable regimes. General Austin would be only the third defense secretary in American history to receive such permission, the first being George C. Marshall in 1950.

Both the Senate and the House must approve a waiver, but only the Senate votes to confirm the nomination.

Mr. Biden could have selected another prominent Black candidate, Jeh C. Johnson, a former homeland security secretary and Pentagon general counsel, who is an accomplished Washington insider. But officials familiar with Mr. Biden’s thinking said he saw General Austin as a safe choice — steady, low-key and risk-averse — as well as someone he has known and worked with since the general was the top commander in Iraq a decade ago.

“General Austin has demonstrated exemplary leadership, character, and command,” Mr. Biden said in a statement on Tuesday. “He is uniquely qualified to take on the challenges and crises we face in the current moment, and I look forward to once again working closely with him as a trusted partner.”

In a longer essay in The Atlantic published on Tuesday, Mr. Biden said General Austin’s experience in drawing down 150,000 troops from Iraq would serve him well in the military’s effort to distribute vaccines for the coronavirus, and urged Congress to approve the waiver.

“I respect and believe in the importance of civilian control of our military and in the importance of a strong civil-military working relationship at DoD — as does Austin,” Mr. Biden wrote, using the initials for Department of Defense. “Austin also knows that the secretary of defense has a different set of responsibilities than a general officer and that the civil-military dynamic has been under great stress these past four years. He will work tirelessly to get it back on track.”

Critics of General Austin’s selection said, however, that retired four-star generals do not necessarily make effective civilian secretaries of defense.

“Military service tends to give people excellent organizational skills and knowledge of defense policy, and those who make a career of the military tend to have good leadership skills,” said Kori Schake, who directs foreign and military policy studies at the conservative American Enterprise Institute and served on the National Security Council under President George W. Bush.

But other traits are necessary, Ms. Schake added, noting that “diversity of experience really matters, and bringing nonmilitary skills into the Pentagon improves the quality of analysis, because the building’s already replete with people who have military skills.”

For Mr. Mattis in 2017, only 36 House Democrats supported the waiver, even though it easily passed the Senate. In that vote, Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the senior Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, said Mr. Mattis’s case was a rare exception.

“Waiving the law should happen no more than once in a generation,” Mr. Reed said at the time. “Therefore, I will not support a waiver for future nominees.” On Tuesday, Mr. Reed seemed to back away somewhat from his earlier remarks in an interview with reporters on Capitol Hill. “I feel, in all fairness, you have to give the opportunity to the nominee to explain himself or herself,” he said.

Senators of either party who voted for a waiver for Mr. Mattis might find it difficult to explain why they would then reject one for a nominee who would be the first Black defense secretary.

“We want to make sure he is the right person,” said Senator Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa. “I did support the one for Mattis; it was hard for me to do, because I do believe that there needs to be some distance between the nominee and their service.”

Senator Josh Hawley, a Missouri Republican who, like Ms. Ernst, is on the Armed Services Committee, told reporters that “I’ve got substantive concerns” about the waiver.

Some lawmakers continued to make the case for Michèle A. Flournoy — a former top Pentagon official whom many in Washington had supported for the job.

“Former generals as SecDef should be the exception not the norm,” Representative Michael Waltz, Republican of Florida and a former Army Green Beret, said in a Twitter message. He praised Ms. Flournoy as qualified on a range of pressing issues, including the defense industrial base and China, and added, “Too bad nominating the 1st female SecDef isn’t ‘diverse’ enough for #Biden and House Dems.”

Representative Elissa Slotkin, a Michigan Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, said in a statement that she had “deep respect” for General Austin, but noted: “Choosing another recently retired general to serve in a role that is designed for a civilian just feels off. The job of secretary of defense is purpose-built to ensure civilian oversight of the military.”

Other Democrats on the Senate committee, including Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois, a veteran, voted against the waiver for Mr. Mattis and are expected to reject one for Mr. Biden’s nominee.

Several scholars who have studied civilian-military relations, including some who supported a waiver for Mr. Mattis, also say they oppose such a move this time.

“Mattis, like Marshall, was an emergency situation; this isn’t,” said Eliot A. Cohen, the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and a former Pentagon official. “The law prohibiting recently serving officers from serving as secretary of defense is sound, and there are plenty of good civilian candidates. It’s a breach of civil-military norms.”

General Austin, 67, is the only African-American to have headed the military’s Central Command, the marquee combat command, with responsibility for most of the places where the United States is at war, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Yemen and Syria. Mr. Biden spent time during his years as vice president in the White House Situation Room with General Austin and had a level of personal comfort with him that he feels is essential to the role, said people familiar with his thinking.

The Congressional Black Caucus also threw its support Tuesday behind the retired general. “Black Americans have sacrificed their lives for this country in every war since the Revolutionary War,” the caucus said in a statement. “Appointing retired Gen. Lloyd Austin to a position of command and authority over the United States military, second only to the president of the United States, is historic and well deserved.”





No.29 article:
Becoming a Part of the Story

How our day at the food pantry hit close to home. Plus, your questions about vaccine distribution, answered.

Hey, hey everybody — Happy Friday. Our team is on the hunt for new things to watch this weekend, having ripped through “The Queen’s Gambit” and “The Undoing” during our days off for Thanksgiving, so email us any recommendations you’ve got!

After resurfacing from our carbo-induced couch comas, here’s what we covered on the show this week. On Monday, we investigated when and how you might get a coronavirus vaccine. On Tuesday and Wednesday, we examined the careers of President-elect Joe Biden’s cabinet picks, beginning with Janet Yellen for Treasury Secretary, followed by Antony Blinken for Secretary of State. On Thursday, one man shared his story of sexual abuse while in the Boy Scouts, and on Friday, we analyzed President Trump’s pre-emptive pardons.

If you’re looking for a weekend binge, our Podcast Club recommends “Tom Brown’s Body,” a true-crime series about the mysterious disappearance of one teenage boy in Texas. And for a little delight, here’s a video of the host Michael Barbaro responding to Sho Shibuya’s artwork of The Daily.

In last Wednesday’s episode, Nikita Stewart, who covers social services for The New York Times, took us through a day at a food pantry in Brooklyn. She introduced us to some of the food bank’s many clients: an unemployed single mother with a baby on the way, a teenage boy whose parents had been laid off from work and a woman hoping to collect healthy food for her children.

Moved by the familiarity of their experiences, Nikita decided to join the chorus of diverse voices by sharing her own story in the episode:

I enjoy the anonymity of journalism. We write the story. We report the story. We are not the story. But I’m a human being with feelings and experiences that inform my reporting. My emotions and memories of the way my family went in and out of poverty spilled over in a recent episode of The Daily.

On a Friday in September, I stood outside a food pantry operated by Council of Peoples Organization, or COPO, with the producers Stella Tan and Annie Brown. The line for food stretched around the block in Midwood, Brooklyn, and people had positioned carts on the ground overnight to save their places in line.

I had seen lines like that before. I’d spoken in the past to plenty of people who use pantries. But that day, we met a woman who told us it was easier to be in the line because she was wearing a mask, and no one would recognize her. She said she was also comforted by the length of the line — evidence she was not alone.

Turning away, I lost it right there, happy to have been wearing glasses to hide the tears welling in my eyes.

Later, as I recounted the day with Stella and Austin Mitchell, another producer, I offhandedly talked about my experience with food insecurity as a child. They asked me, though not wanting to push, if I would be willing to share my thoughts with listeners.

I was torn. As I said, I don’t like to make myself the story. But then I remembered the time I’d spent with a troop of Girl Scouts. For more than a year, I worked on a book about Troop 6000, formed in a homeless shelter in Queens. I asked the Scouts, their troop leaders and their parents to share intimate details about themselves at the most difficult times in their lives. I also watched girls evolve from being ashamed about their homelessness to openly explaining the obstacles and injustices of poverty.

Couldn’t I, shouldn’t I, do the same?

Ultimately, I decided to share my stories of food stamps, free lunch and food insecurity. As I said in the episode, if we all keep this secret of poverty, past or present, it creates a stigma where there shouldn’t be one. If we talk openly, we can do something about it.

Many of you wrote in with questions after Monday’s episode on vaccine distribution. So we decided to check back in with Carl Zimmer, a Times science reporter whom you may remember from our kids’ episode on the coronavirus. In that episode, he offered answers to many of your concerns. Below, he does it again:

Q: How long is vaccine-induced immunity to the coronavirus expected to last?

Carl: We don’t know yet because this disease is still so new. People who have recovered from Covid-19 appear to keep having a strong immune response against the virus months later, suggesting immunity might last years. Vaccine immunity would most likely do the same. So we might need just one vaccination, we might need a booster later or we might need seasonal shots as we do for the flu. We just don’t know which yet.

Q: What’s the status of vaccines being developed outside the U.S.?

Carl: The New York Times’s coronavirus vaccine tracker has all of the information we know of about vaccine projects worldwide. There are 58 vaccines in clinical trials around the world, in countries including Thailand, Italy, India, Japan and Australia. China alone has five late-stage clinical trials, some of which should be delivering efficacy data soon.

Q: To what extent will children be vaccinated? Have they been included in any clinical trials?

Carl: Trials for children are beginning. Pfizer has started one for kids as young as 12, and other companies are moving to start their own. They should take a few months to deliver results.

Q: If you’ve already had Covid-19, do you need the vaccine? Where does this group rank in the distribution timetable?

Carl: Those are great questions. Government health officials will have to make a decision about those issues. Clinical trials did not exclude people who already had the virus, so researchers will be able to look at their outcomes to see if it’s safe and effective in them, too.

Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.

Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.

Check out all of the podcasts from The New York Times.





No.30 article:
Steelers’ Defeat Was a Comeback Wrapped in a Comeback for Alex Smith

The Washington team with no name (but many scandals) pulled off a massive upset of the unbeaten Steelers behind its persevering quarterback.

In another occupational hazard of a sport he loves but that imperiled his life, Washington quarterback Alex Smith was spiked by one of his offensive linemen on Monday night. Blood gushed from his leg. Not the leg that was nearly amputated in 2018, but the other one, the left one, and the blood soaked his sock, streaming onto the white tape encircling his cleat.

At the time, Washington trailed the unbeaten Pittsburgh Steelers by two touchdowns, though that deficit, much like Smith’s gash, looked worse than it actually was. By the end of the game, Washington had won, 23-17, a victory that recalled a set of Russian nesting dolls, with one comeback tucked inside another, inside another.

Smith never missed a snap — a trainer wrapped his wound on the field, then attended to it more thoroughly at halftime — and proceeded to lead Washington to scores on five of its next seven possessions, including its final three. Since elevating Smith to starter in Week 10, another remarkable milestone in the two-year timeline since he broke his right leg in two places during a 2018 game, Washington has gone 3-1, winning its last three to match the Giants’ 5-7 record atop the N.F.C. East.

Just a week ago, that division was on a pace to be historically pitiful — and it still might finish as such. But in this fragmented season that demands teams’ proficiency at adapting at a moment’s notice, it has become apparent that continuity in the N.F.L. is a treasured commodity. Washington and the Giants have each evolved under the direction of first-year coaches, and it has taken time for them to coalesce and develop an identity.

Under Joe Judge, the Giants have won their last four, and on Sunday they completed what, to that point, was the biggest upset of the season: defeating the mighty Seahawks in Seattle with the backup quarterback, Colt McCoy. Then came Monday, when Washington, after losing its primary running back, Antonio Gibson, to a toe injury, erased a 14-0 deficit on the road.

According to research conducted by the league, Washington’s victory was the first by a team with as bad a record as 4-7 against a team that had won at least its first 11 games.

“We talked about the biggest thing, more so than anything else, is your reputation, your record,” Coach Ron Rivera said afterward. “When you get on the field, those things don’t matter. What matters is who plays the best.”

That was not the Steelers, whose aura of invincibility has been fading even as their win total ballooned. Their poor performances in close victories made them vulnerable, and the same imperfections that have chased them all season — drops and a lack of a running game, namely — doomed Pittsburgh on Monday, when it once again played without its lead back, James Conner, who tested positive for the coronavirus last month.

Still, the Steelers remain atop the A.F.C., ahead of the Kansas City Chiefs, also 11-1, on tiebreakers. Though they must correct those flaws if they are to contend for the franchise’s seventh Super Bowl title, the Steelers are in little danger of missing the playoffs. Washington must nudge past the Giants, who own the head-to-head tiebreaker, but, as Rivera said after the game, it demonstrated on Monday that it had the potential to beat anyone.

“We have got to be able to make sure we understand that we’re capable of it,” Rivera said. “And I think it tells the other teams that, ‘Hey, we’re pretty good.’ We got some guys that can play.”

Washington is built on a stout defensive front, a balanced offense and a certain toughness embodied by Rivera, who learned that he has cancer in late August, seven months after he was hired to restore credibility (and playoff appearances) to a bedraggled franchise. He served as its voice while upheaval engulfed the organization, and fulfilled his coaching duties even as he underwent treatment that left him so weak he had trouble standing during games.

While Rivera set about molding the team, a turbulent off-season damaged Washington’s reputation. Its melodramas have not been resolved. Most visibly, the team’s owner, Dan Snyder, in July succumbed to pressure to get rid of the team’s 87-year-old name and logo, which were viewed by many as racist, after sponsors revolted. A month later, an independent law firm began its investigation into accusations of sexual harassment made by 15 women who had worked for the organization. That investigation was started by Snyder, but later taken over by the N.F.L.

The organizational tumult has continued into the season, with a power struggle between Snyder and partial owners over control of the team. Just this week, the league’s investigation into the team’s workplace uncovered a confidential settlement from a decade ago, according to The Washington Post.

The team began the season with a second-year quarterback, Dwayne Haskins, as the starter, then shifted to Kyle Allen, who played for Rivera at Carolina and dislocated his ankle in Week 9, creating an opportunity for Smith.

After recovering from a gruesome compound fracture that endangered his leg, Smith did not have to play a single down this season to be considered a favorite to be the league’s comeback player of the year. But across the last four games, he has stabilized Washington with reliable play and stellar ball security — just two turnovers — to vault the team into contention. In this season of all seasons, a postseason berth for these players, this coach and especially this quarterback, would be a coda worthy of another nesting doll.

“Each and every week, I’m making the most of it, living like it’s my last and enjoying that mind-set,” Smith said. “I’m not looking beyond literally that next start and trying to take advantage of it with everything I got and enjoy it.”





No.31 article:
What New York City’s Sewers Reveal About the Virus

The pungent underground waterways, known for alligator tales and other lore, are routinely tested for traces of the coronavirus.

New York City’s sewers, whose lore has spawned films, children’s books and fantastical tales of alligator infestation, have now seized a role in the pandemic: Scientists are tracking outbreaks by monitoring the smelly, gray effluent that flows through underground pipes in hopes of identifying coronavirus clusters days before they appear through patient testing.

The undertaking, which has ramped up in recent weeks, has mirrored efforts across the country to surveil waterways for viral components, flushed down toilets by infected Americans who are excreting it in feces, even when asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic.

Rising traces of the virus were detected in New York in recent months in wastewater samples scooped from sewage treatment plants near coronavirus hot spots in Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. But now, scientists say, increases are being seen citywide, as infection rates reach their highest levels since the spring.

“At first, we thought it was a testing error, but then we kept seeing it,” Dr. Dimitri Katehis, a scientist with the city’s Department of Environmental Protection, said of the initial heightened readings.

This kind of wastewater testing is especially challenging in New York, a sprawling and dense city that is served by the nation’s largest combined water and wastewater utility.

In smaller towns and on college campuses, such testing is easier to conduct. But in New York, 7,500 miles of pipes handle 1.3 billion to three billion gallons of wastewater a day, depending on rainfall levels, making it nearly impossible for the scientists to pinpoint exactly which neighborhoods the viral remnants are actually coming from.

This is one reason that city health officials say person-by-person testing is still the best tool to track the virus. On Tuesday, the seven-day average positive test rate was 4.94 percent, according to Mayor Bill de Blasio.

Still, Dr. Katehis and his team remain optimistic that the sewers will be helpful in detecting new outbreaks — especially when cases are not as widespread.

The city’s health and water departments were working out how the current wastewater data could best be incorporated into the tracking of the virus, said Dr. Jay Varma, the mayor’s senior adviser for public health.

“It’s just one piece of a much larger puzzle, and we are still trying to figure out where it fits,” Dr. Varma said. “It is absolutely worth pursuing.”

The virus breaks down too rapidly to spread through sewage, Dr. Katehis said, but its surviving genetic components can be measured as viral indicators, which provide a type of early-warning system. For instance, officials recorded heightened readings at the two treatment plants that serve Staten Island, corresponding to the increase in cases there early last month.

The city began planning out wastewater sampling sites and testing protocols in the spring, when New York was a global epicenter of the pandemic. By April, workers were collecting specimens. These early samples were frozen to be tested later to see if they aligned with sections of the city that had been recording large numbers of virus cases. (Preliminary tests indicated that they had.)

By September, the agency was taking six wastewater samples per day at each of its plants and testing them twice a week — its current testing rate. The agency provides the results to city health officials.

The samples are all analyzed at Newtown Creek, the wastewater treatment plant in North Brooklyn that is the city’s largest and is notable for its huge, gleaming digestion tanks that break down organic materials in sewage.

A microbiology lab that was long used to measure bacteria in wastewater, as well as viruses like the poliovirus and norovirus, was expanded to include the coronavirus analyses.

Several academic partners helped the agency develop the lab methodology. Department officials said they have spent $250,000 on new equipment, acquired $300,000 from grants and academic partnerships and hired a handful of new staff members.

The recent spikes in cases that they detected provided a proving ground for the system, city officials said. The outbreaks in Brooklyn and Queens, identified through lab and rapid coronavirus tests of individual people, were also being borne out by heightened sewer readings at nearby plants, said Pam Elardo, a deputy commissioner who oversees the 14 plants.

This was the case, for example, at the Owls Head plant in Brooklyn, which treats wastewater from Borough Park, Gravesend and Bensonhurst — all of which had outbreaks. The Bowery Bay plant in Astoria, Queens, showed increases linked to outbreaks in Kew Gardens and other areas, agency officials said.

“We were definitely seeing a parallel,” Ms. Elardo said as she entered an intake location at the Newtown Creek plant where wastewater is strained for stray objects — which included on this day a dead pigeon, a $20 bill and clumps of sanitary wipes.

A deputy chief at the plant, Michael Radano, lowered a sampling container down with a rope into an open pipe bearing a river of pungent wastewater from Brooklyn and Queens sewers.

Vincent Sapienza, commissioner of the Environmental Protection Department, watched Mr. Radano and said his agency was eager to be on the front lines of fighting the virus.

Sewer work is not glamorous, but the department’s employees take pride in maintaining a system that most New Yorkers know little about yet rely heavily upon. After pulling up the sample, Mr. Radano said he was a third-generation worker for the department.

Mr. Sapienza chuckled and said, “He’s got sewage running through his veins.”

In the lab, technicians conduct the sewage testing in protective biosafety cabinets. The samples are pasteurized and put through a centrifuge to remove other pathogens, so that the traces of the virus can be measured, according to Dr. Katehis.

Experts say that ideally, the concentration of viral components in a sample can indicate the rough number of infected people in a broad area. But the testing has limitations in such a large system. The Newtown Creek plant, for example, handles about 300 million gallons of wastewater a day from parts of Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan that have a combined population of roughly a million people. Even the city’s smallest plant, the Rockaway facility in Queens, handles waste from about 90,000 people.

Also, New Yorkers’ household sewage is combined with runoff from storm drains, which dilutes viral components in the wastewater.

So, while city health officials say sewer surveillance may prove helpful, they are measured in their public assessment of it — especially when comparing it with simply testing patients for the coronavirus.

Dr. Varma, of the mayor’s office, said that since the city’s health department only began receiving samples in September, it was still too early to gauge how vital it might be.

Dr. Dave Chokshi, the city’s health commissioner, said in a statement that the testing was “promising and may prove to have great value for disease surveillance and decision-making in the months to come.” But, he added, “We have to follow the science in determining how to use the data from this innovative program.”

Still, New York City seems to be testing in more locations than many other municipalities.

Newsha Ghaeli, president of Biobot Analytics, a wastewater epidemiology company that handles testing for roughly 200 municipalities nationwide — including agencies that handle Boston and Miami — said that while New York’s 14 sampling sites were far more than most of their municipal clients, New York City could increase its number of sites and do more localized sampling around communities that have had a history of outbreaks.

Dr. Katehis said his department was planning to perhaps expand the testing to nearly 100 pumping stations. The department has begun acquiring more equipment and hiring researchers and microbiologists to allow for sampling from sewers further upstream, to zero in on the source of heightened levels.

Other municipalities in New York State have emulated the city’s model and also send samples to the city’s Department of Environmental Protection for testing, when it has extra room in its centrifuge.

In the lab, Dr. Katehis pointed to newly arrived wastewater samples from Plattsburgh, N.Y., which were sitting next to a deep freezer where the specimens are kept.

He said that even when the pandemic was over, the testing system could be used to detect the flu and other possible outbreaks.

“We’re using the sewers,” he said, “to keep people healthy.”





No.32 article:
Judith Jarvis Thomson, Philosopher Who Defended Abortion, Dies at 91

She wrote some of the most influential papers in contemporary American philosophy and prompted debates about urgent moral concerns in everyday life.

Judith Jarvis Thomson, who created new fields of inquiry in philosophy through her writings on abortion and a moral thought experiment that she named the “Trolley Problem,” died on Nov. 20 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 91.

Her niece, Pamela Jarvis, confirmed the death.

Professor Thomson, who taught philosophy for most of her career at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, made her imagination her most powerful intellectual tool. She invented her best-known hypothetical case in “A Defense of Abortion,” a 1971 essay widely regarded as a classic in contemporary American philosophy.

It began with an insight into the anti-abortion position. “Opponents of abortion commonly spend most of their time establishing that the fetus is a person, and hardly any time explaining the step from there to the impermissibility of abortion,” she wrote. For the sake of argument, she granted that fetuses are people.

“Now let me ask you to imagine this,” she continued. You wake up one morning and find that the Society of Music Lovers has connected your body to that of a famous violinist, who is sick and using your kidneys because he needs the organ of someone with your rare blood type to survive. Is it morally incumbent on you to remain hooked up to the violinist for nine months, at the end of which he will have recovered?

“If you do allow him to go on using your kidneys, this is a kindness on your part, and not something he can claim from you as his due,” Professor Thomson wrote. She regarded pregnancy similarly, and considered abortion akin to declining to aid someone — as one might with the violinist — rather than murder.

“She’s using the violinist case to say that a certain general principle is false, and the general principle is something like: A right to life always trumps a right to decide what happens in and to your own body,” said Elizabeth Harman, a philosophy professor at Princeton who specializes in the ethics of abortion.

Professor Thomson showed that moral questions surrounding abortion suggest more general conclusions about the nature of fundamental rights. As Thomas Nagel, professor emeritus of philosophy and law at New York University, put it, “She expresses very clearly the essentially negative character of the right to life, which is that it’s a right not to be killed unjustly, and not a right to be provided with everything necessary for life.”

Professor Thomson advanced a theory of rights in her book “The Realm of Rights” (1992). But it was her abortion paper that, of all her work, had perhaps the greatest impact.

“A lot of the discussion in that time was focused on what was the fetus or embryo,” said Frances Kamm, a professor of moral philosophy at Rutgers University. “She completely shifted the view of the issues.”

“It is the most important paper about abortion,” Professor Harman said.

Conservatives who strenuously disagreed with Professor Thomson have nevertheless found it necessary to grapple with her arguments, which have prompted scholarly debates and articles in the popular press, including The New York Times.

Professor Thomson’s skills at making fine-grained moral distinctions were put to the test in her writing on the so-called Trolley Problem. First formulated in a paper by the British philosopher Philippa Foot (who referred to a “tram” instead of a trolley), the problem became a Problem after Professor Thomson made it the focus of articles she published in 1976 and 1985.

Professor Foot had compared two dilemmas:

In one, a mob threatens to kill five hostages unless a judge finds someone who can be convicted of a certain crime. The judge thinks he can save the hostages only by framing someone and having that person executed.

In the other dilemma, a driver of a runaway trolley heads toward five workmen on the track but can spare them by switching to another track that has only one workman on it.

Professor Foot wrote that, intuitively, it seemed not morally permissible for the judge to cause the death of one person to save five others, but, in the trolley case, morally permissible for the driver to do so. She tried to solve this apparent inconsistency by arguing that there was a crucial difference between the dilemmas: Whereas the driver must kill no matter what, the judge has a choice between killing and saving lives.

The comparison, Professor Foot claimed, showed that “negative duties,” like the duty not to kill, are more stringent than “positive duties,” like the duty to save lives.

In a series of increasingly complex alternative scenarios, Professor Thomson dug into this conundrum and made it into a major philosophical subject.

What if the driver fainted, she asked, and a bystander had the choice to throw a switch alongside the tracks, diverting the trolley toward the one workman instead of the five? The bystander’s choice, like the judge’s, seems to be between killing one person or letting five die; yet, intuitively, Professor Thomson wrote, it seems morally permissible for the bystander to turn the switch.

Variations proliferated: Professor Thomson reconfigured the track into a loop. She made theft part of the scenario. She placed on the alternative track not a single workman but a convalescent picnicker.

Her writing spawned a subfield in philosophy dubbed “trolleyology” and became a prominent topic in other academic fields, like experimental psychology, and in discussions about the design and ethics of self-driving cars. As an unexpected pop culture phenomenon, the Trolley Problem supplied dark humor as a meme on social media and a more earnest brand of comedy on a 2017 episode of “The Good Place,” an NBC television series that took plotlines from philosophy.

Underlying the arcane details and the gruesomeness of the dilemmas Professor Thomson wrestled with were, for her, some of the deepest questions about morality.

“She had a very strong sense that there was a moral realm of universal truth,” Professor Nagel said. “These moral intuitions about cases are real data which can be used to discover the structure of morality, and can be used to discover universal moral principles that explain those intuitions.”

Professor Thomson’s engagement with the Trolley Problem underwent a remarkable reversal in 2008, when she wrote a paper arguing that she had been wrong about the bystander case — that the bystander was not, in fact, morally permitted to turn the switch.

Most philosophers are “wedded to some philosophical program” or become prey to a “professional incentive for consistency,” said Alex Byrne, chair of M.I.T.’s department of linguistics and philosophy. “But the idea that Judy might change her mind was completely unexceptional, not noteworthy at all, because she was so intellectually honest and would follow the argument wherever it led.”

Judith Jarvis was born on Oct. 4, 1929, in Manhattan. Her parents met at a socialist summer camp, and her father, Theodore Jarvis, worked as an accountant at the progressive university the New School. A Jew descended from rabbis on both sides of his family, Mr. Jarvis had Americanized his name from Isidor Javits. Judith’s mother, Helen (Vostry) Jarvis, a teacher, died of cancer when Judith was 6.

Professor Thomson grew up mostly on the Upper West Side in Manhattan and graduated from nearby Barnard College for women in 1950 with a degree in philosophy. She obtained a Fulbright scholarship to continue studying philosophy at Cambridge University in England.

She left academia for a time for advertising — writing copy for My-T-Fine Chocolate Pudding and Fleischmann’s Active Dry Yeast — but soon returned to philosophy, enrolling in a graduate program at Columbia University. There a class in the history of philosophy reaffirmed her belief in the value of the field.

Though the chairman of Columbia’s philosophy department told her that she would never be a professor because she was a woman, Barnard hired her as an assistant professor in 1960.

“Many women of my generation, in many fields, had good reason to be grateful to the women’s colleges,” Professor Thomson wrote.

She married James Thomson, a visiting professor at Columbia, in 1962 and started working at M.I.T. after it had hired him in the mid-1960s. They divorced in 1982, and Mr. Thomson died in 1984. She left no immediate survivors.

Professor Thomson was regarded, and sometimes feared, as a giant in her field. In 1970, she joined such eminences as John Rawls, Ronald Dworkin, Robert Nozick and Professor Nagel in a discussion group called the Society for Ethical and Legal Philosophy, in which she proved herself to be an acute dialectician among philosophy’s foremost scholars.

She and several other members of the group helped start a journal, Philosophy &amp; Public Affairs, dedicated to publishing philosophical discussions of public issues. And in 1997 she joined them in submitting a brief to the United States Supreme Court defending physician-assisted suicide.

As a teacher, Professor Thomson became notorious for drawing a horizontal line through a student essay when it was insufficiently clear and writing next to it, “This is where I stopped reading.”

“It was part of your job as a student at M.I.T. to help other students recover from meetings with Judy,” said Professor Harman, who studied there herself. “For someone to demand so much clarity from you, who herself is a master of clear writing and wonderful, insightful philosophy — that matters.”

In her first paper on the Trolley Problem, Professor Thomson referred to it with a phrase that might seem like a contradiction but that sounded to her, a patient examiner of philosophical complexity, like the height of praise. It was, she said, “a lovely, nasty difficulty.”





No.33 article:
Here’s Why Vaccinated People Still Need to Wear a Mask

The new vaccines will probably prevent you from getting sick with Covid. No one knows yet whether they will keep you from spreading the virus to others — but that information is coming.

The new Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna seem to be remarkably good at preventing serious illness. But it’s unclear how well they will curb the spread of the coronavirus.

That’s because the Pfizer and Moderna trials tracked only how many vaccinated people became sick with Covid-19. That leaves open the possibility that some vaccinated people get infected without developing symptoms, and could then silently transmit the virus — especially if they come in close contact with others or stop wearing masks.

If vaccinated people are silent spreaders of the virus, they may keep it circulating in their communities, putting unvaccinated people at risk.

“A lot of people are thinking that once they get vaccinated, they’re not going to have to wear masks anymore,” said Michal Tal, an immunologist at Stanford University. “It’s really going to be critical for them to know if they have to keep wearing masks, because they could still be contagious.”

In most respiratory infections, including the new coronavirus, the nose is the main port of entry. The virus rapidly multiplies there, jolting the immune system to produce a type of antibodies that are specific to mucosa, the moist tissue lining the nose, mouth, lungs and stomach. If the same person is exposed to the virus a second time, those antibodies, as well as immune cells that remember the virus, rapidly shut down the virus in the nose before it gets a chance to take hold elsewhere in the body.

The coronavirus vaccines, in contrast, are injected deep into the muscles and stimulate the immune system to produce antibodies. This appears to be enough protection to keep the vaccinated person from getting ill.

Some of those antibodies will circulate in the blood to the nasal mucosa and stand guard there, but it’s not clear how much of the antibody pool can be mobilized, or how quickly. If the answer is not much, then viruses could bloom in the nose — and be sneezed or breathed out to infect others.

“It’s a race: It depends whether the virus can replicate faster, or the immune system can control it faster,” said Marion Pepper, an immunologist at the University of Washington in Seattle. “It’s a really important question.”

This is why mucosal vaccines, like the nasal spray FluMist or the oral polio vaccine, are better than intramuscular injections at fending off respiratory viruses, experts said.

The next generation of coronavirus vaccines may elicit immunity in the nose and the rest of the respiratory tract, where it’s most needed. Or people could get an intramuscular injection followed by a mucosal boost that produces protective antibodies in the nose and throat.

The coronavirus vaccines have proved to be powerful shields against severe illness, but that is no guarantee of their efficacy in the nose. The lungs — the site of severe symptoms — are much more accessible to the circulating antibodies than the nose or throat, making them easier to safeguard.

“Preventing severe disease is easiest, preventing mild disease is harder, and preventing all infections is the hardest,” said Deepta Bhattacharya, an immunologist at the University of Arizona. “If it’s 95 percent effective at preventing symptomatic disease, it’s going to be something less than that in preventing all infections, for sure.”

Still, he and other experts said they were optimistic that the vaccines would suppress the virus enough even in the nose and throat to prevent immunized people from spreading it to others.

“My feeling is that once you develop some form of immunity with the vaccine, your ability to get infected will also go down,” said Akiko Iwasaki, an immunologist at Yale University. “Even if you’re infected, the level of virus that you replicate in your nose should be reduced.”

The vaccine trials have not produced data on how many vaccinated people were infected with the virus but did not have symptoms. Some hints are emerging, however.

AstraZeneca, which announced some of its trial results in November, said that volunteers had been testing themselves regularly for the virus, and that those results suggested that the vaccine might prevent some infections.

Pfizer will test a subset of its trial participants for antibodies against a viral protein called N. Because the vaccines have nothing to do with this protein, N antibodies would reveal whether the volunteers had become infected with the virus after immunization, said Jerica Pitts, a spokeswoman for the company.

Moderna also plans to analyze blood from all its participants and test for N antibodies. “It will take several weeks before we can expect to see those results,” said Colleen Hussey, a spokeswoman for Moderna.

The trials have so far analyzed only blood, but testing for antibodies in mucosa would confirm that the antibodies can travel to the nose and mouth. Dr. Tal’s team is planning to analyze matched blood and saliva samples from volunteers in the Johnson &amp; Johnson trial to see how the two antibody levels compare.

In the meantime, Dr. Bhattacharya said, he was encouraged by recent work showing that people who received an intramuscular flu vaccine had abundant antibodies in the nose. And a study of Covid-19 patients found that antibody levels in saliva and blood were closely matched — suggesting that a strong immune response in the blood would also protect mucosal tissues.

Only people who have virus teeming in their nose and throat would be expected to transmit the virus, and the lack of symptoms in the immunized people who became infected suggests that the vaccine may have kept the virus levels in check.

But some studies have suggested that even people with no symptoms can have high amounts of coronavirus in their nose, noted Dr. Yvonne Maldonado, who represents the American Academy of Pediatrics at meetings of the federal Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. The first person confirmed to be reinfected with the coronavirus, a 33-year-old man in Hong Kong, also did not have symptoms, but harbored enough virus to infect others.

Vaccinated people who have a high viral load but don’t have symptoms “would actually be, in some ways, even worse spreaders because they may be under a false sense of security,” Dr. Maldonado said.

Dr. Tal said she was concerned by monkey studies showing that some vaccinated animals did not get ill, but still had virus in their nose.

But those monkeys were intentionally exposed to massive amounts of virus and still had less virus than unvaccinated animals, said John Moore, a virologist at Weill Cornell Medicine in New York.

“The more you reduce viral load, the less likely you are to be transmissible,” Dr. Moore said. But “all of these are things where data trumps theory, and we need the data.”





No.34 article:
Biden Picks Marcia Fudge for HUD and Tom Vilsack for Agriculture Secretary

Ms. Fudge, a House member from Ohio, would be the second African-American Biden cabinet member chosen in two days. Mr. Vilsack would reprise his role from the Obama administration.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has selected Representative Marcia L. Fudge, Democrat of Ohio, to serve as the secretary of housing and urban development, people familiar with the transition said on Tuesday, the second African-American he has chosen for his cabinet in two days.

Mr. Biden also chose Tom Vilsack, who served as the secretary of agriculture for eight years under former President Barack Obama, to lead that department again, according to two people familiar with the president-elect’s deliberations. Mr. Vilsack, 69, a former governor of Iowa, is the seventh member of his cabinet Mr. Biden has now chosen.

If Ms. Fudge, 68, is confirmed by the Senate, she would join retired Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III of the Army, who would be the first Black defense secretary, and Xavier Becerra, the son of Mexican immigrants and nominee for secretary of health and human services, as the embodiment of Mr. Biden’s campaign pledge to assemble an administration that will “look like America.”

But even as he rolls out his picks for the cabinet and key White House jobs, Mr. Biden is under increasing pressure from a variety of interest groups, liberal activists and Democratic lawmakers who have different opinions on what it means to make good on that promise.

For Mr. Biden and his transition team, the selection of key jobs has become a constantly shifting puzzle as they search for candidates who are qualified, get along with the president-elect, and help create the ethnic and gender mosaic that would be a striking contrast with President Trump’s administration.

Allies of Ms. Fudge, including Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina and one of Mr. Biden’s most prominent Black supporters during the 2020 campaign, had urged the president-elect to put Ms. Fudge at the Agriculture Department, where she had hoped to shift the agency’s focus away from farming and toward hunger, including in urban areas.

Instead, Mr. Biden settled on Mr. Vilsack, who is white and from an important rural farming state.

But the decision to instead put Ms. Fudge at HUD, which is viewed by some advocacy groups as a more traditional place for a Black secretary, has the potential to disappoint those pushing for her, including members of the Congressional Black Caucus, of which she is a former chairwoman. The current housing secretary, Ben Carson, is Black.

Just hours after Mr. Biden made official his historic choice of General Austin for defense secretary, a group of Black civil rights activists urged Mr. Biden to nominate a Black attorney general and to make civil rights a higher priority.

“He said if he won, he would do something about criminal justice, police reform and specifically mass incarceration,” the Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights leader and talk show host, said in an interview on Tuesday before a meeting with Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. “He flew to Houston to meet before I did the eulogy for George Floyd. He made specific commitments. I’m saying, promises made, let’s see if promises are kept.”

Mr. Biden has not said whom he will pick to lead the Justice Department, though he is considering Senator Doug Jones, who lost his bid for re-election in Alabama; Sally Q. Yates, a former deputy attorney general; and Judge Merrick Garland, whom Mr. Obama unsuccessfully nominated to the Supreme Court.

But Jeh C. Johnson, who served as Mr. Obama’s secretary of homeland security, and is Black, took himself out of consideration to be attorney general on Tuesday, according to people familiar with his discussions.

In an interview with CNN last week, Mr. Biden noted that “every advocacy group out there is pushing for more and more and more of what they want. That’s their job.” He defended his picks to date as “the most diverse cabinet anyone in American history has ever announced.”

But advocates are not leaving anything to chance. The meeting that the president-elect and vice president-elect held with Mr. Sharpton and other civil rights leaders lasted close to two hours and was an opportunity to make their case.

In a news conference following the meeting, Mr. Sharpton said he told the president-elect that the only way to respond to the “most racist, bigoted administration in memory” was to appoint an attorney general “that has a background in civil rights.” He added, “My preference is to have a Black attorney general.”

And during the meeting, Derrick Johnson, the president of the N.A.A.C.P., pressed Mr. Biden to create a civil rights envoy position in the West Wing that would report directly to the president.

“He appointed John Kerry to be the climate envoy, reporting directly to him,” Mr. Johnson said in an interview before the meeting. “We believe a national adviser on racial justice should be something equivalent.”

During the Democratic primary season, Mr. Biden benefited from Mr. Sharpton’s decision to stay neutral rather than endorse Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. During the general election campaign, Ms. Harris was aided by Mr. Sharpton’s decision to advocate more generally a Black woman on the ticket, rather than to publicly endorse Stacey Abrams, the former Georgia House minority leader, as he had been set to do.

That has given Mr. Sharpton some leverage with the Biden-Harris transition team as it fills out the administration.

Also on Tuesday, a group of more than 1,000 high-profile Black women signed a letter to Mr. Biden saying they were “deeply troubled” by the small number of Black women mentioned as possible candidates for top jobs in his administration. They urged him to do better.

“It is long past time that the effective, accomplished leadership of Black women currently serving in areas of significant policy that impacts our nation are recognized and given full consideration for the statutory positions in your administration’s cabinet,” the women wrote in the letter.

Ms. Fudge, who has been in the House since winning a special election in 2008, was among the officials the women recommended and had openly campaigned to become Mr. Biden’s agriculture secretary, telling The Cleveland Plain Dealer that she would put her experience working on farm bills “against almost anybody’s.”

But Ms. Fudge, a former mayor of Warrensville Heights, Ohio, told reporters after news of her selection at HUD leaked out that “if I can help this president in any way possible, I am more than happy to do it. It’s a great honor and a privilege to be a part of something so good.”

In 2018, Ms. Fudge mulled a challenge to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, before ultimately dropping the idea and endorsing her.

Ms. Fudge said she had changed her mind after Ms. Pelosi gave her the opportunity to play a key role in safeguarding voting rights and assured her that Black women would “have a seat at the decision-making table” in Congress.

Now, she will leave to lead the nation’s sprawling housing agency instead.

Her departure will add to another puzzle: how to maintain the Democratic Party’s slim majority in the House, which has shrunk to just a handful of seats since the elections in November.

Mr. Biden’s decision to pick Representative Cedric L. Richmond, a Black Democrat from Louisiana, to be a senior adviser in the White House already meant the party would have to defend that seat. Mr. Biden’s decision to pluck Ms. Fudge for his cabinet means Democrats must win another special election to fill her seat.





No.35 article:
12,000 More White Children Return to N.Y.C. Schools Than Black Children

As buildings reopen, many families of color are choosing to keep students home. That disparity is raising alarms, given the shortcomings of remote learning.

Mayor Bill de Blasio’s monthslong effort to reopen New York City classrooms was complicated by major logistical challenges, staunch political resistance and a series of crises that culminated in a brief systemwide shutdown last month. At every turn, Mr. de Blasio insisted that the city’s most vulnerable children needed open schools.

But as some school buildings reopen this week, the mayor has found himself presiding over a starkly unequal school system in which many white families have flocked back to classrooms while most families of color have chosen to learn from home indefinitely.

That gulf is illustrated in a startling statistic: There are nearly 12,000 more white children returning to public school buildings than Black students — even though there are many more Black students than white children in the system overall. Latino students are returning at a rate roughly proportional to their overall representation in the school system.

In New York and across the country, politicians and education officials have found that many nonwhite families are not ready to send their children back to classrooms — despite their struggles with remote learning — in part because of the disproportionately harsh impact the virus has had on their communities.

But the fact that so many students of color have chosen remote over in-person learning is raising alarms that existing disparities in the nation’s largest school system will widen, since remote learning has been far less effective, parents, educators and officials said in dozens of interviews. More than ever, they say, the city must quickly bolster online instruction — or risk having its neediest children fall irrevocably behind.

“It’s the perfect storm of marginalization,” said Jamila Newman of TNTP, a nonprofit that provides consulting services for districts on staffing and instruction. “That’s why there is the need to demand stronger instruction remotely.”

New York’s issues with remote instruction begin with a lack of basic infrastructure for students learning from home. Many low-income students, including some living in homeless shelters, cannot even log on for classes because they still do not have devices or Wi-Fi.

Educators also said they were scrambling to make lessons more engaging for students without much helpful guidance from the city. So while individual teachers and schools have honed creative strategies to improve online instruction, there is no clear citywide plan to do the same, leaving a patchwork system of learning across the city’s 1,800 schools.

Mr. de Blasio has himself acknowledged that his administration spent much of its time and resources focused on physically reopening classrooms, rather than on improving remote learning, precisely because it understood that in-person learning is generally superior.

But the shortcomings of that strategy are now becoming clear in the demographic breakdown of the roughly 190,000 children returning to classrooms this week.

Of the roughly 1 million students who attend traditional public schools, about 700,000 have chosen to learn from home, and another 110,000 middle and high school students signed up for in-person classes but cannot yet return to school buildings.

Latino students make up the largest share of students returning to classrooms, at about 43 percent, But white children, who are less likely to be low-income than many of their peers, make up a quarter of students back in classrooms, even though they represent just 16 percent of overall enrollment, the smallest percentage of any racial group.

Black and Asian-American families are significantly underrepresented in reopened classrooms. Though Black families make up nearly a quarter of the school system, their children represent just 18 percent of the students back in schools. Asian-American children, who represent about 18 percent of the overall school system, make up the smallest share of children in classrooms this week, at just under 12 percent.

Still, about three-quarters of children returning to schools are nonwhite, in part because the system is overwhelmingly Black and Latino.

There is no one reason the numbers are so skewed. Families of all racial and ethnic groups in New York have decided to return to classrooms or stay home based on individual circumstances. But the data and interviews with parents show that Black and Asian-American families in particular did not trust the city to keep their children safe.

“Clearly, there are Black families who are hesitant, which only makes sense after the disparities they experienced during the heights of the pandemic,” Bill Neidhardt, the mayor’s press secretary, said in a statement. “And that’s exactly why our vaccine response will focus on equity and engaging the hardest-hit communities, so we can get our schools fully back once and for all.”

Experts and advocates said more nonwhite students might have chosen to attend classes in person if the city had done a better job of outreach.

In some cases, just the opposite happened: Even while Mr. de Blasio was trumpeting open classrooms, some schools were asking every family that was able to stay at home to do so, in order to ease staffing and scheduling burdens.

But those who chose online learning said they needed more support from the Department of Education.

“I feel like the city treats remote like an afterthought,” said Erika Kendall, a Black parent in Brooklyn whose two children decided to learn from home this year.

About 60,000 students learning remotely still had not received the devices they requested as of a few weeks ago, which has spurred some parents to crowd-fund laptops for children who need them. The Legal Aid Society recently sued the city for not providing Wi-Fi in all city shelters so that children can attend school remotely.

City officials said they would distribute devices to all children who need them in the coming weeks, and noted that they have given iPads with data from multiple service providers to some children living in shelters.

Danielle Filson, a spokeswoman for the Department of Education, pointed to resources the city had provided to improve remote learning: for example, expanded technical support for teachers and families and more training for educators, including a master class for using Google Classroom and more help from remote learning specialists.

“We have transformed the nation’s largest school system in a matter of months, and we’ve never strayed from our commitment and focus on making remote learning the strongest it could be,” she said in a statement. “In a system as large as ours, educators come into teaching with varying skills, and there can never be a one-size-fits-all approach.”

Still, many families said the city’s efforts have been seriously lacking, particularly for the children who struggle most with remote learning.

Jenn Choi, a parent and activist for children with disabilities, said a recent survey she helped conduct of over 1,000 city parents of children with special needs left her extremely discouraged about the quality of pandemic-era schooling. “Instruction has been spread so thin to the point where it can’t even count as special education instruction,” she said.

Mr. de Blasio has continued to defend his focus on reopening classrooms.

“We’ve always said from the beginning that nothing is as good as in-person education,” the mayor said at a recent news conference, adding that he believes a vaccine will be more widely distributed in the spring, allowing more students to return to school. On Monday, the mayor said his team is working on a plan to address learning loss for whenever all students are back in school full-time.

The demographics of the pandemic-era school system do not resemble what the mayor hoped and expected. But entrenched inequities in New York City’s public schools far precede his administration or the pandemic. And the mayor’s effort to reopen schools for as many children as possible is one of the most ambitious initiatives undertaken by any mayor in years.

The city has faced particular challenges because of its vast size and the spotlight that has been fixed on it. The second and third largest school districts, Los Angeles and Chicago, still have not attempted to reopen their public schools.

The scale of need among the city’s public school students is also unmatched anywhere else in the country, making reopening even more challenging: The vast majority of New York City students are low-income and nonwhite, and the city is home to about 111,000 homeless students as well as 200,000 children with disabilities.

City officials described a series of conversations over the summer in which they tried to determine if one vulnerable group or another should get priority for classroom instruction, but the exercise stalled when they found that the vast majority of students were at risk.

Asked recently what the city was doing to improve online learning for those students, the schools chancellor, Richard A. Carranza, said, “It’s not sexy-sounding, it’s not big newsworthy, but we’re actually taking what teachers are doing and sharing those best practices with other teachers.”

Indeed, teachers and principals said they had largely been left to their own devices.

Elsa Gilheany, a kindergarten teacher in the Bronx, spends many mornings tying her laundry bag around her shoulders to resemble a cape, in order to transform into what she calls a reading superhero. She kicks off a round of “pointer power,” in which her students point to a word on their screen and sound it out, and “snap power,” when children are asked to quickly identify words.

But even with engaged students and parents, Ms. Gilheany said, “It’s so much harder to do this through a computer, as opposed to a child being able to physically touch a book.”

Nikki Cistac, a high school English teacher in Manhattan, has sent copies of “The Great Gatsby” in Spanish to students’ parents who do not speak English at home, so they can follow along with their children. She asked students to create a playlist of their favorite songs, which Ms. Cistac lip-synchs on camera as students log into class.

Now, she said, “kids are rarely late.”

Teachers across the city said they had learned to appreciate breakthroughs in virtual learning. For Matt Baker, a high school math teacher in Brooklyn, that moment came a few weeks ago, when his students started singing along to a tune intended to help them memorize the quadratic formula.

But those victories can feel all too rare.

“It’s hard to get a good gauge on whether what you’re doing is working,” Mr. Baker said. “You kind of put it all out there. It’s a lot of hoping.”





No.36 article:
As Trump Rails Against Loss, His Supporters Become More Threatening

The president’s baseless claims of voting fraud have prompted outrage among his loyalists and led to behavior that Democrats and even some Republicans say has become dangerous.

With a key deadline passing Tuesday that all but ends his legal challenges to the election, President Trump’s frenzied campaign to overturn the results has reached an inflection point: Certified slates of electors to the Electoral College are now protected by law, and any chance that a state might appoint a different slate that is favorable to Mr. Trump is essentially gone.

Despite his clear loss, Mr. Trump has shown no intention of stopping his sustained assault on the American electoral process. But his baseless conspiracy theories about voting fraud have devolved into an exercise in delegitimizing the election results, and the rhetoric is accelerating among his most fervent allies. This has prompted outrage among Trump loyalists and led to behavior that Democrats and even some Republicans say has become dangerous.

Supporters of the president, some of them armed, gathered outside the home of the Michigan secretary of state Saturday night. Racist death threats filled the voice mail of Cynthia A. Johnson, a Michigan state representative. Georgia election officials, mostly Republicans, say they have received threats of violence. The Republican Party of Arizona, on Twitter, twice called for supporters to be willing to “die for something” or “give my life for this fight.”

“People on Twitter have posted photographs of my house,” said Ann Jacobs, the chair of the Wisconsin Elections Commission, who alerted her neighbors and the police about the constant threats. She said another message mentioned her children and said, “I’ve heard you’ll have quite a crowd of patriots showing up at your door.”

Mr. Trump himself has contacted numerous Republican state officials, pressing them to help him overturn the election he clearly lost. He has subjected others to repeated public shamings, lambasting governors to take action they are not legally allowed to take to keep Mr. Trump in power.

But absent a single significant victory in his dozens of lawsuits — and with a key defeat delivered by the Supreme Court on Tuesday — the president’s crusade is now as much a battle against the electoral process itself, as he seeks to cast doubt on free and fair elections and undermine  Joseph R. Biden Jr. before he takes the oath of office.

“There is long-term damage when this kind of behavior is normalized,” Jeff Flake, a former Republican senator from Arizona, said on Twitter. “It is not normal, and elected Republicans need to speak out against it.”

Last week, a top Republican election official in Georgia, Gabriel Sterling, implored the president to stop attacking the voting process in the state, saying it had prompted threats against officials and poll workers. 

Tuesday’s procedural deadline, known as safe harbor, serves as something of a guarantee that Congress must count the slate of electors certified by the deadline, and acts as an accelerant to resolve any outstanding election disputes. It also likely limits further legal challenges to halt or disrupt the official certification of electoral votes that Mr. Biden needs to claim the presidency.

The president, however, dismissed the date as insignificant, saying on Tuesday that the true deadline arrives on Jan. 6 when Congress meets to approve certification.

Many Republican leaders in critical swing states are standing behind the president’s false narrative, unwilling to contradict his claims. Along with the president, their stance is further convincing tens of millions of Americans that the electoral process is too corroded to legitimately deliver the presidency to anyone whose name is not Trump.

Those supporters have started to flood the voice mails, cellphones and inboxes of dozens of elected officials across the country with angry messages and threats, as well as countless officials who handle local elections. The tenor has seemed to grow more menacing as Mr. Trump’s efforts appear even more unlikely to succeed, some officials said.

“They’re getting more angry, and we’ve been getting emails all the time, all hours of the day and night,” said Jennifer O’Mara, a Democratic state representative in Pennsylvania. She said her staff had been subjected to threats, as had her Republican colleagues. “A lot of calls are saying we won’t be forgetting.”

Jocelyn Benson, the secretary of state in Michigan, said she had just finished putting up Christmas decorations with her 4-year-old son when she heard dozens of Trump supporters shouting outside her home. Some chanted “Stop the Steal” and demanded an audit of Michigan’s election results, which showed Mr. Biden winning by roughly 154,000 votes.

“Ever since the president first tweeted at me and every time there is an additional attempt to spread false information, you see an uptick in the threats,” Ms. Benson said in an interview on Tuesday. “And now apparently, they’re in front of my house, in the dark of night, in this very private, quiet residential neighborhood. We are concerned not only for the safety of my family, but my neighbors as well.

“This challenging, divisive moment that we find ourselves in, the only way to get out of it is for elected officials on both sides of the aisle to condemn what’s happening.”

Malcolm Kenyatta, a Democratic state representative from Pennsylvania, said he received dozens of emails every day. “It’s a bit more pronounced when you’re Black and queer like I am, that they go down the rabbit hole of parroting all the nastiness and vitriol that we see from the president all the time,” he said.

He said one person created a fake email address under his own name and then sent him profane threats.

Darrin Camilleri, a Democratic state representative in Michigan, said he had received one email that said, “Be prepared to take your last meal,” and another that read, “We’re looking forward to bring back firing squads.”

Mr. Camilleri said his parents were also receiving harassing and threatening calls. “We’ve sent more than 20 death threats to the House sergeants to look into,” he said.

The safe harbor deadline all but ensures Mr. Biden will receive the 270 votes in the Electoral College he needs to win the presidency, and most likely wind up with 306, the same total Mr. Trump won in 2016 (two defected, however). Though Congress will determine which states meet the safe harbor deadline, it is traditionally considered met when a state certifies its votes.

As of Monday, all but one state — Hawaii — had certified their elections.

Though the safe harbor deadline is technically about the relationship between states and Congress, it also largely insulates states that have certified their election results from legal challenges.

“It plays into litigation because courts are aware of this deadline and want to give the states this benefit, so they do their best to try to comply with it,” said Richard L. Hasen, an election law expert at the University of California, Irvine.

But despite more than a century of precedent, allies of the president are continuing to file baseless lawsuits seeking to upend the election. On Tuesday, the Texas attorney general filed an audacious lawsuit in the Supreme Court against four other states — Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Georgia — with more claims of election irregularities, and no evidence to support them.

Texas asked the justices to put its case on an exceptionally fast track, but the court has acted with measured deliberation in considering similar requests and may defer consideration of whether to hear the suit until it can have no practical impact.

And the Republican legal efforts were dealt yet another loss late Tuesday afternoon, when the Supreme Court rejected a request by Republicans in Pennsylvania to overturn election results in the state.

There were no dissenting opinions.





No.37 article:
Dick Allen, 78, Dies; Baseball Slugger Withstood Bigotry

One of the game’s best and most honored players in the 1960s and into the ’70s, he nevertheless felt racism’s sting early in his career in Philadelphia.

Dick Allen, who was among baseball’s leading sluggers of the 1960s and early ’70s, playing mostly with the Phillies and Chicago White Sox, but who found himself a target of Philadelphia fans in his early years with the club, an outgrowth of racial animosity, died on Monday in Wampum, Pa. He was 78.

The Phillies announced his death.

Allen, who hit 351 home runs in his 15 major league seasons, was a seven-time All-Star: three times with the Phillies, once with the St. Louis Cardinals and three times with the White Sox. He was named the National League’s rookie of the year in 1964, with the Phillies, and the American League’s most valuable player in 1972, with the White Sox. He batted over .300 seven times, though when he hit .316 with the 1973 Sox a leg injury had shortened his season to 72 games.

The Phillies’ management sought to make amends for the abuse Allen had received from fans in the 1960s. In September the team retired his uniform number, 15.

“Dick will be remembered as not just one of the greatest and most popular players in our franchise’s history, but also as a courageous warrior who had to overcome far too many obstacles to reach the level he did,” the Phillies said in a statement.

Mike Schmidt, the Phillies’ Hall of Fame third baseman, said in a speech at a team ceremony honoring Allen in September that “Dick was a sensitive Black man who refused to be treated as a second-class citizen.”

“He played in front of home fans that were products of that racist era,” Schmidt continued, and alongside “racist teammates” at a time when there were “different rules for whites and Blacks.”

“Fans threw stuff at him,” he said, “and thus Dick wore a batting helmet throughout the whole game. They yelled degrading racial slurs. They dumped trash in his front yard at his home.”

In his first stint with the Phillies, Allen gained a reputation as a difficult personality. He demanded a trade in June 1969 after the team had suspended him for not showing up for a doubleheader against the Mets at Shea Stadium. A month earlier, he had been fined $1,000 for missing a team plane from Philadelphia to St. Louis.

“I wonder how good I could have been,” Allen wrote in his memoir, “Crash: The Life and Times of Dick Allen” (1989, with Tim Whitaker). “It could have been a joy, a celebration. Instead, I played angry. In baseball, if a couple things go wrong for you, and those things get misperceived, or distorted, you get a label. I was labeled an outlaw, and after a while that’s what I became.”

Allen played with the Phillies from 1963 to 1969 and had a second stint in Philadelphia in 1975 and 1976. He was with the Cardinals in 1970, the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1971, the White Sox from 1972 to 1974 and the Oakland A’s in 1977, playing first base, third base and the outfield.

Richard Anthony Allen was born on March 8, 1942, in Wampum, a small town near Pittsburgh. One of nine children, he was raised by his mother, Era, who supported the family by working as a domestic.

Allen was signed by the Phillies when he graduated from high school for an estimated $70,000 (almost $600,000 in today’s money).

After playing in the minors, he made his major league debut in early September 1963.

During his early years with the Phillies, his teammates called him Richie, a name he disliked. “My name is Richard, and they called me Dick in the minor leagues,” he once said. The name Richie, he added, “makes me sound like I’m 10 years old.”

It wasn’t until 1972, his first season with the White Sox, that he entirely shed his “Richie” moniker. The Sox referred to him in their press book as Dick and instructed their public address announcer to do the same.

When Allen returned to Philadelphia for his second go-round with the team, the atmosphere had changed. A large home crowd welcomed him back on May 14, 1975.

Despite his strong credentials, Allen never received more than 18.9 percent of the required 75 percent vote for Hall of Fame induction in the 14 years he was on the ballot for voting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. He is considered a strong candidate in future voting by a committee that votes, apart from the writers, on figures who had been passed over.

Allen’s survivors include his wife, Willa; his sons, Richard and Eron; and two brothers: Hank, who played for seven seasons in the major leagues, mostly with the second Washington Senators franchise, and Ron, who played briefly for the 1972 St. Louis Cardinals.

In 1994, Allen was hired by the Phillies as a spring-training batting instructor and a community fan representative.

He was invited by the Phillies to throw the first ball at the opening game of the 2009 National League division series at Citizens Bank Park.

In July 2010, Allen was inducted into the Philadelphia Sports Hall of Fame. “You see how things turn around?” he said. “You see how rewarding it is? I’m proud of this city. It’s in my heart.”





No.38 article:
‘A Tsunami of Change’: How Protests Fueled a New Crop of Prosecutors

The new Los Angeles district attorney announced major changes in the nation’s largest court system, part of a growing movement to rethink criminal justice across the country.

LOS ANGELES — After George Floyd was killed by the police in Minneapolis this summer and America erupted in protest, cash started flooding the race for district attorney of Los Angeles County.

George Gascón, the former top prosecutor in San Francisco, seized the momentum swirling in the streets and honed his promises to reduce incarceration, tackle racial bias and reopen old police shooting cases that the incumbent had declined to prosecute. At his swearing-in ceremony on Monday, Mr. Gascón immediately put his plans in motion, announcing an end to seeking cash bail and other sweeping policy changes.

Los Angeles, with the nation’s largest prosecutor’s office and its biggest jail system, was at the vanguard of communities — urban and rural, in liberal and conservative states — that went in the opposite direction of President Trump’s law-and-order message last month by electing prosecutors who promised to send fewer people to prison.

The dynamics that propelled Mr. Gascón to victory played out in similar fashion in Austin, Texas, where a candidate vowing to end prosecutions of some drug sales won, and in Orlando, Fla., where voters elected Monique Worrell, whose background includes investigating claims of wrongful convictions.

In Georgia, Jackie Johnson, the Republican district attorney accused of mishandling the case of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black jogger who was chased and shot dead by a former investigator for her office and his son, was ousted by an independent who had the support of activists outraged over the handling of the case.

“It’s telling, because it’s not just in bluer, urban locations like Los Angeles,” said Miriam Krinsky, a former federal prosecutor and executive director of Fair and Just Prosecution, which advises prosecutors and candidates seeking change. “We saw a number of D.A.s elected in Georgia. We saw D.A.s in Florida elected. We saw wins of reform-minded D.A.s in Michigan and Texas and Colorado and Columbus, Ohio.”

As the movement builds momentum, with more progressive prosecutors taking office each election cycle, they have increasingly come together to influence policy and make significant changes in America’s criminal justice system, despite growing pushback from police unions and state officials.

In a joint statement last month, dozens of prosecutors across the country called for reducing the number of people on parole and probation. And in California, several prosecutors, including Mr. Gascón’s successor in San Francisco, Chesa Boudin, formed an alliance aimed at promoting progressive candidates and taking positions on state legislation.

Taken together, their efforts amount to a challenge to the power and money of law enforcement unions, which have typically backed traditional, tough-on-crime candidates and have been seen by critics as standing against efforts to change policing.

In Los Angeles, which was seen as the most important prize for progressive activists in a wave of victories that started with the 2016 elections of Kim Foxx in Chicago and Kimberly Gardner in St. Louis, both candidates framed the outcome of the election, at least in part, around the reconsideration of policing and racial disparities in the criminal justice system forced upon the nation when Mr. Floyd, a Black man, died under the knee of a white police officer.

Mr. Gascón’s opponent, Jackie Lacey, who is Black and was the first woman to become district attorney in Los Angeles, told reporters in announcing her concession, “It may be said that one day the results of this election is a result of our season of discontent, and a demand to see a tsunami of change.”

Mr. Gascón, a Cuban émigré who began his law enforcement career patrolling the streets of Los Angeles as a police officer, was always a viable candidate — he earned enough votes in the March primary to force a runoff with Ms. Lacey, a fellow Democrat. He pushed back on the notion that the activism around Mr. Floyd’s death was decisive in his election, but acknowledged that it “altered the dynamics of this race.”

“There’s no question that the murder of George Floyd shook the conscience of this country in many corners where people were not concerned about this work before,” Mr. Gascón said in declaring victory.

Los Angeles has recently sent people to prison at a rate of four times its northern rival, San Francisco, where Mr. Gascón enacted a series of changes after becoming its district attorney in 2011. Ms. Lacey had the backing of several law enforcement unions, while Mr. Gascón benefited from the support of Black Lives Matter activists and wealthy individuals, including George Soros and Reed Hastings, the co-founder of Netflix.

All told, more than $19 million poured into their race, according to The Los Angeles Times, a record for a district attorney’s race.

Sensing the mood in the streets after the killing of Mr. Floyd, many liberal leaders in Los Angeles, including Mayor Eric M. Garcetti and Representative Adam Schiff, pulled their endorsements of Ms. Lacey and backed Mr. Gascón. His message of reducing incarceration resonated with voters despite a surge in gun violence and homicides in Los Angeles, a similar trend seen in other American cities that experts blame on the coronavirus pandemic.

Mr. Gascón’s victory came as Californians also voted down a measure, Proposition 20, that would have rolled back earlier reforms by reinstituting harsher sentences and reducing opportunities for parole, and approved a measure restoring voting rights for people convicted of felonies. And as a direct result of protests and national calls to “defund the police,” Los Angeles voters approved an initiative to shift money from jails to social services.

After taking office on Monday, Mr. Gascón enacted many of his campaign promises as policy, including efforts to review thousands of old cases to determine whether the prosecutor’s office should ask courts to reduce sentences or overturn convictions. Mr. Gascón also said he would end prosecutions of most first-time, nonviolent offenders and ban his office from seeking the death penalty or enhanced prison sentences for accused gang members.

“Whether you are a protester, a police officer or a prosecutor, I ask you to walk with me,” he said after being sworn in, adding, “We can break the multigenerational cycles of violence, trauma and arrest and recidivism that has led America to incarcerate more people than any other nation.”

His sweeping policy changes met with resistance, however, from proponents of more traditional law enforcement. “His plans will do nothing but further victimize Los Angeles residents,” the Los Angeles Police Protective League, a police union, said in a statement.

In his campaign, Mr. Gascón built a large coalition of support among Los Angeles’s diverse communities, including white voters who said they were moved by the summer protests and police shootings in the city and around the country.

“It’s policing gone too far,” said Janice Bronco, 72, who is white and lives in Lakewood, a small city in southern Los Angeles County. She decided to vote for Mr. Gascón after seeing an increase in news reports about Black men and women killed by the police. “I’m a supporter of the police, but so many are getting killed,” she said.

Ms. Bronco said she was concerned that Mr. Gascón had been too lenient on crime during his time as district attorney in San Francisco, but she voted for him anyway. “Something’s got to change, especially in L.A.”





No.39 article:
FireEye, a Top Cybersecurity Firm, Says It Was Hacked by a Nation-State

The Silicon Valley company said hackers — almost certainly Russian — made off with tools that could be used to mount new attacks around the world.

WASHINGTON — For years, the cybersecurity firm FireEye has been the first call for government agencies and companies around the world who have been hacked by the most sophisticated attackers, or fear they might be.

Now it looks like the hackers — in this case, evidence points to Russia’s intelligence agencies — may be exacting their revenge.

FireEye revealed on Tuesday that its own systems were pierced by what it called “a nation with top-tier offensive capabilities.” The company said hackers used “novel techniques” to make off with its own tool kit, which could be useful in mounting new attacks around the world.

It was a stunning theft, akin to bank robbers who, having cleaned out local vaults, then turned around and stole the F.B.I.’s investigative tools. In fact, FireEye said on Tuesday, moments after the stock market closed, that it had called in the F.B.I.

The $3.5 billion company, which partly makes a living by identifying the culprits in some of the world’s boldest breaches — its clients have included Sony and Equifax — declined to say explicitly who was responsible. But its description, and the fact that the F.B.I. has turned the case over to its Russia specialists, left little doubt who the lead suspects were and that they were after what the company calls “Red Team tools.”

These are essentially digital tools that replicate the most sophisticated hacking tools in the world. FireEye uses the tools — with the permission of a client company or government agency — to look for vulnerabilities in their systems. Most of the tools are based in a digital vault that FireEye closely guards.

The F.B.I. on Tuesday confirmed that the hack was the work of a state, but it also would not say which one. Matt Gorham, assistant director of the F.B.I. Cyber Division, said, “The F.B.I. is investigating the incident and preliminary indications show an actor with a high level of sophistication consistent with a nation-state.”

The hack raises the possibility that Russian intelligence agencies saw an advantage in mounting the attack while American attention — including FireEye’s — was focused on securing the presidential election system. At a moment that the nation’s public and private intelligence systems were seeking out breaches of voter registration systems or voting machines, it may have a been a good time for those Russian agencies, which were involved in the 2016 election breaches, to turn their sights on other targets.

The hack was the biggest known theft of cybersecurity tools since those of the National Security Agency were purloined in 2016 by a still-unidentified group that calls itself the ShadowBrokers. That group dumped the N.S.A.’s hacking tools online over several months, handing nation-states and hackers the “keys to the digital kingdom,” as one former N.S.A. operator put it. North Korea and Russia ultimately used the N.S.A.’s stolen weaponry in destructive attacks on government agencies, hospitals and the world’s biggest conglomerates — at a cost of more than $10 billion.

The N.S.A.’s tools were most likely more useful than FireEye’s since the U.S. government builds purpose-made digital weapons. FireEye’s Red Team tools are essentially built from malware that the company has seen used in a wide range of attacks.

Still, the advantage of using stolen weapons is that nation-states can hide their own tracks when they launch attacks.

“Hackers could leverage FireEye’s tools to hack risky, high-profile targets with plausible deniability,” said Patrick Wardle, a former N.S.A. hacker who is now a principal security researcher at Jamf, a software company. “In risky environments, you don’t want to burn your best tools, so this gives advanced adversaries a way to use someone else’s tools without burning their best capabilities.”

A Chinese state-sponsored hacking group was previously caught using the N.S.A.’s hacking tools in attacks around the world, ostensibly after discovering the N.S.A.’s tools on its own systems. “It’s like a no-brainer,” said Mr. Wardle.

The breach is likely to be a black eye for FireEye. Its investigators worked with Sony after the devastating 2014 attack that the firm later attributed to North Korea. It was FireEye that was called in after the State Department and other American government agencies were breached by Russian hackers in 2015. And its major corporate clients include Equifax, the credit monitoring service that was hacked three years ago, affecting nearly half of the American population.

In the FireEye attack, the hackers went to extraordinary lengths to avoid being seen. They created several thousand internet protocol addresses — many inside the United States — that had never before been used in attacks. By using those addresses to stage their attack, it allowed the hackers to better conceal their whereabouts.

“This attack is different from the tens of thousands of incidents we have responded to throughout the years,” said Kevin Mandia, FireEye’s chief executive. (He was the founder of Mandiant, a firm that FireEye acquired in 2014.)

But FireEye said it was still investigating exactly how the hackers had breached its most protected systems. Details were thin.

Mr. Mandia, a former Air Force intelligence officer, said the attackers “tailored their world-class capabilities specifically to target and attack FireEye.” He said they appeared to be highly trained in “operational security” and exhibited “discipline and focus,” while moving clandestinely to escape the detection of security tools and forensic examination. Google, Microsoft and other firms that conduct cybersecurity investigations said they had never seen some of these techniques.

FireEye also published key elements of its “Red Team” tools so that others around the world would see attacks coming.

American investigators are trying to determine if the attack has any relationship to another sophisticated operation that the N.S.A. said Russia was behind in a warning issued on Monday. That gets into a type of software, called VM for virtual machines, which is used widely by defense companies and manufacturers. The N.S.A. declined to say what the targets of that attack were. It is unclear whether the Russians used their success in that breach to get into FireEye’s systems.

The attack on FireEye could be a retaliation of sorts. The company’s investigators have repeatedly called out units of the Russian military intelligence — the G.R.U., the S.V.R. and the F.S.B., the successor agency to the Soviet-era K.G.B. — for high-profile hacks on the power grid in Ukraine and on American municipalities. They were also the first to call out the Russian hackers behind an attack that successfully dismantled the industrial safety locks at a Saudi petrochemical plant, the very last step before triggering an explosion.

“The Russians believe in revenge,” said James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “Suddenly, FireEye’s customers are vulnerable.”

On Tuesday, Russia’s National Association for International Information Security held a forum with global security experts where Russian officials again claimed that there was no evidence its hackers were responsible for attacks that have resulted in American sanctions and indictments.

Security firms have been a frequent target for nation-states and hackers, in part because their tools maintain a deep level of access to corporate and government clients all over the world. By hacking into those tools and stealing source code, spies and hackers can gain a foothold to victims’ systems.

McAfee, Symantec and Trend Micro were among the list of major security companies whose code a Russian-speaking hacker group claimed to have stolen last year. Kaspersky, the Russian security firm, was hacked by Israeli hackers in 2017. And in 2012, Symantec confirmed that a segment of its antivirus source code was stolen by hackers.





No.40 article:
Corrections: Dec. 9, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Wednesday, Dec. 9, 2020.

An article on Tuesday about a global update on the coronavirus pandemic misidentified the country where ski lifts were opening. It is Austria, not Australia.

A picture caption with an article on Tuesday about a plan to keep schools in New York City safe as they reopen misstated the location of a school in Brooklyn. Public School 189 is on the border of Crown Heights and East Flatbush in Brooklyn, not in East New York.

An article on Tuesday about protests in Poland over an abortion ban described incorrectly Pope John Paul II’s position before his papacy. He was the archbishop of Krakow, and a cardinal, but he was not the leader of the Roman Catholic Church in Poland.

A quotation with the “On Washington” column on Sunday about two senators’ views of the chamber’s dysfunction misidentified the state represented by Senator Tom Udall. As the column correctly stated, it is New Mexico, not Utah.

An article on Dec. 2 about recent commercial real estate transactions in New York, using information provided by the broker, misstated the date the building designed by the architect Rafael Guastavino at 124 West 78th Street in Manhattan was built. It was built in 1886, not 1881.

An article on Tuesday about an Israeli soccer team co-owned by an Emirati royal misidentified the team against which a Chechen striker, Zaur Sadayev, scored his first goal for Beitar Jerusalem. It was against Maccabi Netanya, not Maccabi Tel Aviv.

An article on Tuesday about the negative effects of family rifts misidentified the person a woman blocked from seeing her children. He was not her father-in-law.

An obituary on Saturday about Betsy Wade, the first woman to edit news copy for The New York Times, misidentified one of the journalism schools for which scholarships for women are endowed by the Anne O’Hare McCormick Memorial Fund, of which Ms. Wade was a board member. It is the City University of New York journalism school, not City College of New York.

An obituary on Aug. 1 about the filmmaker Alan Parker referred incorrectly to “The Evacuees,” a 1974 BBC Television movie he directed. It was about Jewish children being evacuated from Manchester during World War II, not from London. This correction was delayed, because the error was only recently brought to the editors’ attention.

An obituary on Nov. 21 about the writer Jan Morris misidentified the leader of the first ascent of Mount Everest, which she covered for The Times of London in 1953. The expedition was led by Col. John Hunt — not by Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay, the climbers who reached the summit.

An obituary on Tuesday about former Senator Paul S. Sarbanes misstated several dates. George J. Mitchell was the Senate Democratic majority leader from 1989 to 1995, not 1987 to 1994; Thomas A. Daschle was the Democratic leader until 2005, not 2006; and Senator Charles McC. Mathias retired in 1987, not 1984.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.41 article:
Biden Promises 100 Million Vaccine Shots in 100 Days, but Shortage Worries Rise

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s promise to shift the course of the pandemic in his first 100 days in office could run into vaccine production and procurement problems he will inherit.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., setting ambitious goals to change the course of the coronavirus pandemic, vowed on Tuesday to get “at least 100 million Covid vaccine shots into the arms of the American people” during his first 100 days in office, and said he would make it a “national priority” to get children back to school during that time.

The pledge, which Mr. Biden made while introducing the members of his health team in Wilmington, Del., tracks with the goals set by President Trump.

But in creating clear benchmarks for himself, Mr. Biden is taking a certain risk. He will undoubtedly be held to the 100 million promise at the 100-day mark on April 30, and fulfilling it will require no hiccups in manufacturing or distributing the vaccine and a willingness by Americans to be vaccinated.

Mr. Biden’s announcement came as fresh details emerged about how Pfizer, the pharmaceutical giant whose vaccine could receive regulatory approval in the United States this weekend, repeatedly urged the Trump administration to lock in a bigger supply. Before the vaccine was proved highly successful in clinical trials, the administration repeatedly turned down the chance to expand its pre-order beyond the 100 million doses it agreed to buy from Pfizer last July.

The administration is now seeking to double the pre-order; otherwise it will run out of Pfizer’s vaccine by around March, according to people familiar with the talks. But Pfizer may not be able deliver more doses for Americans until as late as June because the company signed deals with other governments, including the European Union, as the Trump administration hesitated.

Pfizer, an American company, could face a consumer backlash if countries in Europe or elsewhere are using its vaccine to save lives while Americans are forced to wait. But Trump administration officials, trying to hedge their bets among six vaccine makers, were unwilling to commit too heavily to Pfizer.

Moderna, based in Cambridge, Mass., is close behind Pfizer and could win authorization for its vaccine this month. Like Pfizer’s, its federal contract calls for it to deliver 100 million doses by the end of the first quarter.

Both vaccines require two doses, so together those supplies would presumably cover 100 million Americans by the spring. Moderna has said it expects to produce at least another 400 million doses next year, but it is unclear how many the U.S. government could claim.

At a vaccine “summit” Tuesday at the White House, Mr. Trump signed an executive order that he said would “ensure that the United States government prioritizes the getting out of the vaccine to American citizens before sending it to other nations.” But the order appeared to have little teeth. Mr. Trump also said he would invoke the Defense Production Act to produce additional vaccine but did not say how.

Mr. Biden’s team is apparently counting on Pfizer’s and Moderna’s pledges to the Trump administration to deliver on Mr. Biden’s 100 million vaccination promise. His advisers note that the promise is for 100 million doses — not 100 million people vaccinated.

A third vaccine maker, Johnson &amp; Johnson, could report results from its clinical trials within weeks, while a fourth company, AstraZeneca, is still enrolling participants in its trial in the United States. Two other companies included in the Trump administration’s crash program for vaccine development, Novavax and Sanofi, have yet to begin their clinical trials.

Mr. Biden’s vaccine timeline is achievable, experts say, but it may be optimistic.

“Distribution has to be seamless all across the U.S., and that means every state and local health department coordinating,” said Dr. Leana Wen, the former Baltimore health commissioner. “And there’s the issue of public trust. So I certainly hope that it happens, but its very optimistic.”

In addition to the vaccine promise, Mr. Biden implored Americans to wear masks for his first 100 days in office, and said he would make doing so a requirement in federal buildings and on planes, trains and buses that cross state lines.

“My first 100 days won’t end the Covid-19 virus — I can’t promise that,” Mr. Biden said. But he added, “I’m absolutely convinced that in 100 days we can change the course of the disease and change life in America for the better.”

The senior officials Mr. Biden will appoint — including Xavier Becerra, a former congressman who is now the California attorney general, as his nominee for secretary of health and human services — will face the immediate challenge of slowing the spread of the coronavirus, which has already killed more than 285,000 people in the United States and has taken a particularly devastating toll on people of color.

To address those disparities, Mr. Biden has created a “Covid-19 equity task force.” It will be led by Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith, an expert in health equity at Yale University Medical School who described the U.S. Virgin Islands, where she was raised, as “a place where people too often die, too young, from preventable conditions.”

The event was the first time that Mr. Becerra and other candidates chosen by Mr. Biden — some appearing virtually and others in person — had spoken in public alongside him. Most, including Mr. Becerra, a son of immigrants, shared their personal stories. Dr. Vivek Murthy, who will reprise his role from the Obama administration to serve as Mr. Biden’s surgeon general, offered greetings from his grandmother.

Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, who will be Mr. Biden’s chief medical adviser in addition to continuing in his role as the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, participated by video, saying he also needed to attend a ceremony for a colleague at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Harvey J. Alter, who had won the Nobel Prize in Medicine — “a reminder,” Dr. Fauci said, “of America’s place as a pioneer in science and medicine.”

While Dr. Fauci is looking forward to serving in his seventh administration, another of Mr. Biden’s key appointees — Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital, who will lead the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — has never served in government.

She will face the herculean task of restoring morale and the reputation of an agency that has been silenced and battered by the Trump White House.

“Every doctor knows that when the patient is coding, your plans don’t mater — you answer the code,” Dr. Walensky said. “And when the nation is coding, if you are called to serve — you serve.”

Also on hand Tuesday was Jeff Zients, the incoming coordinator of the Covid-19 response. Mr. Biden has yet to name his candidates for other health posts, including the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration and the director of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.





No.42 article:
Who’s Behind the Fight Between Warner Bros. and Hollywood? It’s AT&amp;T

The town is mad about the studio’s decision to put movies on HBO Max and in theaters at the same time. But with a telecom giant running an entertainment company, things were bound to get weird.

Even a small sample of the Warner Bros. 2021 film slate suggests the studio’s big-screen ambitions: a desert-planet messiah who can kill with a word (“Dune”); a colossal clash between mutant monsters (“Godzilla vs. Kong”); a local hero who whips up frenzied dance routines across uptown rooftops (“In the Heights”).

They’re the kind of movies that families, couples and teenagers once watched on three-story screens from the comfort of stadium-style seats, with the soundtrack’s bass notes rumbling at their feet. But last week Warner Bros. broke with tradition by announcing that it would release its entire lineup of 2021 films on HBO Max — its struggling streaming service — on the same day they were scheduled to appear in theaters.

Hollywood agents and filmmakers were angered by the move — but they may have forgotten something crucial: Warner Bros. belongs to WarnerMedia, which is part of AT&amp;T. And AT&amp;T is a telecommunications company whose interests are sometimes at odds with those of the old entertainment business. Despite joining Hollywood in a big way last year, when it bought Time Warner for more than $80 billion, AT&amp;T may not mind so much if it speeds the demise of the century-old moviegoing habit.

For AT&amp;T, HBO Max isn’t just a convenient way to get films and television shows to the public. Instead, the platform is a key part of its wireless business. HBO Max is included in packages for some high-end phone and internet subscribers, and it exists, in part, to create consumer loyalty to AT&amp;T.

The Warner Bros. films will also play in theaters — but seeing them that way would cost a family of four about $50 (excluding gas, parking and concessions). That makes the monthly $15 fee for HBO Max a steal. Or even a no-brainer. Especially at a time of dread caused by being part of a crowd during the coronavirus pandemic.

The studio’s emphasis on streaming certainly puts AT&amp;T at risk of losing money on its 2021 films. But the box office has already been hollowed out because of the pandemic, with every major studio stutter-stepping its way into various release strategies.

Jason Kilar, the WarnerMedia chief executive who helped craft the strategy, could have settled on a more patient distribution scheme, given that coronavirus vaccines might salvage some of the 2021 box office. Instead, he did something audacious by potentially sacrificing billions in box office receipts to boost the $15-a-month streaming platform. 

Mr. Kilar was early to streaming, starting his run as the chief executive of Hulu in 2007. For those who knew him then, his moves at WarnerMedia have not been much of a surprise.

In its early incarnation, Hulu was wholly free, with limited commercial interruptions. It relied on television fare for its content, but it was better than broadcast TV because it was divorced from network schedules. Watch what you want, when you want, for free.

But Hulu’s many corporate owners — Comcast, the Walt Disney Company and Fox — eventually forced Mr. Kilar to impose a subscription fee when they saw that the service wasn’t making real money. A monthly subscription cost, on top of the ads that were already running on the service, effectively mimicked cable, cutting into Hulu’s advantage.

In 2011, Mr. Kilar got Hollywood’s attention by posting a memo assailing the entertainment industry for failing to take advantage of the internet. He left Hulu to start his own company and eventually found his way back to Hollywood via AT&amp;T, his digital-first approach having impressed John Stankey, who became the telecom giant’s chief executive in the summer.

Mr. Kilar’s latest move has rankled a powerful group: the talent, whose back-end payouts are contingent on box office earnings. And the fact that WarnerMedia kept its plan under wraps until the unveiling didn’t help.

“We see an opportunity to do something firmly focused on the fans, which is to provide choice,” Mr. Kilar wrote in a blog post announcing the move.

Mr. Stankey, his boss, vigorously defended the change in strategy on Tuesday. “I think when we just are being really honest about this, there’s a win-win-win here,” he said at the UBS banking conference.

He added: “We think it’s a great way for us to penetrate the market faster and quicker.”

The director Christopher Nolan, who made “Tenet” for Warner Bros. and is known as a proponent of theatrically released movies, swiftly condemned the studio’s plan to release its movies simultaneously in theaters and on HBO Max.

“Their decision makes no economic sense, and even the most casual Wall Street investor can see the difference between disruption and dysfunction,” he said in a statement Monday to The Hollywood Reporter. He went on to call HBO Max “the worst streaming service.”

But a strategy that strikes auteurs and cinema die-hards as dysfunctional makes perfect sense to Mr. Kilar and Mr. Stankey. AT&amp;T’s primary focus is its wireless service, a $71 billion business. WarnerMedia generates half that.

More important, the wireless industry brings in significantly more money than the entertainment business — and it does so in a much more efficient manner. AT&amp;T’s wireless division makes three times the pretax profit brought in by WarnerMedia.

Mr. Kilar did not endear himself to the entertainment establishment during his time at Hulu, and now he seems to have aggravated the content creators who make Hollywood run. But the company he works for has very little in common with other entertainment outfits.

For AT&amp;T, HBO Max isn’t just a way to make money, but serves as an incentive to keep phone customers from defecting to its rivals. Every 0.01 percent of customers who stay glued to AT&amp;T are worth about $100 million to the company.

A pricing war among AT&amp;T, Verizon and T-Mobile has lowered mobile phone bills and cut into profits. Wireless providers have taken to stealing subscribers away from one another — a costly practice that includes discounting.

AT&amp;T still wants HBO Max to be as profitable as possible. But even if its balance sheet suffers, the platform can still be valuable if it helps the company hang on to wireless subscribers.

In the streaming competition that has heated up in recent years, HBO Max finds itself up against some serious heavyweights. Netflix is closing in on 201 million customers around the world, with nearly 70 million in the United States. Disney+ has had a fast rise to more than 73 million. Hulu, also controlled by Disney, has about 37 million.

As of this week — six months after its introduction — HBO Max had 12.6 million subscribers, or “activations,” as the company calls them. Those subscribers are, in effect, getting free tickets to the 2021 slate of Warner Bros. films. And it’s not just them — members of their family are also able to watch, as well as anyone else who shares their login information.

People who are interested in seeing “Wonder Woman 1984” or “Dune” without risking a trip to a movie theater have a strong incentive to plunk down $15 for a month of HBO Max. They can watch what they want to see and quickly cancel. Or maybe they will stick around for all 17 films on the 2021 slate.

But how will AT&amp;T make up for the inevitable loss of revenue from theatrically released movies?

WarnerMedia’s average box office revenue tops $1.8 billion annually, according to estimates by the research firm MoffettNathanson, an amount that the studio must split with theater chains. That means AT&amp;T will have to make up about $900 million in 2021 film revenue.

To be sure, AT&amp;T will rake in some box office dollars next year. But the pandemic has dampened even the best-laid marketing plans. When WarnerMedia released “Tenet” in theaters in September, the $200 million project generated only about $57 million domestically.

It will also make some money through online rentals and purchases, as well as in cable syndication.

Mr. Kilar could come out ahead, pleasing Mr. Stankey and AT&amp;T shareholders while potentially upsetting much of the Hollywood establishment. He needs to get only five million more HBO Max customers to make up for box office losses (or 60 million customers paying for only a single month). That would be on top of the 25 million subscribers it’s already on pace to gather by May.

But solving the market may not be as easy as it looks. HBO Max is the most expensive streamer, at $180 a year.





