No.1 article:
How Democrats Missed Trump’s Appeal to Latino Voters

The election was a referendum on Trump’s America, but plenty of Latino voters liked it just fine.

PHOENIX — Democrats thought it would be enough.

After four years of draconian Trump immigration policies and divisive messaging, the Biden campaign courted Latino voters primarily by reminding them that Joseph R. Biden Jr. was not Donald Trump, that if they felt targeted in President Trump’s America, a vote for Mr. Biden would change that.

That argument resonated for many Latinos, who became the second-largest voting group for the first time this year.

“He’s come after people like me,” said Taylor Valencia, 23, a first-year elementary schoolteacher who showed up before sunrise on Tuesday to vote in person in Guadalupe, a predominantly Latino town near Phoenix. “His entire presidency is an attack on my moral values and who I am.”

But for others, it was Mr. Trump who made them feel a part of America, not targeted by it.

“I have been in this country since I was 9, I have been through a lot, and I am American,” said Teresita Miglio, an accountant in her 60s who immigrated from Cuba and attends an evangelical church in Miami where Mr. Trump spoke in January. “Abortion is the litmus test, Jesus is my savior and Trump is my president.”

Mr. Biden is now the president-elect, and as he vows to work “as hard for those who didn’t vote for me as those who did,” as he said in his victory speech on Saturday, he must grapple with the fact that Mr. Trump actually improved his showing among Latino voters, from under 30 percent in 2016 to closer to one-third this year, according to exit polls and voter surveys.

Democrats lost in Florida, in part because of lackluster support among Latino voters. They did basically no better than they normally do in Texas, in part because Hispanic voters in the Rio Grande Valley moved decisively toward the G.O.P. But in Arizona, Barry Goldwater’s home state and a once-conservative stronghold where Mr. Biden has a slim lead, Democrats will claim both of the state’s Senate seats for the first time in decades, fueled by young, progressive Latino voters.

For years, many Democrats have presumed demography as destiny, believing that Latinos would come to vote for them with the same kind of consistency that Black voters do. A growing Latino population, they hoped, would transform the political landscape and give the party an edge in the Southwest.

That dream ran into reality in this election, in which the results confirmed what was evident from conversations with hundreds of Latino voters in dozens of settings from the early days of the Democratic primary until the long ballot-counting hours in Arizona over the last week: The Latino vote is deeply divided, and running as not-Trump was always going to be insufficient.

At a Trump rally in Rio Rancho, N.M., last fall, Martha Garcia was part of the largely Hispanic crowd — many members of which wore Make America Great Again hats — waiting hours in the blazing sun to hear the president speak. She said she agreed with his harsh language on immigration: “We need to take care of the people who are already here.”

In east Las Vegas and Los Angeles, young progressives distraught over the Super Tuesday losses by “Tío Bernie” — Senator Bernie Sanders — remained politically active for the first time. At a Spanish-speaking evangelical megachurch in Miami, the pastor offered the president a blessing for re-election campaign early this year. And in South Phoenix on the eve of the election, grandfathers gathered last weekend for “Low Ridin’ With Biden,” showing off their custom Impalas.

For Latinos, this was an election that turned on feelings about Mr. Trump above all else.

That just didn’t mean what Democrats, and the Biden campaign specifically, assumed it did.

“We went in the wrong direction, and we want to make sure that does not happen again,” said Julián Castro, the only Latino candidate in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary.

For months, he said, he had been publicly warning of the coming risks for Democrats from underinvesting in Latino voters, particularly in Texas. He said he was worried that even with a Biden victory, the party would find itself “winning the battle but losing the war.”

On Saturday, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a New York Democrat and one of the most prominent Latina members of Congress, spoke critically of her party’s efforts at connecting with Latino voters. “I don’t think that our party has ever seriously done the work,” she said, describing what she saw as concern only around election years. “That’s not acceptable for any community. I don’t know why it’s acceptable for so many communities of color.”

Both candidates in 2020 knew that Latino voters had the power to be decisive, and both campaigns went after them, at times with little sophistication. After the Democratic primary began with several candidates speaking Spanish on debate stages, the general-election approach — or as some critics call it, “Hispandering” — took a musical turn. Mr. Biden played the hit song “Despacito” on his cellphone speaker, and the Trump campaign commissioned a salsa music video played over Mexican folklórico dancers.

Fellow Democrats complained about the Biden campaign’s sluggish Latino outreach for months, though the campaign eventually spent a record $20 million on Spanish-language television and radio advertising, more than double the Trump campaign’s $9 million, according to Advertising Analytics, an ad tracking firm. And both campaigns tried to target voters based on regional and national origin — there were advertisements featuring Cuban, Puerto Rican and Mexican accents.

Indeed, the regional differences illustrate both political shifts and the way Latinos see themselves. In Arizona, for example, a historically Republican state shifted because of young Latinos who were politically activated by Senate Bill 1070, a 2010 state measure that was known as the “show me your papers” law and that critics called legalized racial profiling.

“People pretty much tend to attack us,” Alma Aguilar said at a small Black Lives Matter demonstration in the Phoenix suburbs this summer. “We are not treated the same way as white people.”

Even as votes were still being counted, many Democrats credited young Latinas such as Ms. Aguilar for their success in the state. Local activists noted that while the Democrats celebrated, organizing voters began long before the national party invested in the state.

“We did this,” said Alejandra Gomez, the co-executive director of Lucha, a voter engagement group that was established in response to anti-immigration state policies a decade ago. “We organized when nobody else was paying attention. It’s weird to say, but without that, I am not sure we would have flipped the state.”

Yet one lesson of Arizona — that political identity is often built in the face of persecution — did not bear out in Texas, where over a year ago a gunman killed 22 people in El Paso, the largest anti-Latino attack in modern American history, after the authorities said he wrote a manifesto that echoed much of the president’s language.

Texas didn’t even come close to flipping to the Democrats this year. Roughly 25 to 30 percent of Latino voters nationally have chosen Republican candidates for decades, but many Democrats said they were particularly alarmed by the loss of support in the Rio Grande Valley, where Mr. Biden won some border counties by significantly smaller margins than Hillary Clinton did in 2016. 

“More people are waking up,” said Kelly Gonzalez, who attended a Republican election party in Harlingen, in South Texas, with her husband, her 1-year-old daughter and her 7-year-old son, each of them clad in Trump gear from head to toe. In the once reliably left-leaning region, Ms. Gonzalez said her opinion of liberals — particularly young ones — had changed in the last four years. “It’s like, ‘Give me this, give me that,’ and they don’t want to work for it,” she said.

Minerva Simpson, a district leader for the Texas Federation for Republican Women, who was one of the hosts of the party, said the president was critical to the energy she saw.

“We’ve seen the Latinos come out in a very strong way,” she said. “I’ve never seen a movement like that in my culture, and it’s all for Trump.”

Democrats also did not seem to account for how effective Mr. Trump’s efforts to tie their party to socialism would be, especially among Venezuelan- and Cuban-American voters in Florida.

“If Biden gets elected, America will go down the rabbit hole of socialism into communism within the next year,” said Gilbert Fonticoba, an internet marketer, who stood with a group waving American and Trump flags in front of a polling place in the city of Hialeah outside Miami on Tuesday. He said he became unemployed after his social media accounts were disabled because of his views as a member of the Proud Boys, a far-right group, adding that his parents had fled Cuba.

Mr. Fonticoba blamed the country’s polarization in part on the news media. “Millennials are brainwashed,” he said. “There’s a lot of dumb people that live in this country that believe the fake news.” Then, unprompted, he brought up the Proud Boys, denying that they had ties to white supremacy. “Proud Boys are for America, keeping America the way America was created,” he said. “The West is the best.”

The Biden campaign did recognize its potential weakness with Cubans and Venezuelans, but hoped that support from younger Latinos, particularly Puerto Ricans, might make up the difference. To make its case in Florida and elsewhere, the campaign emphasized the reality that Latinos were contracting and dying from the coronavirus and suffering economically at disproportionately high rates, and that the president had mishandled the pandemic. One of the final ads the campaign ran in battleground states, including Florida, Arizona and Nevada, focused on the Trump administration’s family separation policy.

But the fact that Mr. Biden is heading to the White House is not cause for a victory lap when it comes to engaging Latino voters, according to those who work on that issue.

“We were not choosing our savior, we were choosing our opponent,” said Marisa Franco, the executive director of Mijente, a Latino civil rights organization that originally backed Mr. Sanders, explaining her group’s work in 2020. “The Biden campaign may have chosen not to spend time in working-class, immigrant and people-of-color neighborhoods, but that is exactly where his victory is coming from and where the solutions he’ll need to champion will have to start.”

Most Latino groups have not expressed surprise at the election’s results. They have long noted, for example, how little conservative religious South American voters in Florida backing Mr. Trump have in common with progressive young Mexican-Americans in Arizona turning out for Democrats. But the groups’ leaders also argue that without pushing the idea of a pan-Latino political identity, Latinos in any one region might never get sustained attention from national candidates.

In September, a nonpartisan group called the Texas Organizing Project released a report based on interviews with more than 100 Latinos in Texas that offered a preview of how 2020 might go.

“The majority do not feel there is a singular ‘Latino Vote,’ the report concluded. “Though they see its potential.”





No.2 article:
How Joe Biden Won the Presidency

Joseph R. Biden Jr. campaigned as a sober and conventional presence, concerned about the “soul of the country.” He correctly judged the character of the country, and benefited from President Trump’s missteps.

On a January evening in 2019, Joseph R. Biden Jr. placed a call to the mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti, a personal friend and political ally who had just announced he would not pursue the Democratic nomination for president.

During their conversation, Mr. Garcetti recalled, Mr. Biden did not exactly say he had decided to mount his own campaign. The former vice president confided that if he did run, he expected President Trump to “come after my family” in an “ugly” election.

But Mr. Biden also said he felt pulled by a sense of moral duty.

“He said, back then, ‘I really am concerned about the soul of this country,’” Mr. Garcetti said.

Twenty-one months and a week later, Mr. Biden stands triumphant in a campaign he waged on just those terms: as a patriotic crusade to reclaim the American government from a president he considered a poisonous figure. The language he used in that call with Mr. Garcetti became the watchwords of a candidacy designed to marshal a broad coalition of voters against Mr. Trump and his reactionary politics. 

It was not the most inspirational campaign in recent times, nor the most daring, nor the most agile. His candidacy did not stir an Obama-like youth movement or a Trump-like cult of personality: There were no prominent reports of Biden supporters branding themselves with “Joe” tattoos and lionizing him in florid murals — or even holding boat parades in his honor. Mr. Biden campaigned as a sober and conventional presence, rather than as an uplifting herald of change. For much of the general election, his candidacy was not an exercise in vigorous creativity, but rather a case study in discipline and restraint.

In the end, voters did what Mr. Biden asked of them and not much more: They repudiated Mr. Trump, while offering few other rewards to Mr. Biden’s party. And by a popular vote margin of four million and counting, Americans made Mr. Biden only the third man since the Second World War to topple a duly elected president after just one term.

Throughout his campaign, Mr. Biden faced persistent doubts about his political acuity and the relevance, in the year 2020, of a set of union-hall-meets-cloakroom political instincts developed mainly in the previous century. 

But if Mr. Biden made numerous errors along the way, none of them mattered more in this election than the essential rightness of how he judged the character of his party, his country and his opponent. This account of his candidacy, based on interviews with four dozen advisers, supporters, elected officials and friends, reveals how fully Mr. Biden’s campaign flowed from his own worldview and political intuition.

During the primaries, Mr. Biden rebuffed pressure to move to the left, believing his party would embrace his pragmatism as its best chance to beat Mr. Trump. In the general election, Mr. Biden made Mr. Trump’s erratic conduct and mismanagement of the coronavirus pandemic his overwhelming themes, shunning countless other issues as needless distractions.

While some Democrats urged him to compete in a wider array of battlegrounds, Mr. Biden put the Great Lakes states at the center of his electoral map, trusting that with an appeal to the political middle he could rebuild the so-called Blue Wall and block Mr. Trump’s path to a second term.

Perhaps most importantly, Mr. Biden believed that no issue would figure larger in voters’ minds than Mr. Trump’s presence in the Oval Office. And if he could make the election an up-or-down vote on an out-of-control president, he believed he could win.

On that score, he was right. As voters sized up Mr. Biden as a potential president, his familiar flaws and foibles — the antiquated vocabulary and penchant for embellishment, his nostalgic yarns about segregationist senators and a defensiveness that led him, in one case, to challenge a voter to a push-up contest — paled against the conduct of an incumbent sowing racial division, threatening to deploy troops in American cities and floating the idea of injecting disinfectant as a coronavirus treatment.

Anita Dunn, one of Mr. Biden’s closest advisers, said the campaign had been propelled all along by the candidate himself, and his unwavering theme and strategy.

“It was his campaign,” Ms. Dunn said. “It was less consultant-driven than any presidential campaign in modern history.”

Still, at the outset, Mr. Biden’s political theory of the case struck even some of his loyal allies as misguided in an era of intense ideological polarization.

Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania recalled a meeting he had with the former vice president in March of 2019, shortly before Mr. Biden entered the race. As Mr. Biden sketched out his approach, Mr. Casey, a Democrat, was not fully convinced.

“He was walking through what became his broader-based theme, about the soul of the country,” Mr. Casey said. “I was worried at the time that it wasn’t hard-hitting enough.”

But Mr. Biden, he said, “was prescient in his ability, even in the primaries when almost nobody else was doing it, to say, ‘We have to bring the country back together.’”

Mr. Casey was not the only Democrat skeptical of Mr. Biden’s underlying theme. While many voters found Mr. Trump distasteful, or worse, it is difficult to unseat an incumbent president and Mr. Trump had the benefit of a nation in relative peace and steady prosperity. Mr. Biden’s primary opponents, who argued that a message of normalcy and steady experience might not be enough to win, seemed to have a point.

Then, just as Mr. Biden was seizing a clear upper hand in the Democratic nomination fight, the coronavirus pandemic struck. In a matter of days, public campaigning froze and a mood of fear and gloom set in across the country.

Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, a close ally of Mr. Biden, said it was not immediately obvious that the Trump administration would effectively forfeit the issue of public health to Mr. Biden. The White House, Ms. Whitmer said, “really could have risen to the occasion.”

But as Mr. Trump dismissed the threat of the pandemic, and railed against governors like Ms. Whitmer for locking down their states, Mr. Biden moved to assert himself as an alternative leader. He began to sketch his own approach to addressing the disease, and to show voters how he might operate in Mr. Trump’s place.

From the confines of his lakeside home in Wilmington, Del., he received frequent briefings about the pandemic and the economic damage it was inflicting, drafted policy plans and reached out to state and city leaders to gather information.

“He was calling to say, ‘How are things going in Michigan? What do you need?’” Ms. Whitmer said.

What Mr. Biden was not doing, to the dismay of some in his party, was traveling the country and campaigning in person. For months, he scarcely left the immediate vicinity of his home: At 77, he was in an age group especially vulnerable to the virus, and his advisers felt he could undermine his own public-health recommendations if he was seen as racing back onto the campaign trail. And more than a few political donors and Democratic advocacy groups second-guessed the Biden campaign’s decision to forgo a robust get-out-the-vote operation in the field because of safety concerns.

Marc Morial, president of the National Urban League, said Mr. Biden had seemed at first to pay a price for his caution. Allies of the Biden campaign had tried to nudge the former vice president into public view, he said, paraphrasing the plea: “People need to see you.”

But in his own conversations with the Biden team, Mr. Morial said, they were emphatic that Mr. Biden felt he could not “say one thing and do another” where public health was concerned — a judgment that Mr. Morial came to share.

Mr. Biden’s first major trip outside Delaware was not for a traditional campaign trip but to confront another crisis: the national reckoning over police brutality after the killing of George Floyd. Flying to Houston to visit the Floyd family, Mr. Biden sat for two hours as he listened to the grieving family and told them that while he had never experienced loss quite like theirs, he knew what it meant to lose a child and felt their pain, according to the Rev. Al Sharpton, who was present. When racial-justice protests turned disorderly in Atlanta, Mr. Biden reached out to the city’s mayor, Keisha Lance Bottoms, to offer support and private counsel. The former vice president, Ms. Bottoms said, was both encouraging and contemplative, telling her how the spiraling demonstrations evoked, for him, the riots in Wilmington in the late 1960s, which led to an extended occupation of the city by the National Guard.

It was a study in the personal empathy, and the hunger to connect with other people, that defined Mr. Biden as a candidate from the start. Throughout the race he invoked his own family’s history of tragedy, and never more so than in confronting the immense pain and loss of the coronavirus pandemic.

“He is able to personalize these big issues,” Ms. Bottoms said. “He really does have a sensitivity and a personal lens for many of these challenges that we’re facing.”

Mr. Biden also recognized that his opponent lacked that impulse.

While Democrats worried that Mr. Biden was taking an overly passive approach to the race, Mr. Trump seemed almost to go out of his way to reinforce the appeal of his challenger’s prudence: There was Mr. Trump’s tear gas-shrouded photo op in Lafayette Park, intended as a show of strength, that came off instead as pure brutishness. There was his indoor rally in Tulsa, Okla., planned as an energetic return to the campaign trail, that instead became a low-energy coronavirus risk zone.

Still, as the country’s mood of emergency deepened, Mr. Biden confided to allies that he was already feeling the weight of the challenges that would lie ahead if he won.

Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois said she told Mr. Biden in a conversation earlier this year that the political moment seemed to cry out for a candidate with formidable governing experience. According to Ms. Duckworth’s recollection, Mr. Biden responded, “Tammy, I need people around me that understand that, and that we need to hit the ground running.”

Mr. Biden reacted in a similar fashion last Monday in Cleveland, when Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio told Mr. Biden he would soon have the chance to be “one of the great presidents of my lifetime.”

“He grabbed my shoulder,” Mr. Brown said, “pulled me in as much as you can when you’re wearing a mask and said: ‘I really need you to help me.’”

Mr. Biden also expressed pointed anxiety after delivering a pair of speeches about national unity and healing at Gettysburg, Pa., and Warm Springs, Ga. — two landmarks associated with the crisis presidencies of Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt.

If Mr. Biden found those backdrops politically resonant, he suggested to an adviser that he was less comfortable with the implied comparison between himself and those men. Mr. Biden had a difficult time, he said, seeing himself as the next Lincoln or Roosevelt.

The pandemic alone might not have shifted the political landscape in Mr. Biden’s favor had he not managed a feat the previous Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, could not: persuading Democrats to lock arms with him after a bruising primary.

Mr. Biden, however, had advantages that Mrs. Clinton did not, starting with a genial relationship with his chief opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.

As the Democratic contest neared its end, Mr. Biden quickly took steps to accommodate his former rivals on the left. Days after Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts ended her campaign in early March, Mr. Biden called to tell her he was adopting one of her key proposals on bankruptcy reform. And when Mr. Sanders withdrew from the race, Mr. Biden agreed to create a set of policy task forces to formulate a shared governing agenda.

Representative Kathy Castor of Florida, a Democrat who sat on Mr. Biden’s climate task force, said the difference from 2016 was stark: “That was just so divisive back then, from the Democratic convention in Philadelphia through the election,” she said. “You can’t have Democrats fighting Democrats.”

But Mr. Biden did not budge on the overall ideological thrust of his campaign. On the contrary, he and his close advisers felt vindicated in their assessment of the Democratic Party as a center-left coalition, rather than one of the activist left. Though he added a handful of progressive policy hands to his campaign staff, Mr. Biden’s inner circle was dominated by relative centrists for whom the Sanders ethos of democratic socialism held little appeal.

Perhaps most prominent among those advisers was Valerie Biden Owens, Mr. Biden’s sister and longtime counselor, who stressed during internal deliberations that the campaign should be careful about attacking the wealthy as a political tactic. After all, Ms. Owens argued, many working-class people aspire to be rich.

“The Democratic Party is not what people may think it is on Twitter,” said Representative Brendan Boyle of Pennsylvania, a Biden supporter from day one who recalled telling the former vice president as much last year. “It’s still working-class African-Americans, whites and Latinos. And he was always true to that.”

Over the summer, Mr. Biden chose a running mate who he hoped would reconcile the competing pressures on his candidacy: to excite his own party without creating new vulnerabilities that Republicans might be able to exploit. He settled on Senator Kamala Harris of California, completing his ticket with a choice that was at once groundbreaking and cautious — a younger woman of color who largely shared his own pragmatic political instincts.

He wound up with a message and policy agenda that left Mr. Trump with only limited avenues for attack, and benefited from the president’s lack of interest in learning details. When Mr. Trump sensed vulnerabilities in the Democratic platform, he never devised a critique deeper than one-liner jibes seemingly made for Fox News: His attacks on Mr. Biden’s climate plans, for instance, included claims that Democrats would force buildings to have tiny windows.

If Mr. Biden’s approach held up throughout the campaign, it left enormous unanswered questions for him to confront later on. In some cases, Mr. Biden and his advisers deliberately opted to suppress rather than resolve Democratic disagreements until after the election.

The most prominent example was Mr. Biden’s evasive response to Justice Amy Coney Barrett’s elevation to the Supreme Court. As other Democrats raised a cry of support for overhauling the federal judiciary, Mr. Biden spent weeks refusing to state his own position, eventually proposing a commission to study judicial reforms as a temporary salve.

The rush to seat Justice Barrett opened his eyes more to the hardball tactics of today’s Senate Republicans, said one adviser. But in private, Mr. Biden has continued to express unease about trying to expand the high court, and he is still more intrigued by broader judicial reforms than simply adding justices.

One lawmaker said Steve Ricchetti, a former chief of staff to Mr. Biden, had been candid last summer about the campaign’s dilatory approach to the party’s internal divisions. Asked privately how Mr. Biden intended to handle the left, Mr. Ricchetti acknowledged that it would be a challenge over the long term.

For the moment, he said, getting through Nov. 3 was the only goal.

The most perilous moment of the race for Mr. Biden may have come in late August, when a season of racial-justice protests had given way to spasms of vandalism and arson in a handful of politically important states. In Wisconsin, after the shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by a police officer in Kenosha, rioting erupted in the suburban city — and Mr. Trump went on the attack.

At the Republican nominating convention, the president and his allies pounded Mr. Biden for a week with false or overstated attacks, linking him both to outright criminals and to left-wing activists who had taken up “defund the police” as a slogan. Mr. Biden had disavowed the idea, but Republicans persisted.

The onslaught posed a distinctive challenge to Mr. Biden, threatening to weaken his coalition of racial minorities, young liberals and moderate whites. Mr. Trump began a scare campaign aimed in part at white women, telling them he would “save your suburbs” from what he portrayed as looting mobs that Mr. Biden would not control.

Like other liberals of his generation, Mr. Biden saw danger in the Kenosha riots. Recalling the riots in American cities after the assassinations of the 1960s, he telephoned an adviser, saying he wanted to denounce the violence and asking a question: What had Robert F. Kennedy said to cool tempers in the aftermath of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s murder?

Mr. Biden flew to Pittsburgh the following Monday to head off Mr. Trump’s attacks: In a 24-minute speech, he reaffirmed his support for police reform while sternly denouncing civil unrest. “Looting,” he said, “is not protesting.”

“We need justice in America. We need safety in America,” Mr. Biden said.

The Biden campaign turned a clip from the speech into a television ad and ran it at saturation levels across the electoral map, countering Mr. Trump’s claims that a Democratic administration would unleash violent anarchy.

“Joe has always been someone who was able to hold two thoughts together at the same time about law enforcement and racial justice,” said Senator Chris Coons of Delaware.

And once again, Mr. Biden benefited from his opponent’s impulse toward incitement and division. At the very moment Democrats feared voters might see Mr. Trump as a fearless steward of public safety, the president also spoke out in defense of people sowing chaos on the right.

Mr. Trump would do so again in his first debate with Mr. Biden, marring his law-and-order message by declining to denounce an extremist group on the far right.

That moment after Kenosha was all the more important to Mr. Biden because of its resonance across the Midwest, the region he prized above all others. It was the band of states stretching from Minnesota across to Pennsylvania, Mr. Biden believed, that was likeliest to make him the next president.

His top lieutenants shared that assessment.

During a marathon Zoom session in May, after the campaign’s first major round of polling in the general election, Mr. Biden and his high command spent hours poring over the electoral map. By the end, they had hammered out their priorities: They would focus on three Great Lakes states Mr. Trump flipped in 2016 — Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania — plus Arizona, Florida and North Carolina. The campaign was skeptical of its chances in Florida and saw two other Sun Belt states, Georgia and Texas, as intriguing — but difficult and expensive to compete in.

When Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris returned to the campaign trail, that map guided their activities and their advertising strategy. They lunged at a few longer-shot targets, sending Ms. Harris on a last-minute trip to Texas, while Mr. Biden returned to Ohio, where polls showed him being competitive. Neither state wound up being close on election night.

More fruitful was an aggressive late play for Georgia, a rapidly diversifying state where suburban voters appeared to be swinging hard toward Democrats. In October, Mr. Biden’s pollster, John Anzalone, determined that the former vice president had a better chance to win there than in North Carolina and even Florida, and Mr. Biden embarked on his trip to Atlanta and Warm Springs. Ms. Harris visited the state repeatedly, and on the eve of the election the campaign decided to send former President Barack Obama to Georgia rather than North Carolina to make one last push there.

As the results began coming in on Tuesday, a tense mood took hold across much of the Biden campaign. In the first states to report, Florida and North Carolina, Mr. Trump was faring several points better than Democratic polling had forecast, and considerably ahead of most surveys conducted by the media.

The Biden campaign publicly projected composure, in contrast to Mr. Trump’s erratic behavior on Twitter and during late-night remarks from the East Room. Greg Schultz, Mr. Biden’s former campaign manager during the Democratic primaries, held a call with key supporters to offer reassurance, insisting that the early returns in the suburbs of Ohio were a good omen for the nearby swing states. But to some agitated listeners it was not a convincing presentation.

Mr. Biden’s inner circle grew increasingly unnerved as the night wore on and it became clear that the president was running stronger than expected. Jill Biden, former Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and an array of Biden advisers telephoned Democrats around the country to learn more about the vote count and whether Mr. Biden was in danger of losing.

Within a matter of hours, Mr. Biden’s fortunes had improved as the big cities of the North reported their votes. It would take until Saturday, when Pennsylvania was called in his favor, to confirm that Mr. Biden had won more than the 270 Electoral College votes required to claim the presidency. The Blue Wall was standing again for Democrats, and Mr. Biden could also prevail in the once-red states of Arizona and Georgia.

For all the Democratic jubilation at Mr. Trump’s demise, Mr. Biden may not entirely share that feeling of pure delight. Rahm Emanuel, who served as Mr. Obama’s chief of staff during the Great Recession, said he warned Mr. Biden recently that his reward for winning would be fleeting.

“You’re the dog that caught the car,” Mr. Emanuel said, alluding to what awaited Mr. Biden in the Oval Office.

The man who would soon be president-elect responded: “Ain’t that the truth.”





No.3 article:
A ‘Terrifying’ Coronavirus Surge Will Land in Biden’s Lap

Total coronavirus cases in the U.S. surpassed 10 million on Sunday. Experts say the virus is spreading out of control and could grow worse before President-elect Biden takes office.

PITTSBURGH — Hours after President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. declared the coronavirus a top priority, the magnitude of his task became starkly clear on Sunday as the nation surpassed 10 million cases and sank deeper into the grip of what could become the worst chapter of the pandemic yet.

The rate of new cases is soaring, and for the first time is averaging more than 100,000 a day in the United States, which has reported more Covid-19 cases than any other country. An astonishing number — one in 441 Americans — have tested positive for the virus just in the last week.

With 29 states setting weekly case records, the virus is surging at a worrisome level in more than half the country. Nationwide, hospitalizations have nearly doubled since mid-September, and deaths are slowly increasing again, with few new interventions in place to stop the spiraling outbreak.

“We are in a terrifying place,” said Dr. Krutika Kuppalli, an assistant professor of medicine at the Medical University of South Carolina who studies pandemic response. “All I see is cases continuing to go up, unless we do something.”

The nation’s worsening Covid-19 outlook comes at an extremely difficult juncture: President Trump, who remains in control of the federal response to the outbreak for the next 73 days, is openly at odds with his own coronavirus advisers, and the country is heading into a cold winter when infections are only expected to spread faster as people spend more time indoors.

In a victory speech on Saturday night, Mr. Biden said he was quickly focusing his attention on the pandemic, including plans on Monday to announce a new task force of coronavirus advisers. But he faces a nation divided over mask rules and business shutdowns, even as experts say the situation may further deteriorate before the new administration takes over in late January.

At the White House, President Trump has largely shuttered the coronavirus task force, insisted without evidence that the nation is “rounding the corner” in the fight against the virus, and suggested that he might fire the nation’s top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci. In the days before and after Election Day, six White House aides and a top campaign adviser tested positive for the virus.

All of it comes as colder weather in much of the nation will force people indoors, where the virus is known to spread more readily; as college semesters end and students return home; and as gatherings for Thanksgiving, Christmas and other holidays threaten to sow new outbreaks.

“I see this as a very precarious moment,” said Dr. Ashish K. Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, who said that the Trump administration had “basically thrown in the towel” on trying to control the pandemic, while Mr. Biden and his team have nothing to wield but “moral power and social power” until Jan. 20.

“Without significant action,” he said, “the idea that we have another 100,000 deaths by Inauguration Day would be a conservative estimate.”

Experts pointed to a number of steps a yet-to-be-sworn-in President-elect Biden could take to help control the pandemic. The options range from making a behind-the-scenes push for governors to issue mask orders and for Congress to supply more money for coronavirus testing, all the way up to a national lockdown if cases are still spiraling after Mr. Biden takes office.

Mr. Biden has said he wants to “shut down the virus, not the country.” But as he also vows to do “whatever it takes” to control the pandemic, the millions of Americans who turned out to vote in record numbers last week remain deeply split on how best to go about it.

“I’m anticipating the next shutdown,” said Voizene Stewart, 53, of Detroit, who said he voted for Mr. Biden after losing both his mother and his 34-year-old son to the coronavirus. Though virus cases in the county that includes Detroit are below peak levels from this spring, they have been rising steadily, with nearly 500 infections a day reported on average over the last week.

Even though he has gone months without spending significant time with his remaining children and grandchildren, he said he hopes that the president-elect will once again restrict businesses and urge people to stay home. “We need to get back to that,” he said. “They opened too early.” He noted with concern that the grocery store across the street from his home, which used to be quiet, was once again bustling with people; many customers emerging from the store on Sunday were wearing masks.

Many other voters, including those who viewed Mr. Trump as a champion of the economy, remain far from persuaded.

“We’ve already suffered almost irreparable damage from closing things down,” said Dennis Rohr, a city commissioner in Mandan, N.D., who said he voted for Mr. Trump. Though case counts remain extremely high in Mandan and across North Dakota, Mr. Rohr, 77, feared that any type of shutdown would bring a new, even more dangerous slew of problems, including job losses and loneliness.

Nine months into the pandemic, the country is fading from exhaustion and impatience, but the virus is spreading more than ever before.

Unlike in the spring, when the virus devastated New York City and other places on the East and West Coasts, it is now spreading nearly everywhere, with infections rising in 46 states.

In Pennsylvania, the state that gave Mr. Biden the electoral votes he needed to clinch the presidency, more people are testing positive for the coronavirus than at any other time in the pandemic. In Wisconsin, another pivotal state, hospitalizations for the virus have skyrocketed 500 percent in the past two months.

Surges have hit communities of all types, with remote counties and urban centers alike seeing major spikes. In rural Norton County, Kan., which has lately had one of the country’s highest infection rates, every resident of a local nursing home has tested positive, as have hundreds of people in prison. In Cook County, Ill., which includes Chicago, more than 4,600 cases were announced on Saturday.

Though the country is conducting far more tests now than it was in the spring, the soaring case numbers now reflect accelerating spread of the virus, not simply wider testing.

Hospitalizations, which give a clear picture of how many people are seriously ill with the virus at any given time, grew by 63 percent over the past month, according to data collected by the Covid Tracking Project. More than 55,000 people are now hospitalized with the virus, approaching earlier peaks of more than 59,000 in April and July.

Treatment has vastly improved since the height of the spring outbreak, when more than 2,200 people were dying per day. Even so, deaths, which tend to lag a few weeks behind new infections, are now trending upward. The country has averaged about 900 deaths a day over the last week, compared with about 700 a month ago.

Mr. Biden is in line to inherit one of the most serious and complicated national crises that any incoming president in more than half a century has faced.

While other presidents have entered office during an economic slowdown, including President Obama and Mr. Biden as vice president in 2009, not since Harry Truman in the final months of World War II has a new president faced a situation as “complex and multiheaded” as the pandemic, said Bruce J. Schulman, a political historian at Boston University.

Mr. Biden has said controlling the pandemic is the necessary first step to bringing back jobs, and has said that on his first day in office, he would move rapidly to appoint a “national supply chain commander” and establish a “pandemic testing board,” similar to Franklin D. Roosevelt’s wartime production panel.

On Sunday, Mr. Biden’s campaign released a first glimpse of his plan for the pandemic, including a commitment to “listen to science.” Public health experts offered initial praise for his coronavirus task force, which is expected to include Dr. Vivek Murthy, a former surgeon general; Dr. David Kessler, a former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration; and Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith, a Yale University professor.

But Mr. Biden has also promised to unify the country and govern as an “American president,” and millions of Americans, including many who supported Mr. Trump, voted with priority on the economy.

Kathleen Skeins, a travel agent outside Detroit, used to be busy planning all-inclusive trips abroad for her clients. Now, she said, she is among the many business owners in America who are “barely starting to get back on their feet.”

“We’ve already had so many people that have lost their dreams in the first shutdown,” said Ms. Skeins, 51, who said she cast her first ballot in about 30 years last week, and voted for Mr. Trump. While she doesn’t take the virus lightly, she said, she remains firmly opposed to any restrictions that could hurt her business.

“The virus is never going to go away,” she said. “It’s just a part of our lives.”





No.4 article:
As Biden Plans Transition, Republicans Decline to Recognize His Election

Former President George W. Bush and a handful of other Republicans congratulated the president-elect, but most party leaders stayed quiet or urged President Trump to fight.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. prepared on Sunday to start building his administration, even as Republican leaders and scores of party lawmakers refrained from acknowledging his victory out of apparent deference to President Trump, who continued to refuse to concede.

With Mr. Biden out of the public eye as he received congratulations from leaders around the world, his team turned its attention to a transition that will swing into action on Monday, with the launch of a coronavirus task force and swift moves to begin assembling his team.

But more than 24 hours after his election had been declared, the vast majority of Republicans declined to offer the customary statements of good will for the victor that have been standard after American presidential contests, as Mr. Trump defied the results and vowed to forge ahead with long-shot lawsuits to try to overturn them.

While some prominent Republican figures, including the party’s only living former president, George W. Bush, called Mr. Biden to wish him well, most elected officials stayed silent in the face of Mr. Trump’s baseless claims that the election was stolen from him.

Mr. Biden did not respond to Mr. Trump’s attacks on the result, but he also was not waiting for a concession. On Sunday, he unveiled his official transition website as he prepared a series of executive actions for his first day in the Oval Office — including rejoining the Paris climate accord, moving aggressively to confront the coronavirus pandemic and restoring labor organizing rights for government workers — aimed at unwinding Mr. Trump’s domestic agenda and repairing the United States’ image in the world.

But Republicans’ silence suggested that even in defeat, Mr. Trump maintained a powerful grip on his party and its elected leaders, who have spent four years tightly embracing him or quietly working to avoid offending him or his loyal base. For many prominent Republicans, the president’s reluctance to accept the election results created a dilemma, making even the most cursory expression of support for Mr. Biden seem like a conspicuous break with Mr. Trump.

Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri was the most senior Republican to suggest that Mr. Trump had most likely lost and cast doubt on his allegations of a stolen election, but he stopped short of referring to Mr. Biden as the president-elect in an exceedingly careful television interview.

“It’s time for the president’s lawyers to present the facts, and it’s time for those facts to speak for themselves,” Mr. Blunt, the chairman of the Rules Committee, said on ABC’s “This Week.” “It seems unlikely that any changes could be big enough to make a difference, but this is a close election, and we need to acknowledge that.”

“I look forward,” Mr. Blunt added, “to the president dealing with this however he needs to deal with it.”

At the White House, there was little indication that Mr. Trump was dealing with it at all. As he played a second consecutive day of golf at his private club outside Washington, the president recirculated a groundless claim by Newt Gingrich, the former Republican speaker of the House, who told Fox News, “I think that it is a corrupt, stolen election.”

Privately, the president’s advisers, several of whom have quietly been candid with Mr. Trump that the chances of success in any challenge to the election outcome were not high, had concluded they had little option other than to allow the president to keep fighting until he was ready to bow to the reality of his loss.

On Friday, a large group of them met with the president in the Oval Office to discuss the way forward, giving him a brutally honest assessment of his likelihood of prevailing. After another meeting at Mr. Trump’s campaign headquarters on Saturday, where political aides again laid out the small chances of changing the outcome of the race, Jared Kushner, the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law, asked the group to go to the White House to outline it for Mr. Trump, according to people briefed on the meeting.

Campaign officials continued to discuss their legal strategy for challenging the election results on Sunday and named Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, who lost his bid for a Senate seat on Tuesday, to lead their recount effort in the state.

On his first full day as president-elect, Mr. Biden kept a low profile, emerging publicly only to attend Mass, as he does most Sundays. Afterward, he visited the cemetery where his son Beau; his first wife, Neilia; and their daughter, Naomi, are buried. In a sign of one specific stylistic change coming to the White House, he also stayed quiet in another way: Aside from circulating a video posted by his presidential transition, he had not sent a single tweet by Sunday evening.

Leaders around the world sent their congratulations to Mr. Biden, underscoring the international community’s acceptance of the results, even by those who had cultivated close personal ties with Mr. Trump, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Boris Johnson of Britain. A few refrained, including the leaders of Russia and China, Vladimir V. Putin and Xi Jinping.

There were signs that Mr. Trump would come under increasing pressure to accept the election results. The nonpartisan Center for Presidential Transition, a nonprofit that assists in transfers of power between administrations, called on his team to “immediately begin the postelection transition process.”

“While there will be legal disputes requiring adjudication, the outcome is sufficiently clear that the transition process must now begin,” members of the group’s advisory board — including Mike Leavitt, the former Republican governor of Utah, and Josh Bolten, the White House chief of staff under Mr. Bush — wrote in a letter reported earlier by Politico.

“This was a hard-fought campaign, but history is replete with examples of presidents who emerged from such campaigns to graciously assist their successors,” they wrote.

Mr. Bush extended his congratulations to Mr. Biden in a statement issued after the two men spoke on Sunday.

“Though we have political differences, I know Joe Biden to be a good man, who has won his opportunity to lead and unify our country,” Mr. Bush said in a statement.

And a former member of Mr. Trump’s cabinet, Gary Cohn, also acknowledged Mr. Biden’s victory, tweeting his “congrats” to “President-elect @joebiden and Vice President-elect @kamalaharris.”

“With over 145M votes cast,” he continued, “both campaigns should be applauded for getting an unprecedented number of citizens engaged in the democratic process.”

The silence from most other leading Republicans cut both ways for the president. While it allowed Mr. Trump to continue the fiction that he had not lost, it also left him to battle against the election results without the full, vocal support of his party behind him.

Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, has declined to say anything since Friday, before the election results were known, when he released a generic statement encouraging officials to “count all the votes.” No member of his leadership team has either, apart from Mr. Blunt’s carefully worded statements on Sunday.

In a brief interview later Sunday, Mr. Blunt said a public vetting of the Trump campaign’s claims of fraud could help reassure voters on both sides of the election’s legitimacy.

“I think it is best for both the president and Biden to have as much information out as is possible,” he said.

At the same time, just two Republican senators — Mitt Romney of Utah and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — and a handful of House members had acknowledged Mr. Biden’s win by Sunday evening, while others were trying to cast doubt on the results.

“Every legal challenge should be heard,” said Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House minority leader. “Then and only then will America decide who won the race.”

Speaking on Fox News, Mr. McCarthy questioned why news media outlets had called the presidential race for Mr. Biden, who was leading by tens of thousands of votes in key battleground states, before learning the final results of contests in competitive House districts — many of those in deep-blue California and New York — where thousands of mail-in ballots remain uncounted.

“Why would you call the presidential race first?” he asked.

News outlets call races after analyzing returns and concluding the outcome is certain, and the results in the congressional races in which ballots are still being tabulated — all but a handful of them in states that Mr. Biden easily won — have no bearing on the presidential race.

Still, some Republicans were grasping for evidence of wrongdoing. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina urged Mr. Trump to refuse to concede and fight on. He acknowledged, though, that a claim he circulated over the weekend that a postal worker was said to have overheard talk of what he believed was corruption taking place at a facility in Erie, Pa., remained unverified.

“Do not accept the media’s declaration of Biden,” Mr. Graham, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said on Fox News on Sunday morning. He called the election “contested” and urged: “Do not concede, Mr. President. Fight hard.”

Those comments reflected the advice of some of Mr. Trump’s top advisers, chiefly Rudolph W. Giuliani, his personal lawyer, who were urging him on Sunday to continue to fight the results.

A remarkably small number of Republicans called for the country to move on and acknowledged Mr. Biden’s victory. Among them were three governors of blue states — Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, Larry Hogan of Maryland and Phil Scott of Vermont — and fewer than a dozen House Republicans.

They included the centrist Representatives Tom Reed of New York and Fred Upton of Michigan; Representative Adam Kinzinger of Illinois, who has been an outspoken critic of Mr. Trump; and four lawmakers who will not be returning to Congress next year: Representatives Paul Mitchell of Michigan, Will Hurd of Texas and Francis Rooney of Florida, who are retiring, and Representative Denver Riggleman of Virginia, who lost his primary this year.

Representative Don Young of Alaska, whose race remains undecided after a re-election bid that was more difficult than expected, said he wished “the president-elect well in what will no doubt be the most challenging chapter of his political career.”

“It is time to put the election behind us, and come together to work for a better tomorrow for our nation,” Mr. Young said in a statement.

On “Fox News Sunday,” Mr. Romney provided a contrast to many of his Republican colleagues. He said that he believed it was “appropriate” for Mr. Trump to pursue recounts and legal challenges in certain battleground states, but cautioned against widespread condemnations of the American system of elections.

“It’s important for the cause of democracy and freedom that we don’t allege fraud and theft and so forth, unless there’s very clear evidence of that,” Mr. Romney said. “To date, that evidence has not been produced.”

Mr. Romney noted that he had had a legal team ready to challenge the results of the 2012 election when he was the Republican nominee, but decided not to go forward once he saw such efforts would be futile.

“At some point, truth, freedom and democracy have to ascend,” he said, “and you step aside.”





No.5 article:
China Extends Reach in the Caribbean, Unsettling the U.S.

The region has strategic importance as a hub for logistics, banking and commerce. It is also very close to the United States.

MEXICO CITY — China has offered Jamaica loans and expertise to build miles of new highways. Throughout the Caribbean, it has donated security equipment to military and police forces, and built a network of Chinese cultural centers. And it has dispatched large shipments of test kits, masks and ventilators to help governments respond to the pandemic.

The initiatives are part of a quiet but assertive push by China in recent years to expand its footprint and influence in the region through government grants and loans, investments by Chinese companies, and diplomatic, cultural and security efforts.

But while governments in the region have welcomed Beijing’s interest, the Trump administration has viewed China’s growing presence — and its potential to challenge Washington’s influence in the region — with concern and suspicion.

The Caribbean markets are generally small, and most of the nations there lack the sizable reserves of minerals and other raw materials that often draw Chinese attention. But the region has strategic importance as a hub for logistics, banking and commerce, analyst say, and could have great security value in a military conflict because of its proximity to the United States.

“There are a lot of reinforcing reasons that go beyond balance sheets,” said R. Evan Ellis, research professor of Latin American studies at the U.S. Army War College’s Strategic Studies Institute. “China understands intuitively the strategic importance of that space.”

China’s efforts in the region are part of its global strategy to forge deep economic ties and strong diplomatic relationships around the world, in part through the building of major infrastructure projects under its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative.

A crucial motivation for China’s Caribbean strategy also is winning over the remaining nations that officially recognize Taiwan instead of China, most of which are in the Caribbean and Latin America, said Richard L. Bernal, a professor at the University of the West Indies in Jamaica and former Jamaican ambassador to the United States.

China considers Taiwan to be part of its territory and has long sought to reduce the number of countries that recognize it. But recently Taiwan’s international stature has grown with its aggressive response to the coronavirus pandemic.

“China’s objective is to gradually eliminate the recognition of Taiwan,” Mr. Bernal said.

China’s growing interest has come as much-needed help for Caribbean nations that have serious infrastructure needs but whose status as middle-income countries complicates their access to financing for development.

Low-interest loans by the Chinese government totaling more than $6 billion over 15 years have financed major infrastructure projects and other initiatives throughout the Caribbean, according to the Inter-American Dialogue, a research organization based in Washington. The total climbs by $62 billion with the addition of assistance to Venezuela, much of it given in return for long-term oil supplies.

During the same period, Chinese firms have invested in ports and maritime logistics, mining and oil concerns, the sugar and timber industries, tourist resorts and technology projects. Between 2002 and 2019, trade between China and the Caribbean rose eightfold, said Mr. Ellis, the professor at the U.S. Army War College.

China’s global push for business and allies has generated criticism, particularly in the United States and Western Europe, which have called the Belt and Road Initiative predatory. In 2018, Sri Lanka, unable to repay Chinese loans, surrendered its major port to China.

But analysts who closely follow Chinese activity in the Caribbean say that while there is some concern about the sustainability of some of the debt assumed by regional governments, they have seen no evidence of a debt trap as in the case of the Sri Lankan port.

“The loans are not only economic business but also a way of building good will,” said Mr. Bernal, the professor at the University of the West Indies.

Jamaica, which has emerged as an anchor of Chinese activity in the Caribbean, has received more Chinese government loans than any other Caribbean island nation, according to the Inter-American Dialogue, which closely tracks Chinese government financing in the region.

Over the past 15 years, Beijing has lent Jamaica some $2.1 billion for building roads, bridges, a convention center and housing, according to the group. Grants have financed a children’s hospital, schools and an office building for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, among other projects, according to the Planning Institute of Jamaica.

And direct investments from Chinese firms in Jamaica poured more than $3 billion into projects like bauxite mining and sugar production, Chinese business leaders said, according to local news reports.

Last November, the Jamaican government announced that it would stop negotiating new loans from China as part of its effort to reduce debt quickly, but would continue to cooperate with the Chinese on major infrastructure projects through joint venture and public-private partnerships, among other arrangements.

But Jamaican officials say outstanding Chinese loans are not putting an extraordinary burden on the country: They amount to only about 4 percent of Jamaica’s total loan portfolio and are scheduled to be repaid within a decade.

China has also widened its influence in the Caribbean through security cooperation, including the donation of equipment to military and police forces, and cultural outreach programs, like the expansion of its network of Confucius Institutes. These institutes provide language instruction and cultural programming but have been accused of disseminating Chinese government propaganda.

The pandemic allowed China to strengthen these relationships further by donating or selling personal protective equipment, in what has come to be called “mask diplomacy.” The Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, pledged in July that China would extend $1 billion in loans for vaccines to Latin American and Caribbean countries.

Even as it has increased its presence in the region, China has avoided directly challenging the United States in the Caribbean through rhetoric or military and political initiatives, Mr. Ellis said.

Still, China’s rise in the Caribbean pushed the Trump administration to forcefully promote its own development programs. These include “Growth in the Americas,” an investment initiative begun last year that many analysts viewed as a direct response to China’s diplomatic and trade efforts in the Caribbean and Latin America.

And in October, a Trump administration delegation visited Suriname, Guyana, Jamaica, Haiti and the Dominican Republic to tout American private sector investment.

The United States has also stepped up warnings to allies in the region about the risks of doing business with Beijing, underscoring what it says are potential hazards ranging from shoddy construction to predatory loans and espionage.

In recent weeks, the American ambassador to Jamaica, Donald Tapia, has cautioned that country against installing fifth-generation mobile networks made by Huawei and ZTE, two Chinese firms, warning in a Twitter post that “Huawei has a history of spying, stealing, and supporting authoritarian regimes.”

Last November, Mr. Tapia, in an interview with the Jamaica Gleaner, called China “a dragon with two heads,” the newspaper reported.

During a visit to Jamaica in January, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said it was “tempting to accept easy money from places like China.”

“But what good is it if it feeds corruption and undermines your rule of law?” he asked. “What good are those investments if in fact they ruin your environment and don’t create jobs for your people?”

The Chinese Embassy in Kingston, in a statement responding to Mr. Pompeo’s remarks, said it had deepened its involvement with Caribbean states “on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit.” And it accused the United States of picking fights.

“It seems that some U.S. politicians cannot go anywhere without attacking China, tarnishing China’s reputation, starting fires and fanning the flames and sowing discords,” the Chinese Embassy said. “They can go on talking the talk if they so wish, but we will continue walking the walk. The world will tell plainly who is stirring up trouble and who is trying to make a difference.”

The deepening competition between the two superpowers has put Caribbean nations in an awkward position, and they do not want to be forced to pick sides, said Pepe Zhang, an associate director at the Atlantic Council’s Adrienne Arsht Latin America Center.

“They want to be able to work with both the United States and China in areas that make sense,” he said. “And I think that’s something that will be even more true now that the region is going through a very difficult economic recession.”





No.6 article:
The Trump Presidency Is Ending. So Is Maggie Haberman’s Wild Ride.

For the last four years, the Times reporter has been the human incarnation of a nation riveted, like it or not, by Donald Trump.

Maggie Haberman lives rent-free in Donald Trump’s head, all over the front page of The New York Times and also in a brick house in an unglamorous Brooklyn neighborhood out beyond the Citi Bikes and stately brownstones. On election night, as the votes started coming in, she was seated at her dining room table with her husband and one of her three children, drinking from a liter bottle of Foodtown raspberry seltzer, eating leftover Kit Kats from Halloween, typing and texting, and, still, still, working her sources.

“We’ll see what the late exits look like, but that’s not great?” Ms. Haberman began on one call around 6:20 p.m., typing on her laptop as she talked on the big black iPhone held up to her ear. She told another caller, “I have a funny feeling the president’s going to do better than people think.”

That was the beginning of the end of one of the most astonishing runs in the history of American journalism. Ms. Haberman has been, for the last four years, the source of a remarkably large share of what we know about Donald Trump and his White House, from the Mueller investigation to his personal battle with the coronavirus to his refusal to accept defeat. She’s done more than a story a day, on average, and stories with her byline have accounted for hundreds of millions of page views this year alone. That’s more than anyone else at The Times.

She has consistently painted a portrait of a man who is both smarter and less competent than his enemies believe, a portrait vindicated again this past week as the president impotently poisoned politics with lies about election results. She was shocked, but not surprised, when he attacked the election results in a dark Thursday night briefing. But as we sat outside her house waiting for the final call on Saturday morning, she told me she believes he “will continue to say the things he’s saying as he walks out the door.”

Politics used to be covered as a kind of a sport, but it doesn’t feel like that anymore. (John King of CNN was jeered for calling vote counting “fun” on election night.) And despite the television glamour and lucrative book contracts that flooded in for reporters in the Trump era, the real work of reporting is painstaking and exhausting: getting people, one by one, to tell you things they should not, and then telling your readers about them.

Ms. Haberman was particularly well-suited for this journalistic moment because of her sheer relentlessness and hunger, and her lack of smug self-satisfaction. She seems to need to prove herself every day. She texts while she drives, talks while she eats, parents while she reports, tweets and regrets it, doomscrolls. She hates Twitter so much she stepped back from the platform in 2018 and wrote an Op-Ed about it, and then started tweeting again. (Relatable!)

For the last four years, she has been the human incarnation of a nation riveted, like it or not, by Mr. Trump, a reporter driven by a kind of curiosity that feels more like compulsion to find out what is going on — and has dragged us all along for the harrowing ride.

“She has been the dominant reporter on the Trump White House beat for four years, and it’s not really close,” said Jonathan Swan of Axios, one of her fiercest competitors for breaking news. He described her as “the bane of my existence for the past four years,” adding, “I get high anxiety most days wondering what she will break that I should have had.”

I know the feeling. I learned to report from Maggie — and to fear her — in City Hall in New York, where she was a reporter for The New York Post, and where she first covered Donald Trump. When I arrived in 2001, Ms. Haberman cut a striking figure there: She wore a leather jacket and smoked cigarettes on the building’s iconic front steps, chatting with the cops.

But she did her real work in Room 4a, in the basement, where the junior reporters for the tabloids and assorted other misfits like me were relegated, downstairs from the legendary main press room, Room 9. Room 4a was a cluttered office with mismatched desks and, once, a squirrel. I sat facing her and every morning watched her routine, which was terrifying. First, she picked up the competing newspaper, The Daily News, and leafed through for stories she wished she’d broken, deducing who had been the source of each one. Then, she called the sources — she already knew them well, of course — and chatted in a friendly way, before telling them she felt genuinely betrayed that they hadn’t gone to her, that she was worried she’d be in trouble with her boss for getting beaten and, honestly, that she was incredibly angry at them.

These weren’t the blithe transactions of a slick journalist. This was how you report when you take your sources and your work dead seriously, and make no real distinction between your reporting and the rest of your life. I learned from her never to treat it as a game.

Ms. Haberman and I finally got to work together at Politico, where she threw me a byline on a 2011 story about Mr. Trump, in which she got at what would become a familiar theme: “The widespread assumption that Trump’s flirtation with the presidency is a publicity stunt is no doubt at least partly true. But that’s merely the point of departure for a man for whom almost every public move over the past 30 years has been a publicity stunt.” (We remain friends, as well as colleagues. This is another one of these columns where you have every reason to doubt my neutrality.)

She arrived at The Times in February 2015, the sort of midsenior hire who can easily get lost at a big institution, with the nominal mandate of writing a newsletter. She had a scoopy aggression that made her feel a little “scruffy” at the broadsheet. Then, she just started breaking news — of a meeting between Elizabeth Warren and Hillary Clinton, of a big endorsement for Jeb Bush. Everyone wanted to cover the likely Republican nominee, Mr. Bush, and journalists at the time had “this impulse to just not cover” Mr. Trump, she recalled, which she thought was a mistake. So she became the Trump reporter more or less by default, and covered both the campaign’s rolling leadership crisis and the candidate’s divisive words.

When Mr. Trump stunned the country by winning, The Times’s Washington bureau chief, Elisabeth Bumiller, invited Ms. Haberman and another reporter on the Trump beat, Ashley Parker, to brief the Washington bureau on what was to come. In a meeting that has become Times lore, they told a room full of seasoned journalists what to expect. “Always assume you’re being recorded, assume anything you put in an email is going to be tweeted about by him or read aloud, that his aides lie to each other,” she recalled saying.

Ms. Bumiller and much of her team were skeptical. “I remember thinking that the president-elect she was describing — impulsive, unaware of the workings of government, with no real ideology — was exaggerated, and that the office would change him,” Ms. Bumiller said. “I was completely wrong and Maggie was completely right.”

Ms. Parker, now a White House reporter for The Washington Post, recalled that “Maggie and I were like aliens from another planet describing this Martian king to the people of The New York Times in a way they could not fathom.”

They didn’t have to wait long for Mr. Trump to test the limits of the presidency. In his first month, Mr. Trump carried through on his promise to ban immigration from seven Muslim countries, leading to mass protests in the streets and at airports. The Trump era had begun in earnest, though many journalists had to learn and relearn the lessons about covering his presidency.

Ms. Haberman topped out at 599 bylines in 2016 — that’s both solo bylines and shared ones — and she also leads The Times this year. She’s often the only one able to reliably confirm facts in Mr. Trump’s chaotic and dishonest orbit. She was also under his skin: He attacked her personally on Twitter and sparred with her in person, but kept giving her interviews until last year. This Oct. 19 he tweeted directly to her about his confidence in winning the election and his “BOFFO” rallies.

As Ms. Haberman produced scoop after scoop, she became the center of intense attention. Much of that has played out on Twitter — which she sees as an “appalling website” that she can’t quit. She feels she’s never quite found her footing there, she said, and “regrets” tweets that she fears cast a shadow on her reporting.

Women in journalism, and high-profile women at The Times, in particular, receive unending abuse on the platform. The worst of it has come courtesy of Mr. Trump. “I don’t think that people fully understand what it’s like when the president of the United States is personally attacking you,” she said, noting that while it’s simply the way Mr. Trump works, among his supporters “there are enough people who think that’s real and who don’t get that.”

But other days, the abuse has come from Mr. Trump’s critics, who are sometimes simply shooting the messenger. And there have been times, Ms. Haberman said, that she just sends an off-key tweet to her 1.5 million followers and tortures herself for it.

“I have never adjusted to the fact that I have so many followers. So I think I continue to treat it as if it’s like a small group of people who I know. And then when I get attacked by people who don’t know me, I have not quite understood why they’re attacking me,” she said. “And I think the biggest mistake I have made on Twitter is fighting with people.”

Her most recent Bad Tweet came on Oct. 14, when she pasted in a quote from a New York Post article on photos and documents the paper said it had taken from the hard drive of a laptop purportedly belonging to Hunter Biden. She’d intended to raise an eyebrow at the mention of F.B.I. involvement — suggesting they hadn’t found the information serious and, perhaps, a hint as to where Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani got the information. Democrats interpreted her tweet as simply promoting a story whose origins were shadowy. “MAGA Haberman” trended. She sent a round of frantic texts to friends asking if she’d screwed up, and ultimately deleted the tweet.

Mr. Trump’s own Twitter account is mostly hidden behind warnings these days. The president, though, will go. And Ms. Haberman is not going to move to Washington to join the new White House team, she said, but instead anticipates covering some blend of the new administration and the enduring Trump orbit from New York. She hopes that she’ll break more news, and worries that she’ll lose her touch. “I’m dispensable,” she said, an assertion that Times editors would take issue with.

After the election was called late Saturday morning, she drove her children to IT’SUGAR and bought some pockys and the game BeanBoozled, then drove without stopping through Grand Army Plaza so they could look out the window at the celebrations of the Biden victory. Then, she drove home, where she taped a valedictory “Daily” podcast episode and filed yet another article.

“Nothing about any of this is normal, including, like, how much attention is on me,” she told me. “I will not miss that.”





No.7 article:
Five Takeaways From President-Elect Biden’s Victory Speech

As he addressed the nation from Delaware, Joseph R. Biden Jr. set a tone that was very different from President Trump’s.

Joseph R. Biden Jr. waited a long time to give the speech he delivered in Delaware on Saturday night. Not just the five days since Election Day, but arguably the 48 years since he was first elected to the Senate, during which he ran for president three times. And at age 77, as Mr. Biden came trotting up the runway to an explosion of car horns and cheers, beaming and looking almost surprised by the ovation, it was clear that his moment had arrived.

Here are five takeaways from the president-elect’s victory speech.

The contrast between Mr. Biden and President Trump was bracing and notable in almost every passage, as the president-elect invoked his own spirituality and shared credit for the moment with his supporters and the people around him.

He quoted from a hymn, “On Eagle’s Wings.” He thanked his supporters: “I owe you, I owe you, I owe you everything.” He warmly praised Kamala Harris, his running mate, and celebrated the fact that she would be the first woman, let alone woman of color, to serve as vice president: “It’s long overdue, and we’re reminded tonight of all those who fought so hard for so many years to make this happen.”

Most of all, even as the nation faces one of the darkest periods in its history — a deadly pandemic, economic decline, political polarization — Mr. Biden was relentlessly optimistic, even cheerful. “We can do it,” he said. “I know we can.”

There were many notable passages in the speech, but one stood out. “Let this grim era of demonization in America begin to end here and now,” he said. That is probably a line that people will talk about long into the Biden presidency.

Mr. Biden mentioned Mr. Trump’s name only once during his 17-minute speech. He ignored the fact that the president had not conceded, and that he had challenged — without any evidence — the legitimacy of the election. Mr. Biden also did not note that many top Republican leaders, presumably following Mr. Trump’s lead, had not offered him the customary congratulations.

But if Mr. Biden did not dwell on the president, he certainly spoke to his supporters, a notable contrast to Mr. Trump’s speech after his own victory in 2016. “To those who voted for President Trump, I understand your disappointment tonight,” he said. “I’ve lost a couple of elections myself. But now, let’s give each other a chance.”

And while he ignored Mr. Trump’s protests about the election, Mr. Biden made clear that there should be no doubt about the legitimacy of the outcome. “The people of this nation have spoken,” he said. “They have delivered us a clear victory. A convincing victory. A victory for ‘We the People.’ We have won with the most votes ever cast for a presidential ticket in the history of this nation — 74 million.”

Mr. Biden’s strategy here was clear. He has exceeded the 270 Electoral College votes needed to become president, and may end up gathering more than 300. He is now moving past the contest with Mr. Trump and into the role of president-elect. The transition is at hand, and the trappings of the presidency have begun to surround him — apparent in the size of the Secret Service contingent that followed him to give his speech, and the way every television station spoke of him as the president-elect. 

He is seeking to relegate Mr. Trump to the sidelines, and turning to the urgent business of forming a new government and dealing with the crises he will face.

Mr. Biden left no doubt that the coronavirus pandemic would be a priority for his administration in a way that it has not been under Mr. Trump.

Mr. Biden announced that on Monday, he would appoint top science and health experts to a committee to craft a plan for battling the pandemic, which he said would be ready to put in place when he and Ms. Harris take office in January. Mr. Biden told the nation that getting the coronavirus under control was crucial to normalcy and economic prosperity.

“We cannot repair the economy, restore our vitality or relish life’s most precious moments — hugging a grandchild, birthdays, weddings, graduations, all the moments that matter most to us — until we get this virus under control,” he said.

Mr. Trump has taken a much different approach. Throughout his campaign, he urged Americans not to fear the virus, asserting that the danger was being exaggerated by his political opponents. He defied the advice of health officials on precautions like wearing a mask, even after he himself was diagnosed with the virus.

Mr. Biden’s victory comes as the nation is setting daily records for new infections and the health authorities have warned of a bleak winter. Masks were everywhere at his celebration. 

Mr. Trump defined the tone of his presidency at his inauguration, with a dark speech in which he notably did not reach out beyond his base of supporters. The strategy had lifted him to a narrow victory in 2016 — in the Electoral College; he lost the popular vote — and he sought to reprise it in his losing campaign this year.

Mr. Biden aggressively moved in the other direction. 

“I pledge to be a president who seeks not to divide, but to unify — who doesn’t see red and blue states, but a United States,” he said on Saturday. “And who will work with all my heart to win the confidence of the whole people.” 

To some extent, that reflects what Mr. Biden said during the campaign, but the approach will take on a new urgency as he becomes president. Pending the outcome of two runoffs in Georgia, the Senate is controlled by Republicans, and he will need to reach out to senators from the red states if he wants to enact an agenda. 

There have been some impressive pyrotechnics during this campaign — the ones over the Washington skyline on the night Mr. Trump accepted the Republican nomination from the back lawn of the White House come to mind. 

This one, though, set a bar that may be hard to match: Fireworks and drones spelled out Mr. Biden’s name, Ms. Harris’s name and a map of the United States. Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris, surrounded by their families, stood onstage staring into the Delaware sky, lit up again and again on the night that Mr. Biden has been awaiting for most of his life.





No.8 article:
Witnessing Peru’s Enduring, if Altered, Snow Star Festival

At the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, with travel restrictions in place worldwide, we launched a new series — The World Through a Lens — in which photojournalists help transport you, virtually, to some of our planet’s most beautiful and intriguing places. This week, Danielle Villasana shares a collection of images from southeastern Peru.

Stubbornly unfazed by warnings of “soroche,” or altitude sickness, I swung my legs up onto a donkey and began to ascend the steep trails. After trekking for a few dizzying hours alongside hundreds of others, I approached a glacial basin. The scene began to unfold before us: an immense valley flooded with so many pilgrims that it seemed to be covered in confetti, each tiny speck representing a huddled collection of tents and people.

The altitude sickness began to overtake every inch of my body. Even my eyeballs ached. But, undeterred, I slowly navigated through the throngs of people trying to take in every sight and sound.

Each year in late May or early June, thousands of pilgrims trek for hours on foot and horseback through Peru’s Andean highlands — slowly snaking their way up the mountainous terrain — for the religious celebrations of Qoyllur Rit’i, held some 50 miles east of Cusco, once the capital of the Incan empire.

Practiced annually for hundreds of years, the celebrations mark the start of the harvest season, when the Pleiades, a prominent cluster of stars, return to the night sky in the Southern Hemisphere. The syncretic festival, which is on UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, interweaves Indigenous and Incan customs with Catholic traditions introduced by Spanish colonizers, who sought to undermine Andean cosmology.

Celebrations were suspended this year because of the coronavirus pandemic, with the route to the valley completely blocked off. But when I attended in 2013, the crowds were remarkably dense.

The festival takes place in the Sinakara Valley, a glacial basin that sits around 16,000 feet above sea level. Celebrants swarm in colorful droves with costumes, enormous flags, instruments and provisions in tow.

The festivities begin with the arrival of a statue of the Lord of Qoyllur Rit’i, transported from the nearby town of Mahuayani, to the valley’s small chapel. For three days, from morning until night, amid the nonstop sounds of drums, flutes, whistles, accordions, cymbals and electric keyboards, the air is filled with billowing clouds of dust kicked up from twirling dancers; it settles on the sequins, neon scarves, ribbons, tassels and feathers that adorn people’s traditional costumes and attire.

Pilgrims here are divided into “nations,” which correspond to their place of origin. Most belong to the Quechua-speaking agricultural regions to the northwest, or to the Aymara-speaking regions to the southeast. The delegation from Paucartambo has been making the pilgrimage for longer than any other.

“It’s important to maintain this tradition, because we have a lot of faith,” said a young Paucartambo pilgrim dressed as an ukuku, a mythical half-man and half-bear creature. Costumed in red, white and black alpaca robes, the ukukus are responsible for ensuring the safety of the pilgrims; they act as intermediaries between the Lord of Qoyllur Rit’i and the people.

Other participants include the ch’unchus, who wear headdresses and represent Indigenous communities from the Amazon; the qhapaq qollas, who wear knitted masks and represent inhabitants from the southern Altiplano region; and the machulas, who wear long coats over fake humpbacks and represent the mythological people to first populate the Andes.

Hundreds of ceremonies are held throughout the three-day festival. But the long-awaited main event is carried out by the ukukus in the early morning hours of the last day. Carrying towering crosses and candles, ukukus from each nation ascend the Qullqipunku mountain toward a nearby glacier, regarded as alive and sentient. (The snow-capped mountains circling the valley are also believed to be mountain gods, or Apus, that provide protection.)

According to oral traditions, the ukukus, after scaling the icy slopes, once partook in ritualistic battles that were eventually prohibited by the Catholic Church.

Another tradition was also recently put to rest, this time by Mother Nature.

Up until only a few years ago, ukukus would carve slabs of ice from the glacier, whose melted water is revered as medicinal. Pilgrims would eagerly await the ukukus, backs bent from the weight of the ice, who would place the blocks along the pathway to the temple, to be used as holy water. Sometimes the ice was even transported to Cusco’s main square where, as Qoyllur Rit’i draws to a close, Corpus Christi celebrations kick off with comparable religious zeal.

Many believed that carrying the ice was a penance for sins, and that fulfilling this ritual meant the Apus would offer blessings.

But because much of the glacier has melted, significantly reducing its size, the tradition of carrying chunks of sacred ice down the mountain has been banned.

Climate scientists say that glaciers in the tropical Andes have been reduced by nearly a quarter in the last 40 years. Some scientists predict that such glaciers could disappear entirely by 2070.

These changes have not only affected agricultural practices in the Andes, but also, as witnessed by Qoyllur Rit’i pilgrims, cultural ones, too.

Although the ukukus now carry only wooden crosses back down the mountain, they’re still met with great jubilation — a testament to human resilience in the face of destruction caused by climate change.

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.





No.9 article:
With Help From Herb Alpert, Letting the Light In at the Harlem School of the Arts

Dorothy Maynor never sang at the Met, but the school she founded is glowing anew, thanks to the revitalization of its beloved “gathering place.”

A typical Saturday at the Harlem School of the Arts would find families chatting with each other as one child runs out of a dance class in tights, or another lugs a viola. A quick bite or check-in with parents, and they would dash to a drawing or singing class.

This happy noise occurred in what the school’s founder, Dorothy Maynor, called the Gathering Place, a two-story-high room that also hosted performances and exhibitions of student work, and where performers from the worlds of jazz, Broadway and classical music would drop by so that children could see and meet working artists up close.

But the Gathering Place, which dates from 1977, was enclosed by concrete-block walls. Children and families came in through a forbidding brick entrance.

Today, the school has completed a thorough transformation inspired by an architect Celia Imrey, and a major patron: Herb Alpert, the trumpeter and record company executive, whose foundation has contributed a total of $17 million to the school, including $9.7 million for the recent upgrade. A glass facade floods the space with morning sunlight, ready to unveil the students’ beehive of activity at the school, on St. Nicholas Avenue near 141st Street. An upper-level corridor doubles as a wood-paneled balcony, reached by a grand switchback staircase. The space has been equipped with sophisticated acoustics, and advanced theater lighting and sound.

“I mourn the level of energy this place had,” Eric Pryor, the school’s president, said, looking forward to the school’s post-pandemic future, when children and families can return. (Many students continue to take classes by video.)

With many performers and arts organizations staring at a financial abyss, the Harlem School of the Arts has risen and thrived through adversity.

Ms. Maynor was an acclaimed lyric soprano of Black and Native American ancestry with a wide smile and a talent now largely overlooked. “Miss Maynor’s voice is phenomenal for its range, character, and varied resources,” wrote The Times critic Olin Downes in a review of a famed concert at Town Hall in 1939. She sang classical repertory at the world’s concert halls, but retired in 1963, having performed at Dwight Eisenhower’s presidential inauguration but never at the Metropolitan Opera, which did not hire African-American singers for leading roles when she was in her prime. (She died at age 85 in 1996.)

The Harlem School of the Arts, which offers classes in music, dance, theater and visual arts, was Ms. Maynor’s second act. She sought to serve children who had no exposure to arts in public schools and no access to private instruction. She would say that children were made to believe that beauty did not exist in their community but only beyond it.

She started the school in the community house of St. James Presbyterian Church, where her husband, the Rev. Shelby Rooks, was rector. The classes promptly drew swarms of applicants even as Harlem was wracked by protests and riots in 1964 after the fatal shooting of a Black teenager, James Powell, by a white off-duty police officer.

The school finally moved into its own building next to the church in 1977. Its architect, Ulrich Franzen, designed the school around the Gathering Place, as Ms. Maynor had requested, to more generously accommodate parents who had spontaneously appropriated a hallway in the community house to savor their children’s development.

With New York City just two years past its brush with bankruptcy, the new 37,000-square-foot building with studios, practice rooms and four large dance spaces designed with the help of George Balanchine, was an extraordinary act of faith at a time when the city’s future was very much in doubt.

Though the school thrived for years, it was forced to close its doors in 2010 because of poor financial management. Kate Levin, commissioner of the city’s Department of Cultural Affairs in the Bloomberg administration, coordinated support to get the school back on its feet.

A donor appeared unexpectedly from California as if conjured by Ms. Maynor, who had been a prodigious fund-raiser: Herb Alpert had read about the fate of the school. “It had given such creativity to the community,” he recalled by phone from his home in Malibu. “How could people in New York allow it to fold?”

He matched the funds Ms. Levin raised from several donors: $500,000 from his Herb Alpert Foundation founded with his wife, the singer Lani Hall. In 2012, when new leadership was in place and the school was again humming, Mr. Alpert added $2 million to erase the school’s debt and established a $3 million endowment for student financial aid.

“Herb sticks out as an unusual cat on the philanthropy scene,” said David Callahan, the founder and editor of Inside Philanthropy, a website that monitors givers and their gifts. Few philanthropists rescue foundering organizations or retire debt, he said. “They want to set sail with the ship, not go down with it.” He added, “Arts education is a big gap in the philanthropic marketplace.”

Mr. Alpert’s fortune derives substantially from the sale of A&amp;M Records in 1989 for $500 million. The foundation mainly supports arts and music education. The Harlem School is one of Mr. Alpert and Ms. Hall’s legacy organizations, which receive sustaining gifts over time.

Mr. Alpert said the trumpet he picked up in grammar school “had taken me so many places in my life. I think every kid should have that opportunity at an early age.” Rona Sebastian, the foundation’s president, added, “Getting rid of the debt was the only way to save the school and work toward the future.”

When Mr. Pryor asked the architect, Ms. Imrey, to look at some problems with the building in 2018, he inquired about how the school could more clearly transmit its mission to the community. “I said they should get rid of the solid front wall,” Ms. Imrey explained. She sketched a 70-foot-wide metal and glass expanse to replace it.

“I insisted on this huge glass front door,” Ms. Imrey said. “I had this image of a young girl running to her lesson from the subway. She would run up to this big door but be able to open it herself. This makes the school her place.”

Mr. Pryor liked “taking the veil off the front so people could see what was going on.” And Mr. Alpert agreed to support the renovation. “When you feel good and feel welcomed, you bring creative energy to a space,” he said. “That’s what we wanted to create.” What’s now called the Renaissance Project was born.

Mr. Alpert brought in the acoustician John Storyk, who had worked on Jazz at Lincoln Center. Mr. Storyk proposed sloping the glass wall outward to reflect the sound around the room. Arrays of speakers permit multiple seating and performance configurations. The advanced theater technology is expected to attract more talent to the school and, ultimately, lead to income from outside events.

With the completion of the Renaissance Project last month, the facility has been renamed the Harlem School of the Arts at the Herb Alpert Center. All the new possibilities await a time when the school’s programs for adults and children can resume.

“We’re looking at forming small pods of kids, especially for dance,” Mr. Pryor said, noting that practicing at home doesn’t work: “You can’t move properly in a kitchen” As the school moves urgently though cautiously toward reopening, he pointed out, “Some kids and their families are dealing with depression, separation anxiety, loss of family members, isolation. A few are homeless.” He imagined having them all back in the Gathering Place, now officially called Dorothy Maynor Hall, after their first patron.

“I know,” he added, “that they would eat this up.”





No.10 article:
Pandemic Creates New Considerations for Arena Construction

The Islanders’ new home at Belmont Park and the venue for the expansion Seattle Kraken have added safety measures for their plans to host fans when they open in 2021.

Tim Leiweke could hardly contain his enthusiasm while he gestured toward what will be center ice at the Islanders’ future home at Belmont Park.

Leiweke, the chief executive of the venue development firm Oak View Group and a partner with the Islanders for UBS Arena, was discussing the team’s run to the conference finals increasing fan support for a project that broke ground last September and will be ready to host games in about a year.

Ticket demand is strong, with about half of premium club seats and the arena’s 56 suites selling in the past three months, he said.

“The team generated such a buzz and we were able to ride that buzz,” Leiweke said. 

But amid all the anticipation of the Islanders at long last having a state-of-the-art $1 billion home, there will be the never-ending concern of finding ways to incorporate normalcy and ensure safety for when the team, it hopes, hosts more than 17,000 people at games in late 2021.

After the pandemic shutdown, the N.H.L. resumed its 2019-20 season in two so-called bubbles in Canada without fans in the stands. Once games return to home markets and spectators stream back into arenas, fans at Belmont Park will experience many new features, including cashless concession transactions to limit contact and help lines move along faster.

No U.S. sports league that plays its game indoors has widely permitted fans to attend games yet but N.F.L. teams with retractable roof stadiums — including the Atlanta Falcons and the Dallas Cowboys — have allowed limited capacity crowds.

“We are waking up every day and trying to figure out how to have clean air,” Leiweke said. “That is critical to get people back to the live experience. We will get their confidence back.”

The Belmont project was on hold for two months after New York put restrictions in place to slow the spread of coronavirus in mid-March, when it struck with ferocity. UBS Arena is expected to be completed in time for the 2021-22 season.

The Islanders won’t be the only team in a new venue. The expansion Seattle Kraken — the N.H.L.’s 32nd team — will begin play next year at the carbon-neutral Climate Pledge Arena, where the project was delayed for only two days. 

Leiweke’s firm is working on both arenas — a scenario that has presented challenges and a chance for synergy in terms of safety and sustainability. Up to 1,000 workers are on site in each venue on a given day, he said.

“These were two cities that had to deal with the impact of the pandemic early on,” he said. “We’ve taken a leadership position on sanitization. We will have sophisticated filters that cleans what comes and goes. We also have to remember that when the vaccine comes, it is not the cure.”

“We have to be at a point where the virus is on the other side of the mountain,” he added. “We’re going to extremes.”

In addition to ensuring clear air for fans, the home of the Kraken will particularly focus on renewable energy, with solar panels on its atrium plus the arena mechanical systems, heating, dehumidification and cooking systems running on electric power. Single-use plastics will be eliminated over time, and there will be electric charging stations for vehicles outside.

Ed Bosco, the managing principal at ME Engineers, has the task of studying and implementing airborne virus reduction solutions at UBS Arena. The company is working with more than 50 existing venues.

His team studied medical data including from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, domestic and foreign universities’ research and testing completed by equipment manufacturers and by international health research organizations. The goal is to make sure the Belmont arena would be ahead of the health curve, an evolving process.

“Buildings constructed before Covid-19 needed to balance comfort, safety and the fan experience,’’ said Bosco, whose firm has worked on venues like Madison Square Garden, the U.S.T.A. Billie Jean King National Tennis Center, Yankee Stadium and Citi Field. 

Bosco said government guidance on airflow rates and occupant spacing used to reopen schools has been a valuable tool. Because sports and entertainment venues have high ceilings and large concourses, he said, there is more air per person than in a typical classroom. At this year’s United States Open, closely supervising the operation of HVAC equipment helped increase ventilation in indoor spaces used by players and event staff by a factor of three, Bosco said.

Bosco also explained that active virus particles in the air can be reduced by ventilation, filtration, local dilution and exposing the virus to ultraviolet radiation.

“We can adapt existing buildings to operate differently when Covid is a concern and revert back to operating them as they do today when Covid has passed,” he said. “At UBS the systems will be newly calibrated and heavily tested during construction so we can be more certain about the data we collect and the building’s responses to tests we are running.”

Bosco added that having time to adjust UBS Arena before it opens has proved valuable.

“We’re starting to find solutions that really rise to the top,’’ he said. “We are looking at the big picture and how that influences the return of public assembly. It feels like these events are going to be what lets us get comfortable being back together as a society.”

Also involved in the UBS project is Matt Goodrich, whose eponymous firm is responsible for layouts and designs of corporate suites and public space inside and outside of the arena. One option that will be present in the arena will be touchless features in the bathrooms.

“We had a project this big happening over a long period of time and then Covid popped into our consciousness relatively late in the process,” Goodrich said.

Both arenas will also harken back to earlier generations. Belmont’s architecture will feature archways and brickwork reminiscent of the Brooklyn Dodgers’ Ebbets Field.

History is also a key element in Seattle, where the roof at Climate Pledge Arena is from the 1962 World’s Fair, a homage to President John F. Kennedy’s focus on space exploration that Leiweke insisted on including.

The arena, which will also host the W.N.B.A.’s Seattle Storm, will promote sustainability by encouraging fans to collect rainwater that will be turned into ice for their hockey team.

“They can bring it over in buckets and we will put it into our system and plant,” Leiweke said. “We will use it not only to put down the first sheet of ice but to maintain all year long.”

As work continues on both coasts, Leiweke’s zest has no time to wane. The Kraken will give Seattle its long-awaited N.H.L. team, and the Islanders will be skating in a brand-new arena. 

“Kudos to the crews out there to get that done for our organization and fans,” Anders Lee, the Islanders’ captain, said. “It’s going to be a special spot. We’re all going to enjoy the heck out of the Coliseum, give it another phenomenal ride. Belmont is right around the corner and it’s exciting.”





No.11 article:
Why the Biden Economy Could Be the Same Long Slog as the Obama Economy

With continuing Republican control of the Senate likely, the sort of large-scale stimulus some economists have urged may be off the table.

The way things are shaping up, the Biden economy appears likely to show uncanny similarities to the 2011-to-2016 Obama economy.

Joe Biden will be inaugurated in January amid an economy that is likely to be slowly recovering from collapse. The Senate will probably be in the hands of Republicans — an opposition party perhaps willing to do enough to try to prevent steep damage to the economy and markets, but unwilling to embrace the kind of multi-trillion dollar spending agenda that could generate a Biden boom. This combination would mean that the Federal Reserve would be left playing the dominant role in trying to propel an economic recovery, with the downsides that would entail.

Much about that forecast is uncertain. There is still a chance, if both runoff elections in Georgia go their way, that Democrats could win 50 seats in the Senate, with Kamala Harris as vice president to tip the balance. Or, this version of a Republican Senate may prove more receptive than the Obama-era one to working with Mr. Biden on his economic agenda. (The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, indicated a desire on Wednesday to pass a new stimulus bill before the end of the year, though on Friday he said that good jobs numbers meant that stimulus should be relatively small.)

And it is possible that when the coronavirus crisis abates, the economy will snap back to health on its own, particularly if the Biden administration handles public health policy effectively.

But the reaction to the election in financial markets in recent days suggests that something like the Obama recovery is more likely: in short, a long slog back to health.

Treasury bond yields fell sharply Wednesday, suggesting investors expect less fiscal stimulus, slower growth and easier monetary policy from the Fed than had been envisioned pre-election. And the stock market soared Wednesday and Thursday, as investors priced in both easier money from the Fed and a Biden administration that will be constrained in its ability to raise taxes and expand regulation on businesses.

By contrast, in the run-up to the election, markets had become more positioned for a world in which a Biden administration came to office with a Democratic Senate, and could more fully embrace the kind of transformative agenda many on the left would prefer.

“The whole blue wave idea that would have come with not only very generous stimulus in the near term but structural reforms and big infrastructure investment, that seems to be off the table,” said Julia Coronado, president of MacroPolicy Perspectives.

On the campaign trail, Mr. Biden spoke of transformative efforts to fund clean energy and other infrastructure investment, which analysts expected would imply the spending of trillions of dollars and the creation of millions of jobs.

The experience of the final six years of the Obama presidency looms large. In that span, Republicans controlled at least one chamber of Congress and blocked any large-scale fiscal policy — and insisted on spending cuts in response to high deficits. Legislative deal-making took place at the margins, if at all. It was the Federal Reserve that played the dominant role in trying to propel an economic recovery, through quantitative easing and other unconventional policies.

Last time, the recovery generated by that combination was a long march back toward prosperity.

In the last recession, Congress passed a large fiscal stimulus bill in early 2009 that helped start an expansion in mid-2009. When Republicans took control of the House in early 2011, they insisted upon a turn toward deficit reduction, and the expansion continued slowly in the years that followed, with help from the Fed’s actions.

From the time that expansion began in mid-2009, it took more than six years for the unemployment rate to fall to 5 percent, its level when the Great Recession began. The Fed’s programs were effective at driving up financial markets, but with less clear-cut benefits for ordinary Americans.

The Fed chair, Jerome Powell, has been vocal about the limits of the Fed’s tools, stressing that the central bank can lend money but cannot spend it. He has called on Congress to use its power of the purse to inject money into the economy directly.

“The upshot of all of this is that the configuration of government means the Fed is going to be expected and required to be even more stimulative than they might have been otherwise,” said Nathan Sheets, chief economist at PGIM Fixed Income and a former Fed and Treasury Department official. “The fiscal impulse is likely to be diminished relative to a blue wave scenario and even relative to a scenario where Trump won and Democrats won the Senate.”

A Biden win should ensure continuity at the Fed, Mr. Sheets said, either because he reappoints Mr. Powell to a second four-year term when his current one expires in early 2022, or because he appoints someone with broadly similar views on monetary policy and credibility on Wall Street, like the Fed governor Lael Brainard or the former chair Janet Yellen.

There are ways the Biden economy might escape the slow-growth economic outlook, if the Senate goes along with enough coronavirus rescue funds to prevent widespread business failures and sharp pullbacks by state and local governments. Strategists at Jefferies, for example, project that a “skinny” stimulus of $500 billion to $1 trillion could be in play.

Then, a successful public health policy enables economic activity to quickly return to pre-pandemic levels.

“If we got a trillion dollars of stimulus, you could have a decent constellation of policies if an administration comes in and manages the virus well,” Ms. Coronado said. “We need to manage the virus efficiently, and if we got a good federal response by the end of the first quarter combined with some stimulus, you could see decent momentum.”

The global financial crisis a dozen years ago was caused by fundamental imbalances in the economy that took time to repair, whereas the coronavirus recession was caused by a surprise shock — which raises at least the possibility of a much quicker return to normal.

So the biggest question may turn out to be this one: Has the pandemic fundamentally broken anything about the economy? If not, a speedy recovery may be possible even without a politically aligned Congress. If yes, it might feel like the early 2010s all over again.





No.12 article:
Ethiopia’s Leader Reshuffles Top Security Officials Amid Tigray Conflict

The new appointments came as the military operation in the northern Tigray region entered its fifth day, with the United Nations saying the stoppage of air and road access was affecting humanitarian operations.

CAIRO — Ethiopia’s prime minister reshuffled his country’s security services on Sunday, days after he ordered a military offensive in the northern Tigray region, edging the country toward a potential all-out civil war.

Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed replaced the head of intelligence and the army chief, and appointed a new federal police commissioner. He also chose a new foreign minister.

The appointments were announced on Facebook, and a spokeswoman for the prime minister, Billene Seyoum, said they were “aimed at enabling the government to carry out the rule of law enforcement efforts started by strengthening the country’s security and foreign affairs.”

The moves put a multiethnic group of Mr. Abiy’s closest allies in crucial posts, observers said, strengthening his hand as he doubles down on a conflict that could endanger the country’s delicate democratic transition and lead to a divisive civil war.

“It’s a reshuffle aimed at better using the human resources at the top to withstand the security challenges,” said Yohannes Gedamu, a lecturer in political science at Georgia Gwinnett College, in Lawrenceville, Ga.

The shake-up comes five days after Mr. Abiy launched a military operation in the Tigray region after accusing its leaders of orchestrating an attack on a military base and attempting to steal artillery and military equipment. In the following days, Ethiopian fighter jets bombed targets in the restive region, with health workers reporting intense fighting, dozens of wounded and at least six dead.

Mr. Abiy, who won the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize for helping end a long war with neighboring Eritrea, has accused the Tigray People’s Liberation Front, or T.P.L.F., which governs the region, of undermining the constitution and federal laws.

The Tigray people make up 6 percent of Ethiopia’s estimated 110 million population. But for almost three decades, the group wielded outsize clout nationally, which withered away after anti-government protests that propelled Mr. Abiy to power.

The relationship between the regional and federal government has been strained since Mr. Abiy became prime minister in 2018, but it hit a new low after the Tigray region held parliamentary elections in September, in defiance of the Ethiopian government’s postponement of the vote nationally because of the coronavirus pandemic.

The decision to delay the voting had been criticized by many opposition groups, including the T.P.L.F., which said Mr. Abiy was using the pandemic to extend his term in office illegally.

In October, Ethiopia’s Parliament voted to slash the Tigray region’s funding, escalating the hostility between the two sides.

Mr. Abiy on Sunday doubled down on the military operation, arguing that his government was out to “defend and protect the constitutional order and uphold the rule of law.” He also accused the T.P.L.F. — without offering any evidence — of sponsoring and training anti-government militias throughout the country, including enlisting “underage recruits,” to destabilize the Horn of Africa nation.

“Their objective was clearly to make the country ungovernable by instigating clashes along ethnic and religious lines — to sow division and discord so that the democratic transition will lose its momentum,” Mr. Abiy said in a video statement.

The United Nations and other regional bodies have urged the warring parties to de-escalate the violence and find a peaceful resolution.

But Mr. Abiy has not heeded that yet, urging the international community on Sunday “to understand the context and the consistent transgressions by the T.P.L.F. clique that have led the Federal government to undertake this law enforcement operation.”

Diplomatic sources in Addis Ababa also said they expected the conflict to escalate in coming days as the government mobilizes troops around the country and moves them closer to the Tigray region.

Adanech Abiebie, the mayor of the capital, Addis Ababa, confirmed in a series of tweets on Saturday that several T.P.L.F. members who worked in her administration had been arrested on what she said was suspicion of planning to disrupt the peace and engage in terrorist activities.

In order to wrest control of the restive region, Mr. Abiy’s government has blocked the internet and telephone networks in Tigray, declared a six-month state of emergency and approved the formation of a provisional regional administration. A state of emergency task force has also been established, with the power to impose curfews, make arrests and limit modes of transportation.

On Saturday, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs warned of the escalation of fighting in Tigray, saying the blockage of air and road access by the conflict was seriously affecting humanitarian relief to hundreds of thousands of people.

It also said that close to nine million people were at “high risk” of being affected by the escalation and that it could potentially lead to “lead to massive displacements within and outside of Ethiopia.”

Sajjad Mohammad, the head of the United Nations’ humanitarian office in Ethiopia, said bread and fuel shortages were already emerging in the region.

“There are almost two million people who receive some kind of humanitarian aid in Tigray,” he said. “If supply lines close, that number could grow even further.”





No.13 article:
Dancing in the Streets, and a Parking Lot, for Joe Biden

Defeating President Trump can do strange things for a man’s reputation.

People have not historically hustled to spontaneous outdoor dance parties for Joe Biden.

They have not clanged spoons against frying pans in celebration for him, formed triumphant honk-parades along Fifth Avenue for him, made Champagne toasts with strangers in his honor through chants and tears.

“BIDEN!” his supporters shouted outside Manhattan’s Washington Square Park on Saturday, the call echoing from apartment windows and taxis and sidewalk restaurant tables. “JOE BIDEN!”

Joe Biden. That Joe Biden — institutionalist 70-something, incorrigible square, inexhaustible reciter of Irish poetry.

But then, it seems that defeating President Trump can do strange things for a man’s reputation.

In Mr. Biden’s first hours as president-elect on Saturday, many voters who have appraised him through the decades as a particular kind of capital veteran — prone to perpetual windiness, requests for a “point of personal privilege” in casual conversation and digressions about dead senators — appeared ready to greet him as a sort of conquering hero.

“Winners write history,” said Amanda Litman, a former aide to Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign and the executive director of Run for Something, a group encouraging Democrats to seek local office. “I think he definitely gets bonus points for doing what no one thought was possible, even when we hoped it was.”

Ms. Litman said she had spent the day walking miles across Brooklyn, sobbing in the street and encountering an intersection dance-a-thon, set to “Shout” by the Isley Brothers, that felt airlifted from a wedding reception.

Mr. Biden, of course, has not generally been Washington’s leading purveyor of cool. That will not necessarily change over the long term. It is likely that gushing Democratic affection would have awaited anyone who managed to beat Mr. Trump.

And yet, this is the person who did it.

If the last two commanders-in-chief have been phenomenon candidates who became phenomenon presidents, Mr. Biden would appear to be ending the trend, comfortable instead with the identity that helped elect him: the man to rein things in a bit, to lower the collective volume before the neighbors complain.

This is someone who does not drink, who does not smoke, who once scolded friends at his own bachelor party for growing too rowdy.

During the campaign, Mr. Biden’s team strained to create a mini-cult of personality around him, bragging on his signature accessory (aviators), his signature vice (ice cream), his interest in muscle cars.

“Ridin’ With Biden,” went one slogan that kinda-sorta caught on.

While most of the impromptu gatherings this weekend came in places unaccustomed to Biden-associated revelry — with rollicking bashes from Los Angeles to Washington to most any city in between, cheering Mr. Biden and his running mate, Kamala Harris — there was at least one ZIP code for which the embrace was more culmination than novelty.

On Saturday, hundreds of cars jammed into a parking lot outside an events center in Wilmington, Del., ferrying in Mr. Biden’s friends and fans from the state he represented for 36 years in the Senate for a somewhat socially distanced drive-in rally. They sat on the roofs of their vehicles and played cornhole as they waited. They lugged around oversize American flags and kibitzed in lawn chairs and balanced Champagne flutes on top of their cars. They were proud, they said, of their state’s most famous resident.

Carrie Casey, 49, said she had come in part to bask in “the utter excitement of a Delaware almost-native winning the presidency, as well as the first female and woman of color vice president.”

She had turned out a few days earlier — the original Election Day, on Tuesday — for what was supposed to have been a victory party. Instead, with the outcome uncertain, Mr. Biden gave only brief remarks about trusting the process. Some of his supporters left deflated and on edge.

Mr. Biden’s team had a few more false starts this past week as the counting of votes continued. Early Friday, his campaign was advising that he would give a major prime-time speech by evening, as a crowd began to congregate outside a security barrier. He had planned to make use of the elaborate, flag-studded setup that has remained on display all week.

As the sun set in Wilmington on Friday, teleprompters were ready, “Biden Harris” flashed on big screens, and onlookers convened in an increasingly chilly parking lot nearby, hoping to catch a glimpse of a president-elect. But with Pennsylvania, and the race, still officially uncalled, they would have to wait another day.

“I was here Tuesday night, and it was, like, very stressful,” Ms. Casey said. “To wake up in the morning and there still be hope, and the next day and the next day, and being patient — and to be here right now is absolutely incredible.”

In his own speech, Mr. Biden was quintessentially himself. After jogging onstage to a chorus of car honks, he began with a nod to the fine people of Delaware (“the people who brought me to the dance!”) and then decided to name a few, shouting out assorted local dignitaries like a city council candidate.

He quoted relatives and welcomed Ms. Harris and her husband to the Biden family, “like it or not.”

He tried to empathize with Trump voters, noting that he had “lost a couple times myself” in his political day. He acknowledged the present national gravity. He projected humility. He smiled a little.

It had been a long campaign — three, actually, for the presidency alone in his lifetime. He looked out on guests who had seen him lose as often as they’d seen him win.

This time around, the mood was purely festive — so much so that Maureen Whilby had decided to celebrate her 55th birthday on-site, where the fireworks and confetti blasts might as well have been for her, too. 

“Best birthday in the world!” she said, several hours before the sky would light up with the words “Biden” and “president elect.” “Never forget this birthday. Unity. Bring us back together. No division.”

Nearby, a cluster of Delawareans stood together wearing T-shirts indicating their past lives as Iowa volunteers for Mr. Biden, a reminder of the dark, icy days he spent in a state that rejected him in his 2008 run and again in 2020.

“We were a little nervous at that point,” admitted Patti McKelvey, 53, a Pilates and yoga teacher from Wilmington. “But we were still 100 percent backing Joe.”

State Representative Krista Griffith — “I’m Joe Biden’s state representative,” she noted — also made the trek to Iowa. This, she suggested, was more fun.

“We all know him,” she said on Saturday. “We just can’t wait for the rest of the country to experience that.”





No.14 article:
We Are Finally Getting Rid of Him

Don’t undersell the triumph of ousting Trump.

Before Democrats begin their reckoning over their apparent failure to take the Senate and their reduced numbers in the House, before the intraparty recriminations between centrists and progressives, let’s take a moment to appreciate what’s before us. After four grueling years, Donald Trump has been defeated.

The fact that the election came down to the wire in the swing states, that around 70 million Americans looked at the last four years and opted for more, is an ominous sign for the future of the Republic. It is also a reminder of how much worse this could have been.

Trump, it turned out, was far better at pumping up his side’s turnout than we might have assumed from polling data. The president lost Pennsylvania, but he received far more votes in the state — close to 3.3 million, when last I checked — than he did in 2016, when he won it. Joe Biden got more votes in Texas this year than Trump did in 2016 and it still wasn’t nearly enough for a flip. There was in fact a red wave; it just wasn’t big enough to carry Trump to victory.

This increased red turnout was a boon to down-ballot Republicans in some states. They appear to have benefited both from people who love the president but haven’t been consistent Republican voters in the past, and from the smaller share of anti-Trump Republicans. Republican senators outperformed Trump in Maine, Texas and, in the case of David Perdue, very slightly in Georgia.

A Republican Senate is not yet a lock — races in Alaska and North Carolina still haven’t been called, and there will be two runoffs in Georgia — but it’s a likelihood. The implications for Biden’s first term are dire, and the sort of pro-democracy reforms that would stave off a future of minority rule are, for the moment, off the table. It’s understandable that many on the left are dispirited.

But that should not distract from the monumental accomplishment of ending Trump’s malignant presidency. It is rare for American presidents to be defeated after a single term. This is the fifth time it happened in a century. It’s also, we shouldn’t forget, the first time a woman, in this case a Black woman, will become vice president.

Because of the Electoral College, the deciding states in this campaign were to the right of the country at large. The president tried to muster the power of his office against his opponent. He pressed Ukraine’s government to defame Biden and got his allies in Congress to launch bogus investigations. He corruptly used government resources for his re-election, even turning the White House into a stage set for the Republican National Convention. In an unprecedented move, he put his name on stimulus checks, making it seem as if the money came from him.

Trump installed a lackey atop the Postal Service who slowed down mail delivery during a pandemic in which a disproportionate number of Democrats were relying on mail-in ballots. The president stacked the courts with judges who would likely rule his way if his margin in tipping- point states were close enough to challenge.

This year, V-Dem, an international project tracking democracy around the world, wrote, “The United States of America is the only country in Western Europe and North America suffering from substantial autocratization.” As The Washington Post reported, the group’s data shows that only one in five democracies that start down such a path is able to right itself before full-blown autocracy takes hold. Another Trump term would have furthered America’s transformation into an illiberal state like Hungary, Poland and Brazil.

Beating the odds required an extraordinary coalition that ran from Angela Davis to Bill Kristol. It required young progressives disappointed by the losses of Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren to nevertheless mobilize for Biden. It required some traditionally Republican suburbanites to put the good of the country over partisanship.

And while exit polls showed that Trump improved his margins among Black and Latino voters — especially Cuban-Americans in Florida — we still owe Biden’s win to people of color. As I write this, he’s ahead in Arizona, which is possible only because he got an enormous share of the Latino vote there. He has a tiny lead in Georgia — a state that was solidly red when Trump took office — in large part because of the heroic work of Stacey Abrams and her New Georgia Project, which has registered and organized Black voters in the face of relentless voter suppression.

Because of the perversities of the Electoral College, and because some pivotal states counted mail-in ballots last, the election was a nail-biter — but it wasn’t close. As Nate Silver tweeted, “Going by the popular vote, this will probably be the second-least-close election since 2000.” The American people decisively rejected Trump.

There will be time later on to argue over what, if anything, Democrats can do to win back people who like demagogic strongman politics. There will be time to start thinking about how to address the damage wrought by a president who, along with Fox News celebrities and other right-wing figures, is going to convince a large part of the country that their loss is illegitimate.

Trumpists believe that they represent “the people” in a quasi-mystical sense; they speak as if they have an organic connection to the country that their enemies lack. Reconciling them to a system in which they are but a loud minority won’t be easy, if it’s even possible.

Yet for now, an existential threat to liberal democracy in America has been vanquished. Trump will almost certainly continue to vandalize the country during the lame-duck phase of his presidency, but soon he will no longer be able to rule over us. He will be cast out of the White House, disgraced, to meet his creditors and New York criminal investigators.

The next chapter of American politics won’t be easy. But this one — squalid, terrifying, degrading, tragic — is almost over.





No.15 article:
Seymour Topping, Former Times Journalist and Eyewitness to History, Dies at 98

He was one of the most accomplished foreign correspondents of his generation and a newsroom leader under the renowned executive editor A.M. Rosenthal.

Seymour Topping, who chronicled the rise of China and the Cold War in Europe and Asia as a correspondent, shaped the crowning years of print journalism as an editor of The New York Times, and led the charge into the internet age in the classrooms of Columbia University, died on Sunday in White Plains, N.Y. He was 98.

His death, at White Plains Hospital, followed a stroke he suffered late last month, his daughter Robin Topping said.

In a peasant hut in Central China, where he was being held prisoner, Mr. Topping, as a young correspondent, listened all night to the thundering artillery. It ended at dawn on Jan. 7, 1949. As he looked up into the rifle muzzle of a People’s Liberation Army soldier, he wondered what the silence portended. As he would soon write, it was the end of China’s civil war, the triumph of Mao Zedong over the Nationalist forces of Chiang Kai-shek.

Sixty years later — after a career as a correspondent for wire services and The Times; as foreign news editor and managing editor of the newspaper, subordinate only to the powerful executive editor A.M. Rosenthal; as a teacher and author of four books; and as one of America’s most respected journalists — Mr. Topping recalled that artillery silence as a defining moment in history.

“Mao’s victory in the Battle of the Huai-Hai marked the onset of an era in which East Asia would be engulfed in war, revolution, and genocide,” he wrote in a memoir, “On the Front Lines of the Cold War” (2010). “Tens of millions would die in China, Korea, Indochina and Indonesia in wars, political purges and sectarian violence.”

For Mr. Topping, known universally to colleagues as Top, the story was always about more than the day’s news developments, intriguing as they might be. It was about their historical significance, too.

Thoughtful and precise and a cool evaluator of events and people, he was equally at home in a war zone or an interview with a world leader in Moscow or Beijing, at the helm of a newsroom tempest of breaking news, or at a university lectern delivering an analysis of global events for a new generation of journalists who might see war but would never pound it out on a typewriter.

He learned the fast, often dangerous game of deadline journalism the hard way, as a globe-trotting, no-nonsense wire service reporter for 14 years, from 1946 to 1959, first with the International News Service covering China’s civil war, then with The Associated Press in Nanking, Saigon, London and Berlin, covering Cold War tensions and fighting.

In 1950, besides reporting events leading to the Korean War, he became America’s first correspondent in Vietnam since World War II, covering the French colonial war against Ho Chi Minh’s Communist forces in years when American interests in the region  were strategically hidden. In Europe, he covered diplomatic conferences, the tug-of-war over Berlin and the nuanced threats of the East-West belligerents.

His scoops and perceptive writing caught the eye of Times editors, who hired him in 1959. Over the next 34 years, he became pivotal to the paper’s coverage of world events. As Moscow bureau chief, he broke the news of the U-2 spy plane incident in 1960 and the Sino-Soviet rift in 1963, and covered Soviet space shots and Nikita Khrushchev’s aggressive moves in the 1962 Cuban missile crisis.

As Southeast Asia bureau chief from 1963 to 1966, he covered the early American military involvement in Vietnam and wars in Laos and Cambodia.

He became foreign news editor in 1966 (the title is now international news editor), and for three years directed the work of 40 correspondents, including coverage of the Vietnam War and Mao’s Cultural Revolution. He de-emphasized official reports from abroad and focused on how people lived and their social, cultural and intellectual pursuits. He promoted the “takeout,” a longer-form article written to add perspective, depth and understanding to the news.

As an editor he continued to write for The Times and its Sunday magazine, traveling widely to interview President Nicolae Ceausescu of Romania, Prime Minister John Vorster of South Africa, the shah of Iran, the Cuban leader Fidel Castro, Premier Zhou Enlai of China, Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel and King Hussein of Jordan.

He was usually accompanied by Audrey Ronning, a writer and photojournalist he met in Nanking (known today as Nanjing) and married in 1949. Their five daughters were born at his postings — Susan in Saigon, Karen and Lesley in London, Robin in Berlin and Joanna in Bronxville, N.Y. 

Mr. Topping’s years on The Times masthead, as assistant managing editor, deputy managing editor and managing editor  coincided with Mr. Rosenthal’s 17-year tenure in charge of news operations, from 1969 to 1986.  That was no accident.

While the two were as unalike as night and day, Mr. Topping was Mr. Rosenthal’s handpicked alter-ego, as tough as the boss, but with none of his rough edges. Mr. Topping’s quietly diplomatic, good-natured calm had a temporizing influence on Mr. Rosenthal, a table-pounding former correspondent whose brilliance as an editor did nothing to mask an abrasive, mercurial temperament that sometimes eroded staff morale.

Mr. Rosenthal acknowledged as much years later, explaining why he had chosen Mr. Topping over another deputy. “I passed over Arthur Gelb, a very close friend, because we were both emotional and excitable,” he told John Stacks, a biographer of the Times editor James Reston. “I chose Topping. There were things I was very good at, and things I wasn’t good at. Topping was very good.”

It was an excellent fit in other respects, too. Mr. Topping’s news and personnel judgments were solid, and he and Mr. Rosenthal, above all, prized high standards of reporting and editing, which demanded fairness, objectivity and good taste in news columns free of editorial comment, political agendas, innuendo and unattributed pejorative quotations.

Together, the two men shaped The Times’s news coverage of a tumultuous era — the war in Vietnam, the Pentagon Papers case, the Watergate scandals that drove Richard M. Nixon from the presidency, the vicissitudes of the Cold War and successive crises in the Middle East.

Throughout their tandem tenure, Mr. Topping took the lead in staff meetings, even with Mr. Rosenthal present, as editors decided which articles would appear on Page 1, and with what emphasis — decisions that influenced the judgments of news editors across America. And Mr. Topping basically ran the newsroom for weeks or months at a time when Mr. Rosenthal was away visiting correspondents, off on occasional reporting trips or absented by long-running problems in his personal life.

“We had an extremely close relationship,” Mr. Topping recalled in a phone interview  for this obituary from his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. in 2012. “He never took a major decision without consulting me. When he got into trouble, I would pick up the pieces. I was totally loyal to him.” 

The Rosenthal-Topping era was also one of innovation for The Times. A national edition was begun. The weekday paper grew from two to four parts, with separate metropolitan and business news sections. New feature sections were inaugurated: sports on Monday, science on Tuesday, and living, home and weekend activities on other days. Sunday sections for New York suburbs were added, as were magazine supplements on travel, education, fashion, health and other subjects. The innovations were widely copied.

While other newspapers struggled financially, The Times under Mr. Rosenthal and Mr. Topping prospered, with remarkable advertising and circulation gains. Company revenues soared sevenfold to $1.6 billion in 1986 ($3.8 billion in today’s money) from $238 million in 1969, while net income in the same period rose to $132 million from $14 million.

In 1987, after Mr. Rosenthal stepped down to become a columnist as he neared his job’s mandatory retirement age of 65, Mr. Topping also left the masthead and became director of editorial development for the company’s 32 regional newspapers, a post he held until retiring in 1993. In his last year at the paper, he was president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors.

In 1993, he became a professor at the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University and the administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes, awarded by Columbia. He held both posts for a decade, until 2002. The author of “Journey Between Two Chinas” (1972) and two novels set in China and Vietnam, he continued to write for the Times Op-Ed page and to lecture at Columbia and other universities on world affairs, and especially on the transition of news from print to electronic media, about which he was optimistic.

“I believe that newspapers will adjust to their digital-era challenges if they retain the courage and quality of journalism that made such news organizations as The New York Times, The Washington Post and The Associated Press worldwide the most respected and quoted of news outlets,” he wrote in his 2010 memoir. “The rising generations must be persuaded that the integrity and viability of their society, particularly as they relate to national security and the safeguarding of constitutional democracy, require a Fourth Estate.”

In addition to his daughter Robin, Mr. Topping is survived by his wife of more than 70 years; three other daughters, Karen Topping Cone and Lesley and Joanna Topping; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. His daughter Susan Topping died in 2015.

He was born Seymour Topolsky in Manhattan on Dec. 11, 1921, to Joseph and Anna Seidman Topolsky, Jewish immigrants from Russia. His mother had seen her mother slain in a Cossack pogrom in a Jewish village in Ukraine. His father, who had left behind relatives who were later killed in the Holocaust, Anglicized the surname.

As a teenager, Seymour read Edgar Snow’s epic “Red Star Over China” and dreamed of being a foreign correspondent. After graduating from Evander Childs High School in the Bronx in 1939, he attended the University of Missouri, whose journalism school was the nation’s oldest and had good contacts in China.

He earned a degree in 1943, and as a member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps was called into the wartime Army, becoming an infantry officer in the Philippines. He was discharged in 1946. He was hired by the International News Service through contacts in Manila and, while lacking experience, eagerly accepted an assignment to northern China to cover a decades-old civil war that had resumed with full fury after World War II.

By 1949, after covering Chiang’s defeat in Manchuria and joining The A.P., Mr. Topping was in Nanking, the Nationalist capital, as Communist forces advanced on it. He went to the front, crossed a no man’s land and was taken prisoner by Communist guerrillas. He thus became the only Western reporter with Mao’s forces as the decisive battle loomed.

As a captive he was marched for miles to a field headquarters on a battleground cratered by shell fire and strewn with bodies and the wreckage of American-made Nationalist vehicles. At gunpoint, he was put into a hut, where he lay all night listening to the artillery.

In the morning, after the guns fell silent, a “deputy commissar” calling himself Wu came to the hut and returned Mr. Topping’s confiscated typewriter and camera. A military escort and horses were waiting to take him back, Wu told him.

“You know, I came here to tell your side of the story,” Mr. Topping said.

“You cannot help us,” Wu said softly.

Nationalist forces in the field had surrendered. Nanking would soon be taken. The war was over.

Mr. Topping, in his memoir, recalled the parting: “As I mounted my horse, Wu came up beside me, put his hand on the saddle, and said gently, speaking in English to me for the first time, ‘I hope to see you again. Peaceful journey. Goodbye.’”





No.16 article:
Covid Infections in Animals Prompt Scientific Concern

Mink in Denmark are not the only animals that could become reservoirs for the coronavirus to spread new mutations to people.

The decision this week by the Danish government to kill millions of mink because of coronavirus concerns, effectively wiping out a major national industry, has put the spotlight on simmering worries among scientists and conservationists about the vulnerability of animals to the pandemic virus, and what infections among animals could mean for humans.

The most disturbing possibility is that the virus could mutate in animals and become more transmissible or more dangerous to humans. In Denmark, the virus has shifted from humans to mink and back to humans, and has mutated in the process. Mink are the only animals known to have passed the coronavirus to humans, except for the initial spillover event from an unknown species. Other animals, like cats and dogs, have been infected by exposure to humans, but there are no known cases of people being infected by exposure to their pets.

The versions of the virus that have mutated in mink and spread to humans are not more transmissible or causing more severe illness in humans. But one of the variants, found in 12 people so far, was less responsive to antibodies in lab tests. Danish health authorities worried that the effectiveness of vaccines in development might be diminished for this variant, and decided to take all possible measures to stop its spread. This included killing all of the country’s mink and effectively locking down the northern part of the country, where the mutated virus was found. The United Kingdom has banned travelers from Denmark who are not U.K. citizens.

The World Health Organization and scientists outside of Denmark have said they have yet to see evidence that this variant will have any effect on vaccines. They have not, however, criticized Denmark’s decision to cull its mink population.

Mink are not the only animals that can be infected with the coronavirus. Dogs, cats, tigers, hamsters, monkeys, ferrets and genetically engineered mice have also been infected.

Dogs and cats, including tigers, seem to suffer few ill effects. The other animals, which are used in laboratory experiments, have exhibited varying responses. Farmed mink, however, have died in large numbers in Europe and in the United States, perhaps partly because of the crowded conditions on those ranches, which could increase the amount of exposure.

Public health experts worry, however, that any species capable of infection could become a reservoir that allowed the virus to re-emerge at any time and infect people. The virus would likely mutate in other animal species, as it has been shown to do in mink. Although most mutations are likely to be harmless, SARS-CoV-2 conceivably could recombine with another coronavirus and become more dangerous. Conservation experts also worry about the effect on animal species that are already in trouble.

One approach to studying susceptibility has been to look at the genomes of animals and see which ones have a genetic sequence that codes for a protein on cells called an ACE2 receptor, which allows the virus to latch on. One team of researchers studied the genomes of more than 400 animals. Another group did a similar study of primates, which are often infected with human respiratory viruses.

“One of the premises for doing this research was that we thought that great apes would be very at risk because of their close relationship to humans, genetically,” said Amanda D. Melin, an anthropologist at the University of Calgary and an author of the primate study.

But, she added, she and her colleagues also wanted to consider “all of the other primates and their potential risk.” In addition to investigating genomes, the team also did computer modeling of the interaction of the virus spike protein with different ACE2 receptors.

The findings of both papers reinforced each other, revealing old world monkeys and all apes to be most at risk. Both papers were released as non-peer-reviewed studies earlier this year.

Dr. Melin and her colleagues have been talking to representatives of wildlife sanctuaries and zoos about the need for caution. Many of these facilities have increased restrictions for the interactions between people and the primates.

Zarin Machanda, of Tufts University, who studies chimpanzee behavior at the Kibale Chimpanzee Project in Uganda, said that the preserve had increased its safety precautions because of the pandemic.

“We’re always cautious about respiratory viruses,” she said, because such viruses are the leading cause of death in the chimps at Kibale. Even the human common cold can be lethal.

Chimpanzees have suffered from outbreaks of other coronaviruses. Normally, humans at Kibale maintain a minimum distance of two dozen feet from chimpanzees; that has been increased to 30 feet or more. Local workers have been staying at the reserve, rather than commuting back and forth to their communities. And the project has reduced the hours for field studies. All these measures were directed by the Ugandan government.

Tony Goldberg, a veterinarian at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and the head of the Kibale EcoHealth Project, said that he has seen the devastation wrought by respiratory diseases among chimpanzees. A deadly outbreak in 2013 at the reserve turned out to be the result of human rhinovirus C, the most common cause of the common cold worldwide. Until then, it had never been seen in chimps.

“The last thing we need is for SARS-CoV-2 to move into an animal reservoir from which it could re-emerge,” Dr. Goldberg said.

Other researchers are studying species from Beluga whales to deer mice for signs of the coronavirus. Kate Sawatzki, the animal surveillance coordinator for a testing project in pets and other animals at the Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine at Tufts University, said: “To date, we have tested 282 wildlife samples from 22 species, primarily bats in New England rehabilitation facilities, and we are happy to report that none have been positive.”

They have also tested 538 domestic pets, including from households with people with Covid-19, and none have shown signs of active virus. However, Dr. Sawatzki said, the lab also conducted blood tests for antibodies, showing exposure, and there they did find antibodies, as is common in humans. The pets seemed to be getting infected but not getting sick or passing the virus on.

So far, the mink in Denmark are the only known instance of the virus infecting an animal, mutating, and transferring back to humans. Emma Hodcroft of the University of Basel, Switzerland, traces various mutated versions of the coronavirus as it has spread through Europe and has reviewed scientific information released by Danish health authorities. She said she applauded the government’s decision to take swift action and cull the mink: “Many countries have hesitated and waited before acting, and it can be incredibly detrimental in the face of SARS-CoV-2, as we see.”

But she did not approve of the way the information was released, particularly in the government’s Wednesday news briefing, which warned of a dire threat to potential human vaccines but offered no detail for the concern. “The communication of the science could have been much clearer and led to less worry around the world,” Dr. Hodcroft said.





No.17 article:
The Election Is Over. The Nation’s Rifts Remain.

Joe Biden’s supporters were dancing in the streets. But only half the nation was celebrating, and the nation’s divisions remain on stark display.

MAPLEWOOD, N.J. — A late-morning stillness had settled over a November Saturday in a cozy blanket of suburban serenity. Suddenly, at stadium-level blast, there came the shattering rock ’n’ roll roar of victory:

We will, we will rock youWe will, we will rock you

The sounds of something unleashed — banging pots, honking horns, primal shouts — burst from all directions in Maplewood, N.J. And as another Queen song boomed from the muscular loudspeakers in his garage, Zack Kurland stood at the edge of his driveway, arms raised like Rocky.

We are the championsWe are the champions

His wife, Neena Kumar, came running and leapt into his arms. News had just arrived that Joseph R. Biden Jr. had been declared the winner of the presidential election of 2020, and now the two were twirling in an impromptu public dance of triumph.

The moment evoked an iconic American image: a World War II sailor spontaneously kissing a woman in a nurse’s uniform in Times Square after the news of victory in Europe. Only instead of V-J Day, this was V-B Day: Victory for Biden.

But not everyone was dancing. Triumph in a foreign war unifies a country; triumph in an election has the lurking potential to further divide. And by Sunday morning, some of the celebration and grieving had melted away to expose a difficult question for divided families and a divided nation:

Now what?

True, a record number of more than 75 million Americans had voted for Mr. Biden, the Democratic challenger, and his running mate, Kamala Harris, the first woman elected as vice president. Also true was that more than 71 million others now had to grapple with the concept that their candidate — Donald J. Trump, the Republican incumbent — would most likely be branded by his own worst epithet: loser.

If Trump loyalists were honking their horns at all on Saturday, it was probably to clear rejoicing Biden supporters from the streets. And the only hope being offered by their leader was a vow to challenge in the courts what he asserted, without evidence, was a fraudulent election.

By refusing, for now, to publicly accept the election results, Mr. Trump was all but inviting dance-interrupting discord. And some accepted his invitation.

Trump supporters held “Stop the Steal” rallies outside state capitols across the country, though their cries of electoral corruption sometimes came as news of Mr. Biden’s declared victory was lighting up smartphones everywhere.

In Sacramento, Calif., videos captured confrontations that devolved into physical assaults; some in the scrum wore the black-and-yellow polo shirts often associated with the Proud Boys, a far-right, pro-Trump group not unfamiliar with violence. Another video, from Salem, Ore, showed a man in Proud Boys apparel discharging what appeared to be pepper spray, after which a crowd battered a vehicle with fists and a baseball bat.

These small moments reflect the sizable fissure in the collective American psyche that Mr. Biden sought to begin closing in his speech on Saturday night. With a stand of American flags behind him, he said the time had come to restore the nation’s soul; to embrace the first three words of the Constitution: “We the people.”

Mr. Biden knows from experience how difficult such simple sentiments are to attain. Another historic moment not long ago — the 2008 election of the country’s first Black president, Barack Obama, with Mr. Biden as his vice president — also prompted dancing in the streets. And it, too, was framed as a moment of healing unification. The feeling did not last.

But Mr. Biden still recognized a need to sound the call, once again, for the nation to come together. “It’s time to put away the harsh rhetoric,” he said. “To lower the temperature. To see each other again. To listen to each other again.”

His words seemed directed as much to the individual American as to the nation at large, as if to recognize the gaping rifts created over the four tumultuous years since Mr. Trump was elected.

Friendships have fractured. Workplace relationships have cooled. Family gatherings have been altered by fears that a request to pass the salt might somehow lead to a political brawl.

In Trump-solid Mercer County, Pa., a retired special education teacher named Beverly Graham, a Democrat, celebrated the big news on Saturday by pouring a glass of honey whiskey. She drank it in quiet toast, then tackled the chore of cleaning the bathrooms.

It has been a hard four years for Ms. Graham, with various political disagreements, including with sons who went from supporting Mr. Obama to supporting Mr. Trump. Especially difficult was the brutal mocking of Democrats — in other words, people like her — on social media by members of her church. Their disdain was so vitriolic that she had trouble attending Sunday services.

That is, when people used to go to church. Before the coronavirus.

“I just don’t think it’s ever going to be the same,” Ms. Graham, 65, said. “Because I felt like it was beyond political. It was personal.”

On the other side of Pennsylvania, 300 miles to the east in Monroe County, a cellphone salesman named Austin Garone said he was exhausted by the thought of telling an ex-girlfriend which way he had voted.

They had broken up in 2016 over politics, mostly, after he voted for Mr. Trump — a choice, he said, she found incomprehensible. This time around, she had been calling, texting and sending long Facebook missives, all to persuade him not to vote for Mr. Trump again.

“People just hate Trump so much,” Mr. Garone, 26, said. “It’s an emotional reaction and they lose their sense of reason.”

He said he had told his ex-girlfriend, still a close friend, that he would not vote for Mr. Trump if she could demonstrate that he had infringed upon her rights as a bisexual woman.

Mr. Garone ultimately decided that the president had not done so. But he is not volunteering that he voted for Mr. Trump in 2020.

“If she asks, I’ll tell her,” he said. “But if not, I won’t mention it.”

And in Louisville, Ky., a lawyer named Dustin Meek said that she had spent considerable time trying to navigate the political schism between herself, a self-described progressive Democrat, and her family in her Trump-supporting hometown of Ashland, 190 miles to the east.

“We’ll start out the evening saying, OK, no discussion of politics,” Ms. Meek, 54, said. “But inevitably, a joke will be thrown, or something will come up and people will poke, and honestly, I have to say, it has strained the relationships.”

“It’s hard,” she added.

She and her family members cannot seem to even agree on what constitutes “fact,” she said. They follow right-wing news websites, while she favors more traditional news sources that Mr. Trump has encouraged his followers to distrust.

Ms. Meek expressed hope that the less inflammatory rhetoric of a new president would ease things. And she said that she would not allow politics to get in the way of attending future family gatherings.

“Whether certain of my family members will elect to not attend certain events because my husband and I are there — that’s possible,” she said.

By Sunday morning, a semblance of serenity had returned to Maplewood. Mr. Kurland, a digital designer and a musician whose garage loudspeakers had rocked his neighborhood, mowed the lawn. His wife, Ms. Kumar, a psychologist, walked the family’s two black Labradors.

That the president of the United States was tweeting again about a stolen election did not perturb them. They had already danced for joy in their driveway.





No.18 article:
In a Divided Washington, Biden Could Still Exert Economic Power

If Republicans control the Senate, a Biden administration could take a cue from President Trump and find ways to act unilaterally on some economic issues.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. will take office in January with a weak economy weighed down by the resurgence of the coronavirus, millions of Americans still unemployed and businesses struggling and shuttering as winter bears down.

Addressing that economic challenge and following through on his campaign’s tax and spending promises could be complicated if Republicans maintain control of the Senate.

But as President Trump has demonstrated time and again, Mr. Biden has the power to pull some levers unilaterally, without congressional approval, and could influence the federal government’s economic policymaking machinery through an array of executive actions, regulations and personnel changes.

“There’s a tremendous amount that can be done without Congress,” said Felicia Wong, who serves as an adviser on the Biden transition board but who was speaking in her capacity as head of the Roosevelt Institute, a progressive think tank.

From finding ways to stimulate the economy to changing trade rules to tinkering with corporate taxation, here are some of the ways a Biden presidency could unilaterally influence economic policy.

In the run-up to to the election, Mr. Trump saw the limits of the White House’s ability to jump-start the economy without Congress. He repurposed some federal funds to temporarily extend expanded unemployment insurance and allowed companies to defer collection of workers’ payroll taxes but found his hands largely tied beyond those measures. Economists and political advisers say Mr. Biden could seek other creative approaches if a Republican Senate blocks the kind of big spending package that Democrats have been pushing.

That includes providing student debt relief, which Ms. Wong said would work as a sort of stimulus by removing the burden of those payments. Mr. Biden could direct the Education secretary to forgive student loans up to a certain amount — Ms. Wong would favor as much as $50,000 to $75,000 for low- and moderate-income households. That move, she said, would strongly benefit workers from minority racial and ethnic groups.

The administration could also use executive authority to raise the minimum wage for federal contractors to $15 an hour, she said, providing a pay boost for many thousands of workers.

Mr. Biden will be able to exert some additional oversight over the $2.2 trillion stimulus package that passed in March. For instance, small businesses that took Paycheck Protection Program loans were required to keep workers on payrolls, and he could instruct his Treasury Department to more rigorously scrutinize the loans to ensure that the money was actually going to pay salaries and overhead costs.

Mr. Biden could also take a page from Mr. Trump and seek to repurpose unspent funds from that stimulus legislation, including hundreds of billions of dollars that were earmarked for the Paycheck Protection Program but never allocated before a congressional deadline ended the program. He could also lean on the Treasury to make lending facilities established by the Federal Reserve more generous and attractive to users, if they haven’t expired by the time he enters office.

Mr. Biden proposed trillions of dollars of tax increases on high earners and corporations in his campaign. Much of that agenda would require cooperation from Congress, but in a few areas, a Biden administration could act on its own to raise taxes — largely by changing regulations governing how Mr. Trump’s signature 2017 tax law is carried out.

Several of those regulations apply to income earned abroad by multinational corporations that operate in the United States. A Biden Treasury Department could move to reverse a series of decisions that Mr. Trump’s team made after the 2017 law was passed that effectively reduced the liability of multinationals under a pair of new taxes created by the law, known as the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax and the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income.

Mr. Biden campaigned on a promise to raise U.S. tax liability on multinationals’ global income, which he could attempt to do via regulation by changing how the liability is calculated. His Treasury Department could also attempt to roll back a so-called high-tax exemption, which allowed some companies to lower their tax bills in the United States.

A Biden Treasury could also change the regulations covering Opportunity Zones, another creation of the 2017 law that is intended to entice investment in high-poverty areas by providing a tax break. Such changes could make it more difficult for investors to qualify for the tax benefits from the zones, and Treasury could impose more stringent reporting requirements on projects that qualify for the breaks.

As Mr. Trump has shown, the executive branch has a great deal of latitude when it comes to trade policy.

Mr. Biden will face several trade decisions in the short term, including whether to continue with Mr. Trump’s ban on TikTok and WeChat, the popular social media apps, and whether to retain America’s tariffs on Chinese goods and foreign metals.

Mr. Biden would not need congressional approval to deal with these and other outstanding trade issues — including how to resolve a spat with the European Union over subsidies given to Boeing and Airbus, how to resolve global negotiations over digital services taxes and whether to follow through on Mr. Trump’s plans to place new tariffs on Vietnam.

“The administration would want to keep Congress in the loop, but they have a lot of discretion to shift away from Trump’s policies,” said Simon Lester, a trade policy expert at the Cato Institute.

Mr. Biden will also have broad scope to stake out his position on America’s economic relations with China, including whether to continue limiting U.S. exports of sensitive technology like artificial intelligence and robotics. And the next president will also have to decide whether to pursue additional sanctions for human rights violations in the Chinese region of Xinjiang and whether to continue trying to block Chinese investment in the United States.

Congressional approval would be needed if Mr. Biden wanted to pass any free trade deals. But his advisers have said that they are unlikely to pursue any new agreements in the short term, instead focusing on domestic priorities.

Some of Mr. Biden’s other priorities on trade transcend party lines and could gain support among congressional Republicans — like strengthening Buy American rules to devote more federal dollars to American products, or investing in domestic technologies like semiconductors to ensure that China does not gain a competitive edge.

Some of the biggest Trump-era changes to bank regulation have been done through the regulatory agencies, rather than through Congress. Examples include a weakening of the Volcker Rule, which keeps banks from betting for their own profit, and a reworking of the Community Reinvestment Act, which requires banks to invest in poor communities.

A new crew of regulatory officials will have leeway to either undo those tweaks or to impose new ones — which will probably cut toward stronger oversight. Much like the slow drip of deregulation under the Trump administration, any changes coming out of the Fed and its fellow regulatory agencies are likely to be small and steady.

“It is going to be a tough slog for the Democrats on the legislative front,” said Ian Katz, a director and financial policy analyst at Capital Alpha Partners. “The action is really with the regulators.”

But changes may not come that quickly, even if Mr. Biden taps more pro-regulatory officials for the various agencies. One of the most powerful regulatory positions — the Fed’s vice chair for supervision — is held by Randal K. Quarles, a Trump appointee whose term is not up until October 2021.

One area to keep an eye on is climate finance: The independent Fed has been slow to embrace climate stress tests, or to publicly examine how its own policies might take into account climate concerns, against a political backdrop in which climate-related measures seemed overtly political. That could change in the next four years.

A Biden administration could exert huge influence over consumer protections, including those involving debt collection, payday lending and foreclosure abuse.

The Supreme Court ruled in June that the White House has the power to fire the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau without cause, rejecting a federal law that sought to place limits on presidential oversight of independent agencies. That means Mr. Biden will be free to replace Kathleen Kraninger, the bureau’s current director, with someone who will more rigorously scrutinize businesses and ramp up enforcement.

Mr. Katz pointed to payday lending regulation and a debt collection rule at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as things that could be on the table quickly.

Richard Cordray, the bureau’s former director, said in a white paper earlier this year that the it should be taking action to help people avoid foreclosure and eviction during the pandemic and be carefully monitoring the practices of debt collectors.

“The C.F.P.B. should make sure companies are complying with all emergency protections on the books, and maximizing assistance to consumers to prevent garnishments, foreclosures and repossessions,” said Linda Jun, senior policy counsel at Americans for Financial Reform.





No.19 article:
Alex Trebek, Longtime Host of ‘Jeopardy!,’ Dies at 80

A good host, he once said, could set his ego aside and let contestants be all they could be. But he let them know when he thought they missed easy answers.

At a restaurant several years ago, a stranger went up to Alex Trebek, the longtime host of “Jeopardy!” and as strangers often did, tried to stump him.

“The American flag flies here 24 hours a day, every day of the year,” the stranger said, using the quiz show host’s particular locution, in which questions are delivered as answers.

Mr. Trebek sensed that the stranger was looking for something more clever than a list of which buildings, like the White House, had been authorized to fly the flag through the night. And without missing a beat he answered in the form of a question: “What is the moon?”

The quick-witted Mr. Trebek, who died on Sunday at age 80 after a battle with cancer that drew legions of fans to rally around him, hosted “Jeopardy!” for a record-setting 37 years. He was an authoritative and unflappable fixture for millions of Americans who organized their weeknights around the program, shouting out the questions as Mr. Trebek read the answers with his impeccable diction.

One major appeal of the show, apart from its intellectual challenge, was its consistency. Over the years its format stayed reliably familiar, as did Mr. Trebek, though he trimmed back his bushy head of hair, grew grayer and occasionally sported a mustache, beard or goatee. Otherwise he was the model of a steady and predictable host — a no-nonsense presence, efficient in his role and comforting in his orderliness.

Mr. Trebek’s death was confirmed by the show’s producers. They said that episodes of the show he hosted would air through Dec. 25 and that they had not made plans for a replacement.

Mr. Trebek had announced in a video on March 6, 2019, that he had received a diagnosis of Stage 4 pancreatic cancer that week. He said that like many others with the disease, he had no symptoms until it had spread throughout his body. He delivered the news from the show’s set, wearing, as usual, a bandbox-fresh suit and tie as he spoke straight to the camera without sentiment or histrionics.

When he commanded a game, he might occasionally raise an eyebrow and say “Oooh, noooo, sorry” or repeat a clue with a whiff of condescension; he told New York magazine that when contestants missed obvious answers, he deliberately struck a tone that was meant to convey: “How can you not get this? This is not rocket science.”

Through it all, he kept the game running on its strict timetable.

He started hosting in 1984, when the show returned to the airwaves after a hiatus. Since then he has been the only host, helming every episode except one, on April Fools’ Day in 1997, when he swapped places with Pat Sajak, the host of “Wheel of Fortune.”

Mr. Trebek and Mr. Sajak had a friendly rivalry over the years as they led two of the longest-running game shows in television history. For years, “Jeopardy!” was the top-rated quiz show in America and usually the No. 2 game show, behind “Wheel of Fortune.”

A few weeks after Mr. Trebek announced that he had cancer, the ratings for “Jeopardy!” coincidentally began to soar when a contestant, James Holzhauer, a sports gambler from Las Vegas, roared through the game on a winning streak that captivated the nation.

Each night, more and more viewers tuned in to see whether Mr. Holzhauer could beat the record set by Ken Jennings, a computer programmer, who scored 74 straight victories in 2004. With Mr. Holzhauer on the buzzer, “Jeopardy!” even blew past “Judge Judy,” long the top-rated show in syndication.

In the end, Mr. Holzhauer fell just $58,000 shy (over 32 games) of breaking Mr. Jennings’s record win of $2.5 million. But he boosted the show’s ratings to a 14-year high, drawing 13.3 million daily viewers. He later donated some of his winnings to charitable causes, including research into pancreatic cancer in Mr. Trebek’s name.

Mr. Trebek said later that while he was taping some of the shows with Mr. Holzhauer, he had been in excruciating pain.

Unlike many celebrities who conceal illness, Mr. Trebek was transparent about what he was going through. Sometimes his pain would shoot “from a three to an 11” during tapings, he told CBS’s “Sunday Morning” in May 2019.

“I taped the show, and then I made it to the dressing room on one occasion, just barely, before I writhed in pain and cried in pain,” he said.

In March 2020, he gave a one-year video update on his status, noting that just 18 percent of people with pancreatic cancer live that long.

The chemo treatments were almost too much, he said.

“There were moments of great pain,” he said, “days when certain bodily functions no longer functioned and sudden, massive attacks of great depression that made me wonder if it really was worth fighting on.”

But to give up, he said, would have been to betray loved ones who were helping him survive.

 Mr. Trebek hosted more than 8,000 episodes of “Jeopardy!” In 2014, he claimed the record for hosting the most episodes of a single game show, surpassing the record set by Bob Barker, who had led “The Price is Right” for 6,828 episodes between 1972 and 2007. 

Mr. Trebek once said he thought game shows did well because they avoided conflict.

“In this day and age, when there is so much societal tension, game shows are valuable because they’re pleasant,” he told New York magazine in 2018.

Some viewers were drawn to the sense of absolute certitude that Mr. Trebek projected.

“As we get further into the 21st century, and we become more aware of the relativism of truth, there is something satisfying about Alex telling you it’s right or wrong,” Robert Thompson, a professor of television and popular culture at Syracuse University, said in a phone interview.

“I love that there is no discussion, no panel of experts,” he said. “Just Alex with his cards.”

Mr. Trebek spurned being called the star of “Jeopardy!” He wanted viewers to focus on the material. The show derived its drama not from any antics of his, but from the contestants and the possibility that at any moment fortunes could shift, with an apparent loser becoming an instant winner, and vice versa.

“You have to set your ego aside,” Mr. Trebek said of his role. “If you want to be a good host, you have to figure out a way to get the contestants to — as in the old television commercial about the military — ‘be all you can be.’ Because if they do well, the show does well. And if the show does well, by association, I do well.”

The show did well. “Jeopardy!” has won more Emmy Awards — 35 — than any other game show. They included the 2017 Daytime Emmy for outstanding game show — remarkable for a program on the air for more than three decades. Mr. Trebek himself won six Emmys  for outstanding game show host and an additional lifetime achievement award.

“Jeopardy!” won a 2011 Peabody Award, the first time in more than 50 years that a television quiz show had been so recognized.  The citation said the award, given in 2012, was “for decades of consistently encouraging, celebrating and rewarding knowledge.” It said that “Jeopardy!” was “a model of integrity and decorum.”

The nod to integrity was significant. Quiz shows had fallen into disrepute after cheating scandals in the 1950s; the 1994 film “Quiz Show” dramatized the deceit.

In reaction to those scandals, the idea for “Jeopardy!” was born.

Merv Griffin, the talk show host and media mogul who created the show, recounted in “The ‘Jeopardy!’ Book” (1990) that he had been talking to his wife in 1963 about how much he missed the old quiz shows. But, he said, he recognized that the format had lost all credibility after revelations that contestants on some programs had been secretly fed the answers.

Well, then, his wife, Julann, had said, Why not give contestants the answers to start with and make them come up with the questions?

It was a light bulb moment. Ms. Griffin said, “79 Wistful Vista.” And Mr. Griffin replied, “What is Fibber McGee and Molly’s address?” — a reference to characters on a long-running radio comedy.

The mechanics of the game, initially called “What’s the Question?” went through a few iterations before “Jeopardy!” made its debut on NBC on March 30, 1964, with Art Fleming as the host.

Initially a hit, the show was canceled in 1975 as NBC sought to reach a younger demographic. “Jeopardy!” returned in 1978, disappeared again, then underwent a high-tech face lift. The low-tech game board was replaced with a bank of video monitors. The theme music, composed by Mr. Griffin, was updated using electronic synthesizers. And in 1984, the show came back for good.

Mr. Trebek has said that he was chosen as host because he had made a good impression when he filled in on “Wheel of Fortune” in an emergency when the original host, Chuck Woolery, was hospitalized. Merv Griffin Enterprises, which created both shows, appreciated Mr. Trebek’s seamless performance on “Wheel” and offered him “Jeopardy!”

Mr. Griffin also wrote the show’s highly distinctive “Think” theme, which is played during “Final Jeopardy!” as contestants write down questions that usually make or break them. Its 30-second countdown has become synonymous with any deadline pressure, with a wood block timekeeper and a harp glissando finish as well as pizzicato strings at the very end.

Mr. Trebek enjoyed hearing the theme music played at ballparks and football games when managers huddled or time was otherwise stopped. That meant that the music was instantly recognizable, that “Jeopardy!” had arrived, he said — that it had become “part of Americana.”

George Alexander Trebek was born on July 22, 1940, in Greater Sudbury, Ontario, north of Toronto. His father, George Edward Trebek, was a chef who had emigrated from Ukraine as a child, and his mother, Lucille (Lagacé), was French Canadian. Alex grew up in a bilingual French-English household.

He attended Jesuit schools until the age of 12, when his parents divorced; he then left Sudbury to attend boarding school at the University of Ottawa High School in Ottawa, graduating in 1957. Afterward he enrolled at the University of Ottawa.

By his junior year he needed money to pay for college and found a job at the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation as a summer relief announcer. He took on other announcing gigs. After graduating in 1961 with a major in philosophy, Mr. Trebek stayed at the CBC, where his interests turned to hosting.

His first such job was for a Canadian music program called “Music Hop” in 1963. He then hosted a high school quiz show called “Reach for the Top” and other miscellaneous programs until 1973, when he moved to the United States. There he started out on a short-lived game show called “The Wizard of Odds.” A dizzying series of other shows followed, including “High Rollers,” “Double Dare” and “The $128,000 Question.”

In 1974 he married Elaine Callei, a businesswoman and former Playboy bunny. They had no children and divorced in 1981. In 1990, he married Jean Currivan, a real estate project manager from New York.

Survivors include his wife and his children, Matthew, Emily and Nicky.

In 2016, Forbes estimated Mr. Trebek’s salary at $16.5 million and ranked him as the 11th highest paid television host in the world. Nonetheless, Mr. Trebek eschewed the Hollywood high life. He reveled in being a homebody, drove a pickup truck and spent his leisure time on do-it-yourself home repairs. For a time, he owned a 700-acre ranch near Paso Robles in California, where he bred and trained thoroughbred racehorses, but he sold it in 2005.

His job helming “Jeopardy!” did not prevent him from periodically hosting other game shows, adding to his popularity. He hosted “Jeopardy!” and “Classic Concentration” simultaneously and on Feb. 4, 1991, made broadcast history when he also appeared on “To Tell the Truth,” becoming the first person to host three American game shows at once.

Somewhere along the way he became a cultural icon.

Mr. Trebek appeared frequently as himself in movies, including in “Charlie’s Angels” (2000), and on television programs, including “The Simpsons” and “The Colbert Report.” He ran a leg with the Olympic torch in advance of the 1996 Games in Atlanta.

He even hosted a debate for the governor’s race in Pennsylvania in 2018, but the result was disastrous. He had said that he wanted the format to be conversational, but no one had anticipated how much he wanted to be part of the conversation. He talked for more than 40 percent of the time, including offering random comments on the clergy abuse scandals in the Catholic Church. He later apologized, saying he had misunderstood the role of moderator.

Still, in an unscientific poll in Reader’s Digest in 2013, he came in eighth on the list of 100 most trusted Americans (he became a naturalized United States citizen in 1998).

Since Mr. Trebek announced his diagnosis, his admirers have flooded the internet and elsewhere with encomiums.

“Despite the diagnosis, Trebek continued to work, to put on his suits and read his clues,” wrote one, Sam Anderson, in 2019 in The New York Times Magazine.

“It was a dignified refusal to surrender to doom,” he added. “He was the squarest possible existentialist hero: a man who holds the answer to every single trivia question, but not to the great final question of death — and yet he keeps showing up anyway, reading his clues, giving us every last answer he can.”





No.20 article:
‘Saturday Night Live’ Sends Off Trump With a Ballad

Alec Baldwin appeared as the president to mourn the election results, and the host Dave Chappelle urged Americans to “find a way to forgive each other.”

Just over four years ago, “Saturday Night Live” invited Dave Chappelle to host its Nov. 12, 2016 broadcast — the show’s first after that year’s presidential election. The tacit assumption, at the time, was that he would be the master of ceremonies for an episode that would serve as both a satirical farewell to the long-shot candidacy of the Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump, and a victory lap for his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.

Needless to say, things didn’t work out that way.

Even so, “S.N.L.” put together a memorable episode that weekend, one that began — for better or for worse — with Kate McKinnon, as Clinton, seated at a piano and singing a somber rendition of Leonard Cohen’s “Hallelujah.” (Cohen had died a few days earlier.) Turning to the camera, McKinnon said, “I’m not giving up and neither should you.”

Chappelle, in his debut appearance as an “S.N.L.” host, acknowledged in a lengthy standup monologue that he had not expected Trump to win the election, and wondered what would happen to America now that “we’ve actually elected an internet troll as our president.” He went on to say that “I’m wishing Donald Trump luck. And I’m going to give him a chance, and we, the historically disenfranchised, demand that he give us one, too.”

One presidential term later, “S.N.L.” gave Chappelle the chance to host a more exuberant episode — a broadcast that capped several protracted days of vote-counting and aired just a few hours after President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. secured his victory.

In another extended monologue that was variously comedic, reflective and deliberately provocative, Chappelle reflected upon his 2016 appearance and reminded Biden supporters that “it’s good to be a humble winner.”

“Remember when I was here four years ago?&quot; he said. “Remember how bad that felt? Remember that half the country, right now, still feels that way.”

In an extraordinarily divisive time, Americans must “find a way to forgive each other,” Chappelle said.

This week’s episode opened with a sketch that began as a lampoon of CNN’s election coverage, with Beck Bennett as a weary Wolf Blitzer and Alex Moffat as John King, whose fingers had been worn down to nubs from using touch-screen maps for 85 hours.

They announced that the presidency had been won by Biden and then brought out Jim Carrey in that recurring role.

“We did it,” Carrey said as Biden. “Can you believe it? I honestly kind of can’t. It’s been so long since something good happened.”

He added, “I’ve never felt so alive, which is ironic since I’m not that alive.”

He was joined by Maya Rudolph, reprising her role as Kamala Harris, now the Vice President-elect. “I am humbled and honored to be the first female, the first Black, the first Indian-American and the first biracial Vice President,” Rudolph said. Noting that she had a Jewish husband, she added, “Between us, we check more boxes than a disqualified ballot.”

The sketch also included a would-be concession speech from President Trump, played by Alec Baldwin. Speaking to the camera, Baldwin said, “I vow to all my supporters, I’m going to fight this thing to the bitter end. I will never give up and neither should you.”

In a callback to McKinnon’s performance four years ago, Baldwin stood up, walked to a piano and began to sing a mournful cover of the Village People’s “Macho Man.”

“This isn’t goodbye, America,” Baldwin said. “I’m just going to say, see you in court.”

Chappelle began his monologue by talking about his great-grandfather William D. Chappelle, who was an A.M.E. Church bishop and president of Allen University in Columbia, S.C., and who was born a slave. Observing that his sketch series “Chappelle’s Show” now runs on Netflix and HBO Max, Chappelle said, “I didn’t get paid for any of it.” He added that he wondered if his great-grandfather would think that he “got bought and sold more than I have.”

Inevitably, Chappelle worked his way back to the topic of Trump. “I know a lot of people don’t like him, but I thought the guy was at least an optimist.” Chappelle said. “I am not as optimistic as he was. I look at it like, there’s bad people on both sides.” When he heard Trump refer to the coronavirus as “the kung flu,” Chappelle explained, “I said, you racist, hilarious son of a bitch — I’m supposed to say it, not you. It’s wrong when you say it.”

Nearing the end of his monologue, Chappelle struck a more sympathetic tone. “For the first time in the history of America, the life expectancy of white people is dropping — because of heroin, because of suicide,” he said. “All these white people out there that feel that anguish, that pain, they’re mad because they think nobody cares — maybe they don’t.”

Chappelle continued:

McKinnon returned to the Weekend Update desk as Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, to explain a combative news conference held earlier that day at the Four Seasons — not the luxury hotel, but a landscaping company in northeast Philadelphia with that same name.

“I’m glad I made it to the show on time, because first I went to 30 Rocks,” McKinnon said. “That’s a granite quarry in New Rochelle.”

Explaining a plan to raise further legal challenges to the election, McKinnon said, “In Michigan, we have demanded a recount. In Wisconsin, we have demanded a de-count. We called backsies in Nevada, we’ve got safety in Arizona and in Georgia: opposite day. Plus, we’re going to demand that I do the recount personally and our silver bullet is, I can’t count very high.”

As she wrapped up, McKinnon said, “I’m off to the Peninsula.” The Update anchor Colin Jost asked her if she meant the hotel.

“No, the Yucatán,” McKinnon replied as she put on a sombrero. “You never saw me.”

Jost and Michael Che devoted much of the Weekend Update segment to riffing on Biden’s victory and Trump’s defeat.

“This is what happened when people in New York heard that Donald Trump was defeated,” Jost said, setting up a video of public celebrations in New York. “But you know what they say, only in New York. What’s that? Oh, it wasn’t only in New York?” A second video showed celebrations in Washington, Atlanta, Philadelphia, London and Paris.

“The whole world is celebrating like World War II just ended,” Jost continued. “I know this isn’t really the same as defeating the Nazis, but it did end with a fascist leader hiding in a bunker.” A photograph showed Trump golfing in a sand trap.

Che said the election results gave him a powerful, if temporary sense of relief. “Everything that I was worried about or mad about just sort of faded away,” he said.

“The problems are still there, but you remember that “Shawshank” scene when the dudes are drinking beer on the roof?” he continued. “They were still in prison, but for one day, everything just felt OK? That’s how I feel now.”

A sketch presented as a Washington-area news broadcast began with its hosts, Chappelle and Ego Nwodim, reminding their viewers that when Trump leaves office, “he’s a suddenly a private citizen,” Chappelle said.

“There’s no immunity,” he said. “He will have to deal with a tax fraud investigation from the Southern District of New York as well as a defamation lawsuit from a woman who claims he assaulted her.”

Suddenly a breaking news alert flashed on the screen and the scene cut to familiar footage of a white Ford Bronco speeding across a highway, taken from O.J. Simpson’s notorious low-speed chase through Los Angeles in 1994. The newscasters explained that Trump was in the car, “crouching down in the back seat and Don Jr. is at the wheel,” Chappelle said.

As police vehicles pursued close behind, Nwodim asked Chappelle, “Why don’t they just pull him over?” Chappelle answered, “Well, this is a volatile situation. If they spook the president, he could unleash an army of Proud Boys in flag-waving trucks.”

“He’s like Aquaman,&quot; he said. “But instead of fish, he can summon the entire parking lot of a Cracker Barrel.”





No.21 article:
As China Casts a Pall Over Hong Kong, Some See Opportunity

Boosters of growing ties with the mainland see greater business potential. But as the delayed Ant Group I.P.O. shows, peril comes with that promise.

HONG KONG — In Hong Kong, a city enveloped in uncertainty, Felix Lee is optimistic about the future. The reason: China.

For many people in Hong Kong, China has caused nothing but alarm. Beijing’s imposition of a national security law this summer to crack down on Hong Kong’s pro-democracy movement undercut the territory’s autonomy and raised concerns that it could lose its status as Asia’s premier financial center.

But Mr. Lee, executive director of UMP Healthcare, a medical services provider, sees opportunity in a closer relationship with the mainland. He launched a project with the local governments in Guangdong Province, across the border from Hong Kong, to upgrade state-run community clinics and train their doctors. In July, he introduced a nurse-training program and a cancer treatment consulting service for mainland Chinese people in Guangdong.

“The integration gives Hong Kong not just the end market, but the very resources that Hong Kong business really needs to meet the future,” he said.

Mr. Lee’s business may offer a window onto where Hong Kong’s economy is headed: toward even greater immersion in, and reliance upon, China. That convergence with the mainland, combined with shifting trade patterns and the geopolitical tumult created by deteriorating U.S.-China relations, could potentially refashion its business environment, economic prospects and even its place in the world.

A smooth transition is by no means assured. The most prominent symbol of both the potential benefits and dangers is the suspended listing of Ant Group, the Chinese fintech giant, which had been set this week to list simultaneously in Hong Kong and Shanghai in what would have been the world’s largest initial public offering.

It was expected to highlight how an ever-wealthier China could boost Hong Kong’s finance industry in its competition with New York and London for premier deals.

Then Shanghai regulators postponed the offering just days before its intended debut. It showed the risks Hong Kong faces by becoming too dependent on often erratic and politically motivated Chinese economic policy, and the possible damage to the city’s own financial sector from Beijing’s interference with its political and legal system.

That interference could end Hong Kong’s long run as a freewheeling crossroads for bankers, executives, journalists and traders. It risks losing the international stature and distinctiveness that has elevated its iconic skyscrapers and equally lofty property prices. Those pressures could further depress an economy already in tatters from pro-democracy protests and the coronavirus.

However, Beijing’s supporters — and a number of business people, like Mr. Lee — believe deeper integration with China will cure what ails Hong Kong. Closer bonds could open new doors for a range of Hong Kong businesses to better capitalize on China’s expanding riches and talent, while helping Hong Kong remain the go-to place for Chinese companies to tap global financial markets.

The two are already tightly tied in everything from trade to tourism to finance. Hong Kong companies have not always felt the benefits, however. Though Hong Kong is part of China, its companies have been treated more like foreign than local firms.

Beijing has been bringing down some barriers. Three years ago, the government introduced the Greater Bay Area initiative, aimed at improving cooperation between Hong Kong, nine cities in China’s Guangdong Province and the nearby gambling haven of Macau, a former Portuguese colony that is now part of China. The program hands Hong Kong companies and residents some helpful perks for doing business in Guangdong, such as personal income tax exemptions and eased regulations on legal services.

Beijing’s policies “add more muscle” to the integration process, said Catherine Tsang, a partner at accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hong Kong. With more regional business, more investors and companies will seek tax advice and other financial services, she added, and “there will be more business opportunities for our company as well.”

More than any specific policy, though, the initiative prodded provincial officials to treat Hong Kong businesspeople less like outsiders.

“Everybody felt that they had to work with Hong Kong, work with companies from Hong Kong,” said UMP’s Mr. Lee.

Hong Kong’s white-collar businesses in particular could benefit. In areas like health care, education and accounting, and legal and other professional services, Hong Kong companies retain an edge in experience over their mainland compatriots.

Dennis Lam, chairman of Hong Kong-based C-Mer Eye Care, said the Greater Bay region is his top priority for expansion in China because of its eased regulations as well as its ample demand for health care. The company has four eye hospitals in the area, two in the works and plans for more.

Mixing Hong Kong’s expertise with the ever-larger Chinese market “could be a very happy sort of scenario” Mr. Lam said.

“We still have a good role to play,” he added. ”What we can offer is high-end services. This is what they want, what they need.”

Boosters of closer ties can point to other deals. Hong Kong property giant New World Group is developing a $1.3 billion complex with shops, a hotel and office tower in the city of Shenzhen, across the border from Hong Kong. In terms of floor space, half of New World’s property under development in China is in the Guangdong part of the Greater Bay Area.

Others appear to find the inducements tempting. In a survey of regional businesses released earlier this year, more than half of the respondents from Hong Kong said that they were planning to expand in the Greater Bay region.

Looser barriers could work both ways, however. The presence and role of Chinese companies in the local economy could expand, especially state-owned enterprises, while the number of mainland citizens working and living in Hong Kong will likely also rise.

That will put pressure on Hong Kong people trying to compete. Hong Kong investment bankers are already losing their jobs to rivals from China’s mainland, who frequently have better language and other skills to work with Chinese clients. John Mullally, a Hong Kong-based regional director at recruitment firm Robert Walters, thinks the process is accelerating.

“We’re talking about firms that are pragmatic,” Mr. Mullally added. “They are going to populate their offices with people who are best placed and best capable of the business that is there, which is increasingly China.”

And that may be cause for concern. Some fear Beijing’s encroachment onto Hong Kong threatens its independent judiciary and free flow of information, the core pillars of its economic success, and could make it less attractive to international banks, investors and corporations. Critics of the national security law, designed to eliminate perceived threats to the government, believe it has already curtailed civil liberties in Hong Kong.

Chen Zhiwu, director of the Asia Global Institute at the University of Hong Kong, believes the further erosion of the city’s independent administration and legal system is inevitable with greater control by Beijing, with the result that “Hong Kong will be just one city of many Chinese cities.” That will dilute both Hong Kong’s international standing and edge over the mainland economy, limiting the expansion of its wealth, he said.

“When all this change is done, even though the level of professionalism in Hong Kong is so great, that can only take the economy so far,” Mr. Chen added.

Hong Kong’s future as an economic and business hub could depend on how much Beijing respects its rule of law and free flow of information. Despite the government hard line on dissent, some in the business world believe that Beijing will ultimately uphold these distinctive attributes in a way that lets business continue as it has.

The national security law “will bring back social stability without changing Hong Kong as an open and free society,” said Shan Weijian, chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based investment management firm PAG. As a result, “Hong Kong as an international financial hub will continue to thrive and grow, and grow very strongly,” he said.

In the end, Hong Kong’s connection to mainland China will bolster its appeal, said Yu Pang-chun, convener of a working group at the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce focused on the Greater Bay Area.

Hong Kong will remain “the bridge for people who want to go into China internationally, and for the Chinese company that wants to go international,” he said. “That’s been the beauty of Hong Kong for the last few decades. I don’t think it is going to change.”





No.22 article:
The Setups for Outdoor Winter Dining Are Lavish. But Are They Safe?

New York’s struggling restaurants will try to lure diners with chandeliers and space blankets — and enclosures that health experts worry could increase the virus risk.

A Latin fusion restaurant in Queens will serve crispy arepa cups and ropa vieja at an outdoor dining chalet with rustic wood beams and sparkling chandeliers.

In the Bronx, an Italian place has winter-proofed its back patio with plexiglass walls and electric heaters, along with festive vines with pink flowers.

And a Manhattan bistro is handing out silver space blankets — the kind used by marathon runners to prevent hypothermia — to shivering diners.

A pandemic that has upended much of life in New York is now ushering in something the city has never really tried: dining by snow and ice. Or as some restaurants are telling customers, the new B.Y.O.B. is bring your own blanket.

The explosion of outdoor dining has been a savior for more than 10,000 restaurants and bars that have taken over sidewalks, streets and public spaces to try to keep their businesses afloat. It has been so popular that Mayor Bill de Blasio and the City Council are making outdoor dining permanent.

But year-round dining outside is untested in the city’s bone-chilling winters and has created daunting challenges for an industry fighting to survive.

“Are we going to have a mild winter or a harsh one?” said Andrew Rigie, the executive director of the New York City Hospitality Alliance, an industry group. “It’s a gamble. With so much uncertainty about the weather and diner behavior, it’s a risk.”

While a financial imperative for restaurants, enclosing outdoor areas for winter has raised health concerns as coronavirus cases in New York have started to rise again. Protecting patrons from the elements has led some restaurants to create shelters that lack sufficient ventilation, raising the risk of transmission.

Outdoor heaters — including portable propane heaters that had been banned in the city but are now permitted as a way to help restaurants — could also pose fire hazards.

Still, with restaurants having few options to make money, New York and other cities are forging ahead with winter outdoor dining. Chicago held a design challenge that drew ideas like a Japanese-style heated table and a modular cabin inspired by ice-fishing huts that fits on a parking spot.

In New York, the multi-billion-dollar restaurant industry, one of the city’s most important economic pillars, has been decimated by the pandemic. Indoor dining has resumed, but at only 25 percent capacity.

About half the industry’s 300,000 workers are out of work. Many of the city’s 24,000 restaurants and bars have closed for good, and those open are seeing only a fraction of their business. Some estimates suggest that up to one-half may close permanently within the next year.

Still, outdoor dining has raised worries among public health and medical experts who warn that it can create a false sense of security that it is inherently safer than being inside. If customers wind up in completely enclosed spaces, the benefits of being outdoors, like increased airflow, would be lost, and the virus could spread more easily from infected people, through droplets and aerosols, especially if they were not wearing masks.

“You’re actually creating an environment where the virus is within the enclosure,” said Dr. Abraar Karan, a doctor at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School who has treated Covid-19 patients and prefers dining at tables out in the open.

After ordering a margarita on a chilly patio in Boston recently, “I looked at the waiter and I said, ‘Soon, the only thing you’ll have on the menu is frozen margaritas,’” Dr. Karan said.

More than 10,600 restaurants have signed up for New York City’s outdoor dining program, a huge increase over the 1,023 sidewalk cafes before the pandemic. The program helps offset the indoor dining limit that many establishments say is not enough to climb out of their financial hole. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said that capacity could be raised to 50 percent, but it is unclear when.

The city and state have imposed new rules for winter outdoor dining: A space will be considered indoor dining if more than 50 percent of its wall area is covered and be subject to the 25 percent capacity limit and other restrictions, including spacing tables six feet apart.

But given the sheer number of restaurants, it remains to be seen how strictly the city will police outdoor dining. Officials said various agencies, including the transportation, buildings and health departments, will play a role in ensuring that restaurants do not block streets and have safe structures that do not pose virus risks.

“We’ll work closely with the industry to make sure every outdoor structure is ready for cold weather and safe for diners and staff,” Mitch Schwartz, a spokesman for the mayor, said.

Outdoor dining has become part of a broader movement catalyzed by the pandemic to repurpose city streets long dominated by cars. The mayor, under pressure from transportation and open space advocates, has designated 83 miles of streets for walking, biking and dining. Most recently, stores were allowed to expand onto sidewalks.

Making outdoor dining permanent has taken away parking spots, drawing complaints from drivers. Adam Kadi, 30, a food delivery driver, said he now had to double park while making deliveries in Queens because dining cabanas took up curb space. “I get a lot of parking tickets,” he said.

Outdoor dining is taking up 6,000 to 10,000 parking spots, many of which are metered spaces along commercial corridors, according to transportation officials. The city has roughly three million parking spots on the streets overall.

The city’s 311 hotline logged 3,158 complaints about outdoor dining from July to Oct. 21 — compared with 352,214 noise complaints in the same period — according to OpenTheBooks.com, a watchdog group. Among the top complaints was outdoor seating that blocked sidewalks; the city requires an eight-foot-wide path for pedestrians.

So far, city officials have issued warnings over various infractions and in a handful of cases ordered restaurants to stop serving until problems were fixed. State inspectors have also enforced rules around social distancing and safe operations, and have suspended the liquor licenses of at least 177 establishments for multiple violations.

It is unclear how many restaurants will actually offer year-round outdoor dining. Mr. Rigie said restaurants must weigh how much business they might generate versus the cost of winterizing, which could run as high as $50,000 for expenses, including buying heaters and plexiglass, and hiring electricians and contractors.

In the Bronx, Enzo’s has enclosed its back patio with plexiglass and added a pair of electric heaters, but has yet to commit to building an enclosure in the front where tables sit under an awning and five umbrellas. “It’s a game of waiting,” Robert Aste, a manager, said.

Restaurants adapting to winter dining are also competing with homeowners for items that make cold weather more bearable, especially heaters.

Ming Lay, the owner of Oceanic Boil in Queens, said he needed electric heaters for his cabana and struck out at five Home Depot stores before snapping up four of them at a Costco.

Nicole Biscardi, a restaurant adviser hired by the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, has worked with dozens of restaurants to navigate what she calls “an alphabet soup of regulations,” including different restrictions for each type of outdoor heater — propane, electric and natural gas — and confusing criteria for enclosures. For instance, covering two long sides of a rectangular tent would make it an indoor area, while covering one long and one short side would not.

“It’s a very precarious time for these businesses,” she said. “They’re being hit with cumbersome regulations and a lot of extra expenses.”

Many restaurants worry that winter dining may not pay off. Treis Hill, a co-owner of two Brooklyn bars, Baby Jane and Dick and Jane’s, said they have spent more than $16,000 to set up outdoor dining with barriers, tents and heaters. But on a recent chilly afternoon at one bar, just two customers were under tents that could seat a total of 20.

“I think it’s going to be kind of gloomy for the winter for a lot of businesses,” Mr. Hill said.

Still, some restaurants are going all out. Danny Perez, who owns Blend Astoria in Queens, said he was spending “five figures” on a dining chalet with wood beams, an insulated roof and chandeliers. “You’ve got to adapt somehow or you shut down,” he said. “What are our choices?”

In Manhattan, Baar Baar in the East Village is selling fleece blankets with its logo for $10. Diners can snuggle up in a plexiglass-enclosed area with foot heaters under every table. “You can’t be freezing and enjoy dinner,” said Payal Sharma, a co-owner who said the restaurant was spending $20,000 to winterize.

David Honor, the owner of Fred’s Restaurant on the Upper West Side, has even tried to make it fun to eat in the cold. He bought 500 space blankets — getting the idea from runners in the New York City Marathon, one of his favorite city traditions. “They’re a conversation piece,” he said. “It’s a funny thing and everyone walking by stops.”

Some New Yorkers said they were willing to brave the cold and the virus to dine out. “It gets kind of sad and lonely at home, and you want to go out and have fun,” said Adam Iskounen, 37, a software engineer.

But Alissa Ladas, 28, a physical therapist, said it would depend first on whether she felt safe, and second on her comfort level.

“I can make a really good dinner,” she said. “So why would I want to pay $15 for a cocktail while wearing a blanket I had to drag across the subway?”





No.23 article:
Victory for Joe Biden, at Last

Having peered into the abyss of autocratic nationalism, the American people have chosen to step back from the brink. The ballot counting will continue for a few days yet, but the math is what it is: Joe Biden will have the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White House, and likely many more. President Trump’s four-year assault on our democratic institutions and values will soon end.

The contest generated intense passions. In a year marked by the incalculable loss of life and the economic devastation of a pandemic, Americans turned out to vote in numbers not seen for generations, starting weeks before Election Day. Mr. Trump still knows how to draw a crowd — albeit not always to his advantage. In the end, it was Mr. Biden who captured more votes than any presidential candidate in U.S. history, while Mr. Trump captured the second-most votes in U.S. history.

The tally comes with disappointment on both sides: for Biden supporters, who hoped for a more resounding repudiation of Trumpism and for a Senate ready to enact their agenda, and for Trump supporters, who hoped for another four years and to chasten their critics. Fortunately for America, Mr. Biden promises to be a president for both sides — a welcome shift from a leader who has spent his tenure dividing the electorate into perceived fans and enemies.

While the coming weeks will most likely bring unexpected moves and more dangerous disinformation from Mr. Trump, it is worth taking this moment to raise a glass and breathe a sigh of relief. America gives its citizenry the ultimate responsibility for holding leaders accountable, for deciding what kind of nation this will be. The broad endorsement of Mr. Biden’s message of unity and healing is cause for celebration. Americans have embraced that optimism and Mr. Biden as their next president.

Now the real work begins.

Come January, Mr. Biden will take office facing a jumble of crises. His predecessor is leaving America weaker, meaner, poorer, sicker and more divided than four years ago. Recent events have laid bare, and often exacerbated, many of the nation’s pre-existing conditions: from the inadequacy of our health care system to the cruelty of our immigration policies, from entrenched racial inequities to the vulnerabilities of our electoral system. Mr. Biden has pledged himself to big thinking and bold action in tackling these challenges.

The electoral map suggests recovery will be neither quick nor easy. It is not yet clear what the precise composition of the Senate will be, but Republicans may hold the chamber. The government, like the nation, would remain divided.

Mr. Biden has made clear he wants to work across the aisle. That is his nature and his political brand. But today’s political climate is not the same as it was 50, or even five, years ago. Even as he seeks consensus, the new president must be prepared to fight for his priorities. Now is no time for timidity.

The American public should be prepared to do its part. People of good will and democratic ideals must not lose interest simply because Mr. Trump leaves center stage. They need to remain engaged in the political process and demand better from their leaders if any progress is to be made.

Mr. Trump’s message of fear and resentment resonated with tens of millions of Americans. Trumpism will not magically disappear. If anything, its adherents will very likely find renewed energy and purpose in marshaling a new resistance movement committed to undermining and delegitimizing the incoming administration.

Republicans will have to decide whether they will continue to wallow in political nihilism, or rise to meet the challenges of the moment. How Republicans respond to this loss, whether they seek to stoke or to cool partisan passions, will help determine the nation’s — and their party’s — path forward.

With the perspective of time, the Trump era is likely to be viewed as an extended stress test for the American experiment. The president did his best to undermine the nation’s democratic foundations. They were shaken, but they did not break. Mr. Trump exposed their vulnerabilities but also their strength. It now falls to Mr. Biden to improve and safeguard those foundations, to help restore faith in our democracy and ourselves — to make America greater than ever before.





No.24 article:
Biden Could Roll Back Trump Agenda With Blitz of Executive Actions

For Joseph R. Biden Jr., who won the election in a deeply divided nation, the early signals he sends as the country’s new leader will be critical.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is poised to unleash a series of executive actions on his first day in the Oval Office, prompting what is likely to be a yearslong effort to unwind President Trump’s domestic agenda and immediately signal a wholesale shift in the United States’ place in the world.

In the first hours after he takes the oath of office on the West Front of the Capitol at noon on Jan. 20, Mr. Biden has said, he will send a letter to the United Nations indicating that the country will rejoin the global effort to combat climate change, reversing Mr. Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris climate accord with more than 174 countries.

Mr. Biden’s afternoon will be a busy one.

He has vowed that on Day 1 he will move rapidly to confront the coronavirus pandemic by appointing a “national supply chain commander” and establishing a “pandemic testing board,” similar to Franklin D. Roosevelt’s wartime production panel. He has said he will restore the rights of government workers to unionize. He has promised to order a new fight against homelessness and resettle more refugees fleeing war. He has pledged to abandon Mr. Trump’s travel ban on mostly Muslim countries and to begin calling foreign leaders in an attempt to restore trust among the United States’ closest allies.

“Every president wants to come out of the gate strong and start fulfilling campaign promises before lunch on the first day,” said Dan Pfeiffer, who served as a senior adviser to President Barack Obama and helped choreograph Mr. Obama’s first days in the White House. “Executive orders are the best way to do that.”

For Mr. Biden, who won the election in a deeply divided nation, the early signals he sends as the country’s new leader will be critical. On the trail, he repeatedly said he was campaigning as a Democrat but would govern “as an American.” Following through on that promise will require him to demonstrate some respect for parts of the Trump agenda that were fiercely supported by the more than 70 million people who did not cast ballots for him.

“How far is he going to go?” Rick Santorum, a former Republican senator, asked on CNN on Saturday, hours after Mr. Biden had been declared the victor. “If you want to show that you want to work on a bipartisan basis, then you don’t go out right away and sign all the executive orders on immigration and bypass the Congress.”

But there is no question that Mr. Biden and members of his party are eager to systematically erase what they view as destructive policies that the president pursued on the environment, immigration, health care, gay rights, trade, tax cuts, civil rights, abortion, race relations, military spending and more.

Some of that will require cooperation with Congress, which may remain divided next year. If Republicans maintain control of the Senate, Mr. Biden’s pledges to roll back some of Mr. Trump’s tax cuts are almost certain to run headfirst into fierce opposition from that chamber. Efforts to advance a more liberal agenda on civil rights and race relations — centerpieces of Mr. Biden’s stump speech during his campaign — may falter. And his efforts to shape the new government with appointments could be constrained by the need to win approval in a Republican Senate.

But Mr. Biden may be able to achieve some of his goals with nothing more than the stroke of a pen. Mr. Trump largely failed to successfully negotiate with House Democrats during his four years in office, leaving him no choice but to use executive actions to advance his agenda. Mr. Biden can use the same tools to reverse them.

Prior presidents have tried to do just that, though not always successfully.

On his first full day in the White House in 2009, Mr. Obama issued an executive order on presidential records and a second one on ethics that, among other provisions, tried to ban members of his administration from lobbying the federal government for two years after they leave. Ethics watchdogs later complained that some officials had found ways around the restrictions.

The next day, Mr. Obama ordered an end to torture by the government, responding to an outcry over the use of harsh interrogation measures by his predecessor. He also ordered the closure of the terrorist detention facility at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba — which members of Congress were continuing to block by the time he left office eight years later.

Mr. Trump, too, moved quickly. In the first hours after he was sworn in, Mr. Trump issued an executive order pledging to repeal the Affordable Care Act and directing the government to “take all actions consistent with law to minimize the unwarranted economic and regulatory burdens of the act.”

In the week that followed, Mr. Trump issued executive orders on immigration, requesting changes to asylum proceedings at the border, increasing deportations of undocumented immigrants and banning travel from several mostly Muslim countries — an order that incited chaos at several airports as border officials struggled to understand whom it applied to.

Some executive orders have become almost automatic at the start of a new administration. Mr. Biden is almost certain to move immediately to revoke the so-called global gag rule, which prohibits federal government funding for foreign organizations that provide or even talk about abortion. The rule, also known as the Mexico City policy, has been a political Ping-Pong ball since Ronald Reagan was president and is typically in place only under Republican administrations. Mr. Trump reinstated it on his first business day in office.

But Mr. Biden has signaled that his top priority will be demonstrating a much more muscular federal approach to the pandemic than Mr. Trump’s leave-it-to-the states strategy.

Aides said he would use the power of his office to invoke the Defense Production Act — the Korean War-era law that allows the president to order businesses to manufacture products necessary for national defense — to build up supplies more aggressively than Mr. Trump has.

While Mr. Biden would like to see a national mask mandate, his advisers have concluded that he does not have the legal authority to impose one. So he will try to increase mask wearing in other ways. He has already said that, as president, he would require masks on all federal property, an executive order that could have wide reach and is likely to come in the first hours or days of his presidency.

In addition to mandating masks in federal buildings, Mr. Biden has said he would require them on “all interstate transportation.”

The president-elect has also repeatedly derided Mr. Trump’s lack of ethical standards, accusing him of waging an extensive assault on Washington’s norms and traditions. Mr. Biden’s response to that will probably take the form of an ethics pledge to impose tough new requirements on the people who serve in his government.

“The Trump administration has shredded those standards,” Mr. Biden’s campaign wrote on his website. “On Day 1, Biden will issue an ethics pledge, building and improving on the Obama-Biden administration’s pledge, to ensure that every member of his administration focuses day in and day out on the best outcomes for the American people, and nothing else.”

In addition to rejoining the climate accord, Mr. Biden has also made it clear that he will immediately begin using the levers of executive authority to re-establish Mr. Obama’s regime of environmental regulations that Mr. Trump systematically dismantled during his tenure.

That is likely to include a rapid rescission of an executive order Mr. Trump issued early in his administration that itself called for revoking all regulations addressing climate change and instead promoting fossil fuel development — and replacing it with one that declares a Biden administration’s intention to cut planet-warming greenhouse gases.

“Revocation of executive orders can be done immediately,” said Michael Burger, the executive director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University who has studied what climate regulation might look like in a Biden administration. “That’s a big deal because the executive orders give direction to administrative agencies about how to exercise their discretion and what the priorities are for the administration.”

Mr. Biden may also move quickly to restore national monuments that Mr. Trump shrank soon after taking office; stop the Trump administration’s expedited reviews of fossil fuel projects such as oil pipelines; and reverse a 2017 order to “encourage energy exploration and production” offshore, including the outer continental shelf.

Efforts to assist poor communities — often situated in proximity to toxic polluting sites and bearing the brunt of climate change consequences — could also be undertaken from the White House. That might include executive orders establishing an environmental justice advisory council that can coordinate policy across agencies; creating screening tools to better understand environmental disparities across the country; and increasing pollution monitoring in frontline communities.

Passing bigger parts of Mr. Biden’s environmental agenda, like eliminating fossil fuel emissions from the power sector by 2035, would almost certainly require Congress to pass a clean-energy-specific law, most likely in the form of a mandate that an increasing percentage of electricity generated in the United States will be produced by zero-emissions sources, such as wind, solar, geothermal, hydroelectric power and possibly nuclear power.

Thomas J. Pyle, the president of the Institute for Energy Research, an organization that supports the use of fossil fuels, said that “if history is a guide,” Republicans would be unlikely to support any type of mandate.

“Certainly he does not have a mandate for his climate plan,” Mr. Pyle said. “He will be constrained to executive orders and carefully crafted regulations.”





No.25 article:
O Captain, My ‘Jeopardy!’ Captain

When Alex Trebek stepped up to the answer board, night after night, class was in session.

For more than 35 years, he was introduced with, “And now, here is the host of ‘Jeopardy!’ … Alex Trebek!” But “host” never seemed quite the right term for what Trebek did.

“Host” suggests that the show you’re watching is a party, a social get-together — which is how most hosts, especially on game shows, treat the job. They want to invite you in, entertain you, get you to like them.

Trebek, who died on Sunday at 80, was not like that. There was nothing ingratiating about him. When he crisply welcomed you to “Jeopardy!,” he invited you for a half-hour of play that he took seriously. It would be fun, his hearty, efficient manner suggested, because it was fun and bracing to exercise one’s brain. He served up TV’s favorite healthful indulgence — a mindful good time that went down as easily as a mindless one.

Watching “Jeopardy!” year after year was like auditing a seminar led by a gentle but firm professor with a rotating roster of star pupils. It’s not as if Trebek had no showbiz in him. He was a game-show veteran — you can still find him on YouTube, rocking a Gabe Kaplan ’stache and a loose ’70s manner on “High Rollers.” But when he assumed the post once held by Art Fleming in the 1984 revival of “Jeopardy!,” he adapted his style for a show in which the star was what was between the contestants’ ears.

He had courtly formalities that are increasingly scarce in TV today. The “Shall we?” at the outset of a match. The little wince when someone would fumble a Double Jeopardy question. His Picard-like cool was his appeal, in an environment of emotive syndicated Kirks. When he delivered one of his trademark careful pronunciations — “Comintern,” “Argentina” — it seemed not showy but respectful. It was the spirit of “Jeopardy!” to care about getting things right.

With some celebrities, you might fantasize that, if you ever met them, they would like you. With Alex Trebek — as you sat on the couch, struggling to remember characters from “The Aeneid,” thumb clicking a phantom buzzer — you dreamed that, if you ever made the big show, he would respect you.

You sensed there was a line with him: He would joke around to a point, but class was in session and he took it seriously. It was a game-within-a-game to find the rare contestant who could come up with a clever enough response during his midgame interviews to be rewarded with a laugh: “Pick up that signaling device! What a great answer!”

Trebek himself was not an oversharer, which was why it was so striking when the occasional story came out about his life outside the studio, like his injuring an Achilles’ tendon while chasing an intruder at his hotel in 2011. The idea of this umpire of the mind having a physical exploit — surely he could just stop a burglar with disappointed passive-aggression? — was surprising and delightful.

And maybe this was why, when he announced that he had Stage 4 pancreatic cancer, fans both intense and casual were swept up with such feeling. All of this time, the news made us realize, we had felt for him not just respect but a quiet “Remains of the Day” kind of love.

In January, ABC aired the “Jeopardy! The Greatest of All Time” championship in prime time. Sure, it was a chance to see the game’s three most celebrated players face off. (Ken Jennings won, albeit by adopting James Holzhauer’s “all in” style.)

But come on: We knew what the real occasion was. The tournament was like a homecoming, a chance to see a few successful students come back to campus and offer what was most likely their final toast to the man who had put them through some heart-pounding exams.

Amid the white-knuckle bets and trash talk, there was an “O captain, my captain” feel to the tournament. On Night 3, Holzhauer used the Final Jeopardy round to submit the question-answer “Who is the G.H.O.S.T.? (Greatest Host of Syndicated TV),” and I’d like to see “This Is Us” come up with anything as tear-jerking.

The “Jeopardy!” brand will surely live on. But there is something especially poignant now about saying goodbye to Trebek because of what his show represented: a place of empirical, uncontested truth in the media.

On “Jeopardy!,” after all, there were not alternative facts, only actual ones. They did not change depending on how you felt about them or the person revealing them. Trebek was that rare thing in contemporary media: a voice of simple, declarative truth and trusted authority. But it was an authority he wore lightly, like a well-tailored jacket.

On a show that was usually scheduled between the depressing evening news and a night of reality and crime shows, Alex Trebek did more than teach us trivia and betting strategies. He gave us, five days a week, a place to go where it was OK to know things. He was our trusted man with the answers, even in times when reality came to us in the form of a question.





No.26 article:
Third Term of the Obama Presidency

Joe Biden represents a move back to normalcy, but progressives will push for change.

Barack Obama — his policies and his posture — just won a third term.

Joe Biden will be president because of his close association with Barack Obama, because he espoused many of the same centrist policies and positioning and because of public nostalgia for the normalcy and decency the Obama years provided.

Biden is a restoration president-elect, elected to right the ship and save the system. He is not so much a change agent as a reversion agent. He is elected to Make America Able to Sleep Again.

He doesn’t see his mission as shaking things up, but calming things down.

But, just as was the case with Obama, many of the people who made Biden’s win possible are far to the left of him. As Biden told a Miami television station last month: “I’m the guy that ran against socialists, OK. I’m the guy that’s the moderate. Remember, you guys were all talking, you’d interview me and say, ‘Well, you’re a moderate, how can you win the nomination?’ It’s who I am.” But progressives are not likely to be as silent now as they were during the Obama years.

Obama faced intense, often unfair, resistance from the right on every front, so many who wanted to push him in a more progressive direction held their criticism or limited it for fear of adding to the damage being done to him by his conservative opposition.

But many progressives emerged from that unhappy or downright angry. They are not likely to repeat what many consider a mistake.

As my colleague Thomas Edsall astutely observed last year, the Democratic Party is actually three different parties: the most progressive on the left, the “somewhat liberal” in the middle and the majority nonwhite moderates on the right.

The most progressive, who are also the most vocal, have yet to have a true champion in the White House. Although Biden and the Democrats need their energy and can sometimes tack in their direction, these people know that the right uses them as the boogeymen of whom voters in the center and on the right should be afraid.

And many centrist Democrats accuse the most progressive of doing damage to the rest of the party with their rhetoric and policy ambitions.

As The Intercept reported last week, House Democrats held a conference call in the wake of the election in which “centrist after centrist lambasted the party’s left for costing it seats in the lower chamber and threatening its ability to win the Senate.”

Senator Bernie Sanders last month told the Squad — Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Rashida Tlaib — that the first order of business for progressives was to defeat Donald Trump by electing Biden. But, he said, the second order of business was to push Biden into becoming “the most progressive president since F.D.R.”

Ocasio-Cortez chimed in to thank Sanders for “normalizing bringing the ruckus on the Democratic Party.” As she explained: “That was not seen as OK for a very long time. It was seen as extremely taboo for a very long time. And it would result in so many people being ostracized, and targeted.”

These progressives aren’t simply going to slink away and be quiet, to sacrifice principles for decorum, nor should they.

We are coming to the end of four years in which Republicans have rampaged, endangering our democracy and attempting to use the courts to lock in their power for a generation. Democrats are meeting that with more happy talk of unity and normalcy. The Republicans know that we are at war; Democrats think it’s a crochet class.

Democrats must think bigger and more strategically. They lean far too heavily on changing demographics, as if population patterns make long-term planning about the gaining and retaining of power unnecessary. That could eventually be problematic. Although nonwhites still vote about two to one for the Democrats, Trump this year got a larger share of the nonwhite vote than any Republican since 1960.

When they were frightened by the socialist claim against Biden, frustrated by what they thought wasn’t enough of a Black agenda, had fallen victim to misinformation, or had simply decided that, somehow, the Republican Party was more attractive to them, they voted for Trump.

Nothing is static in politics. You can take nothing for granted.

Donald Trump got more votes than any Republican in history. He will remain a powerful force among conservatives. The Republican Party is still his. There has been some speculation that he could start his own network that rivals Fox News or exists to the right of it, if that’s even possible.

He loves television and this would give him the perfect perch to launch a four-year-long assault on the Biden administration and to influence Republicans in Congress. He could in fact run again in 2024.

Republicans are playing hardball; Democrats are playing softball.





No.27 article:
How Georgia Turned From Reliably Republican to Political Ground Zero

Joe Biden’s narrow lead in Georgia and the runoffs that will determine control of the Senate have raised questions as to whether 2020 is a Trumpian aberration or a long-anticipated political shift.

MARIETTA, Ga. — It took a lifetime for Angie Jones to become a Democrat.

As a young woman, she was the proud daughter of a conservative family active in Republican politics. Ten years ago, after a friend’s son came out as gay, Ms. Jones became an independent, though one who watched Fox News. After the 2016 election, Ms. Jones, a stay-at-home mother in Johns Creek, a pristine wealthy suburb north of Atlanta, became frustrated with her conservative friends defending President Trump through scandal after scandal.

And this year, she voted for Joseph R. Biden Jr., after spending months phone banking, canvassing and organizing for Democratic candidates with a group of suburban women across Atlanta.

“I feel like the Republican Party left me,” said Ms. Jones, 54. “It very much created an existential crisis for me.”

This week, the political evolution of voters like Ms. Jones drove Georgia to a breakthrough for Democrats: Mr. Biden, the president-elect, is on the verge of adding the state to his winning electoral margin, with a narrow lead that is nevertheless a dramatic sign of the shifting politics of the South.

And two Democratic candidates, the Rev. Dr. Raphael G. Warnock and Jon Ossoff, forced runoff elections on Jan. 5 that should decide control of the Senate, and the fate of much of Mr. Biden’s agenda. With the November election barely over, the nation’s political focus will now turn to Georgia as much as the presidential transition in Washington, as both parties pour money and resources into what may be an epic political battle, in a state that was considered safely Republican just a decade ago.

“It’s going to be hand to hand, street by street, and either one of them can win,” said former Gov. Roy Barnes, the most recent Democratic governor in the state.

The runoff contests will take place in a Georgia that bears little political resemblance to the state that voted out Mr. Barnes in 2002 after he engaged in a contentious effort to remove the Confederate battle emblem from the state flag.

The population surged to 10.6 million in 2019 from 7.9 million in 2000, and the foreign-born population now exceeds 10 percent of the state’s total. Atlanta has gone from corporate bland to youthful dynamic, with its indoor food markets, destination dining scene and rich entertainment culture, including a hip-hop scene that drives trends worldwide. In 2004, 70 percent of voters were white, according to exit polls. This year, white voters made up 60 percent.

Until the 1970s, Georgia was virtually a one-party state, with conservative Democrats dominant. But as conservative voters moved en masse to the Republican Party, Democrats were left concentrated in places like the city of Atlanta, adjacent and urbane Decatur, and smaller cities with significant African-American populations.

In the last few years, however, distaste for Trumpism has spread and demographic change has exploded, giving Democrats new strength in the vote-rich northern suburbs of Atlanta — like Cobb and Gwinnett Counties, which were once bastions of Republican power.

Hillary Clinton carried Cobb and Gwinnett even as she lost the state in 2016. This year, Mr. Biden won them again. And he added to her margin in the state, especially in the counties that are home to Georgia’s most important second-tier cities — Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Savannah and Athens.

In recent months, the pandemic has slowed the Georgia economy, with unemployment rising to 6.4 percent in September from 5.7 percent in August. Covid-19 cases are increasing too; over the past week, each day has averaged 2,242 new cases, an increase of 42 percent from the average two weeks earlier.

A new generation of Democratic candidates has left behind the fiscal and social conservatism of its forefathers to embrace a rising demographic coalition of Black voters, college-educated suburban women and a more politically engaged younger generation.

Even if Mr. Biden’s victory was ultimately delivered by Northern industrial states like Pennsylvania, his slim margin in Georgia points to the future of the Democratic Party, which could come into clearer view in the Senate runoffs.

Republicans will try to stop Democratic momentum, hoping that Mr. Biden’s strong performance here was more about Mr. Trump’s divisiveness than the G.O.P.’s loosening grip on the dynamic South. For Democrats, winning both seats would leave the Senate at a 50-50 split, with the vice president, Kamala Harris, the tiebreaker.

Even one Senate seat could prove that the demographic changes that Democrats have long predicted would favor them in swaths of the Sun Belt have finally arrived.

And the lessons learned through the organizing of Black and young voters and the energizing of the suburbs are being watched by Democrats in other Sun Belt battlegrounds like Texas, and in Deep South states like South Carolina and Mississippi, where truly competing with Republicans remains a distant dream.

When Ms. Harris campaigned last weekend in Gwinnett County, supporters waved signs in Chinese and Spanish.

As a lively crowd waited for Ms. Harris in the vast parking lot of a multipurpose arena, Munir Meghjani, 32, a commercial real estate agent, said Ms. Harris’s multicultural roots resonated in the changing county.

“I see more and more people like me. I see more and more people of color. I see diversity increasing every single day, not only in Gwinnett County, not only in Atlanta, but across Georgia,” he said. “We’ve always been here, but we’ve always just stayed at home.”

Xiang Li, 36, who works for an insurance company and lives in the county, voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 but said he couldn’t this year. 

“I’m voting Democrat in the runoff because of what McConnell has done to the Senate,” Mr. Li, a registered independent, said in reference to the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell. “Next election after that, I’ll see what’s going on. I’m hoping the Republican Party comes back to normalcy.”

Despite the changes, the Republican Party here remains well organized, powerful and popular, especially in rural and exurban communities. Democrats had hoped to gain control of the State House to pressure the Republican governor, Brian Kemp, to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, enact changes to the voting system and give them some voice in the redrawing of congressional and state legislative maps after the 2020 census.

But they are likely to pick up only a couple of seats. The Republicans even picked off the House’s minority leader, Bob Trammell, an embarrassing Democratic loss. And redistricting could cost Democrats some of the gains they have made.

With a President-elect Biden, “Democrats will be fat and happy, and Republicans will be scared and mobilized, and maybe even angry,” said Brian Robinson, a Republican political strategist in Georgia. “And they’re going to want to build a red wall in the Senate.”

The intense political spotlight on Georgia is not entirely unexpected. In 2012, President Barack Obama’s strategists weighed whether to compete in Georgia before deciding that other states provided an easier path to victory. Four years later, Mrs. Clinton won more raw votes than any Democratic nominee in history, a sign that some suburban revulsion for Mr. Trump had already begun.

Opposition to Mr. Trump accelerated the political changes in 2018, helping Democratic candidates flip a House seat and nearly win another in Atlanta’s suburbs. That seat flipped Democratic this month, so far the only straight Democratic pickup in the country. (Democrats also won two districts in North Carolina that had been redrawn to favor them.)

Meantime, Democrat Stacey Abrams lost the closest race for governor in a quarter century. Rather than try to woo more conservative white voters, Ms. Abrams focused on turning out intermittent and Black voters while embracing an unapologetically liberal platform.

A group she founded, the New Georgia Project, has registered hundreds of thousands of new voters and inspired other emerging activists.

Julius Thomas, 24, a risk analyst broker who grew up in the small coastal city of St. Marys, Ga., moved to Atlanta in 2018, the year Ms. Abrams lost the governor’s race but gained national stature.

Mr. Thomas helped found a nonprofit group, the People’s Uprising, whose voter registration drives have targeted young people of color — a recent Juneteenth drive featured Atlanta rappers like Lil Baby.

“There’s a culture shift that’s happening among young Black people where it’s no longer cool to sit out civically,” he said. “On your Twitter feed, you’re seeing people say, ‘If you haven’t voted, what’s wrong with you?’”

In the north Atlanta suburbs, Laurie Jules, 39, also Black, said she sees the change.

“In high school, voting was something my parents did,” said Ms. Jules, who is studying for a degree in business administration. “I have a teenager in high school who is a junior, and her and her friends talk about policies, politics. They go to rallies.”

Some of the changes in Georgia mirror the nation, with urban areas growing more Democratic, rural regions moving Republican and the suburbs left as the country’s political battlegrounds.

In Georgia’s suburbs, college-educated women have become a powerful force, forming volunteer networks and organizing for local and national candidates.

Taking a break from putting up Christmas decorations, Debbie O’Dekirk and Kassie Jones, two friends in the affluent northwest Atlanta suburbs, where neighborhoods are dotted with farmer’s markets and lush town squares, described how they had turned against Mr. Trump.

Ms. O’Dekirk, 67, initially liked that the president wasn’t a typical politician, voting for him in 2016. But she expected him to take guidance from more experienced Republican leaders once he entered office.

“The exact opposite happened,” said Ms. O’Dekirk, a retired retail executive from Cobb County. “It was the biggest disappointment I’ve ever had in my life, as far as any president.”

Ms. Jones, 68, supported Mrs. Clinton four years ago and was devastated when she lost. Since then, she has become increasingly vocal about her support for Democrats — a trend she sees in her suburban neighborhood where signs for both Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump dotted the lawns.

“When I first came to Georgia, it was just this private little society of Democrats,” said Ms. Jones, a former banker who moved to the state shortly before Mr. Trump was elected. “But the more concerned they got with the president, the more people started to speak up.”

Ms. Jones, who volunteered for Mr. Biden’s campaign, has already starting talking to her neighbors about the runoffs.

“I’m so proud to be part of Georgia now,” she said. “But we’ve got to get everyone to understand their job’s not done yet.”





No.28 article:
Review: ‘Industry’ Is a Familiar Story, but With More Zeros

The new HBO series is set in the world of high finance but feels like many other shows about young adults trying to make it.

Look to your left. Look to your right. One of us is watching a show that’s so uninterested in originality that some character trots out that speech you’ve heard so many times before: One of you won’t finish this prestigious, grueling program.

Often that spiel is delivered on doctor shows or lawyer shows, but on “Industry,” which premieres Monday on HBO, it happens in an elite investment bank in London. And that’s how most of the four episodes made available for review go: Familiar stories and beats just set in the world of finance instead of elsewhere, which means less emotional stakes but more scenes where people aggressively chew gum.

If this was “Grey’s Anatomy” — it wishes — our Meredith would be Harper (Myha’la Herrold), a savvy and driven underdog, with a few secrets. She’s part of a cadre of “grads” gunning for jobs at the bank, though it’s not clear what the jobs actually are and the differences between the various roles is one of the show’s persistent vagaries. Maybe that’s “Industry” commenting on capitalism wringing individuality out of us. Maybe.

Harper says in her job interview that she considers banking to be “the closest thing to a meritocracy,” which might be a canny ploy, her ingratiating herself by feeding the executives their own favorite (if hilarious) myth. But it plays like something she truly believes. Later, in one of many druggy scenes, she says, “I actually wrote a paper on the moral case for capitalism.”

“That must have been short,” her colleague jokes.

“No, it was 8,000 words,” she says, snorting another line. But that’s the end of it. Neither she nor the show dwell on issues of morality, ethics or purpose.

Instead, “Industry” retreats from complex adult drama to functional enough YA show. Everyone sure has some growing up to do! Ugh, roommate drama! Uh-oh, my crush likes my friend! Ack, I threw up! Will the guy who is clearly marked for death from the first five seconds of the show die?

The poor little rich girl, the gay guy, the one who parties way too much — self-actualization is always just a few good meetings away, one “you remind me of myself” speech from a mentor, one “we can do this together” hug from a friend.

The show seems to think its naughtiness and bad behavior have an edge, like in “Skins,” but really “Industry” is more like “The Bold Type” with male nudity. And like many other shows about young adults seeking validation, the sage authority figure and source of all approval is the best character. Here it’s Ken Leung (“Lost”) as Harper’s boss, who sometimes has good advice and seems less inclined toward the fratty abuse everyone else at the company embraces.

Much of the action of “Industry,” such as it is, takes place in bathrooms, where people say and do things they shouldn’t because vulnerability creates intimacy. The show would benefit from more intimacy in general — not among its characters but between the characters and the audience. In the fourth episode, Harper makes a mistake at work and sobs on the phone to her mother, who barely responds. Other than the ordinary pity one extends to anyone crying on a toilet, though, the scene is absent any emotional potency because it’s unclear how bad the actual problem is or why Harper cares about it so much. Or why anyone should.

“Industry” was created by the first-time showrunners Mickey Down and Konrad Kay but Lena Dunham (“Girls”) directed and executive produced the pilot. All the pieces work fine — its gray and noisy world is fully realized and each character has a clearly defining schtick.

But the show doesn’t appear to be about anything. Everyone is in favor of winning and opposed to losing, but there’s no meaningful motivation or specificity to any of their behaviors. What might someone enjoy about banking that they can’t get from any other lucrative profession? Plenty of industrious 22-year-olds pursue power, autonomy, pleasure, stability, safety or vengeance — all things money can represent. What does it mean, then, to pursue money qua money?

Perhaps those answers, or even just those questions, come in the second half of the season.





No.29 article:
Bryson DeChambeau’s Golf Revolution Turns Toward the Masters

Asked about his childhood as he stood on the practice range at a golf tournament in Connecticut this summer, Bryson DeChambeau said his overriding memory was a conviction that a nonconformist would eventually get more done.

“Even as a little boy, I always questioned everything,” said a smiling DeChambeau, whose eccentric, hard-swinging tactics and overpowering performances have roiled the golf world this year. “It’s how new things happen.”

With the pandemic-delayed Masters Tournament set to begin on Thursday, the bulked-up DeChambeau, who bludgeoned the United States Open field and an esteemed golf course on his way to victory two months ago, plans to unleash his most outrageous assault on golf’s traditions yet. If successful at the revered Masters, which draws voluminous worldwide television ratings, DeChambeau’s gargantuan drives and muscular wedge shots could change the paradigm of how the game is played for the next decade, or more.

At least that will be DeChambeau’s ambition when he sets foot on the first tee Thursday as the unquestioned tournament favorite at the venerable Augusta National Golf Club, site of the Masters since 1934.

“My goal is to inspire a new generation of golfers to think differently and just go out there and bomb it,” DeChambeau, who believes 400-yard drives will become the norm during his career, said in a recent interview. “Augusta would be the right stage for that.”

DeChambeau’s plan is to reinvent golf in much the same way that a 21-year-old Tiger Woods did during his seminal victory at the 1997 Masters, with booming drives that led to a tournament record for the lowest four-round score — and 26 other tournament records tied or broken.

DeChambeau, 27, has gained more than 40 pounds in the past year and as much as 30 yards on his tee shots, he says, because of an innovative, borderline maniacal workout and nutritional regimen. He swings with a ferocity — and velocity — heretofore unseen on the PGA Tour, where players for decades have been schooled to temper their all-out swings in order to enhance assets like tempo and rhythm.

Not DeChambeau, who swings as hard as he can just about every time, especially off the tee. He repeatedly talks about reshaping golf ideology and smashing drives “as far as I possibly can.”

It is a quest that consumes him even as he should be basking in his greatest accomplishments. For example, DeChambeau, who rarely drinks alcohol, stayed up fairly late after his Open victory at the Winged Foot Golf Club outside New York City in September. Early the next morning, however, he was on a jet to Denver, where that afternoon he went through an intensive two-hour workout with Greg Roskopf, whom DeChambeau calls his “muscle specialist.”

“He brought his trophy, which was fun, but we also had another two-hour session the next day,” Roskopf said in a telephone interview late last month. “Bryson was already saying, ‘I want to get everything I can out of my body for the Masters.’”

Roskopf, a 57-year-old former strength and conditioning coach at Fresno State, near where DeChambeau was raised, worked for many years as a performance and injury-prevention expert on the staffs of the N.F.L.’s Denver Broncos and the N.B.A.’s Utah Jazz. About seven years ago, Mike Schy, who coached the teenage DeChambeau and played at Fresno State, sent DeChambeau to Roskopf because DeChambeau was experiencing some lower back pain.

It was in Roskopf’s gym-like laboratory in Englewood, Colo., that DeChambeau — who majored in physics at Southern Methodist University and whose nickname among his peers is “the mad scientist” — began to transform himself last year into the longest, and most effective, driver of the ball on the PGA Tour.

Roskopf put DeChambeau through what he calls a neuromuscular overhaul, a program he describes as muscle activation techniques intended to correct body imbalances that inhibit, among other things, range of motion. The system is also meant to build higher tolerance levels for exercises that can increase strength.

When not visiting Roskopf every three weeks, DeChambeau works out daily at his home in Dallas, where he has installed each piece of Roskopf’s specialized equipment in his garage. DeChambeau eschews many traditional weight lifting exercises like squats or dead lifts to focus instead on isolated muscle groups that govern side bend, back extension and trunk and leg flex.

He also started consuming 5,000 to 6,000 calories a day, aided by drinking seven protein shakes made by Orgain, one of his many sponsors.

How much strength has DeChambeau gained?

On some exercises, Roskopf said, his pupil more than doubled his weight load.

“I’ve been in pro sports for 30 years, and some of his gains are kind of astounding, just dramatic,” Roskopf said. “With some of these movements, we’ve run out of more weights to add.”

Talk like that will naturally lead to suspicion of steroid use, and earlier this year a small number of DeChambeau’s colleagues were privately leery of his prodigious weight gain. The doubts require some context, though, because many of the PGA Tour’s top players are smallish. Rory McIlroy weighs 160 pounds and Justin Thomas 145, so DeChambeau’s 6-foot-1, 240-pound linebacker-like physique stood out more than it might in the overall cohort of professional athletes.

Roskopf conceded that whispers about performance-enhancing drugs were expected.

“When you see changes like that, you think somebody’s taking steroids,” he said. “But I can guarantee you he’s not taking steroids. I know it raises eyebrows, but we actually take it as a compliment, because it’s proof that the process works. And Bryson is like, ‘They can test me anytime.’”

DeChambeau, like all PGA Tour members, is regularly tested for performance-enhancing drugs.

With few exceptions, his tour contemporaries have been generous in their praise of his accomplishments over the past year, which include two victories and eight other top-10 finishes.

“What Bryson has done is no easy task,” Woods said. “He’s hitting it further; he’s figured it out. But let’s look at the fact that he’s hitting it as straight as he is. That’s the most difficult thing to do.’’

DeChambeau, who has vaulted to sixth place in the world rankings, is something of a loner on the tour, and his methods have periodically prompted his fellow pros to roll their eyes. (In July, he wanted to be able to move his golf ball because of nearby fire ants no one else had observed.) But his competitors also see DeChambeau tirelessly hitting practice shots after a round, until darkness obscures the ball’s path.

At home in Dallas, he might go weeks without playing the game, because he finds casual golf inefficient. Why take 70 random swings over 18 holes with golf partners when the same four hours can be spent pounding 300 balls on a range to get what DeChambeau truly craves: instant technological feedback on a shot’s ball and swing speed, its apex, spin rate, carry and distance?

“You’ve got to recognize how much he’s elevated the discussion of golf fitness and the science of the game,” Phil Mickelson said. “But he’s been successful in a lot of the other areas you need to win at golf.”

It is the other pivotal golf skills that will be most scrutinized this week at Augusta National, where daunting, undulating greens have historically been the chief challenge. DeChambeau’s best finish at the Masters has been a tie for 21st, and an unreliable putting stroke has largely kept him off the leaderboard in his three appearances.

But this year DeChambeau, who has improved his putting to the point where he ranked 10th last season in strokes gained/putting, intends to overpower the Augusta National layout with 350-yard drives that could put considerably less stress on the rest of his game.

Where other golfers will be hitting 5-irons into greens, DeChambeau expects to be hitting wedges. Can such a power-based onslaught succeed?

“Absolutely, it can work,” the two-time Masters champion Bernhard Langer said. “Bryson will have to hit it reasonably straight, but he could have a tremendous advantage.

“Take the 18th hole: If he can fly it over the bunkers from the tee, then he’s got a huge, 100-yard fairway to land his ball in. Most of the guys will be aiming for the usual landing spot, which is 20 yards wide. If he hits it all the way down the hill on the 11th hole, he’s got pitching wedge to the green, while I’m hitting a two-hybrid. That’s a big difference.”

Past champions who once questioned whether DeChambeau’s strategy would be successful in major championship conditions — like those at Winged Foot in September — have changed their minds.

“I got it wrong back at this year’s U.S. Open,” the three-time Masters winner Nick Faldo said. “We’ve always said you can’t be a long-driving champ or train like one, because you’ve still got to chip and putt. Now with the science, they’ve found a way that you can. So this is amazing.”

Which leads to the question of whether the distance breakthrough spearheaded by DeChambeau, who is just part of a phalanx of long-driving young golfers, is good or bad for golf.

Faldo, who is a CBS golf analyst, wondered how much longer golf courses would need to become to accommodate pro and recreational golfers who learn to hit colossal drives.

“It would cost a fortune to buy that much land and irrigate it, too — that’s impossible,” said Faldo, who speculated that the golf ball might have to be restricted or softened to limit how it will fly.

“Maybe the new golf ball will be a marshmallow,” he said, laughing.

But others see DeChambeau as a godsend to the game, especially at a time when it needs an infusion of youth. Andy North, a two-time U.S. Open champion who is 70 years old, called DeChambeau “cool.”

“He’s proven there’s yet another way to play golf,” said North, now an ESPN golf commentator. “There’s a million ways to play this game and there’s no one perfect way to do it. And I think that’s really refreshing.”

DeChambeau knows exactly where he stands on the issue. He draws the greatest satisfaction not from his achievements on the golf course, but in the aftermath of them, when young golfers approach him and say they want to swing as hard as he does.

“That really makes my day,” he said. “That why I’m not going to stop. I’m going to keep pushing the boundaries, keep questioning the limits.”





No.30 article:
Even With a New President, Sports at the White House Won’t Be the Same

The politicization of the ceremonial visit to the Rose Garden by champions is one sign the presidential connection to sports is fraught, maybe inalterably.

Awe and tension filled the air on that sunny afternoon in the Rose Garden four years ago this week. I could feel it, and so could everyone else on hand: The sense of celebration mixed with a gnawing worry for the future.

There stood LeBron James, regal in his double-breasted suit but forcing a smile, surrounded by the rest of his team, the N.B.A. champion Cleveland Cavaliers. In front of them, President Barack Obama held court, bestowing kudos and lightening the mood by cracking wise.

“Give it up to the world champion Cleveland Cavaliers,” Obama said, nodding to the fact that the Cavaliers’ win over the Golden State Warriors that spring was the first major sports championship for the city of Cleveland since 1964. “That’s right, I said ‘world champion’ and ‘Cleveland’ in the same sentence. That’s what we’re talking about when we talk about hope and change.”

It was Nov. 10, 2016. I’ll never forget it. Two days earlier, Donald J. Trump had defeated Hillary Clinton to win the presidency. I’d been following the Cavaliers closely then, city to city, game to game, working on a story about Cleveland’s then head coach, Tyronn Lue.

That’s how I found myself in the Rose Garden, on hand to witness a scene woven into the fabric of American sporting life: the honoring of a championship team by the nation’s chief executive.

Everything about that day felt surreal. In the morning, Obama had welcomed Trump to the White House for a short briefing. To watch Obama put aside the seriousness of that moment and then commune with James and the Cavaliers was to watch a president bathe in a sort of healing balm.

That was not a surprise. Obama’s bond with athletes, particularly with Black athletes like the ones who made up the bulk of the Cavaliers’ roster, was a hallmark of his presidency.

But it was more than that. The connection between presidents and athletes had long been cozy, defined by a sort of low-stakes ease. Nothing captured that relationship like Rose Garden ceremonies, which came to regularly honor teams from a wide variety of sports.

True, they were publicity stunts. But they also held meaning. For decades, such ceremonies had provided a chance for people of all political persuasions to set aside differences and bond over the succor of success and the history and power of the presidency.

But by 2016 the ease of such visits had become complicated, even for Obama. More, Trump was on the horizon. He had already started picking fights with athletes, leaning into the backlash against Colin Kaepernick, then the San Francisco 49ers quarterback who had just started his protests against police brutality and the mistreatment of Black people by kneeling during the national anthem.

As I watched Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. say goodbye to the Cavaliers, I remember being struck by the sense that the easy communion between athletes and the presidency was about to change in a way that might prove unalterable.

That communion has a deep history. Sports teams first visited the White House in 1865, when President Andrew Johnson welcomed baseball’s Washington Nationals and Brooklyn Atlantics. Still, it wasn’t until Ronald Reagan took office in 1981 that hosting sports champions at the Rose Garden became routine.

Reagan reveled in the joy of such moments. He hammed it up with the national champion Georgetown men’s basketball team, threw a pass to a wide receiver for Washington’s Super Bowl-winning football team and received a popcorn drenching from the New York Giants’ Harry Carson.

But as time passed and new presidents continued the tradition, the nation’s growing political divide crept in.

The golfer Tom Lehman turned down an invitation from Bill Clinton, whom Lehman called a “draft-dodging baby killer.” In 2012, Baltimore Ravens offensive lineman Matt Birk, an opponent of abortion rights, refused to accompany his Super Bowl-winning team to visit Obama. That same year, Boston Bruins goalie Tim Thomas, an avid backer of the conservative Tea Party, declined to accompany his Stanley Cup-winning teammates for their Rose Garden visit.

But whole teams turning down the White House?

Sure enough, angered by his policies and rhetoric, emboldened by the evolution in athlete activism, not a single N.B.A. championship winner visited Trump these last four years.

In 2017, after the Warriors won the title and the league and the White House were discussing a visit, Stephen Curry said he would not attend — prompting the president to bark back over Twitter: “Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team. Stephen Curry is hesitating. Invitation is withdrawn.”

Soon, James shot back with a tweet in Curry’s defense. He called the president a “bum,” and added: “Going to the White House was a great honor until you showed up!”

Some teams did visit. But others skipped it, were not invited or had invitations rescinded when it became clear few players would attend. Since 2016, none of the W.N.B.A. champions have gone to the White House. Same for North Carolina’s men’s N.C.A.A. championship basketball team, South Carolina’s title-winning women’s basketball team and the 2018 Super Bowl champion Philadelphia Eagles. I could go on.

Trump was left with narrowing opportunities to play host. He feted the Alabama and Clemson football teams, and a few champions from mostly white, conservative-leaning sports like baseball and hockey. For a while, he could count on the New England Patriots, whose owner, Robert K. Kraft, and coach, Bill Belichick, are Trump supporters. After winning the Super Bowl at the end of the 2016 season, however, nearly half of the players steered clear of the White House. And when New England was victorious again two years later, the team didn’t visit at all.

So much for the days of easy communion.

It has been four hard years since that day of awe and tension in the White House. Will James, now having led the Los Angeles Lakers to the 2020 title, return with his new team to visit President Biden? Bank on it. Expect the W.N.B.A.’s Seattle Storm, who conquered their league title this year and endorsed Biden, to do the same, along with teams that didn’t back a candidate but focused instead on boosting voter registration and turnout.

But with large swaths of the country arguing, without evidence, that last week’s election was stolen, will conservative champions or players begin turning down visits to the Biden White House? That’s not hard to imagine.

It is impossible to say what will happen in future presidencies, with future generations of athletes. But for now, sadly, we can assume that the Rose Garden celebration of champions, once a chance to cast aside differences and revel together in greatness, will limp forward, scarred and fractured, same as America.





No.31 article:
The Affordable Care Act Faces Another Supreme Court Test

Though the court’s conservative majority has been bolstered by three Trump appointees, the law’s challengers will face headwinds.

WASHINGTON — Eight years ago, the Affordable Care Act barely survived its first encounter with the Supreme Court. On Tuesday, a significantly more conservative court will hear arguments in a case brought by Republican state officials, backed by the Trump administration, seeking to destroy it.

At stake are health insurance for millions of people, protections for pre-existing conditions for millions more and the fate of President Barack Obama’s signature domestic achievement, a law that has become woven into the fabric of the health care system in ways big and small.

On the surface, events since the first decision would seem to place the health care law in real peril. Not only is the federal government itself now arguing for striking it down, but President Trump, who has criticized Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.’s decisive vote to save the law and pledged that his judicial nominees would instead “do the right thing,” has named three justices to the court. The newest one, Justice Amy Coney Barrett, has written critically of the chief justice’s reasoning in the 2012 case.

But there are reasons to think the law, or at least most of it, may survive.

To win, the Republican challengers would have to run the table on three separate legal arguments. And they would have to persuade the justices that the law, which is popular and whose unraveling could cause chaos in the health care system, should be wiped out based on a highly formalistic argument. During a pandemic.

Striking down the law would increase the ranks of the uninsured in America by more than 20 million people — a nearly 70 percent increase — according to new estimates from the Urban Institute.

The biggest loss of coverage would be among low-income adults who became eligible for Medicaid under the law after all but a dozen states expanded the program to include them. But millions would also lose private insurance, including young adults whom the law allowed to stay on their parents’ plans until they turned 26 and families whose income was modest enough to qualify for subsidies under the law that help pay their monthly premiums.

Gone, too, would be the law’s famous protections for Americans with past or current health problems — pre-existing conditions — which forbid insurers to deny them coverage or charge them more for it. This is the most popular part of the law since it applies to so many millions of people; Mr. Trump had promised he would preserve the protections if the law was struck down, but he never explained how.

Health insurers have urged the court to save the law. “Make no mistake: Invalidation of the A.C.A. would wreak havoc on the entire health care system,” a trade association, America’s Health Insurance Plans, wrote in a supporting brief in the new case, California v. Texas, No. 19-840.

The case is in a sense a sequel to the one from 2012. Back then, the court upheld the law’s requirement that most Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty — the “individual mandate” — saying it was authorized by Congress’s power to assess taxes. The vote was 5 to 4, with Chief Justice Roberts writing the controlling opinion, which was joined in its key section by the court’s four-member liberal wing.

In 2017, after repeated Republican attempts to repeal the law failed, Congress made a seemingly minor adjustment: It set the penalty for failing to obtain insurance at zero. The new challenge starts with the argument that this made the individual mandate unconstitutional because it could no longer be considered a tax.

By itself, survival of the now toothless mandate is inconsequential. But the challengers go on to argue that removing the mandate means the entire law must fall. In legal terms, they argue that the mandate cannot be severed from the rest of the law.

This is where the challengers have an uphill fight.

At Justice Barrett’s confirmation hearings last month, Democratic senators spent more time discussing the Affordable Care Act than any other subject. They stressed the health law’s popular provisions — like guaranteed coverage for pre-existing conditions, emergency care, prescription drugs and maternity care.

The nominee, who was not particularly forthcoming in answering other questions, suggested that she was receptive to the argument that the mandate could be severed from the balance of the law.

Recent Supreme Court decisions support that view.

In June, the court ruled that a provision of the law creating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was unconstitutional. But Chief Justice Roberts said the rest of the law could stand. “We think it clear that Congress would prefer that we use a scalpel rather than a bulldozer in curing the constitutional defect we identify today,” he wrote.

The next month, in a case on a federal law regulating robocalls, Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh made a similar point. “Constitutional litigation is not a game of gotcha against Congress, where litigants can ride a discrete constitutional flaw in a statute to take down the whole, otherwise constitutional statute,” he wrote.

When the earlier challenge to the health care law was argued in 2012, the Obama administration did say that the mandate could not be severed from two related provisions, one prohibiting insurers from turning away applicants and the other barring them from taking account of pre-existing conditions.

At the time, many health economists believed the law’s success would depend on its “three-legged stool” approach: preventing insurers from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions, requiring everyone to buy insurance and providing subsidies to make it affordable. If there were no penalty prodding everyone to obtain insurance, the thinking went, many younger and healthier people would forgo it, leaving only older and sicker people in the insurance pool. That, in turn, would force insurers to raise rates, leading more people to drop their coverage in a self-reinforcing cycle.

But in fact, after Congress zeroed out the law’s financial penalty for going without health insurance in 2017, it turned out that removing one of the legs had little effect on how many people signed up for coverage through the law’s marketplaces. Enrollment in the marketplaces has decreased slightly since 2017, but it has not shown any signs of a “death spiral,” when only sick people buy coverage and the cost skyrockets as a result.

In a friend-of-the-court brief defending the law, scores of economists concluded that “economic data demonstrate that the A.C.A. remains fully effective and operational even in the absence of the individual mandate.”

In addition to the arguments on the constitutionality of the mandate and whether it can be severed from the rest of the law, the challengers must also show that they have suffered the sort of injury that gives them standing to sue. It is not clear that the states and the two individuals who brought the suit can satisfy that burden.

A mandate without a penalty, supporters of the law say, does not affect state budgets or harm individuals, who now face no financial consequence for going uninsured.

Lower courts have so far sided with challengers. A federal judge in Texas ruled that the entire law was invalid, but he postponed the effects of his ruling until the case could be appealed. In December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, agreed that the mandate was unconstitutional but declined to rule on the fate of the remainder of the health law, asking the lower court to reconsider the question in more detail.

If the Supreme Court strikes down the entire law, political responses remain possible. If Democrats manage to take control of the Senate along with the House, they could enact a simple legislative fix that would make the case moot. They could bring back a nominal penalty, even of $1. Or they could repeal the individual mandate entirely, deflating the plaintiffs’ argument.

In a divided Congress, such moves seem unlikely. While the law remains very popular among independent voters as well as Democrats, and even most Republican voters support its pre-existing condition protections, Republicans overall still want to see the law overturned, and it is hard — though not impossible, given the stakes — to imagine Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, agreeing to a fix.

Tuesday’s arguments, which will be heard by telephone, are scheduled for 80 minutes but are likely to last two hours or longer. Michael J. Mongan, the solicitor general of California, representing a coalition of blue states, will defend the law; Kyle D. Hawkins, the solicitor general of Texas, representing a coalition of red states, will urge the justices to strike it down.

Two other lawyers will also appear: Jeffrey B. Wall, the acting U.S. solicitor general, will argue for the Trump administration in support of Texas. And Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who successfully defended the law in 2012 as solicitor general in the Obama administration, will argue for the House in support of California.




No.1 article:
France reports 20,155 new cases – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Here is a recap of the main developments from the last few hours:

Cambodians marked their Independence Day holiday on Monday, but new coronavirus restrictions kept them from celebrating at karaoke parlours, beer gardens, museums, cinemas and other entertainment venues, which have been ordered to shut until further notice.

Students in the capital, Phnom Penh, and the satellite town of Kandal will not return on Tuesday to their schools, which were shut for two weeks by order of the education ministry to contain the virus.

The new restrictions were issued by the health ministry on Sunday because Hungary’s foreign minister tested positive for the coronavirus after visiting Cambodia last week. Peter Szijjarto tested positive upon arrival in Thailand on Tuesday following a one-day Cambodia visit. He was placed in quarantine in Bangkok before leaving for Hungary on Wednesday.

The Cambodian prime minister, Hun Sen, announced on Saturday that a Cambodian bodyguard for Szijjarto had also tested positive for the coronavirus. A second round of tests on Monday discovered three more infected people among the 900 who were involved with Szijjarto’s visit: a lawmaker from Hun Sen’s ruling Cambodian People’s Party, a senior agriculture ministry official, and Hungary’s ambassador to Cambodia and Vietnam.

Hun Sen and four cabinet ministers went into quarantine because they met with Szijjarto the same day he tested positive. Hun Sen said he will stay quarantined for 14 days, and announced on Monday on his Facebook page that he, his wife and other members of their household have all tested negative twice.

All of the people involved with the Hungarian foreign minister’s trip are to be tested four times during their 14-day quarantine period.

Education ministry spokesperson Ros Soveacha issued a statement on Monday saying Phnom Penh’s Olympic stadium would close its gym and other facilities because the infected Cambodian bodyguard for Szijjarto also coached sports there.

In his Saturday audio message, Hun Sen said he would not declare a national or local state of emergency, or bar travel by people not involved, but urged people to observe health ministry guidelines.

The education ministry said the school shutdown was necessary because it has been unable to collect enough information to determine if the parents of any students had direct or indirect contact with Szijjarto.

Schools throughout Cambodia reopened on 2 November after being closed since March due to the coronavirus, but with limited class sizes and hours. The country has reported a total of 297 cases of the coronavirus, with no deaths.

Brazil has registered another 10,917 new cases of coronavirus, totalling 5,590,025, the health ministry said. The country’s death toll rose by 231 to 161,106. 

Following the news that the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, tested positive for the coronavirus, the finance minister, the defence minister and Zelenskiy’s top aide are also reported to be infected.

“The head of state is feeling well and will continue to perform his duties remotely in self-isolation,” Zelenskiy’s office said in a statement.

“Despite all the quarantine measures, I also received a + [positive] result. I have 37.5, and I wish everyone 36.6!” Zelenskiy said in a Telegram message, referring to his body temperature.

Minutes after Zelenskiy’s announcement, Andriy Yermak, head of the presidential office, said on Facebook that he had also tested positive for the virus.

The office of the finance minister, Serhiy Marchenko, said he had been diagnosed with Covid-19 and would work remotely. State news agency Ukrinform reported that defence minister Andriy Taran had also tested positive. The ministry was unavailable for comment.

On Thursday, Marchenko, the prime minister Denys Shmygal and other ministers took part in a parliamentary session. Shmygal’s office said he had no signs of the infection but would undergo a test on Tuesday.

The president’s wife, Olena, contracted Covid-19 in June and spent several weeks in a hospital.

The daily tally of coronavirus infections in Ukraine spiked in late September and remained consistently high throughout October and early November, prompting the government to extend lockdown measures until the end of this year.

Shmygal said last week the number of new cases could jump to 15,000 a day by the end of November and to 20,000 daily by the end of the year.

Ukraine’s health minister said last week the coronavirus situation in Ukraine was close to catastrophic and that the nation must prepare for the worst.

Zelenskiy said earlier on Monday that Ukraine may introduce a lockdown at weekends in an effort to curb the pandemic, and such a move would not have a serious negative impact on the economy. 

The Tunisian prime minister, Hichem Mechichi, said on Monday that the death toll from the coronavirus pandemic in the country may reach 6,000-7,000, describing the health situation as “very dangerous”.

Coronavirus cases have been rising quickly in Tunisia, which had managed to contain the virus earlier this year, and have now reached 70,000 cases and 1,900 deaths in a country of 11.5 million.

Medical sources told Reuters intensive care units in most state hospitals had reached maximum capacity.

The government imposed a night curfew this month and banned travel between cities to slow a second wave of the pandemic.

Reuters is reporting that the adviser charged with leading President Donald Trump’s post-election legal challenges, David Bossie, has tested positive for Covid-19, citing a source familiar with the matter.

Bossie, a prominent conservative activist who leads advocacy group Citizens United, tested positive on Sunday, joining White House chief of staff Mark Meadows and the housing secretary Ben Carson as victims of the latest coronavirus outbreak to touch the White House.

More on our US live blog:

Italy will ramp up coronavirus restrictions in Tuscany and four other regions from Wednesday to rein in the second wave of the pandemic, a health ministry source said on Monday.

Last week, the government imposed nationwide curbs including a nightly curfew, and divided the country into three zones based on the intensity of their Covid-19 outbreaks, calibrating additional limitations accordingly.

Tuscany, which includes the cities of Florence and Siena; Liguria; Abruzzo; Umbria and the southern Basilicata region are designated as “orange zones” where bars and restaurants are closed but shops remain open. People are free to move within their towns and cities but not leave them.

The zoning depends on factors such as local infection rates and hospital occupancy. Milan and most of the industrial north are part of the “red zone” under a partial lockdown.

The northern province of Bolzano will be added into the red zone, the source added.

The southern regions of Puglia and Sicily were already part of the orange zone.

Italy, the first European country hard-hit by Covid-19, tamed its outbreak after a rigid lockdown in March and April, but has toughened up its curbs once again following a resurgence in infections and deaths.

On Monday, the country registered 25,271 new infections after 32,616 the day before, mainly due to a customary fall in daily tests on Sundays. Covid-related deaths were 356, the health ministry said.

The steady surge in hospital admissions is straining the country’s health system, and doctors warn that Italy could suffer some 10,000 fatalities in the next month on current trends.

“The situation could become tragic ... We need drastic measures, such as a total lockdown,” said Filippo Anelli, the president of Italy’s doctors’ federation. 

France’s new Covid-19 infections were sharply down over 24 hours on Monday, as they always tend to be at the beginning of the week, but deaths and hospital admissions linked to the disease were sharply up again. Hospital admissions are closing in on the April record, Reuters reports.

While the country’s health director acknowledged that the main French cities put under curfew inmid-October were starting to see a lesser spread of the disease, he stressed the peak of the coronavirus pandemic was still to come.

“We are at a crucial moment,” Jérôme Salomon told a news conference, with France already more than 10 days in its second national lockdown aimed at reining in the virus.

Salomon reported 20,155 daily new Covid-19 infections, sharply down from Saturday’s record of 86,852 and Sunday’s 38,619. The Monday figure tends to dip as there are fewer tests conducted on Sundays.

The seven-day moving average of new infections, which averages out weekly data-reporting irregularities, stood at 48,734, the third-highest on record.

With 1,807,479 confirmed cases since the outbreak of the disease, France has the fourth-highest tally in the world – it leapfrogged Russia over the weekend – behind the US, India and Brazil.

The number of people who have died from Covid-19 rose by 551 to 40,987, versus 270 on Sunday and a seven-day moving average of 508, a figure that is at a 28-week high.

There were 882 more people treated in hospital for Covid-19, taking the total to 31,125, versus a seven-day moving average of 856. That means the 14 April record of 32,292 is bound to be overtaken in the coming days.

The number of patients in intensive care units was up by 151 to 4,690. For that indicator, the all-time high is 7,148, reached on 8 April.

Good evening from London. I’m Lucy Campbell, I’ll be bringing you all the latest global developments on the coronavirus pandemic for the next few hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: lucy.campbell@theguardian.comTwitter: @lucy_campbell_

I’ll shortly be handing over to a colleague. Here is a summary of what feels – albeit cautiously – like an incredibly hopeful day in the world’s fight against Covid-19.

The UK has reported a total of 194 new deaths from Covid-19 on Monday, up from 156 a day earlier, although the numbers are always lower on Mondays.

Data showed the weekly total of 2,385 deaths was up by 28.6% compared with the previous seven-day period, Reuters reports. 

The number of new cases has risen by 21,350 on the previous 24-hour period, bringing the total across the country to 1.2 million. The seven-day total of 159,502 new cases was almost unchanged compared with the previous seven days.

France has reported 20,155 new Covid-19 cases over the past 24 hours, a short drop on Saturday’s record of 86,852. However, infections tend to dip on Mondays due to fewer people being tested over the weekend.

The seven-day moving average of new infections, which averages out weekly data reporting irregularities, stood at 48,734.

The number of people in France who have died from Covid-19 infections rose by 551 to 40,987, versus 270 on Sunday and a seven-day moving average of 508. The country’s total number of cases now stands at 1,807,479, the fourth-highest in the world. 

Doctors in Italy have warned there will be an additional 10,000 Covid-19 deaths in a month in the country unless a national lockdown is imposed, my colleague Angela Giuffrida reports from Rome.

The government is moving toward placing further restrictions in four more regions considered high risk: Campania, Liguria, Abruzzo and Umbria.

The Italian Order of Doctors, however, has urged tougher action as hospitals struggle to find space for coronavirus patients. Ambulances have been queuing outside emergency units from Turin in the north to Naples in the south. People were treated for Covid-19 in their cars outside Cotugno hospital in Naples, the capital of Campania, over the weekend. One 78-year-old woman waited in an ambulance for 26 hours before being admitted to hospital.

As Italy edges towards a million coronavirus infections since the start of the pandemic, 32,616 new cases were registered on Sunday, a more than sevenfold increase since 8 October. There were 331 Covid-related fatalities, bringing the total to 41,394, the highest in mainland Europe.

You can read the full story below:

Spain’s coronavirus death toll has risen to 39,345, an increase of 512 compared with Friday, according to the country’s health ministry. But the number of deaths during the past seven days was slightly down at 1,054 on Monday compared with Friday’s 1,088, according to Reuters.

Spain’s total tally of coronavirus cases now rose to 1,381,218 on Monday from 1,328,832 on Friday.Spain, one of the hardest-hit countries by Covid-19, at the end of October imposed a six-month state of emergency, giving regions legal backing to implement curfews and restrict travel in a bid to control the spread of Covid-19.

A Covid-19 vaccine may be rolled out by March 2021 to the most vulnerable, which along with other advances could fundamentally change the course of the pandemic, a senior World Health Organization (WHO) official has said.

Bruce Aylward told the WHO’s annual ministerial assembly that interim results from Pfizer’s late-stage vaccine trial were “very positive”.

“There is still much work to be done, this is just interim results ... but some very positive results coming today which should hold great promise hopefully for the entire world as we move forward,” Aylward told the 194-member state forum.

“By March as a result of the extraordinary work happening globally we could be in a position to fundamentally change the direction and the dynamic of this crisis,” he added.

The UK prime minister, Boris Johnson, has issued a cautious welcome to Pfizer/BioNTech’s announcement on its vaccine candidate, which it said had proved 90% effective in interim results.

He said the world had “cleared one significant hurdle” but there remain several more to jump before the vaccine is approved. Mixing his metaphors, he compared the announcement to a “distant bugle” of a cavalry coming to the rescue – but he warned that “these are very, very early days” yet. 

He added:

We absolutely cannot rely on this news as a solution and the biggest mistake we could make now would be to slacken our resolve at a critical moment.





No.2 article:
Foreign and defence secretaries Dominic Raab and Ben Wallace accuse President Lukashenko of trying to hide his repression

The UK’s foreign and defence secretaries have reacted angrily to the expulsion of two British diplomats from strife-torn Belarus.

The eastern European nation has experienced mass protests since Alexander Lukashenko declared himself the winner of elections that have been widely disputed.

Dominic Raab tweeted: “The expulsion of 2 UK diplomats from Belarus for legitimately observing protests is wholly unjustified. Lukashenko can’t hide the oppression of his own people.

“The only way forward is free &amp; fair elections &amp; accountability for those responsible for violence against demonstrators.”

Raab later said: “As independent reports show, this is part of a concerted campaign of harassment aimed at activists, media and now diplomats.

“Instead of trying to bully those shining a light on his repression, Mr Lukashenko must agree to free and fair elections and enable those responsible for violence against demonstrators to be held to account.”

Ben Wallace, the defence secretary, said: “The expulsion of the UK defence attache based on fabricated and misleading accusations is a flagrant attempt to divert attention from the growing oppression to free speech and freedoms inside Belarus by the Lukashenko regime.”

The comments came after the UK called for a fresh presidential election in Belarus following the “despicable” actions of Lukashenko.

In recent days Raab highlighted findings by the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) which he said “exposed the fraud at the heart of the presidential elections” in August.

The UK has already imposed sanctions on Lukashenko and his allies following the election and the brutal crackdown on protests.

The Foreign Office said the OSCE report found overwhelming evidence that the elections were falsified and of “massive and systematic” human rights abuses.





No.3 article:
UK rollout of Covid vaccine could start before Christmas





No.4 article:
Two dead as Russian military helicopter shot down in Armenia

Incident threatens to draw Moscow further into conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh

A Russian military helicopter has been shot down over Armenia, threatening to draw Moscow further into an escalating conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan that has left thousands dead.

The Russian Mi-24 military helicopter was shot down on Monday by a surface-to-air missile while escorting a convoy from a Russian military base in the country. Two Russian servicemen were killed in the attack, Moscow said, and another was injured. The Russian defence ministry said it was investigating who was behind the attack.

Later on Monday evening, Azerbaijan’s foreign ministry took responsibility for the attack on the Russian helicopter and apologised, saying that Baku was willing to pay compensation.

Armenia’s emergency ministry reported that the crash took place near the village of Yeraskh, which is in southern Armenia near the border with Azerbaijan.

That is far from the fighting in the contested region of Nagorno-Karabakh, where Azerbaijan has launched a bloody offensive to retake the mountain enclave from de facto Armenian control. The attack appeared to come from across the border in the Azerbaijani-held Nakhchivan region.

The attack will test Russia’s willingness to stay on the sidelines of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, both ex-Soviet nations with which Russia maintains good relations and arms contracts. Azerbaijan is backed by Turkey, a regional rival which Moscow has both courted and countered by backing rival sides in Syria.

Moscow has said it will honour a commitment to defend Armenia under a military treaty if fighting spills beyond Nagorno-Karabakh, which is internationally recognised as Azerbaijani territory but has been controlled by an Armenian-backed administration since 1994.

But Moscow has largely stood by as Azerbaijan’s forces have moved through the mountain enclave, claiming to capture the mountaintop town of Shusha and approaching the region’s largest city of Stepanakert.

A Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman played down the likelihood of military intervention, urging both sides to end hostilities but said that Moscow “does not support a forcible settlement of this crisis.”

Azerbaijan on Monday released its first evidence that it had taken the city of Shusha (called Shushi in Armenian), including a short video showing Azerbaijani troops raising a flag over the city administration.

An official in the Nagorno-Karabakh administration confirmed it had lost control over Shusha on Monday and warned that an Azerbaijani offensive was close to Stepanakert.

“Shushi is entirely outside of our control,” Vahram Poghosyan, the spokesman for the Nagorno-Karabakh administration, wrote on Facebook on Monday. Poghosyan did not immediately respond to a request for comment, but he did confirm his remarks to Reuters and local Armenian media.

However, other local and Armenian officials denied that Shusha had been taken. In a statement on Monday evening, the prime minister, Nikol Pashinyan, said that the “battle for the city of Shushi is continuing.”

“The [Nagorno Karabakh] defense army and militia are firmly standing on their native soil, and we will continue fighting against the enemy till the end,” he said.





No.5 article:
NHS test and trace: Dido Harding’s husband told to self-isolate

Tory MP John Penrose alerted by Covid-19 app, part of the system overseen by his wife

The MP husband of the NHS test – and trace chief, Dido Harding, has been told to self-isolate after potentially coming into contact with someone who has coronavirus.

The Conservative MP John Penrose was alerted by the NHS Covid-19 app, part of the operation overseen by his wife. Lady Harding had not been told to self-isolate, Penrose said.

The Weston-super-Mare MP said on Twitter: “It never rains but it pours…. my NHS app has just gone off, telling me to self-isolate, which I’m doing. No symptoms so far *crosses fingers*.”

Asked if he had spoken to his wife about it, he told PA Media: “We are trying to make sure we are doing it by the book, if I can put it that way. Her NHS app has not gone off, so it’s someone I have been in contact with rather than her.”

In response to a suggestion that it showed the system worked, Penrose said: “I suppose it does.”

Harding has been facing calls to quit as concerns about the adequacy of the test-and-trace programme she leads have mounted. About a fortnight ago, the Tory chair of the powerful parliamentary liaison committee, Sir Bernard Jenkin, suggested that Harding be given a “well-earned rest” and moved on to focus on “lessons learned”.

He warned of a “vacuum of leadership in test and trace, which is destroying public confidence and compliance”, adding that there was a “spaghetti of command and control” at the top of the organisation. He wrote in the Sunday Telegraph: “The change must be visible and decisive … the immediate priority is to fill the vacuum of leadership in test and trace.”

On Saturday, there were renewed calls for the system to be decentralised and placed in the hands of local councils as weekly figures for England showed less than 60% of close contacts reached; the lowest since the service began.

Sir John Oldham, the adjunct professor in global health innovation at Imperial College London and former leader of large-scale change at the Department of Health and Social Care, said radical reform of test and trace was needed.

“I think this probably includes increasing the number of small labs to decrease turnaround time and, crucially, the results to go to local directors of health and for them to have teams to undertake the contact tracing,” he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.

“I’d probably get the resources for that by scrapping the failing central call centres. I think the whole system should be under the purview of public health, which gets us as close to the effective system we had before 2012 NHS reforms. I think they have demonstrated that they have the capability and effectiveness – they are running at 95% contact tracing; the national call centre is at 60%.”





No.6 article:
PM and England’s deputy chief medical officer hail ‘significant scientific breakthrough’ – but warn of hurdles still to come

Britain could start distributing a coronavirus vaccine by Christmas, the deputy chief medical officer has said as he and Boris Johnson hailed “a significant scientific breakthrough” – but cautioned the public of hurdles to come.

Prof Jonathan Van-Tam said news that large-scale trials showing the Pfizer/BioNTech candidate to be 90% effective was “very exciting” but warned that no vaccine would come soon enough to stop significant restrictions on public life during the second wave.

“I’m hopeful … but not yet certain that we could begin to see some vaccine by Christmas,” he said. He said the progress was also significant for other vaccines in development. “Almost all of the vaccines coming also target the S protein,” he said.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

“This is like getting to the end of a playoff final, it’s gone to penalties. The first player goes up, scores the goal. You haven’t won the cup yet, but what it does is it tells you that the goalkeeper can be beaten. And that’s where we are today that first sign.”

Johnson said the vaccine was “very, very early days” but the UK would be ready to distribute it. “I have [talked] about the distant bugle of the scientific cavalry coming over the brow of the hill. I can tell you that tonight that the bugle is louder, but it’s still some way off. We absolutely cannot rely on this news as a solution.”

He said should the Pfizer vaccine pass all the vigorous safety checks, the UK had ordered 40 million doses for about a third of the population, since each person needs two doses, and “that puts us towards the front of the international pack on a per capita basis”. It remains unclear if the vaccine prevents people catching the virus and passing it on, or rather prevents someone developing symptoms.

Van-Tam said older people would be first in line for the vaccination, with prioritisation decided by an independent committee.

“Far and away age is the biggest priority for patients who most need the vaccines and need to get those vaccines first,” he said. “You can expect a theme of increasing age being the highest priority to be a theme that stays with us as we go on this journey.”

However, Johnson warned that advice from Sage on Friday found the R number, showing reproduction, was still above one in England, though without taking into account the current national restrictions, and that deaths had doubled in 24 days.

“We are heading towards the levels of the previous peak,” he said. “Neither mass testing nor progress on vaccine, though they’re both vital arrows in our epidemiological quiver … they are no substitute for the national restrictions.”

Van-Tam said the result was “a swallow but very much not a summer” and people could expect restrictions on socialising to continue for some time.

He said he could not guarantee people would be able to hug their grandparents or kiss their dates by Easter but if vaccines were distributed they would make a “significant difference to the kind of disease levels we see in the UK at the moment”.

“Once these vaccines begin to be deployed then over a period of time they will make a significant difference to the kind of disease level we see in the UK at moment,” he said.

“Whether they reduce transmission is something we do not know yet and that is a crucial factor that will understand how far vaccines take us towards to the kind of future that you aspire to. We are working on that.”

He added: “We don’t know what this means yet for when we can get life back to normal, when we can start to lift some of the restrictions that we live under.

“Frankly, we’re in the middle of the second wave, and I don’t see the vaccine making any difference for the wave we are now in. I’m hopeful that it may prevent future waves, but this one we have to battle through to the end without vaccine.”

Johnson said the next step was ramping up mass testing, hinting this could help students return home for Christmas. 





No.7 article:
Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine announcement is cause for cautious celebration

Interim trial results are encouraging as scientists welcome news 

It is not yet the end of the pandemic, but the announcement by Pfizer/BioNTech that their vaccine has been 90% successful in the vital large-scale trials has got even the soberest of scientists excited.

These are interim results and the trial will continue into December to collect more data. The two companies – a tiny German biotech with the big idea and the giant pharma company Pfizer with the means to develop it – have not yet published their detailed data, so it is all on trust. And yet, nobody is suggesting the results have been over-egged. It looks as though the vaccine not only works, but works better than anyone hoped.

Most of us will not be vaccinated by Christmas, but it is possible the first shots will be given before the end of the year. The World Health Organization has said health and care workers should be first in line, but some countries including the UK may want to vaccinate their elderly populations first, as long as it appears the vaccine works well in that age group and has no significant side-effects.

Europe, the US and the UK have all pre-bought supplies of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine – there will be 200m doses going to the EU, 100m to the US and 40m to the UK. But although manufacturing is already well under way, there will not be enough to supply everyone who wants it straight away.

Experts have said that we need more than one vaccine to end the global pandemic. There are several more on the horizon, notably the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine that uses a different technology. The great news for all the vaccine makers out there is that it is possible. A vaccine can actually prevent infections – and not just stop people dying by attenuating the illness they get.

“I very much welcome the news that it appears for the first time that a coronavirus vaccine can provide protection against disease, which is hugely important for public health,” said Prof Andrew Pollard, head of the Oxford vaccine group, which at one time looked as though it might be the first to declare efficacy results.

“For global equitable access, we will need multiple vaccines to be successful and so we continue in our efforts to test the Oxford vaccine and hope to be able to share interim results before the end of the year.”

At Imperial College London, Prof Robin Shattock, who is heading development of another mRNA (messenger RNA) vaccine said it was “not yet the endgame, but hopefully the beginning of global efforts to control this pandemic. A significant light at the end of the tunnel.

“It’s a breakthrough for Pfizer/BioNTech, but also for vaccines in general. It also demonstrates the speed and utility of RNA vaccines technology.”

Remarkably, the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine could be the first vaccine to be approved using the new technology called mRNA, which delivers the genetic code of the virus into the body, rather than any part of the virus itself. Shattock has said it is very safe, for that reason. He was working on mRNA vaccines before Covid-19 struck, seeking to use the technology for other viruses in low-income countries. If it works on Covid-19, he believes it will be a game-changer for the wider fight against deadly viruses.

There is one downside to overcome. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine needs ultra-cold chain. That means freezers that can store it at -80C (-112F). Low-income countries do not have them, although UN organisations are already working on supply in case it is necessary.

Right now, the scramble among countries to ensure they get supplies of the first vaccine to show efficacy while taking political credit is on. The US has already tried to stake a claim, with some Republicans, including Mike Pence, the vice-president, asserting that Operation Warp Speed was partly responsible for the success. But Pfizer was having none of it.

“We were never part of the Warp Speed,” Kathrin Jansen, Pfizer’s head of vaccine research and development told the New York Times. “We have never taken any money from the US government, or from anyone.”





No.8 article:
EU draft declaration sets out stricter rules on migrant integration

Contentious statement includes edict on learning language of new home country 

Migrants to Europe must learn the language of their new home countries and encourage their children to integrate in the light of the recent Islamist terror attacks, EU governments plan to say in a declaration drafted by France, Austria and Germany.

The contentious draft statement, due to be made by EU home affairs ministers on Friday, is being championed by the French president, Emmanuel Macron, who was accused by Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, of religious persecution after his recent warning of the dangers of Islamist separatism.

It will also say Brussels should fund religious education within Muslim communities, and NGOs publishing “content hostile to integration will be excluded from receiving” state support under the terms of the resolution.

There is some unease among fellow EU governments about the framing of the current draft, however. Sweden, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, among others, have traditionally pushed back against those who have viewed migration and religion through the prism of security.

“Singling out a religion or group is never the answer to violent extremism by individuals,” said one senior EU diplomat. “We should do well to remember that embracing fundamental values isn’t just a responsibility of migrants or the Muslim community but for all us. We should be careful not to bring down our accomplishments by other people’s sins.”

Should the statement be pulled before Friday, EU diplomats believe Macron will seek to push it again at a meeting of the bloc’s 27 heads of state and government in two weeks time.

In a letter to the Financial Times in which Macron complained about an article criticising his approach – now withdrawn from the newspaper’s website – the president wrote that he would “not allow anybody to claim that France, or its government, is fostering racism against Muslims”.

The current draft ministerial declaration says that the recent terrorist atrocities in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, Nice and Vienna have revealed the “extent of the threat we face from Islamist terrorism”.

Alongside a series of technical counter-terrorism proposals, including the creation of backdoor access to encrypted communications used in chat apps, the statement proposes a tougher line on the need for migrants to integrate.

“Successful integration of immigrants with a sense of belonging and equality is of central importance for the social cohesion of our modern pluralist, and open societies,” the draft says. “Integration is a two-way street: providing support but expecting more in return (fordern und fördern) is a core principle in this. This means that migrants are expected to make an active effort to become integrated while they are offered help with integration through government integration measures.

“Along with recognition of European values, what successful integration means above all is learning the language of one’s new country, earning a living for oneself and for one’s family, and supporting the integration of one’s children …

“It needs to be possible to sanction sustained refusal to integrate more strongly than has been the case to date. Organisations that support content hostile to integration will be excluded from receiving public funding.”

The declaration further suggests that the European commission should fund religious education and training among imams.

“We want to strengthen European Muslims as our partners in the fight against Islamist extremism for they too are its victims,” it says. “We want to support them in their efforts to organise their religion independently of foreign interference. In our view it is necessary to develop a shared language at European level which distinguishes between Islam and Islamism in the sense of religiously motivate extremism.”

Charles Michel, a former prime minister of Belgium who is now president of the European Council, tweeted: “To fight the Ideology of Hatred, we need to setup as soon as possible a European Institute to train imams in Europe. 

“Online messages glorifying terrorism must be quickly removed. There must be no impunity for terrorists and those praising them on internet.”





No.9 article:
Hunger fears in north-east Nigeria as roaming elephants trample crops

Animals have ventured back into areas largely emptied of people by Boko Haram insurgency

A herd of hundreds of elephants that have returned to north-east Nigeria are under threat from jihadist groups and increasingly in conflict with thousands of refugees whose crops they have trampled weeks before harvest.

More than 250 elephants ventured last month from Chad and Cameroon into Kala-Balge, a district in Nigeria’s Borno state.

The presence of numerous village populations in Borno had for years deterred the elephants, who are usually wary of human settlements. But more than a decade of Boko Haram’s Islamist insurgency in north-east Nigeria has forced many villagers in Kala-Balge and across the region to flee to refugee camps or urban centres, leaving much of the rural expanse emptied and more appealing to the elephants.

A population of about 8,000 internally displaced people remains in Kala-Balge, mostly residing in camps, and there are growing concerns over hunger. 

Babagana Shettima, a community leader in Kala-Balge, said the presence of the elephants has compounded misery in the district. “The situation of the elephants here is very terrible, they are really destroying our farmlands,” he said. “People here are already suffering, they are living in the camps or in the bush, they have to farm to eat and this is the only source for their food. If the elephants destroy it, they will not have any food to eat.”

He said residents and refugees in Kala-Balge had resorted to walking 12 miles to the Cameroonian border to buy food. “Last month we received some food aid from the government but he had to come by helicopter because the roads are completely cut off.”

The elephants in north-east Nigeria make up one of the last great herds in west Africa. Their first sighting in the region since the Boko Haram insurgency began was in December last year.

“It is a very dangerous area for the elephants because of issues with the local populations and because there is still fighting,” said Peter Ayuba, the director of forests and wildlife in Borno state. “The elephants shouldn’t ordinarily be in Kala-Balge but the main issue is the conflict. The people need a place to live and farm their crops and the elephants also need peaceful areas to travel. The insecurity has affected their migratory routes because before there were many settlements of people but everywhere is now open.”

Before the herd arrived in October, Nigeria was estimated to have an elephant population of only about 300, scattered in small groups across the country and highly vulnerable to poaching for their ivory.

Dolmia Malachie, a conservationist with the Elephant Protection Initiative, said work to protect the animals had been hampered by insecurity across west Africa. “Last year we put a radio collar on one of these elephants in Chad, we tracked the movements and migratory patterns. Sadly, the animal was killed earlier this year in Nigeria,” he said. “We need the governments of the Lake Chad area to work together to secure the survival of these elephants.”

Two national parks in Cameroon provided vital terrain for the animals, but the jihadist insurgency in the Lake Chad area and conflict spreading across the Sahel has left the elephants exposed to greater threats. Taskforces set up to tackle poaching face threats to their safety when operating in the region.

The Boko Haram insurgency in the Lake Chad area has forced 2 million people to flee their homes and caused tens of thousands of deaths.





No.10 article:
Church of England could rethink stance on LGBTQ+ issues by 2022

Bishops promise decision on historic change to traditional teachings after years of strife

The Church of England could make a historic change to traditional teaching on sexuality in less than two years after bishops promised that decisions on issues that have riven the church for decades would be taken in 2022.

The self-imposed deadline could end with clergy being permitted to conduct same-sex marriages – or the church could opt to reinforce traditional teaching on marriage, sexuality and gender.

At the moment, the church does not allow same-sex marriage, and does not officially bless same-sex civil marriages. Gay clergy are permitted to be in relationships so long as they are celibate.

LGBTQ+ rights campaigners say that some parishes are unwelcoming or hostile, and in some cases there has been emotional or spiritual abuse.

The bishops’ move came as a three-year mission to examine issues of sexuality and identity proposed further “engagement and learning” by parishes. The church has already experienced years of intense internal discussion and intractable divisions over the issues, and there have been repeated debates and discussions at the church’s ruling body, the General Synod.

The Living in Love and Faith project produced a “suite of learning resources” – including a book, videos, podcasts and a course – aimed at helping church members understand questions about human identity and sexuality, social attitudes and Christian thinking.

About 40 people drew up the material, which parishes will be encouraged to explore and discuss. The group included five openly LGBTQ+ people.

Christopher Cocksworth, the bishop of Coventry, who led the project, said the material recognised that some people in the church thought traditional doctrine was “ripe for development”. Asked whether it could lead to a vote at synod on same-sex marriage, he said the resources would “help the church eventually to face that sort of question”.

In a foreword to the book, Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, and Stephen Cottrell, the archbishop of York, apologised for the “huge damage and hurt” caused to LGBTQ+ people within the church.

Jayne Ozanne, a prominent campaigner for LGBTQ+ rights within the C of E, warned that the outcome of the decision promised by bishops was uncertain, and that further delay for yet more discussion meant more people would face rejection and harm.

“While it’s good to hear that decisions may finally be afoot in two years’ time, we must act now to safeguard LGBT people in our care. We cannot go on acknowledging and apologising for the harm church teaching is causing without recognising the safeguarding responsibilities we have. Too many lives are at risk,” she said.

Julian Henderson, the bishop of Blackburn and president of the conservative Church of England Evangelical Council, said: “While discussions about these issues are always welcome … this is actually about obedience to scripture.”

He added: “To all those in the C of E who are unsettled by suggestions that the church might decide, in the future, to depart from historic orthodoxy … we will uphold what Christians have always believed through history and what the overwhelming majority of Christians globally still believe.”

Living in Love and Faith was set up after the synod threw out a report by bishops in 2017 upholding traditional teaching.





No.11 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Couple who set up and run firm are children of long-maligned ‘guest workers’ from Turkey

When the German biotechnology company BioNTech picked a street called An der Goldgrube or At the Goldmine in the western city of Mainz for its headquarters, the couple behind it could not have predicted how prophetic the address would turn out to be.

The company’s shares shot up 23.4% on Monday morning after the Covid-19 vaccine it is developing with the US pharma giant Pfizer became the first candidate worldwide to show positive results in phase 3 trials, the crucial final stage of testing.

The total value of BioNTech’s stock is currently $21.9bn (£16.6bn), more than four times that of German national carrier Lufthansa and a triumph for a company that only made its debut on the US stock market a year ago.

Founded in 2008 by the married scientists Özlem Türeci and Ugur Sahin and the Austrian oncologist Christoph Huber, the company originally set out to develop new types of immunotherapy against cancer, modifying patients’ T cells to target cancer-specific antigens.

When news of the coronavirus first surfaced at the start of the year, BioNTech, which employs 1,300 people, was quick to reallocate its resources. Sahin, its CEO, told Germany’s Manager Magazin that when he read about the Covid-19 outbreak in Wuhan in January, he told his wife that “in April they’ll have to shut the schools here”.

Germany entered its first lockdown in March, earlier than Sahin had anticipated, but by then his company had already developed 20 candidates for a vaccine, of which it would go on to test five for immune reactions in a research programme accompanied by 500 scientists called Lightspeed.

Sahin said in an interview in late October that the company could have managed to develop a vaccine on its own, but it would have struggled with the challenge of distribution.

Pfizer, which has collaborated with BioNTech on flu vaccines since 2018, paid $185m upfront toward the development of the coronavirus vaccine. It will release another $563m when the development is complete.

Monday’s milestone of interim results showing 90% efficacy is a triumph for Pfizer’s and BioNTech’s scientific method. Their vaccine pioneers an entirely new technology that involves injecting part of the virus’s genetic code in order to train the immune system.

In a country where a debate about the willingness of German citizens with Turkish roots to integrate into public life has never been far from the headlines for the last decade, the story of BioNTech’s founders is also salient.

Türeci and Sahin are children of Turkish Gastarbeiter or “guest workers” who came to Germany in the late 1960s. Sahin was born in southern Turkey but moved to Cologne when he was four. Türeci, the company’s chief medical officer, was born in Lower Saxony.

callout-coronavirus

The couple, who hold German citizenship and have a teenage daughter, met at Saarland University in Homburg and have been married since 2002. In an interview with Süddeutsche Zeitung, Türeci said she and her husband started their wedding day in lab coats and resumed their research after a brief dash to the registry office.

The Berlin newspaper Tagesspiegel wrote that their success was “balm for the soul” of Germans with Turkish roots after decades of being stereotyped as lowly educated greengrocers.

The year 2020 also marks the 10th anniversary of the publication of Germany Does Away With Itself, a book in which a former government official argued that Turkish migrants were dumbing down education standards in the country.





No.12 article:
A faulty Covid app puts everyone at risk

There are well-established guards against mathematical errors in other sectors, writes Sabina Ali, so why are risks being taken with public health? Plus Carol Granère on testing failures

Your article (Fault in NHS Covid app meant thousands at risk did not quarantine, 2 November) states that an “oversight” from the programmers is at the source of thousands being put at risk. Why is it considered acceptable to take such risks in public health during apandemic? These failings put us in danger. There are ways of ensuring that the maths does not go wrong by using risk assessment strategies well established in other sectors.

The government declining to communicate on the number of people advised to self-isolate isn’t acceptable either. There has been a clear lack of transparency from the conception of the app to its consequences. This can only lead to greater distrust from the public, jeopardising our Covid recovery. Sabina Ali Just Algorithms Action Group

• Celebrities can get multiple tests, and now every person in Liverpool can get a test. But nurses and doctors who work in hospitals where patients have Covid-19 cannot get a test unless they have symptoms, even if a family member has symptoms. Who writes these rules, the Teletubbies? Carol Granère Evie, Orkney





No.13 article:
&#x27;The fight goes on&#x27;: exiled former president Evo Morales returns to Bolivia

Ex-president greeted with thousands of flag-waving supporters a day after new leftwing president, Luis Arce, sworn in

Thousands of flag-waving supporters have greeted Evo Morales at Bolivia’s southern border, as the country’s exiled former president began a triumphant homecoming that suggests his four-decade political career may be far from over.

“As long as capitalism and imperialism exist, the fight goes on,” Morales, 61, declared as he prepared to cross the international bridge between the Argentinian border town of La Quiaca and Villazón in Bolivia at about 10am local time.

“There are thousands of Bolivians waiting to embrace Evo on the other side of this bridge … and do you know why? Because the people never get it wrong,” said Argentina’s president, Alberto Fernández, after escorting Morales to the border crossing. “Viva Bolivia! Viva Latin America!” he added.

In Villazón Morales told a crowd of miners and indigenous citizens: “We have recovered our democracy, without violence, and we have once again reclaimed our homeland.”

Bolivia’s first indigenous president resigned and fled Bolivia on 11 November last year after an explosion of social unrest and what backers denounced as an anti-indigenous coup. He initially sought shelter in Mexico but has spent most of the last year in Argentina where Fernández’s leftwing administration offered him asylum.

On Monday morning, Morales kicked off a high-profile road trip home, a day after Bolivia’s new leftwing president, Luis Arce, was sworn in following a landslide election in October.

From Villazón, the 61-year-old politician plans to lead a caravan of vehicles northwards to the jungle province of Chapare and the town of Chimoré where he began his political life as a union leader for coca farmers, known as cocaleros.

En route, the homecoming former leader is expected to pass through towns and villages arriving at Oruro on Tuesday and continuing to Orinoca, the tiny village where his birthplace has been transformed into a $7m museum honouring Morales.

Morales has said the social movements there will decide if he continues to be a leader or not.

In an video message celebrating his return from exile, Morales pledged to continue fighting for democracy and Latin America.

“But, above all, I will not rest until sealing a national pact that, leaving aside sectoral and regional interests, gets Bolivia out of its crisis,” he said. “The people have won,” Morales added.

Those comments will delight supporters but may fuel fears within Bolivia’s opposition, and even some sectors of Morales’s Movement For Socialism (Mas) party, over the extent to which the former president will seek to involve himself in Bolivian politics after his return.

Morales’s defenders hail him for the economic and social progress made during his 14 years in power. But Bolivia’s former president is also a divisive and in some quarters despised figure who detractors accuse of leading the country towards authoritarianism, corruption and refusing to give up power.

When he was forced into exile last year, Morales had been trying to secure an unprecedented fourth term as president, in defiance of a 2016 referendum where voters decided he should not have that right.

Jim Shultz, the founder of the Bolivia-focused Democracy Centre, said it was not clear what, if any political ambitions Morales still harbours, or how Arce felt about his return.

Speaking to the Guardian last week, Arce called Morales’s return “a very personal matter for him” but insisted: “This is my government.”

Shultz said Arce’s challenge would be to find Morales a role “where he feels honoured and respected as opposed to really controlling anything”.

“That’s probably the sweet landing spot – that you find a role for him that is constructive, that captures his strengths but that keeps him out of the power structure of the government and out of the power dynamic of the Mas,” he added.





No.14 article:
Portugal imposes state of emergency; global cases pass 50m; infections in Germany ‘levelling off’

Hungary and Portugal have become the latest countries in Europe to impose tough new restrictions to stem the second wave of the coronavirus, as the first signs of light at the end of the tunnel emerged in France, Germany and Belgium.

As the US pharmaceuticals company Pfizer and its German partner, BioNTech, said their experimental Covid-19 vaccine appeared safe and more than 90% effective, Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orbán, announced a partial lockdown.

The restrictions, due to start on Wednesday and last 30 days, include an extension of an existing night-time curfew, a ban on gatherings, the closure of bars, restaurants and cultural venues and a move to online teaching for universities.

Hungary recorded 5,000 new infections on Monday, the fourth-highest per capita rate in the EU, with more than 6,000 Covid-19 patients in hospital. Nearly 450 people were on ventilators.

Portugal imposed a state of emergency and ordered about 70% of its population to stay home on weekday nights from 11pm to 5am for the next two weeks – and to only leave the house at the weekend in the mornings until 1pm, unless to buy essentials.

As the number of cases worldwide passed 50 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker, a leading expert in Italy – where more than 41,000 people have died – said the situation there was becoming unmanageable.

The government last week imposed a countrywide night curfew as well as tougher measures in four regions, closing most shops, bars and restaurants and restricting residents’ movements.

“I am afraid there is no doubt that the situation is largely out of control,” Massimo Galli, the head of the infectious diseases department at Milan’s renowned Sacco hospital, said, backing call by the national federation of medical associations for a “total lockdown throughout the country”.

Russia registered a record number of new infections on Monday, with cases in Moscow surpassing a previous high set in May, but the Kremlin has so far ruled out reimposing sweeping restrictions that were lifted earlier this year.

An official tally showed new infections hit 21,798, nearly doubling the country’s first-wave record. The Kremlin spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said the steady growth in cases “remained alarming” but noted that “not all countries are in lockdown”.

Elsewhere, there were glimmers of hope. Belgian authorities said they were confident the second wave of coronavirus hospital admissions had peaked, with about 400 people admitted to hospital on Sunday, compared with 879 on 3 November.

“Subject to an unpleasant surprise,” the peak in hospital admissions had been reached, the virologist Yves Van Laethem said, while daily new infections were also down by about 40% against the average of the previous seven days.

Belgium, which for part of last month had the highest number of daily cases per capita in Europe, returned to partial lockdown, closing non-essential shops, bars and restaurants and extending its schools’ half-term holidays.

Infections in the Czech Republic, which has had one of Europe’s highest infection rates in recent weeks, have also started to decline after a two-month rise to record levels, with the country reporting 3,600 new cases from Sunday, the lowest daily tally in four weeks and 3,000 fewer than a week ago.

There are initial signs that the rise of infections in Germany is also flattening, the health minister, Jens Spahn, said on Monday, although he added it would only become clear later this week whether restrictions that came into effect last week were working.

“We are seeing that the dynamic is levelling off, that the increase is not as strong, but of course that is not the goal,” Spahn said. “We have to reduce the numbers.”

In France, which last week reimposed a nationwide lockdown while keeping schools and essential businesses open, the health minister, Olivier Véran, said there were early indications the measures may be starting to slow the latest surge.

Infection numbers would have flared up “faster and stronger” without them, Véran said, while Martin Hirsch, the director of the Paris regional health system’s 39 hospitals, said there had been “the beginnings of a dip” in admissions, which had slipped over the past few days to about 80 a day from 110 the previous week.

The situation in French hospitals remained grim, with emergency wards approaching capacity and some sick patients being evacuated from struggling hospitals to others that still had space.

The director general of the World Health Organization, Tedros Ghebreyesus, said countries had to unite to fight the virus. “We might be tired of Covid-19, but it’s not tired of us,” he said.

“It preys on inequality, division, denial, wishful thinking and wilful ignorance. We cannot close our eyes and hope it goes away. It pays no heed to political rhetoric or conspiracy theories. Our only hope is science, solutions and solidarity.”





No.15 article:
&#x27;His speech was perfect&#x27;: Chinese social media users celebrate Biden win

While president Xi remains silent, Chinese residents voice cautious optimism for better relations between the two superpowers

While China’s top officials remained conspicuously silent on Joe Biden’s presidential victory over Donald Trump, Chinese residents celebrated and held out cautious optimism for improved US-China ties.

On Monday, Biden’s speech after being declared the projected winner was among the most viewed topics on social media, with the hashtag “Biden national address” viewed more than one billion times on Weibo.

“This is how a president should behave,” one user said. “I watched his speech all the way through and it was perfect,” another said. “It was very wise of him to emphasise cooperation to avoid possible riots by [Trump’s] refusal to concede the election,” another said. Others agreed with Biden’s pledge to make defeating the Covid-19 virus his top priority, with a transitional task force to be announced on Monday. In Beijing, patrons waited in line to eat at a noodle shop that Biden visited in 2011.

Chinese media carried reports on Biden’s personal story, including the deaths of his first wife, daughter and son. Several noted his path from being the youngest US senator to the oldest president. “Very persistent,” one commentator said underneath a video of his long career in public office and multiple attempts to run for president.

In response to reports that Biden visited the grave of his son after being named the the winner, internet users were sympathetic. Some quoted a line from a Song dynasty poem, from the perspective of a father lamenting the loss of his motherland to invaders, writing: “The day the troops retake and set the north lands free. Do not forget to tell me at my grave the good news.”

Few presidents have elicited as strong of a reaction in China as Trump, whose victory in 2016 was met with a brief honeymoon phase as people saw him as a pragmatic businessman who would put ideology aside. Under the Trump administration, ties between Washington and Beijing have reached their lowest point in decades, marked by criticism and competition across several issues from human rights to technology and trade.

Wang Huiyao, president of the Center for China and Globalization, a thinktank in Beijing, said he believed Biden would adopt a multilateral approach in engaging with China. “Under Biden’s administration China and the US will engage in many forms of dialogue and discussion that will stabilise the situation,” he said.

China’s caution in congratulating Biden may stem from uncertainty over how his administration will approach the US-China relationship. Wang Wenbin, spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday that Beijing had “noted that Mr Biden has announced his successful election”, but declined to say more.

During the campaign Biden said that the US “does need to get tough with China”. In the last presidential debate he described Chinese leader Xi Jinping as a “thug”. His campaign has described the Chinese government’s actions in Xinjiang as genocide, going further than other critics.

Analysts say that while Biden is more likely to a more measured approach, the relationship between China and the US has fundamentally changed since the Obama administration in which Biden served.

“To a considerable degree, Biden’s advisers have come to share a pessimistic view of China’s intentions that is not all that different from that of the Trump administration,” said Aaron Friedberg, professor of politics and international Affairs at Princeton University. “Although it will adopt different approaches in certain respects a Biden administration will not reverse the overall direction of US policy.”

Chinese state media, which described the US election system as “disastrous”, has also reported on the deep division in US society, characterised by competing groups celebrating and protesting in the streets and the need for police to be dispatched.

The editor of the Global Times, Hu Xijin said in a video that China had not congratulated Biden on the election in order to maintain distance from the race and US politics. He wrote on Weibo: “This will be the most turbulent and uncertain transition period in the United States … China must be prepared.”

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang





No.16 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Doctors urge tougher national action as hospitals struggle to treat coronavirus patients

Doctors in Italy have warned there will be an additional 10,000 Covid-19 deaths in a month in the country unless a national lockdown is imposed.

The government is moving toward placing further restrictions in four more regions considered high risk: Campania, Liguria, Abruzzo and Umbria.

The Italian Order of Doctors, however, has urged tougher action as hospitals struggle to find space for coronavirus patients. Ambulances have been queuing outside emergency units from Turin in the north to Naples in the south. People were treated for Covid-19 in their cars outside Cotugno hospital in Naples, the capital of Campania, over the weekend. One 78-year-old woman waited in an ambulance for 26 hours before being admitted to hospital.

As Italy edges towards a million coronavirus infections since the start of the pandemic, 32,616 new cases were registered on Sunday, a more than sevenfold increase since 8 October. There were 331 Covid-related fatalities, bringing the total to 41,394, the highest in mainland Europe.

More than 26,000 people are being treated in hospital for Covid-19, of whom 2,749 are in intensive care, up from 1,939 on 1 November.

“Considering last week’s data as a typical trend … the situation in a month will be dramatic and therefore we must immediately resort to a total closure,” said Filippo Anelli, the president of the Italian Order of Doctors.

Giuseppe Conte’s government introduced a controversial tier system last week, which placed Italy’s 20 regions in either a yellow, orange or red zone depending on their levels of risk. Alto Adige joined Lombardy, Piedmont, Aosta Valley and Calabria in the red zone on Monday, meaning people can only leave their homes for work, health or emergency purposes. Puglia and Sicily are in the orange zone and the rest of the country is in the yellow zone.

“Either we stop the virus or it will stop us because the signs are such that the system will not hold up,” Anelli said. “Even regions currently in the yellow zone will soon find themselves in the same situation as the worst-affected areas. With the current average, in a month we could reach a further 10,000 deaths.”

The government has so far resisted a new national lockdown as it strives to regain control of the pandemic while lessening the impact on the economy. The regional measures have created divisions between local governors and central government, however, with some regions accused of manipulating data to avoid being upgraded to a higher risk zone.

callout-coronavirus

Lombardy continues to be the hardest-hit area, followed by Campania and Piedmont. Authorities in Piedmont have called on the help of medics working for NGOs as regional hospitals struggle with shortages. Staff at a hospital in the Lombardy province of Monza have asked for medical support from abroad. More than 16,000 health workers have been infected with Covid-19 in the last 30 days, according to figures from Italy’s higher health institute, and 186 medics have died since the start of the pandemic.

Walter Ricciardi, the chief scientist advising the health minister, told La Stampa that the tiered system was the final attempt to bring down infections before the government was forced to impose a national lockdown.

The average age of infection in Italy is currently 44, and the average age of death 80. As of 4 November, 434 of the 39,052 deaths recorded were among people under 50, according to the higher health institute. Of that number, 95 were under 40, of whom 64 had serious secondary illnesses. Fourteen did not have other conditions, and no clinical information was available for 17.





No.17 article:
ICC Uighur genocide complaint backed by parliamentarians around world

‘Chance should not be squandered’ to bring Chinese government to justice, letter states

The chief prosecutor of the international criminal court has been urged by an international alliance of parliamentarians to accept a complaint alleging genocide by China against its Uighur Muslim minority.

The complaint, backed by more than 60 parliamentarians from 16 countries, says the Chinese government may be committing crimes amounting to genocide and other crimes against humanity against the Uighur and other Turkic peoples.

The People’s Republic of China is not a signatory to the ICC, but the claim says the court has previously ruled that crimes started on the territory of an ICC state party fall within its jurisdiction. This precedent was established in a case involving crimes against Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar in 2019.

The letter claims mass deportation of Uighurs has occurred in Tajikistan and Cambodia, both signatories to the ICC, into China.

The claim, sent to the chief prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda, is seen as an early test case of the human rights climate since Joe Bidenbecame president-elect.

It has wide cross-party support in a number of countries, including from the former UK Conservative party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith, the Australian Labor senator Kimberley Kitching and Margarete Bause of the German Green party. The claim has been organised the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China (IPAC).

The letter states: “The ICC has a unique ability to adjudicate on alleged genocide and crimes against humanity internationally. We call on the ICC to play its part in ensuring that the perpetrators of the most egregious human rights abuses are held accountable and prevented from acting with impunity.”

The Labour peer Helena Kennedy QC, the IPAC co-chair and director of the International Bar Association’s Human Rights Institute, said: “Mounting evidence points to the most horrific abuses against Uighurs and other minorities in the Xinjiang region. The international criminal court must fully examine the allegations brought before it and, if warranted, make every effort to ensure the perpetrators are brought to justice.”

Rodney Dixon, the barrister leading on the detailed legalities of the claim, said: “The support for our complaint shown by the IPAC parliamentarians is very significant. The prosecutor should feel encouraged that so many parliamentarians from other ICC member states believe she should open an investigation into officials of the Chinese government for the atrocities being committed against the Uighur and other Turkic people.

“For too long, nothing of substance has been done to bring justice to those who are suffering on a daily basis at the hands of the Chinese government. This is a breakthrough and momentous opportunity which we urge the ICC prosecutor to pursue without delay. This chance should not be squandered.”

The case is an early test for the ICC in the new international human rights climate established by Donald Trump’s defeat.

Trump imposed sanctions on the ICC’s chief prosecutor and another senior official in response to the court’s investigation of US actions in Afghanistan as well consideration of Israeli actions in Palestine.

The ICC found there was a preliminary case to hear concerning allegations that US troops had committed torture at secret detention sites in Afghanistan.

Biden’s advisers opposed the US sanctions on ICC staff, however it is likely he would continue to oppose ICC investigations into US citizens.

William Barr, the outgoing US attorney general, said the US government had reason to doubt the honesty of the ICC and described it as “little more than a political tool employed by unaccountable international elites”.

Created by a UN treaty in 2002, the ICC investigates and brings to justice those responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, intervening when national authorities cannot or will not prosecute. 





No.18 article:
Gerald Henderson obituary

Gerald was a British representative of the Hope in the Cities movement, which emerged in Richmond, Virginia, in 1990, under the auspices of the Initiatives of Change organisation (formerly known as Moral Rearmament or MRA). He made several visits to Richmond, the former Confederate capital, and in 1983 he facilitated the visit to Liverpool of a Richmond multiracial group, invited by Alfred Stocks, the city’s then chief executive. 

Liverpool had accumulated great wealth through the transatlantic slave trade, Liverpool ships making 5,000 crossings on slaving routes. Gerald and Stocks thought Richmond might have something of value to share with their city. The Liverpool-Richmond collaboration continued for more than two decades. In 1993, Gerald and his wife, Judith, spent several weeks in Richmond, when the city held a Healing the Heart of America conference. People from some 50 cities took part.

Liverpool was one point of a “reconciliation triangle” linking Richmond, Liverpool and the republic of Benin in West Africa. Reconciliation statues, designed by the Liverpool sculptor Stephen Broadbent, were erected in all three locations.

In 1999, Liverpool’s city council passed a resolution of “unreserved apology” for the city’s role in the slave trade and, in 2007, Virginia became the first US state to apologise for promoting slavery. That year, Gerald took Liverpool leaders to Richmond for the unveiling of the reconciliation statue there.

Gerald was born in Ealing, west London, the son of Douglas Henderson, a businessman, and his wife, Erina (nee Tilley). Gerald and his brother Michael were evacuated to family friends in Boston, US, for the duration of the second world war. Returning to London, he was educated at Mill Hill school.

On leaving school, he became a full-time worker with the MRA movement, which strengthened his Christian faith. This took him to the Ruhr, Germany, for three years in the early 1950s, in a work of postwar reconciliation. He spent 16 years in Nigeria and Ghana with MRA from 1961. 

Gerald married Judith Sykes in 1971 and on returning to the UK in 1977, they lived at the MRA centre near Tarporley, Cheshire, until 1982. Then they moved to Allerton, Liverpool, where Gerald worked closely with the community relations council following the 1981 race riots in the city. Their home became a place of hospitality for people of all backgrounds. 

In 2009, Gerald Pillay, vice-chancellor of Liverpool Hope University, awarded them both honorary fellowships.

Gerald retired in 2011 after being diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease. He is survived by Judith and by his older brother, Michael.





No.19 article:
Concern over French bill that cracks down on photos identifying police

Journalists call for removal of clause that would ban footage disseminated ‘with intent to harm’ officers

A proposed bill in France that would make it illegal to disseminate photographs or videos identifying police and gendarmes “with intent to harm” is a danger to press freedom, critics have warned.

The measure comes amid growing concern about allegations of police violence in the country. It is outlined in draft global security legislation to be presented to the Assemblée Nationale next week.

Article 24 of the bill would introduce up to a year in prison and a maximum €45,000 (£41,000) fine for “disseminating by any means or medium whatsoever, with the aim or harming their physical or psychological integrity, the image of the face or any other identifying element of an officer of the national police or member of the national gendarmerie when engaged in a police operation”.

This clause states the officer must be identifiable and the intention of disseminating the video must deliberately and directly seek to harm them.

Intent to cause harm would be difficult to prove in the case of journalists covering demonstrations or police operations, and there is concern it could lead to searches at journalists’ homes and offices and examination of emails and social media accounts in the search for evidence.

Reporters Sans Frontières (RSF) said the article in the draft law was based on a “slippery concept” because intent was “open to interpretation and hard to determine”.

“A scathing social media post about police violence or criticism of the police in emails could be exploited in an attempt to demonstrate an intent to harm. It is impossible to know the degree to which such evidence might influence individual judges and convince them that there was a clear intent to harm,” RSF wrote in a statement.

RSF has requested clear guarantees that the proposed law would not enable police to arrest journalists while filming or prevent journalists and news media publishing or broadcasting images of police officers.

France’s independent “defender of rights”, Claire Hédon, said the legislation could pose “considerable risks” on information freedom and privacy.

Hédon said she was “particularly preoccupied by restrictions envisaged concerning the dissemination of images of security forces agents in the exercise of their duty”.

There have been a number of high-profile cases involving the police recently, including the death of delivery driver Cédric Chouviat, who said “I’m suffocating” seven times as police pinned him to the ground earlier this year.

French law and order forces were also criticised for their use of rubber bullets, water cannon and teargas against gilets jaunes (yellow vests) demonstrations. In September the journalist and film director David Dufresne released the documentary Un Pays qui se Tient Sage about police violence.

Recently, France’s law and order forces have been filmed using batons and teargas against protesting students and journalists.

The interior ministry says the law aims to protect police and gendarmes who have been increasingly targeted and threatened.

Three police officers were killed in the January 2015 attacks in Paris, and in 2016 a police commander and his partner were killed in their home at Magnanville, outside the French capital, in front of their toddler son. The assailant, who claimed allegiance to Islamic State, streamed a video of the knife attack on Facebook Live.

About 40 journalist organisations have signed a statement asking the interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, to remove the clauses in the proposed law likely to “undermine the freedom to inform”.

Emmanuel Vire, the secretary general of the French national union of journalists (SNJ-CGT), told Le Monde the law was “liberticide”. “We have the impression of being attacked from everywhere,” he said.









No.20 article:
Could a Covid vaccine bring back normality?

With test and trace a shambles, many are pinning their hopes on a jab. But experts warn more measures will be needed to vanquish coronavirus

England is back in lockdown. It happened not a moment too soon. As of 2 November almost three-quarters of a million new cases have been officially counted since 21 September, when the government’s scientific advisory committee Sage advised lockdown. On that day, Britain had only had about 360,000 cases since Covid arrived. Now the figure is three times that. So many more cases mean it will take longer, and possibly require tougher social restrictions, to get numbers down by imposing lockdown than it would have in September, says James Naismith, head of the Rosalind Franklin Institute in Oxford.

Naismith calculates that we will have 500 deaths per day in two to three weeks because of the cases that occurred over the past week, compared with an average of 144 in the week ending 2 November. But it could be far worse. If we had done nothing for another two weeks, he says, we’d be looking at 1,000 deaths a day by Christmas – and more, if hospitals fill up and not everyone can get optimal treatment.

“No one is saying lockdowns are not harmful, they will cause misery and death,” says Naismith. “Being poorer as a country means we will be unhealthier. We know despair and isolation take lives. We know delays in treating some (non-Covid) diseases will increase deaths.” It is clear, however, that Covid-19 is far deadlier, he says.

But beating it back means people must follow the lockdown rules, and more closely than many did in spring. And that will be easier if there is a light at the end of this tunnel. 

The brutal truth is that Boris Johnson’s pledge in July that Covid would be “over by Christmas” is as illusory as that promise proved back in the first world war. But we know that places that acted fast and forcefully enough to get infection down to low levels early on, then kept it there, with some distancing but also effective testing, tracing and quarantine, have been able to return to a degree of normality. Life is largely normal in New Zealand; the South Korean test and trace response is widely regarded as the benchmark; Taiwan recently celebrated 200 days without a case; Vietnam hasn’t added to its death count of 35 since 5 September, and China, source of the virus, has so far avoided a second wave.

But given that the UK’s test and trace system is so shambolic, we appear to be relying on a vaccine to bail us out. Sadly, it’s more complicated than that. Even once discovered, manufactured and distributed, it won’t banish the virus immediately, says Prof David Salisbury of Imperial College London, a former director of immunisation at the Department of Health. We will still need some distancing, and testing and quarantine to keep outbreaks under control. But we may not be condemned to the life we’re living now.

A vaccine may not be enough on its own, but it is necessary. It is the only proven way to reach “herd immunity” – when so many of the population (thought to be at least 60% for Covid-19) are immune to the virus that an infected person contacts very few non-immune people and, unable to find new hosts, the virus dies out.

Letting the virus rip through a population with less immunity – as advocated by the so-called Great Barrington Declaration and others – would kill thousands who would have been saved if we had slowed the spread of the virus before the vaccine arrived, overwhelm the NHS and leave many people dealing with the misery of “long Covid” for years to come.

We will know before the year’s end whether some of the 11 vaccines now in large-scale trials actually work. The US-based firm Pfizer and its partners are among the farthest along the track, partly because their vaccine is made of mRNA that codes for a virus protein, which is quick to produce. 

Pfizer has nearly completed signing up 44,000 people for its vaccine, which requires two jabs three weeks apart. Half will receive a placebo. It hopes that by late November sufficient numbers of the participants will have caught Covid, and significantly fewer of them will have had the vaccine than a placebo. If there are so few that it shows the vaccine made people half as likely to get the disease, the vaccine will meet the minimum level of effectiveness set by the US regulatory agencies. If there are so few that it shows the vaccine protected 77% of recipients, the trial will stop, as it would not be ethical to keep giving people placebo – and approval can get under way. 

In documents shared last week the head of the UK vaccine task force Katie Bingham revealed that the plan is to offer a vaccine to all adults over 50 by Easter next year.

Then what? Say the first vaccines protect 70% of the people who get them, and 70% of the population is vaccinated – and both of those are ambitious targets. That means 49% of the population will be protected, says David Salisbury. Herd immunity requires more than that. It may even be difficult to vaccinate that many, if side-effects such as fatigue, however mild or temporary, set in after the first jab and some refuse the second.

But current UK vaccination plans don’t aim for herd immunity at first. The most recent advice calls for “targeted” vaccination of people most at risk: frontline workers such as medical staff, and people who are older or have medical conditions such as diabetes, who are most likely to contract severe disease. Vaccinating those people would cut severe cases, deaths and hospital demand, but they don’t number enough to reach herd immunity. “The virus will continue to circulate among younger healthy people, especially if they ignore social distancing and won’t wear masks,” says Salisbury – at least until more people are vaccinated. We will need what he calls “Vaccine Plus”, masks and some distancing, to keep this circulation in check – and stop it reaching the 30% of vaccinated, high-risk people who aren’t protected by the vaccine.

Moreover, warns Peter Hotez of Baylor College of Medicine in Texas, the first vaccines might stop vaccinated people getting sick, but not prevent them catching and transmitting the virus. “In that case we’ll still require masks and social distancing, until better vaccines come along,” he says.

Some immunologists think that is not all bad. If young children – who do not usually get so sick from Covid as adults – start catching the virus every winter we may develop enough immunity, if not to stop the virus circulating then at least to limit its impact. In a generation, everyone will have had it as children, and Covid will be mild. That may be what happened with the four coronaviruses that now cause common colds in winter. Genetic analysis shows one, OC43, left cattle and entered humans around 1890. It may be what really caused a pandemic that year of what we thought was severe flu, says Nicholas Christakis of Yale University, but which we now realise had Covid-like symptoms.

In any case, the immediate effect of the vaccine should be fewer people dying but the virus still circulating at some level. This could be easier to face with some effective drugs to tame the sporadic cases.

Monoclonal antibodies are artificially made proteins similar to the ones our own immune systems make, but usually too late in the disease to save us. Several are under development, and the monoclonal made by US firm Eli Lilly was used to treat President Trump. Results have been mixed. Trials of the drug in hospitalised Covid patients ended in late October, when no improvements were seen. It is still being tested in less severe cases. One severe-case trial of a cocktail of two monoclonals made by US firm Regeneron has also been halted, although that drug is still being tested in the UK Recovery trial.

Recovery has so far mostly tested “re-purposed” drugs already approved to treat other conditions. As these have passed safety trials, they are a fast way to treat a new disease if they turn out to work for that too. So far, Recovery has found that two such hopefuls do not work on Covid: the hydroxychloroquine championed by the White House, and a mix called lopinavir/ritonavir, at least in severe disease.

A long-used anti-inflammatory drug, dexamethasone, did turn out to help in late Covid, when most damage is done by runaway inflammation, a reaction of the immune system. Recovery also plans to test tocilizumab, a monoclonal that blocks inflammation. University College London is similarly testing existing antiviral drugs favipiravir and lopinavir/ritonavir early in the disease.

Recovery is also testing blood serum containing antibodies to Covid from people who have survived it. Paul Morgan of the University of Cardiff has high hopes for drugs that block the over-activation of an immune system called complement, a feature of severe Covid. Preliminary small-scale trials of existing anti-complement drugs in the Netherlands have been promising.

There were several specific anti-coronavirus drugs in the works after the first Sars virus in 2003 that block bits of viral machinery. But Sars was eradicated with tracing and quarantine – it spread more clumsily than Covid. With no market for coronavirus drugs, research funding stopped despite warnings from scientists that the viruses remained a threat. Some researchers are trying to revive these efforts. “We need to develop countermeasures that can keep people from getting severely ill,” says Amesh Adalja of Johns Hopkins University. “I don’t think things will get completely back to normal, if that means to a pre-pandemic level,” he adds. “There will be some social distancing that will have to continue,” at least until a second-generation of vaccines arrives that prevents all transmission.

We also need better diagnostics. Some countries, notably South Korea, used widespread testing early in the pandemic to contain the virus and keep case numbers low. You need low case numbers to track and quarantine everyone infected, and UK numbers are currently too high. But vaccination should drive case numbers down to where containment becomes practicable. “We need to all become South Korea as quickly as possible,” says Joshua Gans of the University of Toronto, author of Economics in the Age of Covid-19.

Lockdown does economic damage, but he insists there is no trade-off between that and deaths. “There is no point where we can keep the economy humming while people are getting sick in large numbers.” The faster we stop that, the less expensive it will be – and testing can both help contain the virus and allow us to do things like resume work.

“Rapid testing should have been brought in months ago,” agrees epidemiologist Tim Sly of Ryerson University in Toronto. “Anyone who deals with the public, from medical staff to taxi drivers, could be required to take a rapid test once a week,” and quarantined with financial support if the test is positive.

The PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests that we currently use are extremely accurate but slow. Rapid tests are less accurate but give almost instantaneous results. One kind (antigen) detects viral proteins, another (Lamp) detects viral RNA. The UK government plans to use all three kinds of tests to screen the half-million people of Liverpool, starting this weekend. The hope is to identify those infected, even without symptoms, and stop them spreading the virus. If it works, the plan is to deploy millions of the rapid tests before Christmas, in what was originally dubbed Operation Moonshot.

Slovakia and Chinese cities including Wuhan have already demonstrated that it is possible to conduct such mass testing. It will have little impact on the spread of the virus, however, if those who test positive do not isolate themselves. The rate at which people who test positive isolate in England is as low as 20%.

For now, the plan is to use the tests to snuff out the spread of the virus and get numbers down to manageable levels. But eventually, disease experts envisage using them to enable a return of normal activities, despite the continued low-level circulation of the virus. There is a risk that with many tests, even a small false positive rate could disrupt too many lives needlessly. However, Sly says tests can be nested to improve accuracy. A test that is 90% sensitive will miss 10% of positives. “But two tests five to seven days apart are 99% sensitive at finding you positive – if you actually are.”

This might enable us to begin carefree air travel again. Sly pictures taking a test when you buy the ticket a week before you fly. Then you get tested at the airport, a procedure not much more difficult than some now demanded in airport security. If both are negative, he says, “you board the plane and relax, because you know everyone else has been tested twice in the past week”. That means no catching Covid on the plane, and no quarantine at your destination. Airports in Italy, France and elsewhere are already using rapid tests to detect Covid in arriving passengers.

Another sign of a return to normality would be to hug Gran without fear. Well, Gran will be vaccinated, but that might not mean she is 100% protected. And we might be unknowingly carrying the virus even if we are also vaccinated. Gran might even be carrying it. The chances are lower, but still there. Again, the key is testing. 

The sensitivity of rapid tests might be less than the slow lab tests used now, but rapid tests detect people who are actually transmitting the virus, says Michael Mina of Harvard University. He would like them used widely. “Frequent rapid antigen tests can help stop Covid-19 while we await vaccines,” he tweeted last week. “These will help society regain normalcy.”

Including a trip to the pub. Indoor gatherings might not be maskless for the foreseeable future, and some spacing might remain advisable. But even that may not be needed with widespread, self-administered rapid antigen tests, which will enable us to check if we pose a risk. Gans argues that trusting people to be truthful about these is no riskier than trusting people to monitor their symptoms, as we do now. Others may look at some individuals’ attitudes to masks and distancing and be less convinced.

Anthony Fauci told the BBC last week: “With a successful vaccine, and the continuation of some form of public health measures, as we progress through the months of 2021, getting towards the third and fourth quarter, we will see a considerable approach towards some form of normality.”

Meanwhile, what we are learning while fighting Covid, adds Johns Hopkins’s Adalja, “could make us much more resilient to the next pandemic threat we face.”. Disease experts don’t think Covid-19 is a one-off, or that it will be long before we see another pandemic. A flu pandemic is an ever-present threat, and other viruses in wild animals worry researchers. If nothing else, there are other coronaviruses in bats that could jump species, that could be more lethal than Covid-19, and different enough to present us with a whole new fight.

It is a fight we will be far more ready for if we don’t forget the lessons we are learning now. If wearing masks a bit longer helps drive those lessons home, that may not be a bad thing.

But humans are highly adaptable, and normality is a movable feast. This time next year you may be having dreams about having somehow, inexplicably, left home without a mask – and everyone is pointing and staring. You make sure you grab one as you do your daily home test for Covid and a few other viruses, and head out to meet Gran down the pub, to give her the sherry you brought her from Spain.

• Debora MacKenzie is the author of Covid-19: The Pandemic That Never Should Have Never Happened, and How to Stop the Next One (Little, Brown £18.99). To order a copy go to guardianbookshop.com. Delivery charges may apply





No.21 article:
Police in north-west England have warned of ‘greater levels of enforcement’ in lockdown 

A man has been fined by Greater Manchester police (GMP) for breaching coronavirus regulations by visiting a friend’s house for a cup of tea.

The force said the man had been issued with a fixed penalty notice – which start at £200 for Covid breaches – after visiting the property in Lowton in the borough of Wigan on Friday night. Under the national lockdown in England, different households are not allowed to meet indoors unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble.

Officers from the Golborne and Lowton neighbourhood team said the man, whose age was not given, had lied about why he was at his friend’s house.

In a Facebook post, the team said: “As a follow on from yesterday’s post reminding you we are currently in Lockdown 2.0 as they say and under government restrictions, a fixed penalty was issued to a male last night who decided he was going to see his mate and have a brew with him.

“To make matters worse he tried to lie about why he was there. You cannot go to another person’s address unless for certain exemptions ie childcare, support bubble etc.”

Five chief constables in the north-west of England , including from GMP, said in an open letter last week that people who ignored Covid-19 restrictions should be prepared to “face the consequences of greater levels of enforcement”.

Under the lockdown, those who break Covid rules can be issued a fine starting at £200, reduced to £100 if it is paid within 14 days. The sum can rise to as much as £6,400 for repeat offenders.

On Sunday, GMP arrested four people on suspicion of public order offences and issued 24 £200 FPNs at an anti-lockdown protest in Manchester city centre.





No.22 article:
Japan&#x27;s &#x27;Jo Baiden&#x27; becomes overnight internet sensation

Town mayor, 73, whose name can be pronounced similarly to president-elect, was trending on social media

Joe Biden’s election victory has brought an improbable moment of celebrity to a local politician in Japan.

Yutaka Umeda, 73, the mayor of Yamato, a small town in the south-west of the country, has become an overnight internet sensation after it was noticed that the kanji characters used to write his name can also be pronounced “Jo Baiden”.

He reportedly had no idea that people had made the connection between his and Biden’s name until his family told him he was trending on social media.

“I feel very close to him”, a “perplexed” Umeda said, according to the Kyodo news agency. “It feels as though I’ve also won the election.”

Kanji characters, which originated in China, often have several phonetic readings.

The mayor’s surname 梅田 – comprising two characters meaning “plum” and “field” – can be read as “ume” and “da”, but also as “bai” – pronounced “buy” – and “den”. The single character 穣 for his given name, Yutaka, is more commonly pronounced as “jo”.

Umeda said he hoped his association with the US president-elect would bring his town, with a population of about 15,000, the same recognition the Japanese fishing town of Obama enjoyed when its namesake became a presidential candidate.

Residents formed an “Obama for Obama” support group while he was still aiming to become the Democratic nominee in 2008, and watched the Super Tuesday results live at a hotel adorned with a large portrait of the candidate.

The town later created themed chopsticks, sweet-bean buns and other souvenirs featuring his name and image. Barack Obama name-checked the town during a visit to Japan in 2009. “I could not come here without sending my greetings and gratitude to the citizens of Obama, Japan,” he said.

Umeda said he had received tongue-in-cheek messages congratulating him on Biden’s election.

“Although there is a huge difference between the job of the US president and mine, as the mayor of Yamato … our passion is the same,” he said.

Japan’s prime minister, Yoshihide Suga, was among the first world leaders to congratulate the “other” Joe Biden.

“Warm congratulations to @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris,” he tweeted on Sunday morning Japan time. “I look forward to working with you to further strengthen the Japan-U.S. Alliance and ensure peace, freedom and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.”





No.23 article:
New restrictions announced in US states seeing Covid-19 surges

Residents in Oregon are being asked to limit gatherings to six people while New York implements rules for out-of-state visitors

As America grapples with record-breaking surges in Covid-19 infections and no meaningful federal response, some state and local governments are implementing new restrictions to combat the surging virus.

Other hard-hit areas, however, are taking little to no action against a pandemic that has claimed more than 200,000 lives and sent the US economy into a tailspin.

Oregon, which saw a state record-breaking 805 new cases on Thursday and 769 on Friday, will implement new restrictions in at least five counties to stop Covid-19 from spreading. These regulations halt visits to care homes, and limit indoor dining at restaurants to 50 people, according to the Associated Press.

Authorities are also urging businesses to require work-from-home. Officials are also asking Oregon residents not to gather with people they don’t live with, but to limit any non-household gathering to six people, the AP reported.

In New York, Andrew Cuomo, the governor, said on Friday that officials were weighing additional restrictions to combat the surge in western and central New York and would announce details on Monday. Cuomo also said that officials would ramp up enforcement of new quarantine requirements for out-of-state travelers.

Those coming to New York from states other than New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts must take a Covid-19 test within three days of arriving, show proof that it is negative, and then have another negative test the fourth day after arrival.

“We’re going to be increasing enforcement personnel at the New York airports. You should not land if you do not have proof of a negative test upon landing,” Cuomo said. “I’m increasing the national guard. I spoke to New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio about increasing the New York police department at the airports, but I want people to know we’re serious.”

New Jersey is poised to see new restrictions after Covid-19 hospitalizations tripled over the last seven weeks, governor Phil Murphy said on Thursday. The state’s daily case data is also nearing the levels seen in early May. Connecticut has also limited some reopening initiatives due to a recent spike in cases, NBC New York reported.

Elsewhere, the response was not as aggressive despite the virus now raging through vast swaths of America, and especially the midwest and Great Plains states.

On Friday, health authorities in Kansas reported 5,418 new coronavirus cases over two days. A top health authority said that people are ignoring masks and social distancing initiatives indoors and at public events – and claimed many local officials “haven’t done anything” to stop the spread, AP said.

North Dakota and South Dakota, which do not have full or partial mask requirements, are seeing soaring rates. In Wisconsin, which is also seeing rising case numbers, Governor Tony Evers’s health emergency order was made “virtually irrelevant” because of legal challenges, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported.

Although Iowa is seeing record Covid-19 infection and hospitalization rates, the Republican governor, Kim Reynolds, has not announced any new actions to stop the disease from spreading. She urged Iowa residents to “do their part” and said authorities would launch an awareness campaign promoting hygiene and social distancing, the Des Moines Register reported.

This patchwork approach has boded poorly for countrywide disease rates.

The US broke its record for the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day on Friday, with 128,000 additional new infections, according to the Washington Post. Deaths were over 1,000 for the fourth day in a row. About 53,000 people were hospitalized because of coronavirus on Thursday.

In total, the US has marked more than 9.7m Covid-19 cases and 235,000 deaths since the pandemic started – more than any other country, according to Johns Hopkins University data.





No.24 article:
UAE decriminalises alcohol and lifts ban on unmarried couples living together

Country also ends lenient punishments for ‘honour’ killings as part of reforms

The United Arab Emirates has ended lenient punishments for so-called “honour” killings, lifted a ban on unmarried couples living together and decriminalised alcohol, in reforms to personal laws.

Foreigners living in the Gulf state will also be able to follow their home country’s laws on divorce and inheritance, rather than using UAE legislation based on Islamic religious law, government-linked media reported.

The country, where citizens are outnumbered nine-to-one by migrants, has long branded itself internationally as a modern business and tourist destination and has not always strictly implemented its own law.

When it has, however, reporting on those cases has shadowed its reputation abroad. Such cases have included that of a woman who was jailed after reporting her rape.

The legal reforms aim to “consolidate the UAE’s principles of tolerance,” state-run WAM news agency reported, as it adapts to changing norms at home and prepares to host the World Expo next year. The gathering, delayed for a year by coronavirus, is expected to draw 25 million visitors.

“I could not be happier for these new laws that are progressive and proactive,” Emirati filmmaker Abdallah Al Kaabi, whose art has tackled taboo topics such as homosexual love and gender identity, told the Associated Press. “2020 has been a tough and transformative year for the UAE,” he added.

Emirati judges have until now been allowed to hand down lighter sentences when a woman was attacked or killed by a relative because she has acted in a way he considers to have affected the family reputation, or “honour”. That can include eloping or fraternising with men not related to them.

Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, described the changes as “positive steps for women’s rights” but also raised concerns about the daughters of Dubai’s ruler, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum.

A UK family court this year found he had orchestrated the abductions of two of his children – one from the streets of Cambridge – and subjected his youngest wife to a campaign of “intimidation”.

The new laws will also include tougher punishments for men who subject women to harassment of any kind, the National newspaper reported.

The reports did not mention other behaviour outlawed by Emirati law, which has previously landed foreigners in trouble, including homosexual relationships, cross-dressing and public displays of affection.

Although alcohol is available for sale in restaurants and bars in Emirati cities, individuals needed a licence to buy booze or keep it in their homes. The new laws would apparently allow Muslims, who have not been able to get licences, to drink alcoholic beverages freely.





No.25 article:
Monday briefing: Biden to make Covid top priority

President-elect to launch task force as defeated rival still refuses to concede … Johnson risks Biden’s wrath … Tracey Emin on art, love and cancer

by  Martin Farrer

Morning everyone. I’m Martin Farrer and these are our top stories this morning.

Joe Biden has started work on the daunting list of challenges he faces as he prepares to take the US presidency in January following his victory over Donald Trump. The Democrat has promised to stop the coronavirus from ripping through America where it has now infected close to 10 million people, and his first step will be to launch a 12-member coronavirus task force later today. But he must also reckon with the brooding and possibly disruptive figure of his defeated opponent, who has yet to concede defeat and continues to make false claims about voter fraud. The outgoing president has not made any official public statements, not counting proclamations on Twitter, since the networks called the election for Biden. Questions remain about his various legal challenges, or whether his nearest and dearest might persuade him to admit defeat, as some reports have claimed. There were also conspicuous silences from the leaders of Russia and China as other world leaders rushed to congratulate Biden.

Biden may also face friendly fire after the New York Democratic congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez warned that if his administration is too conservative it will cost the Democrats dear at the 2022 mid-term elections. Biden’s running mate, Kamala Harris, could prove crucial to restoring unity to a bitterly divided America while at the same time bridging the gap with the new generation of Democrats eager to see reform. You can find out what’s been happening over the Atlantic overnight by going to our live blog here, and you can also read our explainer on what happens between now and inauguration day in January. And you can find all our brilliant content curated here.

Biden and Britain – The immediate consequences for Britain of Biden’s victory are most likely to be felt as Boris Johnson risks angering the president-elect by pressing ahead with the internal markets bill. The legislation reneges on the EU withdrawal agreement and enables UK ministers to unilaterally change export rules for goods travelling from Britain to Northern Ireland. Some US Democrats fear Johnson’s plans will undermine the Good Friday peace deal and Biden, who has Irish roots, has expressed his disapproval. Labour’s leader, Keir Starmer, sees positive consequences for his party if they can learn from Biden’s broad electoral coalition. Writing in the Guardian, Starmer also says Biden will put the US back on the world stage and that Britain must stand with him.

Lockdown slump threat – The new lockdown in England and restrictions imposed on other parts of the UK are set to inflict a pre-Christmas slump on the economy with further job losses and shop closures, according to two new surveys. As another 156 deaths from Covid-19 were recorded in the UK on Sunday, the Guardian has learned that NHS bosses have relaxed the rules on one-on-one care for virus patients in an effort to ease the strain on hospitals. The government appears to be flouting the law by failing to publish any information about £4bn of Covid-related contracts awarded to private companies, campaigners say. Joe Anderson, the mayor of Liverpool, says his brother would not have died from coronavirus if the government had listened to scientific advice. An RAC survey says the pandemic has made Britons more reluctant to use public transport and has set back attitudes towards mass transit by two decades. Around the world, more than 50 million people have now been infected with the virus. You can catch up on this and all the other overnight developments at our live blog here.

Fossil fight – Countries are jeopardising the chances of a green recovery from the pandemic crisis by pouring money into fossil fuels in an effort to stave off recession, analysis for the Guardian reveals. China is the worst offender among the largest economies, with only 0.3% of its package – about £1.1bn – slated for green projects, while the figure is 1% in the US. Only a handful of major countries are pumping rescue funds into renewable power and energy efficiency, although the EU has performed well with 30% of its £677bn recovery fund devoted to green ends. Jason Eis, of Vivid Economics, which compiled the figures, said: “In the majority of countries we are not seeing a green recovery coming through at all.”

Dust enough – A British firm is leading European efforts to develop the technology to turn moon dust and rocks into oxygen and other elements that can be stored on the surface and used by lunar construction workers for building. With huge cost savings to be made if materials don’t have to be transported into space, the race to convert lunar dust – which is made up of oxygen, aluminium, iron and silicon – has become potentially very lucrative for a Sheffield-based company, Metalysis.

‘Super rare’ find – A tiny capsule containing a message sent by carrier pigeon during the first world war has been discovered by a couple out walking in eastern France. The message from a German infantry soldier detailed military manoeuvre and appeared to be dated 16 July 1910, or possibly 1916. The pair rook their find to a nearby war museum where the curator described it as “super rare”.

After days of tense counting in key states, Joe Biden was confirmed as the winner of the US election, beating the incumbent Donald Trump. But as David Smith explains, his job of uniting the country begins now – and it won’t be easy

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/08-83738-20201109tifbiden.mp3 

The latest lockdown has put Tracey Emin’s new show at the Royal Academy on hold, but she tells Stuart Jeffries that she is still grateful to be around as she recovers from brutal cancer treatment. She talks about moving house, how Munch inspired her new work, and how she’s looking forward to part three of her life. “I’m more mature. I’m softer but tougher. I want to project myself into the future and not think about the past. Regret doesn’t help anyone. I’ve got time now, perhaps 30 years. I want to use them to make my best art.”

Jürgen Klopp has claimed next summer’s European Championship could be decimated by injuries if a compressed schedule is not addressed after Trent Alexander-Arnold was injured during Liverpool’s 1-1 draw at Manchester City. Mikel Arteta described Arsenal’s 3-0 home defeat by Aston Villa as the worst of his managerial career but was at a loss to explain a performance in which – as he put it – “I didn’t see my team out there”. Casey Stoney said after Manchester United’s 1-0 defeat of Arsenal that a first win against one of the traditional Women’s Super League top three has given her players the “belief that they can compete at the top level”.

England’s rugby captain Owen Farrell has insisted “we have loads more left in us” as the side prepare to face Georgia after their Six Nations triumph. There was no fairytale conclusion to Hugh Carthy’s Vuelta a España, but huge relief for Primoz Roglic after the Slovenian successfully defended the title he had won in 2019. Daniil Medvedev won his third Masters title when he beat Alexander Zverev 5-7, 6-4, 6-1 in a dark, cavernous hall at the Palais Omnisports in Paris. And as Joe Biden addressed Americans in a victory speech on Saturday night, the Washington Nationals announced the president-elect will throw out the ceremonial first pitch on opening day of the 2021 season.

Financial markets around the world have received a sharp boost in the wake of Joe Biden’s victory in the US presidential election, with Japanese shares hitting their highest level for nearly three decades and oil prices also climbing. The FTSE100 is set to follow suit with a 1.3% rise this morning. The US dollar sank again, boosting the pound to $1.32.

The US election is still the top story for many papers. The Guardian front page headline is “Biden gets to work as Trump fumes”, while the Telegraph says “Pressure grows on Trump to go quietly” and the FT has “Biden moves to unravel key Trump policy calls”. The Express has a UK angle with “Biden will do trade deal with Britain” and the Yorkshire Post is also concerned about the Brexit line – “PM’s ‘cosying up to Trump’ may affect trade deal, MP says”. The i has a poster front with “Hello, Mr President” and in Scotland the Daily Record puns on Trump’s golfing weekend: “Fore more years”.

The Times leads with “GCHQ in cyberwar on antivax propaganda”, and its only US election story on the front is “Trump prepares for court battle over ‘unfair’ election result”. The Mail splashes on the Princess Diana interview saga – “BBC crisis over Diana vile slurs scandal” and the Mirror leads with a story about NHS workers: “We are all burnt out”.

The Guardian morning briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.26 article:
UK government fails to publish details of £4bn Covid contracts with private firms

Good Law Project and MPs call for independent inquiry over apparent breach of UK law

The government has failed to publish any information about £4bn of Covid-related contracts awarded to private companies, in what appears to be a continuing breach of UK law.

The gap was uncovered by campaign group the Good Law Project, which along with a cross-party group of MPs, is suing the health secretary, Matt Hancock, in the high court. They are accusing his ministry of an “egregious and widespread failure to comply with legal duties and established policies”.

The group is warning of a “transparency gap” and is pushing for an independent judge-led inquiry into the billions spent on personal protective equipment, medicines and virus testing and tracing since the pandemic began.

In a legal filing in the case, dated 30 October, government lawyers revealed that £17bn had been spent by the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) on Covid-related goods and services since the start of the financial year in April. However, to date civil servants in Hancock’s ministry have only released details of £12.4bn in Covid-related contracts for that period – leaving £4.6bn unaccounted for.

The gap narrowed last week after the department rushed out details of £1.6bn in contracts. Many of the new deals are for the purchase of rapid test kits of the kind being used in Liverpool’s city-wide testing effort.

Government departments are required by law to publish details of contracts no later than 30 days after awarding them. The measures are designed to reduce the risk of fraud and improve value for money by allowing proper scrutiny of how taxpayer cash is spent.

Notices alerting the public to awards over a certain value by publicly funded bodies appear on a European database, Tenders Electronic Daily, and on the UK’s own Contracts Finder website.

Meanwhile, government guidance advises civil servants to publish the contracts themselves within 20 days.

“There is overwhelming evidence that entities connected to key government figures have made staggering fortunes from these procurement contracts,” said Jolyon Maugham, founder of the Good Law Project. “There is a clear public interest in us knowing promptly, whilst those contracts can still be challenged, who benefited and to the tune of how much.”

Among last week’s notices is the largest Covid-related purchase so far by DHSC. The ministry has signed a £496m deal with Innova Medical, which is supplying lateral flow kits. The devices look and work like pregnancy tests, and are made in China for Innova.

An earlier contract with Innova cost the taxpayer £107m. The California-based company is owned by the private equity group Pasaca Capital, which was founded by a Chinese investment banker in 2017.

Whether the deals are value for money remains in question. It is not yet known whether the tests can detect the virus in pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic people, and the government has not published its data on trials of the kits.

Good Law’s claim singles out a number of cases, including the award of a £252m PPE contract to a company called Ayanda Capital on 29 April. Notice of the award was not published on the European database until 2 July. The contract itself was not published until 4 September. Ayanda, which describes itself as specialising in currency trading and offshore property, secured the deal with the help of an associate who was previously an adviser to the government.

The legal challenge also names Pestfix, a pest control business, which has signed 11 PPE contracts with the government. So far, only six have been published.

Government lawyers have defended the delays, admitting “technical breaches” of the law, but saying the information will be made public “in due course”. They say any legal action risks delaying publication.

The DHSC said it could not comment on legal proceedings, adding: “As part of an unprecedented response to this global pandemic we have drawn on the expertise and resources of a number of public and private sector partners. This is completely in line with procurement regulations for exceptional circumstances.

“We have been clear from the outset that public authorities must achieve value for taxpayers and use good commercial judgement. Publication of contract information is being carried out as quickly as possible in line with government transparency guidelines.”

Spending watchdog the National Audit Office has prepared a report on government procurement during the pandemic. It is understood the report is with DHSC for factchecking and due to be released this month.

“It’s astounding that there could be a gap this big between what the government spent and what it has told the public it paid,” said Labour’s shadow Cabinet Office minister, Rachel Reeves. “There has been a whole catalogue of contracts that are either opaque, wasteful, unaccountable, or linked to Tory friends and donors. It’s little wonder that trust in the government’s handling of public contracts is dropping like a stone.”

The gap between the value of contracts awarded and the value of those published has been caused by delays in meeting the 30-day deadline. Research firm Tussell, which was commissioned by Good Law to monitor contract notices, said Covid-related awards are taking an average of 78 days to appear, compared with 41 days for non-Covid awards.

“While the Department of Health has published £12.4bn of Covid-response contracts, we know this is still not the full picture of its spending to date,” said Tussell founder, Gus Tugendhat. “It may be that the lag in publishing is even greater than that reported here.”





No.27 article:
New Zealand to send team to investigate Cook Islands travel bubble

Experts to travel to Cook Islands this weekend to assess travel to Covid-free country that’s heavily dependent on tourism

New Zealand is inching closer towards establishing its first travel bubble, with the prime minister announcing a reconnaissance team will be heading to the Cook Islands on Saturday.

If the trip goes smoothly a travel bubble could be established within a fortnight, the PM said.

The news came as Jacinda Ardern held her first post-cabinet press conference since being re-elected in a landslide victory in the general election in October.

The Cook Islands has been declared Covid-19 free, and has been pleading for a travel bubble for months, saying its economy is being decimated by the complete lack of tourism – the main driver of its small economy.

“The hard truth is that if this drags on much longer, we’ll be coming to you for help one way or the other,” said Fletcher Melvin, the chair of the Cook Islands private sector taskforce in July, addressing the New Zealand government. “Our community wants a hand, not a handout – we’d much rather have New Zealand tourism dollars than its aid money.”

New Zealand has been pursuing a Covid-elimination strategy and has been reluctant to open its borders to anyone, including the Pacific Islands, after shutting them in mid-March.

Governments across the Pacific also hold concerns that if the virus were to gain a significant foothold in the region it could devastate island communities, which have limited public health infrastructure, and populations with high rates of comorbidities such as diabetes.

Meanwhile, Ardern again seemed to splash cold water ona travel bubble with Australia in the near future, saying her government had concerns about how the threshold of community transmission in Australia.

The prime minister said it was her understanding that a community spread alert was not raised in Australia until 10 or more cases had appeared for three consecutive days – a threshold that seemed “very high” to New Zealand.

“We have an elimination strategy and something like 10 cases a day would be indicative of a much wider problem,” Ardern said. “So that’s what we have to be concerned with.”

The prime minister said she last spoke to her Australian counterpart Scott Morrison ten days ago, following her election win, and was seeking clarity on a number of points before the trans-Tasman bubble progressed at all.

Currently, Australia allows New Zealanders to enter a number of its states, but the arrangement is not reciprocal, and all New Zealanders who choose to visit Australia must enter managed isolation for two weeks on arrival back in New Zealand.

New Zealand’s borders remain closed to all nationalities, including Australian citizens





No.28 article:
&#x27;Super rare&#x27; 100-year-old carrier pigeon message found in France

Tiny capsule discovered in Ingersheim appears to have been sent by a soldier during the first world war

A couple out for a walk in eastern France have discovered a tiny capsule containing a message despatched by a Prussian soldier over a century ago using a carrier pigeon.

The message from an infantry soldier based at Ingersheim, written in German in a barely legible hand, detailed military manoeuvres apparently during the first world war and was addressed to a superior officer, said Dominique Jardy, curator of the Linge Museum at Orbey in eastern France.

The date is marked 16 July but the year is not perfectly clear, appearing to be written as either 1916 or 1910. The first world war took place from 1914 to 1918.

The message reads: “Platoon Potthof receives fire as they reach the western border of the parade ground, platoon Potthof takes up fire and retreats after a while.

“In Fechtwald half a platoon was disabled. Platoon Potthof retreats with heavy losses.”

At the time, Ingersheim – now in France’s Grand Est department – was part of Germany.

A couple found the tiny capsule with its well-preserved contents in September this year in a field in Ingersheim, said Jardy, who raved about the “super rare” discovery.

They brought it to the nearest museum, the one at Orbey dedicated to one of the bloodiest battles of the first world war.

Jardy had enlisted the help of a German friend to decrypt the message, he said.

The tiny piece of paper and capsule will become part of the museum’s permanent display.

With Agence France-Presse

• The picture caption on this article was corrected on 9 November 2020. The message is not from the second world war as previously stated.





No.29 article:
Pacific nations herald Biden presidency amid hope for action on climate emergency

Optimism abounds as leaders from Fiji to Papua New Guinea welcome the new US president-elect

Joe Biden’s presidential ascension had not even been settled when Fiji’s forthright prime minister was already urging greater US action on climate change from the incoming American leader.

“Congratulations Joe Biden,” Frank Bainimarama tweeted on Saturday afternoon. “Together, we have a planet to save from a climate emergency and a global economy to build back better from Covid-19.”

Bainimarama said the whole world, but particularly the imperilled Paific, would look to the US for global leadership in addressing the climate crisis.

“Now, more than ever we need the USA at the helm of these multilateral efforts - and back in the Paris Agreement as soon as possible!”

Bainimarama has even invited the US president-elect to attend the annual Pacific Islands Forum leaders’ meeting in Suva – “to the frontlines of climate change” - in August next year.

If Biden accepts, he will be the first US president ever to attend the Pacific’s major multilateral meeting, Hillary Clinton having attended as secretary of state in 2012.

Biden has already committed the US to re-joining the Paris Climate Accord on the first day of his presidency, and to convening a global climate summit within his first 100 days in office.

He has a strong personal connection with the Pacific region, and with Papua New Guinea in particular. Born at the height of the second world war, Biden has said his young life was shaped by stories of his family’s service in the Pacific theatre.

Four uncles on his mother’s side sought to enrol in the military the day after the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbour drew the US into the war.

“Papua New Guinea, that’s where my two uncles ended up, in the Army Air Corps of the United States Army,” Biden said in a speech in 2017.

“My mother’s number two brother, Ambrose Finnegan … was shot down, and his body was never found, in Papua New Guinea.

“And the other came home with malaria and was sick, off and on, for the better part of his life.”

After the election was called on Sunday morning, other Pacific leaders joined the global chorus of congratulations. Action on climate change, and the selection of Senator Kamala Harris – the first woman of colour elected vice-president – on the presidential ticket, were consistent themes.

Papua New Guinea’s prime minister, James Marape, said the US election “captivated the whole world … with our people glued to their TV screens”.

The New Zealand prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said her country would work alongside the US to secure the “prosperity, security, and sustainability in the Indo-Pacific and Pacific Island regions”.

“The campaign by the president-elect has also shown the shared interests we have in addressing global challenges like Covid-19 and climate change.”

Niuean Dr Colin Tukuitonga, the former director-general of the Secretariat of the Pacific Community, said Biden’s election, and commitment to the Paris Agreement was “great news for the planet and my beloved Pacific Islands”.

The Cook Islands prime minister, Mark Brown, praised Biden’s choice of Harris as his running mate, describing it as “aspirational”.

Leaders from US territories in the Pacific also welcomed a new commander-in-chief.

Guam, whose residents are US citizens but not entitled to vote, supported Biden in an informal straw poll taken alongside local elections last Tuesday.

“I look forward to working with your administration for the good of our people, our island, our culture, and our national security in this part of the Pacific world,” Guam Governor, Lou Leon Guerrero, said. “Let us choose unity over division, love over hate, and healing over bitterness.”

Gregorio Sablan, the non-voting delegate to the US house of representatives from the US Pacific territory of the Northern Mariana Islands, said he would work “to advance the Biden-Harris agenda of controlling the pandemic, reviving the economy, continuing the fight against poverty, moving forward on racial justice …, and addressing the threat of climate change”.

The editorial board of the Samoa Observer wrote: “Mr Biden is a world away from President Trump on the issue of climate change ... there are reasons for Samoa – and the Pacific – to be optimistic.”

Joe Biden has promised significant commitment to the Pacific, particularly in the face of growing Chinese influence across the region. Vice-president under Obama’s “pivot” to the Asia-Pacific, Biden has consistently argued the US “is a Pacific country” and will remain a power in the region “as long as we exist”.

“In the Asia Pacific in the 21st century, the United States of America is ‘all in’,” he said in Sydney in 2016.

“Anyone who questions America’s dedication and staying power in the Asia-Pacific simply is not paying attention.”





No.30 article:
New Zealand&#x27;s rejection of legalising cannabis is a triumph for fear-mongering

As other countries make leaps and bounds in drug law reform, Aotearoa seems bound to the tired and worn path of prohibition

Sadly New Zealand has voted no to legalising cannabis, but it was close: 48.4% voted in support of the Cannabis Legalisation and Control Bill and 50.7% voted against.

As someone who campaigned hard for a yes vote, for much needed reform of our drug laws, I am reduced to tears. I have been receiving heartbreaking emails from people thanking me for my work to try and get the evidence out there, to try and stem the tide of fear-mongering and misinformation about cannabis and those who use it.

People are weeping for their communities, families and friends who have been affected by drug laws over the decades since the Misuse of Drugs Act, 1975 was introduced in Zealand, for the lost opportunity for reform, and most of all for those marginalised and vulnerable communities who will continue to bear the brunt of our outdated drug laws that are no longer fit for purpose.

The result also doesn’t help those who have to live with the stigma of drug-related convictions. During a recent research project, I talked to New Zealanders living with the stigma of drug-related convictions. Consider the person who said: “I was broken for quite a long time [after being convicted of cannabis possession], I was always living with that in the background.” 

Or the person who noted that after being convicted it was “just shame, you just carry this terrible shame”. Or the person who said of the stigma of cannabis-related convictions: “I just felt depressed and anxious and stressed out, I didn’t need that sort of negative attention.” Or another person who said that “the worst thing about having a drug conviction is that if forces you to live on the margins”. We have failed them, we have voted for a system that continues to marginalise, stigmatise and criminalise them.

After more than 20 years of working, teaching and researching in the drugs field, the evidence is very clear: that criminalising people for low-level drugs offences is damaging, that prohibition has not stopped the use of cannabis and other drugs. It’s clear that it has not reduced harm, has not protected young people, or those with mental health issues and addictions, and that is has entrenched stigma towards those who use drugs made illegal in our society. That stigma makes it harder for people who have problems with drugs like cannabis to get help.

Nowhere was stigma so clear than in the advertisements of the no campaign – based on outdated moralised notions of those who use drugs, influenced by rightwing religious groups from the US. This is one of the most devastating things about the results, that the playing field was never level, that absolutely fantastic academics, community groups, organisations and campaigners, many operating on shoestring budgets, in their own time, sought to educate, to inform, to circulate evidence, to give people clear and balanced information, fought to get their voices heard in amongst swirling misinformation and misdirection. The results are a resounding triumph for stigma, fear-mongering and myths and a terrible blow for evidence, equity and harm reduction. 

So if you think I sound bitter, damn right I do! Perhaps it’s true that cannabis and other criminal justice related issues should never be decided in referendum – they are just too open to misinformation based on sensationalism, particularly in an era of fake news and clickbait headlines.

I am saddened that the groups who have suffered the most from our drug laws, those who are pushed to the margins of society, will continue to be criminalised and harmed by our current drug laws. Māori, who make up around 16% of the population, but over 50% of the prison population (about 40% of those in prison for drugs offences) , are three times more likely to suffer legal problems than Pākehā (European New Zealanders) due to their cannabis use. 

However, I am also angered at the inadequate and underwhelming governmental response to the result. Jacinda Ardern stated that there will be “no attempt by labour to legalise or decriminalise cannabis in the light of the referendum result,” and I find this unforgivable – especially from a government that never really backed their own bill, and have dropped the idea of reform like the political hotcake it sadly remains. 

As other countries make leaps and bounds in their drug law reforms New Zealand seems bound to the tired and worn path of prohibition.

Although the fact the final margin of the vote was only around 2% is hugely positive, and a step forward, albeit as small one, in the right direction. It shows that New Zealand does have an appetite for reform. 

People narrowly voted no to a specific piece of legislation, and other kinds of reform should not be ruled out, especially by a government that supports a health -elated approach to drugs. Even those who campaigned for a no vote noted that the current system is not working, so now is the time for the government to take a stand, to enact much needed reform, to take a social justice approach to substance use, and to lead on this important issue. 

This is all the more important in the midst of a global pandemic, and when there are tough times ahead.

The hard work of the yes campaigners that highlighted key debates around cannabis and drug law reform has placed those issues, and more importantly the evidence, firmly in the public domain – there is no going back from this, this knowledge will not go away, and the hard work starts over to achieve some much needed reform to our outdated and harmful drug laws. 

The harms related to cannabis (and other drug) use and criminalisation will carry on unabated for generations to come unless we and our governments have the courage to face them.

Dr Fiona Hutton is an Associate Professor, Institute of Criminology, Victoria University, Wellington.






