No.1 article:
Coronavirus Upends Thanksgiving for Many, While Others Ignore Warnings

Public health officials are advising against the very rituals many families cherish: out-of-state travel and large, indoor gatherings.

Ginger Floerchinger-Franks typically invites 10 people to her home in Boise, Idaho, for Thanksgiving dinner and cooks the entire meal herself, including her specialty, pumpkin soup. 

But the pandemic has forced her to devise a new plan: a socially distant potluck. Three households will each prepare a dish, and Ms. Floerchinger-Franks will shuttle the platters between their homes. Then they will gather on Zoom to savor each other’s food.

“This is kind of an adventure,” she said. 

The coronavirus pandemic has intensified across the country just as Americans are preparing to sit down to eat turkey and stuffing and to make their opinions airborne with parents, siblings, cousins, children and perhaps a friend with nowhere else to go. But now public health officials are warning against the very rituals many families take for granted: out-of-state travel and large, indoor gatherings.

The virus, and the precautions, have upended Thanksgiving in unprecedented ways. Families  are scrambling to devise holiday plans that won’t endanger their health. Many are lining up at testing sites, hoping to get a negative result in time for Thursday’s meal. Some are forgoing Thanksgiving altogether. 

But not everyone is quite as fastidious as Ms. Floerchinger-Franks, who happens to be a retired public health official. Frustrated after months of isolation, many are ignoring the pleas of public health experts and forging ahead.

“We’re just going to eat the way that we normally would,” said Tamra Schalock of Redmond, Ore., who is hosting a party of 13. “We believe that family is important, and we believe that people who don’t have family need a place to go.”

Count Thanksgiving as the latest victim of 2020, another tradition that once unified the country and has been reduced to a stressful dividing line. Instead of arguments over politics or the Dallas Cowboys’ running game, the argument is over whether to get together at all.

Tyler Cohen, 52, of San Francisco, knows the debate well — and is exhausted by it. Ms. Cohen’s 80-year-old father, who has diabetes and survived cancer, plans to celebrate in New Jersey with his wife’s extended family, despite all efforts to convince him otherwise. “I hate it, and I hate all of the fights,” Ms. Cohen said. “I appreciate that this may be his last years on earth, and he doesn’t want to spend it hiding inside.”

For those trying to follow the rules, Thursday’s holiday meal will be improvised in myriad ways: large turkeys replaced by small chickens to accommodate more modest crowds. First-time chefs apprehensively filling in for absent family members. Dining shifted outdoors — or inside with windows open. Promises to try again next year.

In Menlo Park, Calif., Nette Worthey generally hosts several dozen guests but will celebrate this year with only her own family of three. She’s planning a less “turkey-centric” meal. In Camarillo, Calif., Richard Aronson is considering an online party. “We’ll all listen to ‘Alice’s Restaurant,’ we’ll walk our laptops around the house to show off our Thanksgiving decorations,” he said.

Rebecca Hing, who lives in New York City, would normally be traveling to Arizona, where most of her family lives. There, her mother would make Chilean sea bass, adding ginger, soy and wine, and various other dishes. “She would make these insane Chinese banquet-like meals for 25 of us,” Ms. Hing, 49, said.

This year, Ms. Hing will be in her own kitchen, recreating some of the dishes with her partner, Mark Sollars, while her mother walks her through the steps on the phone. “I’m trying to do as many things that sort of remind me of being home,” she said.

One military family in San Antonio rarely does the same thing twice anyway and had some sensible advice for the rest of the country: “Over all, we really just adjust to where we are,” said Kate Mansell, whose husband serves in the Army.

Typically, Ms. Mansell said, they try to volunteer. This year they will stay home and order a traditional meal from a local restaurant. Ms. Mansell is looking forward to showing her 2-year-old son, William, the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade — which itself will be an improvised, TV-only affair.

The anxiety over Thanksgiving comes as the country continues breaking coronavirus records, with over 198,500 cases  announced in a single day on Friday, and more than 82,000 people hospitalized. That same day, the country soared past 12 million total cases. Deaths have also spiraled upward, rising 62 percent in the past two weeks. 

On Thursday the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released new Thanksgiving guidance, pleading with Americans to stay home. “The safest way to celebrate Thanksgiving this year is at home with members of your household,” said Erin Sauber-Schatz, who leads the agency’s community intervention and critical population task force.

The recommendation wasn’t all that different from advice the agency had been giving for months about being careful with one’s contacts. And there are already indications that more families intend to stay home. On Friday, the number of people who passed through Transportation Security Administration checkpoints was down 60 percent from the same weekday last year, according to the T.S.A. Still, more than a million people traveled through U.S. airports on Friday — making it the second-busiest day of air travel since March 16 when the pandemic was beginning. 

AAA estimates road travel will fall 4.3 percent this Thanksgiving. 

But coming just days before holiday travel would begin in earnest, the C.D.C. statement not only drew the ire of conservative commentators (“tyrannical government overreach,” wrote Christine Favocci in The Western Journal), but also touched a nerve for many who consider the Thanksgiving gathering as sacrosanct as any religious worship. 

Sarah Caudillo Tolento, for one, will attend a celebration with 10 to 15 people at her mother’s house in Salem, Ore.

Ms. Caudillo Tolento, 32, said the recent death of her grandmother — whose last few months were defined by isolation — pushed her to embrace the opportunity to gather as family. “I’m not scared,” she said. “There’s not anyone that’s going to keep me away from being around my family.”

Anthony Peranio, 39, of Floral Park, N.Y., plans to celebrate at his mother’s house “as always,” with 15 to 20 people.  “It’s beyond ridiculous what’s being asked of us as a society,” he said.

Other families, eager for reunions after months of separation, have made a  compromise: coronavirus tests as a sort of holiday safety net. 

Negative test results do not guarantee that holiday dinners will be virus-free — only that “you probably were not infected at the time your sample was collected,” according to the C.D.C. Still, some families have made coronavirus tests the price of admission to Thanksgiving this year.

Romeo Garcia III, who waited in a long line for a test in Washington, D.C., Thursday, will drive to see his family in Greenville, N.C., and expects about a dozen people at the gathering, which will include a family prayer before dinner and football on television.

“I was a little upset that it has come to the point where we do have to take a test to go and see family,” he said, “but I guess it’s what we have to do.”

For many awaiting tests, the Thanksgiving choice was anguishing: risk getting sick, or remain separated from family they had not seen for nearly a year. Patricia Adelstein and her husband plan to travel from Washington to the Berkshires to see their 30-year-old daughter.

The couple is concerned about the virus, Ms. Adelstein, 64, said, but ultimately decided that the trip was worth the danger. She and her husband will try to keep their distance from their daughter, though she’s not sure how well that will work. “She said she wants to hug her mom,” Ms. Adelstein said. 

“We’ll risk it,” she added. “We need each other.”

A New Jersey couple, on their own this year, found a way to feel close to family from afar. Qraig de Groot plans to introduce his boyfriend, Jamey Welch, to his beloved tradition of a trip to KFC.

Mr. de Groot’s family first turned to Colonel Sanders for their holiday meal decades ago when his mother was a nurse and his father worked at an electric company that required him to work on Thanksgiving.

His mother loved it dearly. Some 30 years after their original KFC Thanksgiving, Mr. de Groot recreated the meal in 2015 for his mother, Barbara, who had moved into a retirement community and could not travel for the holiday.

The chicken was warmed in the oven as mashed potatoes and gravy bubbled on the stovetop. The coleslaw was placed in a decorative bowl while biscuits were reheated in the same electric broiler from the original event. It would be Mr. de Groot’s last Thanksgiving with his mother, who died the following year.

Mr. de Groot, 49, said Mr. Welch wanted a big family dinner with turkey, stuffing and cranberry sauce. “But I believe 2020 is the perfect year for him to experience one of my most cherished childhood memories — reheated mashed potatoes, gravy, fried chicken and all.”

Advertisement





No.2 article:
Biden Chooses Antony Blinken, Defender of Global Alliances, as Secretary of State

The president-elect is also expected to name Jake Sullivan, another close aide of his, as national security adviser, and Linda Thomas-Greenfield, a 35-year Foreign Service veteran, as his ambassador to the U.N. 

WASHINGTON — Antony J. Blinken, a defender of global alliances and President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s closest foreign policy adviser, is expected to be nominated for secretary of state, a job in which he will try to coalesce skeptical international partners into a new competition with China, according to people close to the process.

Mr. Blinken, 58, a former deputy secretary of state under President Barack Obama, began his career at the State Department during the Clinton administration. His extensive foreign policy credentials are expected to help calm American diplomats and global leaders alike after four years of the Trump administration’s ricocheting strategies and nationalist swaggering.

Mr. Biden is also expected to name another close aide, Jake Sullivan, as national security adviser, according to a person familiar with the process. Mr. Sullivan, 43, succeeded Mr. Blinken as Vice President Biden’s national security adviser, and served as the head of policy planning at the State Department under Hillary Clinton, becoming her closest strategic adviser. 

Together, Mr. Blinken and Mr. Sullivan, good friends with a common worldview, have become Mr. Biden’s brain trust and often his voice on foreign policy matters. And they led the attack on President Trump’s use of “America First” as a guiding principle, saying it only isolated the United States and created opportunities and vacuums for its adversaries. 

Mr. Biden plans to announce their selections even as Mr. Trump continues his ineffectual push to overturn the election. A growing number of Republicans are calling on Mr. Trump to concede and begin the official transition process.

Mr. Biden is also expected to name Linda Thomas-Greenfield, a 35-year veteran of the Foreign Service who has served in diplomatic posts around the world, as his ambassador to the United Nations, according to two people with knowledge of the process. Mr. Biden will also restore the post to cabinet-level status after Mr. Trump downgraded it, giving Ms. Thomas-Greenfield, who is Black, a seat on his National Security Council. The selections of Mr. Blinken and Mr. Sullivan were reported earlier by Bloomberg News, and Ms. Thomas-Greenfield’s nomination was reported by Axios.

Mr. Blinken has been at Mr. Biden’s side for nearly 20 years, including as his top aide on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and later as his national security adviser when he was vice president. In that role, Mr. Blinken helped develop the American response to political upheaval and instability across the Middle East, with mixed results in Egypt, Iraq, Syria and Libya.

But chief among his new priorities will be to re-establish the United States as a trusted ally that is ready to rejoin global agreements and institutions — including the Paris climate accord, the Iran nuclear deal and the World Health Organization — that were jettisoned by Mr. Trump.

“Simply put, the big problems that we face as a country and as a planet, whether it’s climate change, whether it’s a pandemic, whether it’s the spread of bad weapons — to state the obvious, none of these have unilateral solutions,” Mr. Blinken said at a forum at the Hudson Institute in July. “Even a country as powerful as the United States can’t handle them alone.”

Working with other countries, Mr. Blinken said at the forum, could have the added benefit of confronting another top diplomatic challenge: competing with China by choosing multilateral efforts to advance trade, technology investments and human rights — instead of forcing individual nations to choose between the two superpowers’ economies.

That is likely to mean diplomatic time spent forging stronger ties with India and across the Indo-Pacific region, where 14 nations recently signed one of the world’s largest free trade agreements with China. It could also bring an effort to deepen engagement across Africa, where China has made inroads with technology and infrastructure investments, and recognize Europe as a partner of “first resort, not last resort, when it comes to contending with the challenges we face,” Mr. Blinken said at the forum.

In public statements and interviews in recent weeks, he has made no secret of other aspects of Mr. Biden’s — and his own — agenda for the first weeks of the new presidency.

He will have about 15 days after inauguration to extend for five years the last major arms control agreement with Russia, a step Mr. Trump initially refused to take because he insisted China be brought into the treaty as well. “Certainly we will want to engage China on arms control issues,” Mr. Blinken said recently, “but we can pursue strategic stability by extending the New START arms limitation agreement and seek to build on it” later.

Mr. Blinken has turned more hawkish on Russia as the extent of its interference in the 2016 election and throughout Europe has become clearer. In a recent interview, he suggested using Russia’s discomfort with its reliance on China, especially in technology, for leverage.

“There’s a flip side” to dealing with Moscow, Mr. Blinken said. President Vladimir V. Putin, he noted, is “looking to relieve Russia’s growing dependence on China,” which has left him in “not a very comfortable position.”

In taking the White House’s top national security job, Mr. Sullivan will be the youngest person to hold that position since the Eisenhower administration. Mr. Sullivan made his name in the Obama administration, finding admirers even among conservative Republicans in Congress while playing a key role in the negotiations leading to the Iran nuclear deal in 2015.

A Minnesota native and Yale Law School graduate, Mr. Sullivan in recent months has helped spearhead a project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace re-conceiving U.S. foreign policy around the needs of the American middle class.

In recent years, Mr. Sullivan has taught at Yale Law School and Dartmouth, and moved to New Hampshire with his wife, Margaret Goodlander. Ms. Goodlander was an aide to Senator John McCain, and then a law clerk to Judge Merrick B. Garland and Justice Stephen G. Breyer.

Mr. Blinken, described by some as a centrist with a streak of interventionism, has also sought to lessen refugee crises and migration. On the last day of the Obama administration, the State Department set a cap of 110,000 refugees who would be allowed to resettle in the United States in the 2017 fiscal year. That number has since dwindled to 15,000 in the 2021 fiscal year.

He has said he will look to further assist Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador — the Northern Triangle countries of Central America — to persuade migrants that they will be safer and better off remaining home.

That is all likely to leave less time and resources for the Middle East, Mr. Blinken has said, although that was the policy area that consumed him in the years after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the invasion of Iraq in 2003.

He helped craft Mr. Biden’s proposal in the Senate to create three autonomous regions in Iraq, partitioned by ethnic or sectarian identity, which was widely rejected, including by the country’s prime minister at the time. During the Obama administration, Mr. Blinken was a key player in diplomatic efforts to harness more than 60 countries to counter the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.

In contrast to some of his pricklier colleagues in the Obama administration, Mr. Blinken chatted with journalists in Baghdad in 2012 for insights beyond what soldiers, diplomats and intelligence officers hemmed inside the embassy compound could provide.

Before taking a job at the State Department’s bureau for European policy in 1993, Mr. Blinken had aspired to be a journalist or film producer. He honed his media skills by becoming a foreign policy speechwriter for President Bill Clinton and later oversaw European and Canadian policy on the White House National Security Council.

Mr. Blinken also has a lighter side that may not be immediately evident when he is seen testifying or meeting foreign diplomats. He plays in a band. He has a tight group of close friends from his days as a student at Harvard and his rise through the Washington foreign policy firmament.

And he is a new father: He and his wife have two very young children at home, and he will be the first secretary of state in modern times to be raising toddlers while serving in office.

Mr. Blinken grew up in New York and in Paris, graduating from Harvard and Columbia Law School. The son of an ambassador to Hungary during the Clinton administration and the stepson of a Holocaust survivor, Mr. Blinken has often spoken of the moral example the United States sets for the rest of the world.

“In times of crisis or calamity, it is the United States that the world turns to first and always,” Mr. Blinken said at a speech at the Center for a New American Security in 2015.

“We are not the leader of first choice because we’re always right, or because we’re universally liked, or because we can dictate outcomes,” he said. “It’s because we strive to the best of our ability to align our actions with our principles, and because American leadership has a unique ability to mobilize others and to make a difference.”





No.3 article:
How Trump Hopes to Use Party Machinery to Retain Control of the G.O.P.

Ronna McDaniel, a close ally of President Trump, wants to remain head of the Republican National Committee, worrying party members who believe the president will try to use the group to keep control of the G.O.P.

As President Trump brazenly seeks to delay the certification of the election in hopes of overturning his defeat, he is also mounting a less high-profile but similarly audacious bid to keep control of the Republican National Committee even after he leaves office.

Ronna McDaniel, Mr. Trump’s handpicked chairwoman, has secured the president’s support for her re-election to another term in January, when the party is expected to gather for its winter meeting. But her intention to run with Mr. Trump’s blessing has incited a behind-the-scenes proxy battle, dividing Republicans between those who believe the national party should not be a political subsidiary of the outgoing president and others happy for Mr. Trump to remain in control of it.

While many Republicans are hesitant to openly criticize their president at a moment when he is refusing to admit he has lost, the debate crystallizes the larger question about the party’s identity and whether it will operate as a vessel for Mr. Trump’s ambitions to run again in four years.

Mr. Trump will have no political infrastructure once he leaves office except for a political action committee he recently formed, and absent a formal campaign, he is hoping to lean on the R.N.C. to effectively give him one, people familiar with his thinking said.

The continuing influence of Mr. Trump could also have implications for some of the national committee’s most critical assets: Its voter data and donors lists contain thousands of names of contributors and detailed information about supporters. The voter data in particular is a focus of attention, after distrust arose between the committee and the Trump campaign over the data’s use in the final months of the campaign.

While the committee and the Trump campaign are in the process of untangling joint agreements over access to that information, Mr. Trump sees control of the lists that he helped build over the past four years as a way to keep a grip on power — and to neutralize potential challengers for supremacy over the party, according to Republicans close to the White House.This power play is alarming a number of R.N.C. members, party strategists and former committee aides, who are highly uneasy about ceding control of the committee to a potential candidate in 2024, a step that they fear would shatter the party’s longstanding commitment to neutrality in nominating contests.“Trump always wants to use other people’s money,” said former Representative Barbara Comstock, a Northern Virginia Republican who lost her re-election in 2018 thanks to the suburban anti-Trump wave that also felled the president this month. The R.N.C., the Trump campaign and related committees raised more than $1 billion this cycle.

Ms. Comstock — while allowing that “nobody dislikes Ronna” — said the committee should not be a piggy bank for the president’s political endeavors.

Traditionally, the chairs of the national committees of both parties have relinquished control when the other party takes the White House. Yet as with so many other aspects of his presidency, Mr. Trump has little regard for precedent. And many of his lieutenants, particularly those eyeing their own political future, are happy to defend him.

But what is troubling to some Republicans is the risk that Mr. Trump will try to bend the national party to his will by exacting retribution on those lawmakers who have not pledged total fealty to him.

In recent days, the president has railed against two Republican governors, Brian Kemp of Georgia and Mike DeWine of Ohio, who are on the ballot in 2022 and who have declined to aid his bid to effectively steal the election.

One of the president’s most vocal allies, Representative Jim Jordan, is already musing about challenging Mr. DeWine in 2022, according to the Plain Dealer of Cleveland.

Eager to sidestep a spat with the outgoing president, Mr. DeWine said in a telephone interview on Saturday that he had enjoyed “a good relationship” with Mr. Trump. The governor betrayed no concern about his political future, and noted that the president had angrily tweeted at him to float the idea of a primary challenge, but had not directly contacted him to express concern.

“Look, I’m running for re-election, and I’m confident I’ll be renominated,” Mr. DeWine said.

The dismay among Republicans that Mr. Trump is trying to seize control of the party machinery has prompted Ms. McDaniel to try to reassure both camps, the Trump die-hards and those Republicans who want the committee to remain independent.

Jonathan Barnett, the Arkansas Republican chair, emphasized that the party “supports our president,” but that it was imperative the R.N.C. not be seen as an arm of any would-be White House contender, even a former occupant of the Oval Office, particularly as events like presidential primary debates begin. “If we’re not fair, what about the other candidates who want to run for president?” he said.

Henry Barbour, the Republican committeeman from Mississippi and an influential voice in the party, said that “it’s critical for the R.N.C. to be independent,” and that this “should always be the case.”

In a statement, Ms. McDaniel sought to assuage some of the concerns, stating: “The 168 R.N.C. members choose who will lead the R.N.C. I hope to win their support, and that is the most important endorsement.”

A committee spokesman, Mike Reed, said that Ms. McDaniel and the committee had always followed bylaws not to endorse candidates in Republican primaries. “That policy to remain completely neutral in primaries will continue as long as she is chair,” Mr. Reed said.

Senior Republican officials close to Ms. McDaniel said they were already seeking new arrangements between the R.N.C. and the Trump campaign over the donor and data lists, which would provide Mr. Trump with copies of certain lists but also leave them available to other candidates through the committee. Beyond that, these Republicans said, there are limits to how influential the R.N.C. can be in party primaries.

Ms. McDaniel, a Michigan native, has a gilded political pedigree: She is the niece of Senator Mitt Romney of Utah and the granddaughter of George Romney, a three-term Michigan governor. She earned Mr. Trump’s trust in part by urging him to make trips to her home state during the 2016 campaign, which he credits with helping him win there.

She has told people she does not intend to seek another term after 2022, one person briefed on the discussions said, a move that could ensure her exit before the 2024 presidential cycle gets underway in earnest.

So far nobody has emerged to challenge Ms. McDaniel, but some influential Republicans are trying to stir support for Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado, who has just lost his re-election bid and is well-liked among pro-Trump and Trump-skeptical Republicans alike in Washington. Mr. Gardner did not respond to two emails inquiring whether he had any interest in the chairmanship.

The current and former committee members who may prove most formidable have told associates they will not run. That includes Mr. Barbour — whose uncle, former Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, took over the party after Republicans lost the presidency in 1992 — and Reince Priebus, Mr. Trump’s first chief of staff and a former R.N.C. chairman.

Some party operatives are working behind the scenes to nudge former committee members into the race, with the idea being that once an alternative, even a long shot, enters, it will be easier for others to join.

Any challenger against Ms. McDaniel, particularly one who does not emerge from the ranks of the committee, would start as the underdog. And not just because of her ties to Mr. Trump.

She enjoys a reservoir of good will, thanks to the party’s robust spending, support for the state parties and the success Republicans enjoyed in down-ballot races earlier this month. When she revealed her plans to run again on a recent conference call, a handful of committee members responded with encouraging words and nobody aired a note of dissent, according to a committee member on the call.

A number of state chairs said in interviews that they had already committed to her and her co-chair, Tommy Hicks Jr., who is close to the president’s elder son.

“I believe that she’s done an incredible job both in fund-raising and bringing energy to the party members,” said Jane Brady, the chairwoman of the Delaware Republican Party.

Notably, Mr. Trump has gained even more influence over the committee in the past two years because two of the president’s top campaign aides, Bill Stepien and Justin Clark, worked to install Trump supporters in state-level party posts; it was part of a pre-emptive effort in 2019 to head off the risk of a primary challenge this year.

“At the end of the day, this is the president’s party and this will continue to be the president’s party,” said State Senator Joe Gruters, the chairman of the Republican Party of Florida. “He will have an oversized role no matter what happens.”

Mr. Barnett, of Arkansas, said he had relayed his concerns to Ms. McDaniel about the committee not seeming to favor any one potential 2024 contender and had the impression that “she probably agrees with me.”

Ms. McDaniel was more clear about her commitment to independence with four other Republicans, some committee members and some not, according to each of the Republicans, who requested anonymity to discuss private conversations.

She assured them that she, and not Mr. Trump and his family, would control the party’s finances and that she would resist any pressure the Trumps put on her to mobilize the party against incumbent Republicans who are not pro-Trump. Most strikingly, she told one party leader that if the committee does not rally to her, she will be succeeded by somebody even closer to the president, such as Donald Trump Jr. or his girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle.

“If you have a suburban woman problem, Don is not your answer — nor is Kimberly,” said Ms. Comstock, the former Virginia congresswoman.

Aides to the president’s son and Ms. Guilfoyle have said they are not interested in the job. Some senior Republicans said another Trump ally, David Bossie, is being mentioned as a co-chair.

This “alternative-would-be-worse” theory, along with a deeper apathy about the national party, has prompted a number of Republican lawmakers and strategists to make peace with Ms. McDaniel’s serving another term. Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, and Representative Leader Kevin McCarthy, the minority leader, have both endorsed her re-election in recent days.

Mike DuHaime, an R.N.C. political director during George W. Bush’s presidency, said he understood why Mr. Trump would want to retain possession of the party apparatus.

“It has the potential for great value in terms of a platform, fund-raising and relationship building,” Mr. DuHaime said. “However I’ve never seen a former president try to maintain that control, so I’ll have to research the post-presidency actions of Grover Cleveland to see how he did it.”





No.4 article:
Bill Gates, the Virus and the Quest to Vaccinate the World

The head of one of the world’s largest vaccine manufacturers had a problem. Adar Poonawalla, chief executive of the Serum Institute of India, needed $850 million for everything from glass vials to stainless steel vats so he could begin producing doses of promising coronavirus vaccines for the world’s poor.

Mr. Poonawalla calculated that he could risk $300 million of his company’s money but would still be more than a half-billion dollars short. So he looked to a retired software executive in Seattle.

Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder turned philanthropist, had known Mr. Poonawalla for years. Mr. Gates had spent billions to help bring vaccines to the developing world, working closely with pharmaceutical executives to transform the market. In doing so, he became the most powerful — and provocative — private player in global health.

By the end of their conversation this summer, Mr. Gates had made a promise: The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation would provide a $150 million guarantee so the Indian factory could move ahead with production. By September, the foundation had doubled its commitment.

It is part of an $11 billion effort to lay the groundwork to procure coronavirus vaccines for more than 150 countries, though it could eventually cost far more when the doses come through. Funded largely with public money, the initiative is led by two global nonprofits that Mr. Gates helped launch and bankroll, along with the World Health Organization, which relies on the Gates Foundation as one of its largest donors.

Working behind the scenes is one of the world’s richest men, neither a scientist nor a doctor, who sees himself and his $50 billion foundation as uniquely prepared to take a central part. Mr. Gates and his team are drawing on connections and infrastructure the foundation has built over two decades to help guide the effort.

“We know how to work with governments, we know how to work with pharma, we’ve thought about this scenario,” Mr. Gates said in a recent interview. “We need — at least in terms of expertise and relationships — to play a very, very key role here.”

As the first vaccine candidates sprint toward regulatory approval, the question of how to immunize much of the world population has taken on added urgency. But nine months in, the success of the vaccine effort, known as Covax, is not at all certain.

So far, it has pulled in only $3.6 billion in funding for research, manufacturing and subsidies for poor countries. AstraZeneca, one of three companies that have promised to deliver vaccines for the initiative, just announced impressive results. It is not yet known whether the other two will be effective. And it may be difficult to secure the necessary billions of doses in an affordable, timely way because the United States and other wealthy countries have cut separate deals for their citizens.

In recent months, Mr. Gates, who emphasizes that he is one of many involved in the vaccine effort, has hosted online round tables with drug company officials. He has pursued financial commitments from world leaders: In one week alone, he and his wife and co-chair, Melinda Gates, spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, President Ursula von der Leyen of the European Commission and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed of Abu Dhabi.

In Washington, he has consulted frequently with Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s chief infectious disease expert and a longtime collaborator on vaccine initiatives, and talked to Senator Mitch McConnell, a polio survivor who has been supportive of programs to eradicate that and other scourges. And to help staff the vaccine effort, his foundation has provided millions of dollars for McKinsey &amp; Company consultants.

“Some people will say, ‘Why should it be him?’” said Dr. Ariel Pablos-Méndez, former director of knowledge management at the W.H.O. “He has the star power. He has the resources. He cares. There are many players that do things, but not at the scale of Gates.”

If the initiative, aided by Mr. Gates’s fortune and focus, manages to help protect the world’s poor from a virus that has already killed more than 1.3 million people, it will affirm the strategies he has promoted in his philanthropic work, including incentives for drug companies.

If the endeavor falls short, however, it could intensify calls for a more radical approach.

Amid the pandemic, some public health officials and advocates argue that vaccine makers, many of which have benefited from unprecedented public funding, should be compelled to share their technology, data and know-how to maximize production. India and South Africa, for example, are pushing to suspend the global enforcement of intellectual property rights involving the virus.

Dr. Zweli Lawrence Mkhize, South Africa’s health minister, said that the usual practices did not apply in this crisis. “There has to be a degree of broader consultation that looks at what is best for humanity,” he said in an interview.

In the current plan for a global vaccine deal, poor countries would receive only enough doses to inoculate 20 percent of their populations by the end of next year. Some models show that there will not be enough vaccines to cover the entire world until 2024.

“The consequence of longtime Gates strategies is that they go along with corporate control over supply,” said Brook Baker, a Northeastern University law professor and policy analyst for Health GAP, which advocates equitable access to drugs. “In a pandemic, that is a real problem.”

Meanwhile, officials from some countries participating in the vaccine initiative complain that they were barely consulted until recently. “They are pushing us, cornering us, in order to make us pay,” Juan Carlos Zevallos, Ecuador’s health minister, said of the dealmakers. “We don’t have a choice about which vaccine we would like to use. It is whatever they impose on us.”

As Mr. Gates has made public appearances to win support for the initiative, he has increasingly become the target of conspiracy theories that could undermine vaccination efforts.

Some falsely claim that his foundation tested vaccines that killed thousands of children in Africa and India, while others link him to bogus depopulation efforts. One poll from May found 44 percent of Republicans believed that the global immunization effort was a cover for Mr. Gates to implant microchips to track people. That claim is baseless.

Mr. Gates remains undaunted. “I’ve never heard either Bill or Melinda say anything to the effect of ‘We’ll just work on something else, this is too tough,’” said the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who entrusted the Gates Foundation with $31 billion of his own fortune to give away. “The job is to work on tough problems.”

As a novel coronavirus linked to a live animal market began spreading rapidly in Wuhan, China, Mr. Gates watched from his office outside Seattle.

On Feb. 14, he and leaders at his foundation, fearing a global threat, gathered to plan a response. From that point on, Mr. Gates recalled, “we’re on Code Red.”

Two weeks later, Dr. Seth Berkley — chief executive of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, a nonprofit the Gates philanthropy helped found — flew to Seattle. Over breakfast, he and Mr. Gates considered how to get Covid-19 vaccines to the developing world. On March 13, two days after the W.H.O. declared a global pandemic, Mr. Gates conferred online with 12 top pharmaceutical executives, including the heads of Pfizer and Johnson &amp; Johnson, which both have leading vaccine candidates.

He felt prepared for this moment, having built up global institutions and given away $55 billion to date, four times the influential Ford Foundation’s endowment.

Mr. Gates became interested in immunizations in the late 1990s, when Microsoft was facing an antitrust case that cast him as a modern-day robber baron. Vaccines involved creating new technology, his specialty. Their impact was measurable — inexpensive doses could protect hundreds of millions against devastating disease. They were also about making deals.

Many Western drug companies had stopped producing vaccines back then, finding them unprofitable. But through his giving, Mr. Gates helped create a new business model involving subsidies, advance market commitments and volume guarantees. The incentives drew in more manufacturers, including ones from the developing world, resulting in many more lifesaving vaccinations.

He brought a “technocratic expertise and power rather than a discourse of human rights and activism,” said Manjari Mahajan, an associate professor of international affairs at the New School who has written about Mr. Gates’s role in public health.

His foundation has spent more than $16 billion on vaccine programs, a quarter of that going to Gavi, and given $2.25 billion to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Both organizations are based in Geneva, where the W.H.O. has its headquarters.

With a $100 million initial pledge, Mr. Gates helped create the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, in Oslo, to invest in drugs and experimental vaccines. (The coalition and Gavi are leading the coronavirus vaccine effort with the W.H.O.)

The foundation, which has about 1,600 employees, also funded academic researchers, installed its executives on the boards of multiple nonprofits and directly invested in drug companies.

One of them was the German company BioNTech, which got a $55 million equity investment in September 2019. The business, partnering with Pfizer, announced last week that their jointly developed Covid-19 vaccine appeared to be 95 percent effective, and applied to the Food and Drug Administration for emergency authorization.

Some public health officials disagreed with Mr. Gates’s priorities, arguing that he should have directed more money to health systems. Others worried about a private individual wielding so much influence. But few people publicly criticized his foundation, fearful of losing its support. That self-censorship was so widespread it acquired a nickname: “the Bill Chill.”

At times, frictions were evident with the W.H.O., the United Nations agency charged with international public health. Mr. Gates felt frustrated with what he viewed as the organization’s rigid bureaucracy and constraints on dealing with the private sector.

Some at the W.H.O. had concerns about his growing reach. The malaria division chief complained in a 2007 memo that the foundation’s growing dominance of malaria research was stifling a diversity of viewpoints among scientists and undercutting the agency. The same year, the foundation began building up an institute that rivaled the W.H.O.’s role in health metrics.

“The Gates Foundation presence has been, at best, an adjunct to W.H.O. and at worst a hostile takeover and a usurpation,” said Amir Attaran, a University of Ottawa professor of law and medicine.

Today, the foundation and the W.H.O. stress their mutual respect for each other. Publicly, Mr. Gates has made a point of praising the agency. “I can’t think of anything that we disagree with them,” he said in the interview.

Officials from the agency — which receives hundreds of millions of dollars annually from the foundation, its second-largest donor — said Mr. Gates had helped it become more efficient. “Gates pushes the science, pushes for the answers, because that’s a little bit of that private-sector mentality,” said Dr. Bruce Aylward, senior adviser to the W.H.O.’s director general.

As the coronavirus vaccine effort got underway, it was folded into a broader mission, coordinated by the W.H.O., to also provide Covid-19 diagnostic tests and therapies to the developing world. The agency wanted to take more of a leadership role in the vaccine deal making, but the Gates Foundation and global nonprofits said they worried that drugmakers would not cooperate. They worked to focus the agency’s role on regulating products and advising countries on distributing them, among other responsibilities.

“We’re always talking with W.H.O.,” Mr. Gates said. “But a lot of the work here to stop this epidemic has to do with innovation in diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines, which isn’t really their bailiwick.”

Farah Dakhlallah, a W.H.O. spokeswoman, said that the organization had an “unmatched” ability to coordinate a global health response, and that the initiative leveraged “the comparative advantages” of its partners in the fight against Covid-19.

In March, Mr. Gates was urging drugmakers to move fast, cooperate with one another, open up their libraries of drug compounds and even share production responsibilities.

“The first set of meetings, it was: ‘How are we going to find an active drug? How are we going to kick off vaccine development quickly? How are we going to shift manufacturing capacity?’” recalled Vasant Narasimhan, the chief executive of Novartis.

The Gates Foundation employs former pharmaceutical executives in its top ranks, including Dr. Trevor Mundel, who had been global head of development at Novartis, and Emilio Emini, previously a senior vice president of vaccine research at Pfizer. Working with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, they helped steer money into Covid-19 vaccine candidates and biotechnologies that could be quickly manufactured and suitable for the developing world.

Oxford University said it would offer “nonexclusive, royalty-free licenses” of its work to manufacturers. But as it developed one of the most promising vaccine candidates, the university debated whether it was equipped to conduct clinical trials and transfer its technology to manufacturers around the world.

Sir John Bell, who leads the development of Oxford’s health research strategies and chairs the Gates Foundation’s scientific advisory committee, reached out to Dr. Mundel. The advice was direct: “We told Oxford, ‘Hey, you’ve got to find a partner who knows how to run trials,’” Mr. Gates said.

Oxford chose the British-Swedish drugmaker AstraZeneca. The Serum Institute of India, after getting the financial commitment from Mr. Gates, agreed in the summer to start producing the vaccine.

All the while, the United States and other countries were striking their own deals with vaccine makers, even before they got regulatory approval. There was some overlap between the global initiative and the American effort, called Operation Warp Speed. AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sanofi made commitments to both.

Mr. Gates was quick to praise the U.S. government’s enormous investment in expediting coronavirus vaccines, saying it would benefit everyone. But the more that countries locked down bilateral deals, the longer the rest of the world would have to wait for doses.

Mr. Gates had valuable insights from Dr. Fauci, who leads the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. More than a decade ago, the billionaire had invited Dr. Fauci to his home to join a discussion about tuberculosis. Since then, they have coordinated efforts aimed at fighting not just that disease but also malaria, polio and AIDS.

The two men spoke every few weeks. Dr. Fauci wanted to know how vaccine trials in foreign countries were playing out. Mr. Gates was interested in how the U.S. regulatory process was going and whether vaccines the American government was purchasing would be suited for poor countries. The Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine, for instance, requires two doses and ultracold storage, obstacles in many places.

“He wanted to make sure, which is the classic Bill Gates, that as we do the vaccines, that it’s the kind of vaccine that could be used in the developing world,” Dr. Fauci said in an interview.

During the pandemic, Latin America has suffered a third of the world’s deaths. Africa has now passed two million cases. Quarantines and trade shutdowns have hit poor countries especially hard, where not working often means not eating.

Some public health advocates and on-the-ground providers like Doctors Without Borders thought Mr. Gates was doing too little to pursue equitable access to vaccines and was too aligned with the pharmaceutical industry.

“Part of what they like about him is he’s protecting their way of life,” James Love, director of Knowledge Ecology International, a nonprofit that works to expand access to medical technology, said of Mr. Gates and drug industry executives. “Because this message is always, ‘Big Pharma is awesome.’”

He and others believed that vaccine makers would not maximize production for the developing world, especially when rich countries were clamoring for doses, because it wouldn’t serve their bottom line. India and South Africa, in asking the World Trade Organization not to enforce coronavirus-related intellectual property rights, were seeking a way to wrest control of vaccines from big companies and ramp up local manufacturing. Kenya, Mozambique, Pakistan and Eswatini (formerly Swaziland) recently signed on as co-sponsors to the request, with dozens of other countries expressing support.

But Mr. Gates and many public health experts thought that most companies were taking laudable steps to help ensure access, such as nonprofit pricing and licensing of their technology to other manufacturers. They argued that drugmakers wouldn’t take on the costly process of creating new products if their lucrative patents were jeopardized and that their control over their vaccines would ensure quality and safety.

“This capitalism thing — there actually are some domains that actually works in,” Mr. Gates said. “North Korea doesn’t have that many vaccines, as far as we can tell.”

It was May 4, and Mr. and Mrs. Gates were on a video call with Boris Johnson. They congratulated the British prime minister on the birth of his son, and asked about the Covid-19 case that had sent him to the hospital.

Then they made their pitch: The world would never be safe from the virus, and the global economy would never recover, unless poor countries received vaccines and treatments, too.

Mr. Gates had a long record of getting rich countries to provide funding for public health initiatives in poorer countries. From Ms. Merkel to Mr. McConnell, politicians saw him as a steward of public dollars with a nose for good investments.

“He has immediate access to us because of his fame and reputation and what he’s doing with his own money,” Mr. McConnell, the Senate majority leader, said in an interview. “In many of these countries, he’s way more effective than the government is, and that’s certainly value added for public health all over the world.”

Significant donations came from Britain, the European Union and elsewhere. China pledged its cooperation last month. But Mr. Gates made no headway with his home country.

He had asked the Trump administration and Congress for $8 billion, half for the global vaccine effort and half for therapeutics and diagnostics in poor countries. In private calls, Mr. Gates, who had forged ties with leaders of both parties but remained nonpartisan over the years, made his case to Vice President Mike Pence, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and others.

He put himself in the public eye more than ever before, often appearing in a pastel sweater that drew comparisons to Mister Rogers, and repeating in interviews that the pandemic required an international response. “He’s made a choice to become very public, very political, where he’s acting like a lobbyist,” said Lawrence Gostin, professor of global health law at Georgetown.

But Mr. Trump had no intention of joining a global response. That became clear in July, when he withdrew the United States from the W.H.O., which it had provided with more than $400 million in annual contributions.

“People aren’t used to not having the U.S. step forward,” Mr. Gates said. On the global vaccine effort, he acknowledged, the nation has been “a no-show.” President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. may well take a different position, having vowed to rejoin the W.H.O.

Leaders of wealthy countries were asked not only to help fund the initiative — which was supporting development of nine potential vaccines — but also to buy doses for their own populations. Among the nine was a version from Moderna, which recently announced impressive clinical trial results. As the deal makers framed it, even nations that already had commitments from vaccine makers would benefit by diversifying.

Companies either would charge all countries the same price or set tiered prices for low-, middle- and high-income nations; any could bow out if the price exceeded $21 per dose. Poor countries could get cheap, subsidized doses for up to 20 percent of their populations by the end of next year, but the wealthier nations could sign up for more.

Clemens Martin Auer, a chief negotiator for the European Union, balked, believing that the global vaccine deal was moving too slowly, that prices would be too high and that Europe could do better negotiating on its own.

“I think the Gates Foundation has in many respects a very practical approach when they say this has to be done in a private-public business partnership,” he said. “But I sometimes have my impression that the Gates Foundation doesn’t understand how well-organized governments work.”

With so much attention on wealthy nations, there was little consultation with those the effort was intended to help most. It wasn’t until the fall that lower-income countries learned they would have to pay $1.60 or $2 per dose, a significant price that would require some to secure bank loans or grants.

“It’s going to be subsidized, yes, but countries still have to budget for their co-pay amount,” said Chizoba Barbara Wonodi, the Nigeria director at the Johns Hopkins International Vaccine Access Center. “So they need to be at the table when those discussions are made.”

Some middle-income countries have also felt squeezed, asked to pay prices in a higher tier with little say as to what they would get or when they would get it.

Mr. Zevallos, the Ecuadorean health minister, said he had spoken with fellow ministers in the region about raising concerns through their presidents. “They say, ‘You don’t get to choose, but you pay,’” Mr. Zevallos said. “I’m disappointed.”

Dr. Berkley, the Gavi director, acknowledged the frustration. “Did we communicate with everybody as well as we should? Absolutely not,” he said. “Were we able to convene everybody as often as we could? Absolutely not. But we did our best to try to do that.”

At the same time, Dr. Berkley said: “Have we brought together the entire world to discuss equitable access to vaccines? Have we raised substantial amounts of funds? All of that is true.”

A growing number of countries have committed to the endeavor; in addition to AstraZeneca, the other two drugmakers that have signed on are advancing through trials and the Gates Foundation is also funding a portfolio of second-wave vaccines targeted at the developing world. There is enough money to start buying doses once they are approved, Dr. Berkley and others said, and they hope to pull together the billions more needed to meet their goals.

With coronavirus cases multiplying worldwide, Mr. Gates said there would be one simple way to judge the global vaccine initiative. “When did we stop the pandemic?”

“That’s the thing this all needs to be measured by,” he said.





No.5 article:
Transporting You Far Away

How we use non-English tape to take you to new places. Plus, our recommendations for your upcoming holiday weekend.

Hey, hey everybody. Happy Friday! We hope you’re getting some time off next week, wherever you are. Because the newsletter will be off next week, we wanted to make sure we loaded this week’s edition with our ideas of things to do (and cook!) over the Thanksgiving holiday.

Before we get into that, here’s a quick recap of what we covered this week on The Daily:

On Monday, we asked Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Conor Lamb of Pennsylvania about the future of the Democratic Party. On Tuesday, we examined why Europe is flattening the curve (and the United States isn’t). On Wednesday, we explored the rise, fall and resurrection of the Taliban through our reporter, Mujib Mashal, who spent much of his life living under their rule. On Thursday, we looked at the pandemic’s impact on the economy through seven key statistics. And today, we charted one woman’s personal journey navigating the pandemic in Wisconsin.

If you’re looking for a break from the news, be sure to check out this week’s episode of Modern Love. 

Also, as we near the end of 2020, we are hoping to create a tribute to our year in sound — and we’d love for you to be a part of it. We want to know: What did 2020 sound like for you? Whether it was the sound of kids on your Zoom calls, the way masks muffled voices or the quiet of streets that were once loud, we want to hear what the world around you sounded like. Please fill out this form and we may reach out to you.

This week on The Daily, you may have heard some words in French, German and Pashto spliced into our shows.

In our episodes on Tuesday and Wednesday, we used non-English tape to help us tell stories about the coronavirus in the European Union as well as the Taliban in Afghanistan. Michael Barbaro has explained how The Daily approaches using tape: to offer color from a scene, as a storytelling sidekick or to “transport listeners to a time or place.”

And to accomplish the latter, we think it’s often essential to let non-English tape live on its own. “I think there’s something really important and powerful in hearing someone in their own language, even if you don’t understand it,” our producer Clare Toeniskoetter said. Daniel Guillemette, another producer, added, “I always want to leave as much as possible in the clear so you can feel the person through their voice, the emotion that’s present, the texture of it.”

If we need to explain what is said in the tape, we usually rely on our reporters, who spend much of their time perfecting the translation of emotionally rich material. “Reporting on the E.U. is a polyglot’s adventure,” Matina Stevis-Gridneff, our Brussels correspondent and guest on Tuesday’s show, said. While Matina speaks multiple European languages, she often partners with professional translators (or a bilingual taxi driver) to navigate her reporting in the Union’s 24 official languages.

Still, creating an episode with tape gathered in far-flung places requires close collaboration between reporters and producers — attentive listening for the sounds that need no translation. Stella Tan, a producer for our episode on the Taliban, describes this balance below:

Talk to Stella on Twitter @stellatan.

The Daily newsletter will be off next week for Thanksgiving break, so we asked our team to share what they’re looking forward to doing over the holiday. (Basically everyone will be binging “The Queen’s Gambit” and the new season of “The Crown.”) We hope the ideas below will be a boon for a week that will probably look different than it did in years prior. 

Here’s what Mike Benoist, an editor behind The Sunday Read, has been watching and listening to: “I ripped through “Truth Seekers” on Amazon. It was so purely escapist and well made. And in a world where everything seems so pressing and heavy, it didn’t take itself too seriously.” Mike said he’s also been on a “Gillian Welch and David Rawlings bender” since our Sunday Read about the duo, written by Hanif Abdurraqib, aired. “Her voice is a balm. And her songs … well, Hanif writes about them much more eloquently than I ever could.”

Kelly Prime, a producer, plans to spend Thanksgiving with a scary story and mango pies: “I’ve been reading ‘Leave the World Behind,’ by Rumaan Alam. It’s about a family from Brooklyn that arrives for vacation at an Airbnb in the countryside, and suddenly a mysterious couple shows up in the night claiming that something is very wrong in New York City — and quite possibly, the world. It’s weirdly soothing to feel so much tension about an imaginary disaster as it distracts from our actual real life one. I also plan on baking as many mango pies as I can.”

Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.

Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.

Love podcasts? Join The New York Times Podcast Club on Facebook.





No.6 article:
Now the U.S. Has Lots of Ventilators, but Too Few Specialists to Operate Them

A burst of production solved the dire shortage that defined the first wave of the coronavirus. But the surplus may not be enough to prevent large numbers of deaths.

As record numbers of coronavirus cases overwhelm hospitals across the United States, there is something strikingly different from the surge that inundated cities in the spring: No one is clamoring for ventilators.

The sophisticated breathing machines, used to sustain the most critically ill patients, are far more plentiful than they were eight months ago, when New York, New Jersey and other hard-hit states were desperate to obtain more of the devices, and hospitals were reviewing triage protocols for rationing care. Now, many hot spots face a different problem: They have enough ventilators,  but not nearly enough respiratory therapists, pulmonologists and critical care doctors who have the training to operate the machines and provide round-the-clock care for patients who cannot breathe on their own.

Since the spring, American medical device makers have radically ramped up the country’s ventilator capacity by producing more than 200,000 critical care ventilators, with 155,000 of them going to the Strategic National Stockpile. At the same time, doctors have figured out other ways to deliver oxygen to some patients struggling to breathe — including using inexpensive sleep apnea machines or simple nasal cannulas that force air into the lungs through plastic tubes.

But with new cases approaching 200,000 per day and a flood of patients straining hospitals across the country, public health experts warn that the ample supply of available ventilators may not be enough to save many critically ill patients.

“We’re now at a dangerous precipice,” said Dr. Lewis Kaplan, president of the Society of Critical Care Medicine. Ventilators, he said, are exceptionally complex machines that require expertise and constant monitoring for the weeks or even months that patients are tethered to them. The explosion of cases in rural parts of Idaho, Ohio, South Dakota and other states has prompted local hospitals that lack such experts on staff to send patients to cities and regional medical centers, but those intensive care beds are quickly filling up.

Public health experts have long warned about a shortage of critical care doctors, known as intensivists, a specialty that generally requires an additional two years of medical training. There are 37,400 intensivists in the United States, according to the American Hospital Association, but nearly half of the country’s acute care hospitals do not have any on staff, and many of those hospitals are in rural areas increasingly overwhelmed by the coronavirus.

“We can’t manufacture doctors and nurses in the same way we can manufacture ventilators,” said Dr. Eric Toner, an emergency room doctor and senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. “And you can’t teach someone overnight the right settings and buttons to push on a ventilator for patients who have a disease they’ve never seen before. The most realistic thing we can do in the short run is to reduce the impact on hospitals, and that means wearing masks and avoiding crowded spaces so we can flatten the curve of new infections.”

Medical association message boards in states like Iowa, Oklahoma and North Dakota are awash in desperate calls for intensivists and respiratory therapists willing to temporarily relocate and help out. When New York City and hospitals in the Northeast issued a similar call for help this past spring, specialists from the South and the Midwest rushed there. But because cases are now surging nationwide, hospital officials say that most of their pleas for help are going unanswered.

Dr. Thomas E. Dobbs, the top health official in Mississippi, said that more than half the state’s 1,048 ventilators were still available, but that he was more concerned with having enough staff members to take care of the sickest patients.

“If we want to make sure that someone who’s hospitalized in the I.C.U. with the coronavirus has the best chance to get well, they need to have highly trained personnel, and that cannot be flexed up rapidly,” he said in a news briefing on Tuesday.

Dr. Matthew Trump, a critical care specialist at UnityPoint Health in Des Moines, said that the health chain’s 21 hospitals had an adequate supply of ventilators for now, but that out-of-state staff reinforcements might be unlikely to materialize as colleagues fall ill and the hospital’s I.C.U. beds reach capacity.

“People here are exhausted and burned out from the past few months,” he said. “I’m really concerned.”

The domestic boom in ventilator production has been a rare bright spot in the country’s pandemic response, which has been marred by shortages of personal protective equipment, haphazard testing efforts and President Trump’s mixed messaging on the importance of masks, social distancing and other measures that can dent the spread of new infections.

Although the White House has sought to take credit for the increase in new ventilators, medical device executives say the accelerated production was largely a market-driven response turbocharged by the national sense of crisis. Mr. Trump invoked the wartime Defense Production Act in late March, but federal health officials have relied on government contracts rather than their authority under the act to compel companies to increase the production of ventilators.

Scott Whitaker, president of AdvaMed, a trade association that represents many of the country’s ventilator manufacturers, said the grave situation had prompted a “historic mobilization” by the industry. “We’re confident that our companies are well positioned to mobilize as needed to meet demand,” he said in an email.

Public health officials in Minnesota, Mississippi, Utah and other states with some of the highest per capita rates of infection and hospitalization have said they are comfortable with the number of ventilators currently in their hospitals and their stockpiles.

Mr. Whitaker said AdvaMed’s member companies were making roughly 700 ventilators a week before the pandemic; by the summer, weekly output had reached 10,000. The juggernaut was in part fueled by unconventional partnerships between ventilator companies and auto giants like Ford and General Motors.

Chris Brooks, chief strategy officer at Ventec Life Systems, which collaborated with G.M. to fill a $490 million contract for the Department of Health and Human Services, said the shared sense of urgency enabled both companies to overcome a thicket of supply-chain and logistical challenges to produce 30,000 ventilators over four months at an idled car parts plant in Indiana. Before the pandemic, Ventec’s average monthly output was 100 to 200 machines.

“When you’re focused with one team and one mission, you get things done in hours that would otherwise take months,” he said. “You just find a way to push through any and all obstacles.”

Despite an overall increase in the number of ventilators, some researchers say many of the new machines may be inadequate for the current crisis. Dr. Richard Branson, an expert on mechanical ventilation at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine and an author of a recent study in the journal Chest, said that half of the new devices acquired by the Strategic National Stockpile were not sophisticated enough for Covid-19 patients in severe respiratory distress. He also expressed concern about the long-term viability of machines that require frequent maintenance.

“These devices were not built to be stockpiled,” he said.

The Department of Health and Human Services, which has acknowledged the limitations of its newly acquired ventilators, said the stockpile — nine times as large as it was in March — was well suited for most respiratory pandemics. “These stockpiled devices can be used as a short-term, stopgap buffer when the immediate commercial supply is not sufficient or available,” the agency said in a statement.

Projecting how many people will end up requiring mechanical breathing assistance is an inexact science, and many early assumptions about how the coronavirus affects respiratory function have evolved.

During the chaotic days of March and April, emergency room doctors were quick to intubate patients with dangerously low oxygen levels. They subsequently discovered other ways to improve outcomes, including placing patients on their stomachs, a protocol known as proning that helps improve lung function. The doctors also learned to embrace the use of pressurized oxygen delivered through the nose, or via BiPAP and CPAP machines, portable devices that force oxygen into a patient’s airways.

Many health care providers initially hesitated to use such interventions for fear the pressurized air would aerosolize the virus and endanger health care workers. The risks, it turned out, could be mitigated through the use of respirator masks and other personal protective gear, said Dr. Greg Martin, the chief of pulmonary and critical care at Grady Health Systems in Atlanta.

“The familiarity of taking care of so many Covid patients, combined with good data, has just made everything we do 100 times easier,” he said.

Some of the earliest data about the perils of intubating coronavirus patients turned out to be incomplete and misleading. Dr. Susan Wilcox, a critical care specialist at Massachusetts General Hospital, said many providers were spooked by data that suggested an 80 percent mortality rate among ventilated coronavirus patients, but the actual death rate turned out to be much lower. The mortality rate at her hospital, she said, was about 25 to 30 percent.

“Some people were saying that we should intubate almost immediately because we were worried patients would crash and have untoward consequences if we waited,” she said. “But we’ve learned to just go back to the principles of good critical care.”

Survival rates have increased significantly at many hospitals, a shift brought about by the introduction of therapeutics like dexamethasone, a powerful steroid that Mr. Trump took when he was hospitalized with the coronavirus. The changing demographics of the pandemic — a growing proportion of younger patients with fewer health risks — have also played a role in the improving survival rates.

Dr. Nikhil Jagan, a critical care pulmonologist at CHI Health, a hospital chain that serves Iowa, Kansas and Nebraska, said many of the coronavirus patients who were arriving at his emergency room now were less sick than the patients he treated in the spring.

“There’s a lot more awareness about the symptoms of Covid-19,” he said. “The first go-around, when people came in, they were very sick right off the bat and in respiratory distress or at the point of respiratory failure and had to be intubated.”

But the promising new treatments and enhanced knowledge can go only so far should the current surge in cases continue unabated. The country passed 250,000 deaths from the coronavirus last week, a reminder that many critically ill patients do not survive. The daily death toll has been rising steadily and is approaching 2,000.

“Ventilators are important in critical care but they don’t save people’s lives,” said Dr. Branson of the University of Cincinnati. “They just keep people alive while the people caring for them can figure out what’s wrong and fix the problem. And at the moment, we just don’t have enough of those people.”

For now, he said there was only one way out the crisis: “It’s not that hard,” he said. “Wear a mask.”





No.7 article:
John Belushi in Focus: What a New Film Gets Right and What It Misses

After Bob Woodward’s “Wired” focused too much on the comic’s death, this documentary looks fondly at the star’s life. But his comic genius deserves more.

In his brief six years on the national stage, no comic was more popular than John Belushi. At the height of his fame, in the late 1970s, he eclipsed even Steve Martin and Robin Williams by starring in the top-rated new phenomenon, “Saturday Night Live” and what was then the highest grossing film comedy ever, “Animal House,” while his band, the Blues Brothers, had the country’s No. 1 album, “Briefcase Full of Blues.”

And yet, the wild successes of his life have still been partly overshadowed by his shockingly abrupt death, of a drug overdose at the age of 33 in 1982. Two years later, Bob Woodward took a rare foray outside politics to release a book about Belushi, “Wired,” an oddly clinical, coldly lurid best seller that focused on the star’s debauched final days. It reads like a series of “Behind the Music” episodes transcribed by an accountant. That controversial book still looms over Belushi’s legacy, and while there have been several attempts to fill out his story, including a memoir by his widow that fixates on Woodward, a new movie by the documentary veteran R.J. Cutler (“The September Issue”) is the first portrait that vividly humanizes Belushi while remaining cleareyed.

The key to the film, “Belushi” (debuting Sunday on Showtime), is its primary sources. In documentaries, they can be the difference between textbook history and gripping drama. Cutler lavishes attention on private photos, childhood videos, old interviews, but most of all, Belushi’s letters, presenting a figure much more introspective and sensitive than the frat-boy icon Bluto from “Animal House,” his most famous character. Cutler doesn’t look back so much as try to tell Belushi’s story in a present tense. This has drawbacks, including a missing critical voice to contextualize and explain the star’s aesthetic. But amid a glut of fawning comedy documentaries, Cutler’s movie stands out as balanced, illuminating and compulsively watchable.

On television, Belushi appeared to be a blue collar Everyman who “represented messy bedrooms all over America,” as Steven Spielberg, who cast him in “1941,” once described him. But Belushi was also driven and ambitious, the kind of guy who kept his good reviews in his pocket, alert to artistic credibility. One year after the 1975 premiere of “S.N.L.,” he worried that the show leaned too much on repeated characters (like his samurai and bee appearances) and catchphrases and that it created a star system — all common criticisms for the next four decades, albeit Belushi was the rare star willing to go public during his time there.

Belushi was a television star who said he disliked television. Lorne Michaels originally didn’t want to hire him, and one gets the sense that after Belushi’s stint, the balance of power between producer and star of “Saturday Night Live” would never be the same again. There’s an unsettling scene in the documentary when Belushi’s health had deteriorated so much that a doctor tells Michaels that if the comedian performs on the show that week, his chances for survival would be 50-50. “I could live with those odds,” Michaels says dryly.

This story has appeared before, in a 2005 oral history about Belushi, which is based on taped interviews that are also used in the movie. In that book, Al Franken points out that while Michaels would later force Chris Farley to go to rehab, he adopted a less compassionate approach with Belushi, getting him medical attention just to “make sure he could function for the show.” One imagines that Michaels’s experience with Belushi also informs his handling of the mental health issues of Pete Davidson today.

But reading about this doesn’t have the same impact as hearing the blasé voice of Michaels. That provides a fascinating window into the ruthlessness — even during a more reckless, seat-of-your-pants era — that helped him build the most resilient juggernaut in comedy.

“Belushi” risks descending into mythmaking, presenting the star as a Dylan-like figure, a rebel from the middle of the country who writes poetry and balks at fame. Cutler includes Belushi’s response when a journalist asks him what his father did: hit man. (He actually ran a restaurant.) But it doesn’t shy away from his sexism, his inconsistency or his self-destructive impulses. Cutler tells a harrowing story of the impact of Belushi’s drug use in a simple litany of photos, showing a rakish figure transforming into a bloated, empty-eyed one. There’s some surprisingly melancholy moments, like an interview with Gene Shalit in which Belushi looks entirely defeated.

The explanation of his decline is a skillfully structured narrative of increasing isolation, that includes the death of his grandmother followed by the loss of a trusted bodyguard and most wrenchingly, the estrangement from his wife, who seems to anticipate his death. (“I’m afraid he’ll die,” she writes in one letter.) He also writes about his own self-destruction in bracingly blunt terms, coming off as a doomed tragic hero. Whereas the Belushi of “Wired” seems remote, a figure being observed from a distance, these private letters give a picture of his inner life that brings us closer to him. It’s the difference between a quick comic sketch and a probing psychological drama.

This rise-and-fall arc can be so gripping that you can almost excuse how little the documentary seems interested in Belushi as a comedian. But decades after his death, many today don’t know his work, and this movie doesn’t present a sustained case for what made him peculiarly funny. It’s a missed opportunity because you could easily find echoes of his life in his comedy. He appeared in the first sketch in the history of “S.N.L.,” abruptly falling on the floor and dying, and in the third episode, his incredible impression of Joe Cocker ended in convulsions. One of his breakthroughs, an appearance on Weekend Update, also ended with a heart attack.

Belushi, who specialized in impressions of other charismatic cultural icons like Jack Nicholson, Marlon Brando and William Shatner, attacked his roles with a visceral, explosive aggression. (The funniest moment in “The Blues Brothers” is when he badgers, in a guttural voice, a parent at a fancy restaurant: “How much for the little girl?”) But what made him more than just a wild and crazy guy was a broad tender, romantic streak, particular in less verbal scenes.

His physicality, both athletic and graceful, was his real gift. My favorite of his sketches is a wordless interlude with Gilda Radner at a laundromat where they meet, see there’s just one machine available and decide to do their clothes together. It’s a simple, sweet romance, unimaginable in today’s “S.N.L.,” carried by pantomime that is not just elegant but thoughtful. With the most expressive eyebrows in comedy, Belushi performed the birth of an idea as well as anyone.

It’s tempting to wonder what might have been. If Belushi had lived, would he have made more hits and developed as a dramatic actor like Bill Murray (Dan Aykroyd began writing “Ghostbusters” with Belushi in mind) or fade away with a deteriorating reputation like Chevy Chase?

Belushi’s obscure final movies, “Continental Divide” and “Neighbors,” provide evidence for either route. They show him trying to stretch and work against his reputation, playing a conventional romantic lead and a repressed square. Both movies were minor failures, artistically and commercially, but ambitious, interesting ones. Mostly, they bring to mind what Eddie Murphy, the next supernova “S.N.L.” star, told Playboy when asked what he thought upon hearing Belushi died: “What a waste.”





No.8 article:
Elders and an Artist Bring a Social Sculpture to Life

POMONA, Calif. — Deep within the verdant grounds of the Mt. San Antonio Gardens retirement community, the artist Elizabeth Turk was immersed in her latest project, an ambitious work of art that she could easily imagine but not yet see.

“What do you tell yourself when you face adversity?” she asked the residents, drawing inspiration for a project that would create hope during the Covid-19 pandemic. With the 31-acre community as her canvas and its 500 residents and staff members as her medium, Ms. Turk envisioned “a wild garden on steroids” for a moving-art installation titled “Project: Look Up.”

“Plunging into this project has just been an act of grace because it’s kept me optimistic,” says Ms. Turk, 59, a 2010 MacArthur Foundation “genius grant” fellow.

“Look Up” is modeled after her “Shoreline Project,” a 2018 commission by the Laguna Art Museum that brought 1,000 volunteers to Laguna Beach at twilight, equipped with specially designed, illuminated umbrellas. Participants interacted as they meandered along the shore while hundreds viewed the spectacle from cliffs overlooking the area.

Inspired by the resilience and optimism displayed by residents of the retirement community, Ms. Turk wanted to create an upbeat “Shoreline”-like experience that would shatter myths of helpless senior citizens. This time, though, the privately funded installation would be closed to the public because of safety concerns. Ms. Turk plans to create a multimedia artwork featuring kaleidoscopic images from drone footage of participants as they move about in several locations across the expansive grounds.

When the pandemic hit, Ms. Turk, who resides in New York City and Newport Beach, Calif., was working on plans to re-create “Shoreline” in Laos. That project was quickly shelved.

Then came a call from Mt. San Antonio Gardens, 30 miles east of Los Angeles, where residents include professors from the neighboring Claremont Colleges. In February, Ms. Turk, a Scripps College alumna, had given a talk there about her work, including her signature marble sculptures, “Tipping Point: Echoes of Extinction” (on view at Hirschl &amp; Adler through Dec. 11) and “Shoreline.”

Officials there approached her in July about designing umbrellas for their gift shop. But the discussion quickly turned to the residents, who range in age from 64 to 104.

“It just hit my heart,” the artist recalled. “I thought what better community to engage with to remind us of joy and resilience — vulnerable people leading us back to joy and togetherness.”

The Mt. San Antonio Gardens’ chief executive, Maureen Beith, was initially hesitant about letting residents participate because of Covid-19, she said. “But because I knew that something positive was sorely needed, I felt it was important for us to go out on a limb a little bit.”

And so on a crisp November day last week, masked participants gathered, each carrying a colorful umbrella featuring the artist’s drawings of plants that symbolize success in the face of adversity. The umbrella width helped encourage social distancing.

To make “Look Up” more inclusive, the artist arranged to photograph residents who had been unable to participate. Those with mobility issues received a mechanism that allowed umbrellas to be attached to wheelchairs or walkers.

In the weeks leading up to the event, residents prepared handwritten responses to Ms. Turk’s question about adversity. Sayings such as “Be brave,” “I am a warrior” and “Breathe,” will be incorporated into Ms. Turk’s final multimedia artwork.

“Look Up” kicked off at the pool — in and around the water — as a saxophonist played soothing jazz and drones buzzed overhead, filming the action. Later, dozens of retirees snaked through the community garden to Tchaikovsky’s “March of the Tin Soldiers.” On the putting green, several couples danced to “Unchained Melody,” encircled by 100 residents swaying their umbrellas to create wide shadows on the grass.

For the finale, all participants assembled in a central parking lot, moving in a final interaction before dispersing to Louis Armstrong’s “What a Wonderful World.” Many stayed behind, umbrellas still open, not wanting the day to end.

Michael Lamkin, a resident and retired music professor and former vice president of Scripps College, called the event “a moment of joy. And a moment of real celebration.”

“There’s so much division going on in the world,” he said, “Something like this, where people could be together, people could be united in one project, and people could feel really good about being human for a few moments, that’s uplifting.”





No.9 article:
Vandalizing Our Democracy

Donald Trump cares about nothing else except undermining our country’s election results.

On Bill Clinton’s Inauguration Day, Jan. 20, 1993, he found on the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway desk in the Oval Office a gracious, handwritten letter left for him by the Republican president whom he had defeated.

In it, the departing president reminded the arriving one:

“You will be our President when you read this note. I wish you well. I wish your family well. Your success now is our country’s success. I am rooting hard for you. Good Luck — George.”

In reflecting on how meaningful that letter had been to him, Clinton wrote of George H.W. Bush that “though he could be tough in a political fight, he was in it for the right reasons: People always came before politics, patriotism before partisanship.”

That is why it was somewhat embarrassing that some members of the Clinton administration committed silly, immature acts of vandalism when handing the reins of power over to Bush’s son, George W. Bush, in 2001.

The General Accounting Office investigated the vandalism for a year and concluded that “damage, theft, vandalism and pranks did occur in the White House complex” during the transition, and as The New York Times reported: “The agency put the cost at $13,000 to $14,000, including $4,850 to replace computer keyboards, many with damaged or missing W keys.”

It was embarrassing, but not truly disruptive to the transfer of power. Still, Republicans pointed to it as an extreme breach of protocol. Representative Bob Barr of Georgia, who had asked the G.A.O. to look into the allegations of vandalism, said of the findings: “The Clinton administration treated the White House worse than college freshmen checking out of their dorm rooms.” He continued, “They disgraced not just themselves but the institution and the office of the presidency as well.”

I have thought about the grace of the elder Bush’s transition letter and the smallness of the Clinton White House’s shenanigans often in recent weeks as we have watched Donald Trump stubbornly refuse to concede, brazenly try to disenfranchise millions of voters and recklessly sow distrust in our electoral system, and by extension our democracy. Everything that happened before has been rendered quaint.

The way Trump has absolutely trashed our democratic norms has made a mockery of things that used to raise our, or at least Republicans’, hackles about decorum and propriety — like Obama not wearing a flag pin, putting his feet on a desk, or wearing a tan suit. Republicans have either cheered or shrunk in silence as Trump has set his blazes and fanned the flames.

The damage Trump is now doing trying to claw back an election that he has lost is almost incalculable in its scope and yet-to-unfold possibilities. There is no guarantee that Trump will ever concede, and there is every suggestion that he won’t. There is no way to know what a Biden Inauguration Day would look like. Would Trump attend? Would he gracefully exit the White House premises?

Furthermore, the damage Trump has attempted to do to faith in the American election system has been wildly, depressingly, successful. A Politico/Morning Consult poll earlier this month found that “70 percent of Republicans now say they don’t believe the 2020 election was free and fair, a stark rise from the 35 percent of G.O.P. voters who held similar beliefs before the election.”

That would represent tens of millions of Americans who, largely because of Trump and the far-right press that abets him, will see a duly elected Joe Biden presidency as illegitimate, and the election system as flawed.

Furthermore, we have a president who appears to care about nothing else but turning his loss into a win, and, if he fails, handicapping the Biden administration.

He has essentially given up fighting the Covid crisis — other than touting vaccines — even though the virus is raging in this country and around the world. On Saturday, Trump skipped the “Pandemic Preparedness” meeting of G-20 leaders to play golf. As The Times reported, “at least 1,428 new coronavirus deaths and 171,980 new cases were reported in the United States” on Saturday.

Not only that, but as food insecurity triples for families with children during the Covid-19 pandemic, food bank lines stretch ahead of the holiday, and with 12 million Americans scheduled to lose unemployment benefits the day after Christmas, Trump is not pressuring congressional leaders to pass another aid package.

Remember that it was Trump who used a tweet to halt stimulus talks in early October, writing: “I have instructed my representatives to stop negotiating until after the election when, immediately after I win, we will pass a major Stimulus Bill that focuses on hardworking Americans and Small Business.”

He didn’t win, and now he couldn’t care less. There is golf to be played. Trump is hurt but not humble. He is angry and lashing out.

I wish that all he and his team were doing was removing some B’s and H’s from some keyboards. Instead, they’re taking a sledgehammer to a young and fragile democratic experiment and allowing Americans to suffer and die as they do it.





No.10 article:
Vermont’s Ski Season, on the Brink

Just as winter was about to start, the state instituted a stricter quarantine and test requirement for visitors, and the snow-sports economy is bracing for the impact.

In some ways, it looked as though the pandemic could be good for Vermont’s ski season. With international destinations out of reach and domestic air travel feeling risky, the state had the biggest ski market in the nation — New York and the Northeast corridor — at its doorstep.

“For the very first time Vermont and New England have access to the full Northeast market share,” said Brian Maggiotto, general manager at the Inn at Manchester in southern Vermont. “And with many people writing off the idea of getting on a plane, this gives Vermont access to the highest concentration of skiers within a drive’s distance.”

The state’s 20 alpine and 30 cross-country ski destinations were feeling optimistic, despite a warm fall that had already pushed back some areas’ opening days for lack of snow.

Then last week, Gov. Phil Scott announced newly tightened quarantine rules for anyone visiting the state. They either had to commit to a 14-day quarantine (at home or in state), or a quarantine of seven days  followed by a negative Covid-19 test.

Vermont’s travel guidelines didn’t mark that big a shift. The most significant change was that the state suspended the use of a color-coded system that assigned counties in the Northeast a color from green to red based on their number of cases of the coronavirus per million people. There was a time when a number of counties — although quite few — had virus case counts that were acceptable for travel to Vermont without quarantine. But now almost all of the Northeast was  red.

But the governor’s announcement last Tuesday of virus-containment measures, combined with a huge spike in cases across the Northeast, triggered a wave of cancellations at hotels and inns and fear among tourism-dependent businesses that travelers would shun Vermont this winter because of the pandemic.

“There’s been a pretty consistent flow of cancellations since that day,” Mr. Maggiotto said.

Online ski chat rooms and social media erupted with rumors and angst, including worries that ski areas might not open at all.

Among those posting was Bruce Levitus, a skier from Bucks County, Pa., who said on the Ski Vermont Facebook page that he wouldn’t be coming to the state this winter. In a phone interview, Mr. Levitus, 56, said he has been skiing in Vermont since he was 7, first with his parents and then with his own family. “I respect what Vermont is doing, but we can’t quarantine, it’s just not possible for us,” he said. “Hence we won’t be coming to Vermont for the first time in over a decade.”

The Vermont economy depends on winter ski-season visitors who spend more than $1.6 billion a year in the tiny state, according to the Vermont Ski Areas Association. Vermont is something of a crown jewel of Eastern skiing, annually recording the most skier-day numbers in the East, around 4 million per season, a figure that rivals Utah. New Hampshire, by comparison, sees a little over 2 million per winter.

The new rules hit hard at a big market for Vermont — people who drive up for the weekend and who are unlikely to quarantine for a week for two or three days of skiing.

A number of those “weekend warriors” and their families relocated to Vermont during the pandemic, working and studying remotely from vacation homes, especially in towns around the ski centers of Stratton, Killington, Mt. Snow, Okemo, Stowe and the Mad River Valley. And some innkeepers said they hoped that a trend toward longer visits, which started this summer and fall, might continue during ski season. “We had a family here from New Jersey for over a month this fall,” said Rachel Vandenberg, the owner of the Sun and Ski Inn in Stowe.

But ski resort operators, particularly in southern Vermont, which draws more weekenders from Connecticut, New Jersey and the Albany and Long Island areas of New York than their Northern counterparts, said the quarantine will hurt.

“We’re going to feel that,” said Bill Cairns, the president of Bromley Mountain Resort.

The state’s spring pandemic lockdown closed restaurants and lodging establishments for months.  The ski areas shuttered before the spring season was over, losing revenue.   The combination of aggressive early shutdown measures and a deliberately slow reopening meant that Vermont came through the first wave of the pandemic better than many other places. It held cases and deaths — 59 as of earlier this week — far below those in neighboring states.

When out-of-state plates poured into Vermont at the end of the summer with the virus on the wane, businesses breathed a sigh of relief, praying the trend would hold into the winter. Stowe’s lodging occupancy rate  had climbed to 36 percent in August, according to the Stowe Area Association, the town’s marketing organization.

But active cases spiked in late October and early November. This week the state recorded 122 cases in a single day, breaking a record previously set in April.

Vermont is hardly alone. States across American ski country are wrestling with the nationwide spike and adjusting travel and gathering guidelines accordingly. New Hampshire requires all residents of non-New England states to quarantine or test before arrival, as does Maine, which also requires Massachusetts residents to quarantine.

In the West, Colorado and Utah remain open to visitors with cautions against nonessential travel, while ski resorts in New Mexico announced this week that they would not be opening for Thanksgiving under orders from state health officials.

At the same time that he changed Vermont’s quarantine rules, Gov. Scott closed bars, banned multi-household gatherings and recommended that social get-togethers be limited to 10 or fewer people. The state has dispatched enforcement officers to bars, hotels and restaurants to carry out compliance checks.

Much of the thrust of the new regulations is directed at Vermonters themselves, since the state traced the recent spike to residents, not visitors. Hockey leagues in the state capital of Montpelier were found to be a chief source along with social gatherings, officials said. Even so, the prospect of out-of-state vacationers arriving for the holidays has locals worried.

“As a Vermonter I feel fortunate to live in this snow globe, this haven, we have this sense of pride that we’ve done this right,” said Eduardo Rovetto, the owner of Piecasso Pizzeria and Lounge, one of the biggest and busiest restaurants in Stowe. “But this is risky business. We are being abundantly cautious. But my lot is full of out-of-state plates,” he said, adding there was no way to know if patrons are abiding by the quarantine rules.

The lodging industry has been particularly hard hit by the pandemic, and hoteliers and resort owners formed a lobbying group in April to work with the state on pandemic messaging and guidelines, and on needed relief funds for the industry. The state recently made  $75 million available to the hospitality sector, and another $2.5 million for ski resorts.

“A lot of businesses are going into winter with no money in their bank account,” said Walter Frame, chief operating officer of the famed Trapp Family Lodge in Stowe, “and many won’t make it.”

“We’re hanging on for dear life,” said Hans VanWees, the general manager of the Hotel Vermont, a luxury lakefront hotel in Burlington,  referring to the statewide lodging industry.

The sector laid off about 65 percent of its staff statewide in the spring, said Mr. Van Wees, who has acted as a spokesman for the industry and a liaison with state government. Some properties have rehired some employees, but most hotels and inns continue to operate on bare-bones staffing, he said. The Hotel Vermont belongs to a group of three Burlington-area hotels where revenues for 2020 are down 75 percent year over year, Mr. Van Wees said.

Ski resorts, meanwhile, have been preparing for a challenging season, running with reduced staffing amid uncertain prospects. Ski area operators across the state said they expected revenues and skier-day numbers to be down significantly this season. Perhaps none more than Jay Peak Resort, where half of its business usually comes from Quebec. With the border closed “that’s all smoked,” said Steve Wright, Jay Peak’s chief executive.

There have been some bright spots. Season pass sales — both of multi-destination passes like the Epic and Ikon passes and those for independent areas like Bromley Mountain and Mad River Glen — have been strong, driven in part by assurances that passholders will get guaranteed lift-access and other privileges. Ski equipment has been flying off the shelves at many Vermont ski shops, owners reported. Cross-country and backcountry gear has been particularly strong, as customers seek to avoid alpine-resort crowds and Covid-era rules such as reserving ski or parking privileges ahead of time.

As of this week, ski areas across the state still had their opening days penciled in, with early season forerunners, Killington, Stowe and Stratton, cautiously aiming for Thanksgiving week, if the cold snap holds. Alpine and Nordic resorts have spent months laying the groundwork for a pandemic season. Distancing measures, including limits on unrelated parties sharing lifts, carefully designed distanced lift lines, limited lodge access, outdoor eating and warming spaces, and advanced online ticket purchases and parking reservations, are among the many measures resorts have adapted.

Mr. VanWees of the Hotel Vermont suggested an alternate way of looking at things. The pandemic guidelines, he said, “make Vermont worth visiting. Vermont is worth quarantining. Do it, then come to one of the safest places in America and enjoy the best skiing in the East.”

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.





No.11 article:
France’s Dragnet for Extremists Sweeps Up Some Schoolchildren, Too

When France held a tribute to a teacher killed after a class on freedom of expression, the police interrogated at least 14 students over comments flagged as inappropriate.

ALBERTVILLE, France — Armed with assault rifles and wearing balaclavas, dozens of police officers raided four apartments recently in a sprawling complex in Albertville, a city in the French Alps. They confiscated computers and cellphones, searched under mattresses and inside drawers, and took photos of books and wall ornaments with Quranic verses.

Before the stunned families, the officers escorted away four suspects for “defending terrorism.”

“That’s impossible,” Aysegul Polat recalled telling an officer who left with her son. “This child is 10 years old.”

Her son — along with two other boys and one girl, all 10 years old — was accused of defending terrorism in a classroom discussion on the freedom of expression at a local public school. Officers held the children in custody for about 10 hours at police stations while interrogating their parents about the families’ religious practices and the recent republication of the caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad in the magazine Charlie Hebdo.

The fifth-grade classmates are among at least 14 children and teenagers investigated by the police in recent weeks on accusations of making inappropriate comments during a commemoration for a teacher who was beheaded last month after showing the cartoons in a class on freedom of expression.

As France grapples with a wave of Islamist attacks following the republication of the Charlie Hebdo caricatures, the case in Albertville and similar ones elsewhere have again raised questions about the nature of the government’s response. It has already been criticized, inside and outside France, for actions and statements that have risked conflating ordinary French Muslims with people accused of extremism.

President Emmanuel Macron has fiercely rejected this criticism, blaming some Muslim and Western nations for failing to understand France’s deep-rooted secularism, known as laïcité. In an interview with a media columnist for The New York Times, Mr. Macron complained about what he saw as the world’s lack of support for France amid recent attacks and accused the American news media, including the Times, of “legitimizing this violence.”

To dispel misunderstanding, he invited journalists with questions on France to “call me. Call my team, call the ministers.’’ But after initially agreeing to an interview request for this article, the education minister, Jean-Michel Blanquer, declined Friday through a spokeswoman to speak, saying that he had already talked publicly about laïcité and considered The Times’s coverage biased.

The incidents in Albertville and elsewhere underscored the breadth of the government’s strong security response to the attacks, which has extended into the classroom and has drawn the criticism of organizations like the Human Rights League, one of the nation’s oldest rights groups. Calling the response disproportionate, the group asked, “Do children still have the right to speak?”

Sophie Legrand, a juvenile court judge and union official, said that France was going through a “complex period” during which law enforcement would be severely blamed for “missing a sign and failing to carry out an investigation.”

“But it could prove to be counterproductive if it’s really only repression, right away,” she said.

Still reeling from the beheading, teachers were given strict instructions to report the slightest inappropriate comment, and the police to investigate, according to interviews with teachers, union representatives, and police and judicial officials.

“We’re completely in a context where the instructions are to not overlook anything, even the most trivial fact,” said Emmanuel De Souza, a police commander who investigated the case of an 11-year-old in Saumur, in western France.

While the four children in Albertville are now back in school, the experience has left them traumatized, the parents said. The children are expected to follow an educational program under the justice ministry’s youth protection division, likely to focus on issues of citizenship.

One of the boys, Sohib Harid, wetted himself in his sleep after the raid and said he was now afraid to talk in school. “If I talk,” he said, “there will be the police.”

The children and teenagers got into trouble for speaking during classroom commemorations and discussions of Samuel Paty, the middle school teacher who was beheaded last month in a crime that shocked France and reopened the psychological wounds of attacks by Islamist terrorists that have left more than 250 dead in recent years.

In a nation with millions of public school students, the commemorations and discussions went well over all. But afterward, according to the education ministry, 400 incidents were reported, including 150 cases related to “defending terrorism.”

A justice ministry spokeswoman said that 14 minors had been held in custody or interrogated in police stations, though she added that the figure might not include reports from all local prosecutors. Cases involving the investigation of at least 17 minors have been reported in the French news media.

If convicted on charges of “defending terrorism,” minors would typically have to take a class on citizenship or follow a social program, though the sentences could be harsher for older teenagers and depending on the infraction.

In a Paris suburb, a 17-year-old who repeatedly expressed support for the slain teacher’s killer is expected to appear before an investigating judge. Near Marseille, two 16-year-old boys were arrested — one for endorsing the beheading, the other for refusing to stop listening to music with headphones during the minute of silence.

Of 17 cases that resulted in police investigations, seven involved Muslim students and one a Roman Catholic, according to interviews by The Times and the local news media; one had no religion, and the religion of the others could not be determined. In at least 14 of these cases, students were held in police custody, with most being accused of “defending terrorism.”

In France, public schools have played a central role in instilling national values, including laïcité, the strict secularism that separates religion from the state. So when Mr. Paty was decapitated, the killing was regarded as an attack on France and left a lasting trauma among teachers.

The education minister, Mr. Blanquer, asked all public schools to observe a minute of silence in tribute to the slain teacher on Nov. 2. A fierce advocate of laïcité, the minister warned that he would not tolerate disrespect.

“We are going to strengthen moral and civic education so that the stakes of the freedom of expression are explicit,” he said in a radio interview a few days later.

Beyond the minute of silence, teachers were given little guidance on how to discuss the killing in class, leading to confusion, according to several teachers and union officials.

“Everything was done in a rush without any real time for educational preparation,” said Sophie Vénétitay, a teacher and union official. She added that teachers were given little opportunity to resolve the incidents within the schools and with the parents, and that a judicial response prevailed.

In a middle school near Nice, a 14-year-old girl was arrested, held in custody for eight hours and subjected to a full-body search after questioning the tribute to the teacher and then, during a following debate, saying that “he had asked for it.” The girl, who is not affiliated with any religion, apologized, said her mother, who asked to be identified only by her first name, Magali.

The mother said she disapproved of her daughter’s comments, but described them as “a teenager’s blunder.” Her daughter is now seeing a psychiatrist and refuses to go back to school.

The teenage girl has been summoned to appear before a prosecutor in January on a charge of “defending acts of terrorism,” according to court files obtained by The Times. She is expected to be sentenced to a multiday class on citizenship.

Lilia Parisot, an official at the Nice regional education authority who confirmed the incident, said that she had received clear guidelines from the education ministry to report any incident. “The orders were to overlook nothing,” she said.

In Albertville, the four 10-year-olds belong to families — three of Turkish and one of Algerian descent — who have lived in the city for years. Some have older siblings who attended the same small primary school, Louis Pasteur. 

In the classroom discussion, the teacher asked the pupils whether he, too, could be beheaded if he showed caricatures of Muhammad, according to interviews with two of the children, four mothers and two fathers.

Nathalie Reveyaz, an education official focusing on secularism in the region that includes Albertville, confirmed that the teacher had asked that question, placing it in the context of caricatures during the reign of Charlemagne.

The boys answered that the teacher could be beheaded, their parents said, but meant it as a statement of fact, not as a threat.

“The teacher said, ‘If I draw the prophet, what would you do?’” recalled Sohib, the boy now afraid to talk in class. “Well, I said, ‘There are other people who will come to kill you, like Samuel Paty.’”

Another boy, Yunus-Emre Akdag, said that in “Islam, we don’t have the right to kill. It’s God who can give life, and it’s God who can take it,” according to his mother, Mukaddes Akdag. Her son added in class, “If people show caricatures of our prophet, they will burn in the other world.”

The girl, Emira Yildirim, said she had expressed regret for the slain teacher, but added that “if he had not shown the caricatures, it wouldn’t have happened.”

The parents said that their children’s remarks contained no threat, but simply did not fit with what education officials wanted to hear in the current politicized climate.

“The children said what they thought,” said Emira’s mother, Zulbiye Yildirim.

Ms. Reveyaz, the education official, said, “The teacher was shocked, shaken,” adding that the comments could reflect “what the children were hearing within their families.”

The next day, the teacher became alarmed after finding an anonymous letter whose author remains unknown, she said. “T mort,” it read, “You’re dead.” The local prosecutor, Pierre-Yves Michau, was unavailable for an interview, his office said.

After the raid, while the children were in custody, the police asked the parents a series of questions: What did they think of the caricatures? Did they pray? Did they go to the mosque? Did they observe Ramadan? Did their husbands force them to wear veils?

“Strange questions,” Fatima Harid, Sohib’s mother, said, asking why questions about their religious practices were relevant. An officer told her that her son, who described himself as Muslim during questioning, should say “French Muslim” instead, she said.

But the incident has left the parents wondering whether they will ever be considered French.

The mother of Emira, Ms. Yildirim, 46, said she had lived in France since age 6 and had attended its public schools. Hers was an “integrated family,” she said. Residents of Albertville for 19 years, she and her husband, a builder, run a family construction business. She was active at the school, regularly volunteering on field trips. The couple even sent their oldest daughter and son, now in their 20s, to a private high school — a Catholic institution — for the quality of the education.

“I’m worried,” she said, dropping off Emira in front of the primary school the other morning. “I told my daughter, ‘You don’t say anything. When you’re asked a question in class, you say nothing.’”





No.12 article:
Ad Council’s Challenge: Persuade Skeptics to Believe in Covid Vaccines

The nonprofit marketing group led a polio vaccine campaign in the 1950s. Now it is working on a $50 million ad blitz to counter concerns about coming treatments.

With coronavirus cases on the rise and communities returning to lockdown across the country, a marketing push is underway to persuade skeptical Americans to immunize themselves once vaccines are ready.

The federal government, which has sent mixed messages about a pandemic that has caused more than 250,000 deaths nationwide, is not leading the charge. Instead, the private sector is backing a planned $50 million campaign to persuade people to protect themselves at a time when polls have suggested that more than 40 percent of adult Americans are not confident in a potential vaccine.

The Ad Council, a nonprofit advertising group, led a similar effort in the 1950s, when it urged Americans to get vaccinated against polio. Its Covid-19 vaccination push will be one of the largest public education crusades in history, the group said. On Monday, the Ad Council will announce the new campaign and start testing messaging. It will start rolling out public service announcements across airwaves, publications and social media next year, when vaccines are expected to be approved and made available to the public.

The White House has collaborated with the Ad Council on previous public health efforts, but it is not currently involved in this one.

“Frankly, this is the biggest public health crisis we’ve ever faced, and we don’t have time to waste,” said Lisa Sherman, the group’s chief executive. “We’re working in advance, so that once those vaccines are proven to be safe and approved by all the right people, we’re ready to go.”

While the pharmaceutical companies Pfizer and Moderna have announced promising updates on the vaccines they are developing, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has blamed President Trump for causing anxiety about the safety of potential immunization efforts. Anti-vaccine sentiment has been growing for decades, driven in part by a backlash against pharmaceutical companies.

Fifty-eight percent of American adults said they were willing to take a coronavirus vaccine, according to a Gallup poll conducted between Oct. 19 and Nov. 1. Another poll, conducted last month by Ipsos and the World Economic Forum, found that 85 percent of Chinese adults, 79 percent of British adults and 76 percent of Canadian adults planned to be vaccinated, compared to 64 percent of Americans.

The Ad Council has joined with a coalition of experts known as the Covid Collaborative, which concluded through its own survey that only one-third of Americans plan to get vaccinated.

Researchers from the University of Pennsylvania conducted a study during a measles outbreak last year and concluded that “a relatively high number of individuals are at least somewhat misinformed about vaccines,” often expressing mistaken beliefs about the treatments’ association with autism and toxins. The researchers also found a correlation between belief in vaccine misinformation and low trust in medical authorities, as well as exposure to material about vaccines on social media.

Steve Danehy, a Pfizer spokesman, said in an email that “public education around the need for vaccination, as well as the rigorous process by which the vaccines have been developed, is critical.”

Public messaging campaigns can be instrumental in persuading people to act in a health crisis. Travel advisories kept many pregnant tourists and business travelers away from areas struggling to contain the Zika epidemic in 2016, for instance.

The marketing plan for a coronavirus vaccine must persuade people that the treatment is safe and effective, while also providing practical instructions on where people can get vaccinated and how they can schedule appointments, said Dolores Albarracin, a psychology, business and medicine professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

“If you do not introduce information about how to achieve vaccination, simply a favorable attitude will not take people to the vaccination site,” she said. “Without an understanding of the psychological and socio-structural processes leading to vaccination, it’s going to be difficult to get the 47 percent of people who don’t intend to vaccinate to do it.”

Research by the Covid Collaborative suggests that fewer than 20 percent of Black Americans believe that a vaccine will be safe or effective. Many respondents stated that they had little faith in the government’s ability to look after their interests or cited distrust stemming from past ethics violations, such as the infamous Tuskegee study, which tracked Black men infected with syphilis but did not treat them.

“In these highly vulnerable communities that are disproportionately affected by Covid, it’s a big, big trust-building exercise from the ground up,” said John Bridgeland, one of the founders and the chief executive of the Covid Collaborative. “They trust their physicians, their pharmacists, and so we have to go very local in having trusted messengers.”

Mr. Bridgeland said that working to defeat the virus was a “historically big moment” that required moving beyond “our political divisions and the difficulties that have undermined trust in our government.”

“Our job as a country is to increase the uptake of the vaccine so Americans are actually engaged in their own recovery,” he said.





No.13 article:
Oxford’s 2020 Word of the Year? It’s Too Hard to Isolate

Instead of crowning a single word as the winner, Oxford Languages looks at the pandemic’s swift and widespread impact on the English language.

Oxford Languages’s annual Word of the Year is usually a tribute to the protean creativity of English and the reality of constant linguistic change, throwing a spotlight on zeitgeisty neologisms like “selfie,” “vape” and “unfriend.”

Sure, it isn’t all lexicographic fun and frolic. 2017 saw the triumph of “toxic.” Last year, the winner was “climate emergency.”

But then came 2020, and you-know-what.

This year, Oxford Languages, the publisher of the Oxford English Dictionary, has forgone the selection of a single word in favor of highlighting the coronavirus pandemic’s swift and sudden linguistic impact on English.

“What struck the team as most distinctive in 2020 was the sheer scale and scope of change,” Katherine Connor Martin, the company’s head of product, said in an interview. “This event was experienced globally and by its nature changed the way we express every other thing that happened this year.”

The Word of the Year is based on usage evidence drawn from Oxford’s continually updated corpus of more than 11 billion words, gathered from news sources across the English-speaking world. The selection is meant “to reflect the ethos, mood or preoccupations” of the preceding year, while also having “lasting potential as a term of cultural significance.”

The 2020 report does highlight some zippy new coinages, like “Blursday” (which captures the way the week blends together), “covidiots” (you know who you are) and “doomscrolling” (who, me?). But mostly, it underlines how the pandemic has utterly dominated public conversation, and given us a new collective vocabulary almost overnight.

Take, for starters, “pandemic”: Use of the term increased more than 57,000 percent since last year. “Coronavirus” — a word coined in 1968, but until this year little used outside medical contexts — also surged, breaking away from run-of-the-mill topical words.

Back in January, it was neck-and-neck with “impeachment,” then surging because of the proceedings against President Trump. But by April, “coronavirus” had become one of the most common nouns in English, overtaking even stalwarts like “time.”

And that, Ms. Martin said, is highly unusual, perhaps even unprecedented (another word, by the way, whose usage soared, according to the report). Usually, when a topical word surges, she said, “it becomes more common relative to other topical words, but not relative to words we all say in English all the time.”

The Oxford report also highlights words and phrases relating to social justice, including “Black Lives Matter,” “Juneteenth,” “decolonize,” and “allyship,” some of which surged dramatically starting in late May, amid the protests following the killing of George Floyd in police custody. But those increases, while notable, were nowhere near those of pandemic-related terms.

And the pandemic may have actually reduced the frequency of other topical words. Last year, Oxford released an all-climate related short list, topped by “climate emergency.” But in March, as the pandemic took hold, the frequency of the word “climate” itself abruptly plunged by almost 50 percent.

(Usage has since rebounded a bit, and the report also flagged the emergence of some new climate-related terms, like “anthropause,” proposed in an article in the journal Nature in June to describe the sudden drastic reduction in human mobility, and its impact on the natural world.)

The pandemic turned once-obscure public-health terminology like “social distancing” or “flatten the curve” into household terms, and made words and phrases like “lockdown” and “stay-at-home” common. More subtly, it also altered usage patterns for ho-hum words like “remote” and “remotely.”

Previously, the most common collocates (as lexicographers call words that appear most frequently together) of “remote” were “village,” “island” and “control.” This year, Ms. Martin said, they were “learning,” “working” and “work force.”

The Oxford report also highlights increased use of “in-person,” often in retronyms, as lexicographers refer to a new term for an existing thing that distinguishes the original from a new variant. (For example: “land line” or “cloth diaper.”) In 2020, it became increasingly necessary to specify “in-person” voting, learning, worship and so on.

Most years, a lot of the fun of Oxford’s short list comes from portmanteaus, or blend words, like “mansplain” or “broflake.” But this year, even the neologisms were a bit downbeat. For every “covidiot” and “Blursday,” there was a “twindemic” (the concurrence of two epidemics) and an “infodemic” (an anxiety-arousing explosion of pandemic-related information).

So … is it fair to say that in 2020, even the words were, well, kind of terrible?

Ms. Martin declined to be so negative. But she confessed to some nostalgia for the days of playful, dare-you-to-put-it-in-the-dictionary coinages like “lumbersexual,” from Oxford’s 2015 shortlist.

She said she hoped 2021 would bring more “fun, positive words that didn’t seem to hold the weight of the world on their shoulders.”





No.14 article:
Newsmax, Once a Right-Wing Also-Ran, Is Rising, and Trump Approves

A once-niche conservative cable network, owned by a longtime friend of the president, lures audiences by refusing to declare an electoral winner.

Flanked by aides in the Oval Office on Wednesday, President Trump dialed up a friend in the news media with a message: Keep up the good work.

“He said that it’s just incredible, the ratings you’re getting, and everyone’s talking about it,” recalled Christopher Ruddy, the owner of Newsmax, a niche conservative cable network that has yet to declare a winner in the 2020 presidential election.

Based in Boca Raton, Fla., the network features lo-fi production values and off-brand personalities like Sean Spicer and Diamond and Silk. Even finding it can be a chore: It appears on Channel 1115 in some major markets. But since Election Day, Newsmax has become a growing power in a conservative media sphere that has been scrambled by President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory and Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede.

Hundreds of thousands of new viewers have tuned into Newsmax programs that embrace the president’s debunked claims of voter fraud and insist that Mr. Trump can keep the White House. Until recently, the network’s top shows attracted a paltry 58,000 viewers. On Thursday night, the network drew its biggest audience ever, notching 1.1 million viewers at 7 p.m.

The out-of-nowhere rise has come as Fox News — the No. 1 network in TV news and long the destination of choice for many Trump partisans — has experienced a rare dip in dominance. Ratings for the Rupert Murdoch-owned network have dropped since election night, when its early projection that Mr. Biden had won Arizona infuriated Mr. Trump and his allies.

“The great @FoxNews daytime ratings CRASH will only get worse!” the president tweeted on Friday.

“CRASH” is overstating things: Fox News remains the most-watched cable news network in prime-time, averaging about 3.5 million viewers the week after the election. But the shift underscores a volatility among conservative audiences as Mr. Trump denies the reality of his defeat.

While Fox News is home to Trump cheerleaders like Sean Hannity, it also runs a decision desk and a daytime news operation that have declared Mr. Biden the president-elect. That is something many Trump fans do not want to hear, and Newsmax, which frequently reminds viewers it has not projected a winner, is rushing to provide an alternative.

“This whole idea of a president-elect, it is a media fabrication,” Greg Kelly, the 7 p.m. Newsmax host, told viewers last week. “This is not done. This thing could turn.” On Thursday, Mr. Kelly recorded his best numbers yet, pulling 1.1 million viewers for his hour.

Mr. Kelly, a former Fox News correspondent and a son of the former New York City police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, said in an interview that his belief in Mr. Trump’s chances is genuine. “I really believe he’s going to prevail,” he said. “It’s a sense I have. Can I articulate perfectly why I thought he was going to win? No. But I’ll say the media has been wrong about him so many times.”

In fact, Mr. Biden won a decisive victory. Newsmax’s founder, Mr. Ruddy, contends that he is merely staying open-minded. “My view is that it’s an uphill battle for the president to change the vote, but he should be given the right to have a recount,” he said in an interview.

Newsmax is an unusual tribune for baseless accusations of voter fraud.

Mr. Ruddy is a longtime confidant of Mr. Trump and a member of his Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach. But he calls himself a “Reagan conservative,” belongs to no political party and is a friend of Bill Clinton — despite having built his career in part as a New York Post reporter who cast doubt on the investigation into the death of a Clinton aide, Vincent Foster. Mr. Ruddy later contributed large sums to the Clinton Foundation and has a photograph of himself with the former president on his wall.

The 12th of 14 children, Mr. Ruddy grew up on Long Island and attended the London School of Economics before founding Newsmax in 1998 as a conservative website. The TV network followed in 2014, originally positioned as a centrist alternative to Fox News.

These days, Newsmax is a cozy clubhouse for Trump allies who speak emphatically about a purported second term and have taken shots at Fox News. Mr. Kelly expressed his contempt on his Thursday episode after playing a clip of a Fox News White House correspondent, Kristin Fisher, calling claims by the Trump legal team “light on facts.”

“The nerve they have, the arrogance,” Mr. Kelly said.

Newsmax says it is available in more than 70 million households, but on many cable systems it is listed alongside obscure channels like Newsy, Cheddar and United Nations TV. (Newsmax is still more prominent than One America News, another network that Mr. Trump has promoted.) Mr. Kelly recently thanked viewers for their “deliberate effort” in finding the network.

Its Manhattan studio is bare-bones — Mr. Ruddy called his cable operation “fledgling” and suggested it did not yet turn a profit — and its visuals are more public access than prime-time, lacking the splashy graphics of better-financed rivals. Some of its guests have been shunned by other networks, like Mark Halperin, a political journalist accused of sexual misconduct. (Mr. Kelly was the subject of a sexual assault claim in 2012; prosecutors declined to file charges.)

Then, there are the technical snafus. Wednesday’s episode of “Greg Kelly Reports” opened with a blank screen. After 12 seconds, the host appeared, midsentence in a monologue.

None of this has stopped Mr. Kelly from now drawing an audience about four times larger than CNBC’s Shepard Smith, a former Fox News anchor whose heavily promoted new program airs against it at 7 p.m.

Fox News, which benefited enormously from Mr. Trump’s rise, easily beats Newsmax in overall viewership. But since the network called the race for Mr. Biden, Trump supporters have chanted “Fox News sucks!” at demonstrations in Arizona and Washington, and its ratings have fallen well below pre-election levels.

Much of the drop has come during daytime hours, when its news anchors acknowledge Mr. Biden’s victory. But several Fox News opinion shows have seen a dip, too: Earlier this month, for the first time in 19 years, “Fox &amp; Friends” drew a smaller weekly audience than MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.”

The loss of viewers has set off alarm bells inside Fox News, said several people with ties to the network who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid straining relationships. A new slogan promoting its pro-Trump opinion hosts — “Standing Up For What’s Right” — is now in heavy rotation.

“There’s a ton of discontent with Fox News in conservative circles,” said Nicole Hemmer, a Columbia University scholar who studies right-wing media.

The tensions have spilled into Fox News programming. On “The Five,” Geraldo Rivera attacked a pro-Trump colleague, Jesse Watters, for endorsing baseless claims about a stolen election. In prime time, Tucker Carlson cast doubt on the claims of Sidney Powell, a Trump lawyer, saying she had failed to produce evidence of election fraud. But in the next hour, Mr. Hannity invited another Trump lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, to share his baseless claims with viewers.

Fox News declined to comment. But the network remains a ratings goliath: This summer, its prime-time audience was not merely the largest on cable, but the largest across all of television. And many in the TV industry expect the network to thrive once Mr. Biden takes office, capitalizing on the same conservative “resistance” viewership that fueled its success during the Obama years.

Even if Newsmax is more willing to indulge the outlandish prospect that Mr. Trump can serve a second term, Mr. Ruddy said that Newsmax would not become, in his words, “Trumpmax.”

“I don’t see him becoming a partner in the company,” he said, adding that he doubted that Mr. Trump “would want to tether himself to one news organization.” A Trump-hosted talk show, he added, would be “terrific,” but he has not made a formal approach.

“He’s confident he has a good shot at winning, and I think he’s focused on that,” Mr. Ruddy said. “I wouldn’t want him to lose his focus.”





No.15 article:
Terminally Ill Man Calls to Confess to 1995 Murder, Alabama Police Say

Johnny Dwight Whited admitted that he shot Christopher Alvin Dailey in the head on April 26, 1995, in Decatur, Ala., the authorities said.

The call came in to the switchboard and was transferred twice before Detective Sean Mukaddam, a violent crimes investigator in Decatur, Ala., who specializes in cold cases, finally picked up the phone.

The man on the other end of the line had a tip, so to speak.

“‘I want to confess to a murder that I did years ago,’” Detective Mukaddam said the man told him.

That man was Johnny Dwight Whited, according to the police, who said that he admitted to officers on Wednesday that he had fired a single gunshot that killed a man 25 years earlier in a wooded area of Decatur. But the breakthrough in a cold case that had confounded investigators for a quarter-century wasn’t as straightforward as it seemed.

“He didn’t know the date or the year,” Detective Mukaddam said. “We were scrambling to try to figure out what he was talking about.”

Using a chart of every homicide in Decatur going back to the 1980s and a description of the location given to them by Mr. Whited, investigators said, they were able to connect Mr. Whited to the April 26, 1995, killing of Christopher Alvin Dailey.

Mr. Whited, 53, went with detectives on Wednesday to the place where Mr. Dailey’s body was found and re-enacted the killing, the authorities said.

He was charged with murder and was being held for $15,000 bond at the Morgan County Jail in Decatur, about 25 miles southwest of Huntsville, Ala., in the northern part of the state.

“I’ve never had a situation where I just pick up the phone and have a call like that,” Detective Mukaddam said. “Nothing where the suspect calls me out of the blue and wants to confess.”

Griff Belser, a lawyer for Mr. Whited, who lives in Trinity, Ala., said on Thursday night that he wanted to meet with his client before discussing the case.

Mr. Dailey was 26 at the time that he was killed. His 1983 Toyota Tercel had been found submerged in the Tennessee River, according to the authorities, who said that Mr. Whited and Mr. Dailey did not know each other. They declined to comment further about the motive.

Detective Mukaddam said that Mr. Whited was “terminally ill.”

“He was remorseful,” Detective Mukaddam said. “He was embarrassed about certain things. He wanted to get it off his chest.”

Despite what the police characterized as an extensive investigation, investigators said that they had never identified any potential suspects in the case. Over the last quarter-century, investigators said, the case had been revisited on several occasions, but it did not turn up any leads.

Mr. Whited’s arrest stood in stark contrast to dozens of cold cases that have made headlines recently, ones solved through scientific advances in DNA analysis and genetic genealogy — the use of ancestry records — to catch a killer.

Cases like that of Joseph James DeAngelo, the so-called Golden State Killer, who was sentenced in August to multiple terms of life without parole for 13 murders and 13 kidnappings during the 1970s and 1980s in California.

Detective Mukaddam, who has been in law enforcement for about 15 years, said officers were trained to distinguish between legitimate tips and publicity seekers.

“We went into some specific questions to see if he was telling the truth or if it was someone trying to get some notoriety,” he said.

Detective Mukaddam said that he informed Mr. Dailey’s relatives that there had been an arrest in the case.

“I was able to give them closure after 25 years,” he said.

But the detective played down his role in the case, saying that his predecessors worked many hours on it.

“I turned the last page and closed the book on the book that they wrote,” he said.





No.16 article:
Arthur Imperatore, Founder of a Critical Ferry Service, Dies at 95

He steered New York Waterway through financial straits. He also reveled in moments of glory, notably when his boats rode to the rescue on Sept. 11, 2001.

Arthur E. Imperatore Sr., a blunt entrepreneur who parlayed a trucking fortune into a dubious ferryboat operation that grew to be a critical link in New York City’s transit network, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 95.

His death, at Mount Sinai Hospital, was confirmed by his stepson, Armand Pohan, who said Mr. Imperatore had suffered from progressive kidney failure.

Mr. Imperatore steered the ferry service, New York Waterway, through legal and financial straits and disputes with government officials. But he also reveled in moments of glory, when his boats rode to the rescue on Sept. 11, 2001, and eight years later, when a commercial jet splashed down in the Hudson River.

Mr. Imperatore, whose formal education ended at high school, did not set out to be a ferry tycoon. He started the service as a “loss leader” to promote the two miles of industrial waterfront property he had acquired on the New Jersey side of the Hudson, Mr. Pohan said.

The land, most of which lay in the town of Weehawken, had belonged to the Penn Central railroad. Mr. Imperatore bought it for $7.75 million in 1981 with the dream of turning it into a mini-city in “the Greco-Roman tradition” called Port Imperial.

But Mr. Imperatore knew far less about the real estate business than he understood about transportation. Once he let established developers do the building, a less grandiose residential community took shape.

Mr. Imperatore had gotten rich in the freight-hauling business. A company he started in 1947 with four of his seven brothers, the APA Transport Corporation, had become one of the most profitable trucking companies in the country.

Restless and impatient, he considered all sorts of ventures and embarked on several of them. His notion of an amusement park along the riverfront did not fly. But his idea of relocating a professional hockey team to New Jersey did — only without him.

Mr. Imperatore bought the Colorado Rockies of the National Hockey League in the late 1970s, with the intention of moving the team to an arena being constructed in the New Jersey Meadowlands. In 1982, the Rockies were renamed the New Jersey Devils and began playing at the new Brendan Byrne Arena in the Meadowlands. But Mr. Imperatore had sold the team by then.

“My dad never met a business he didn’t like,” Mr. Pohan said. “Like a prospector, he drilled many dry wells, and once in a while he hit a gusher.”

Few people thought Mr. Imperatore would be a winner in the ferry business. Some derided the venture as “Arthur’s folly.”

But he plowed ahead, docking a hulking old ferry at the river’s edge as a makeshift terminal. There, passengers would board smaller boats for the quick crossing to a pier he had bought in Midtown Manhattan.

He delegated much of the development to real estate companies, said Richard Turner, the longtime mayor of Weehawken. Mr. Turner estimated that the value of the property Mr. Imperatore once owned, along with all of the condominiums, townhouses and shops packed onto it, easily exceeded $1 billion.

New York Waterway gradually added routes to Lower Manhattan from various docks along the New Jersey coast. Before the coronavirus pandemic sharply curtailed commuting, its fleet was carrying more than 30,000 passengers a day.

Two years ago, New York Waterway stirred up public opposition in neighboring Hoboken to its plan to move its boat-maintenance facility about a mile downriver. Hoboken blocked that proposal, despite the company’s heavy lobbying of Gov. Philip D. Murphy and threats that the service could not survive without making the move.

“He was a very tough, tenacious negotiator,” Mr. Turner said. “He wasn’t a poker player. If you crossed him, you knew it.”

Some of the company’s finest hours came in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, which destroyed the PATH train station beneath the complex. From that morning until well past dark, the ferries carried thousands of traumatized people away from the ruins.

The company received emergency contracts to keep providing a substitute for the inoperative trains. But federal prosecutors determined that New York Waterway had inflated its costs and overcharged for that additional service. In 2006, the company agreed to pay $1.2 million to settle the charges.

When a US Airways jet landed in the Hudson in January 2009 with 155 people aboard, New York Waterway ferries detoured to rescue the passengers who had evacuated the sinking plane.

Arthur Edward Imperatore was born on July 8, 1925, in West New York, N.J. He was the ninth of 10 children of Eugene Imperatore, a grocer, and his wife, Teresa. He graduated from Memorial High School in West New York and served in the Army Air Corps during World War II.

In addition to Mr. Pohan, his survivors include his wife, Dr. Mei-Ling Yee-Imperatore; a son, Arthur Jr.; a daughter, India Imperatore; and eight grandchildren.

Mr. Imperatore temporarily lost control of about half of New York Waterway’s service in 2005 when the company flirted with bankruptcy. He struck a deal with William Wachtel, a Manhattan lawyer with no experience in the ferry business.

Mr. Wachtel vividly recalled the day Mr. Imperatore picked him up in “a really old Lincoln Town Car” and stopped at Zabar’s for bagels and lox on the way to a five-hour negotiation at Mr. Imperatore’s home. He said Mr. Imperatore ingratiated himself by speaking a little Yiddish.

In the years before he sold back his part of the business, Mr. Wachtel said, he came to consider Mr. Imperatore a close friend and mentor. “Many people felt he was a tormentor,” Mr. Wachtel said, “but in reality his need for perfection made it impossible for him to settle for anything less.”





No.17 article:
On Running While Black, With More Hope Than Before

As Black Lives Matter signs popped up in recent months, our columnist grew less wary of running in predominantly white neighborhoods. But is that optimism premature?

SEATTLE — The bloom of the Black Lives Matter signs. That is what my son and I saw as we jogged through our mostly white neighborhood. Everywhere we looked, we could see what felt like change.

The signs were on front lawns, attached to trees, displayed in windows, stapled to telephone poles.

There was also a flag that displayed a clenched fist, Black and bold. A fence with huge letters that spelled a single word: Ally. A nearby building was painted with the name George Floyd.

It was summer, hot and dry in our Seattle neighborhood, where I am among the few Black homeowners — and one of the few Black joggers — in a community of roughly 40,000 not far from downtown.

Though this is a place that leans left politically, visible displays of support for Black human rights have been scarce. But then Floyd died in Minneapolis after a white police officer pinned him to the ground, knee upon neck. As the country heaved in protest over racism that stretched back four centuries, something changed where we live — on the surface, at least.

Like Black joggers across the country, we saw the burst of supportive flags, placards and murals. They gave some comfort to a guy like me, unsure and anxious about our place in a community we enjoy. I could not stop wondering what it all meant.

“Never in a million years would I have thought we’d see this,” I told my son as we finished up a three-miler one day. “Never.”

He replied with the cleareyed directness of a 9-year-old. “But Dad, where were all those signs before? It’s crazy that it took someone dying to have this happen.”

From the start of the coronavirus pandemic, we had made a habit of running, masked-up, down the middle of residential streets in the late afternoons. It became our way to bond.

But then in May I saw the video of Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year-old Black runner, as he was shot to death weeks earlier after being confronted by two white men in coastal Georgia.

I crumpled into a ball on my couch and cried.

A few days later, my son started our run by asking if we could take his favorite route. It winds through the immaculately manicured neighborhoods nearby. They felt even more segregated. Running there now felt like being in a fishbowl, way too out in the open, way too much as if we were objects being watched.

No, I told him.“Some other time, I promise.” I just couldn’t bear it.

He understood.

Make no mistake, running while Black on the streets of Seattle does not feel the same as it does in a place like St. Louis, where I jogged last year on a work trip and sensed immediately that the racial tension was thicker and more obvious. Nor is it like pounding the footpaths of Fayetteville, N.C., where Sonoyia Largent leads a growing chapter of a nationwide support group called Black Girls Run. When we talked last week, Largent spoke of feeling racism in her community growing so close to a boil that she has considered buying a gun small enough to keep in her training gear.

I don’t feel that worried, but we live in America, and my son and I are now part of a movement. The number of Black recreational joggers has surged during the pandemic, according to Largent and several other running organizers from across the country. One called it a boom. All spoke of a paradox. We get out there for health, a sense of freedom and joy, even as a tribute to Arbery — to claim our unbowed dignity in full view. But we do so warily.

For me, that caution comes from personal history. My parents helped integrate the part of the city where I live, starting in the 1950s. They raised four sons here. We had many friends. And plenty of neighbors eager to show their hate. During my grade school years in the 1970s, racial epithets were regularly directed my way. I always had to be ready to fight.

The city is different now. Far wealthier, far less provincial. Outward racism is less common.

But Seattle remains one of the whitest major cities in the country, and it is in a region long rife with white supremacists.

So as I run, I keep in mind the present and do not forget the past. I remain on guard, scanning each street, aware of every person on every corner and front porch. All it takes is one 911 call from someone who thinks I’m stalking the neighborhood, and suddenly I could be surrounded by police. Then what?

It is not just people I worry about. As many Black runners can attest, objects become potent symbols.

My antenna rises when I see a pickup truck that has a bumper sticker with the words “N.R.A.,” “Don’t Tread on Me” or “Trump 2020.”

I spent enough time as a city reporter to understand that policing done right is an honorable profession, but I sprint as fast as possible by the house with the Blue Lives Matter flag, which I view as a retort to the quest for Black justice.

What about the suddenly ubiquitous Black Lives Matters signs? They cause mixed emotions. As I spoke with runners from across the country, it was clear I was not alone.

“We’ve got to give white people some credit,” said Maria B. Stanfield, a clinical psychologist and avid runner in the Detroit area. “I would not minimize it. They didn’t have to put up the signs.”

I agree. I’d rather see the outward support than nothing at all.

But how truly authentic are such displays? Flying a flag is excellent, but what does it mean for real change?

“If I’m injured and need help, and I show up at the front door of one of those houses with the signs, will they call the cops or give me assistance?” said Erik McDuffie, a professor of history and African-American studies at the University of Illinois who hopes to compete in a marathon once the pandemic ends.

I can’t see myself ever running a marathon, but I can imagine that for my son. Eventually, I fulfilled the promise I made, and we returned to his favorite route.

We kept going back. In August, September and then October. Kept slogging up and down the long blocks that string across our community.

On a recent outing, we pushed through rain and gusty winds, well past sundown. I noticed how the show of support had changed me. I felt safer, as free as I’ve felt on any run.

I noticed something else. The words “George Floyd” on that nearby building had been painted over. The flags were worn. Some of the signs either were gone from front yards or looked as if they were about to blow off their moorings.

I had to wonder: When the weather is better next spring, will the bloom come again?





No.18 article:
Hollywood’s ‘We’re Not in Kansas Anymore’ Moment

The announcement that “Wonder Woman 1984” will be released in theaters and on HBO Max on Christmas Day is the clearest sign that streaming is now central to the film industry’s business model.

LOS ANGELES — In explaining why WarnerMedia had decided to release the much-anticipated big-budget “Wonder Woman 1984” simultaneously in theaters and on the streaming service HBO Max on Christmas Day, the company’s chief executive, Jason Kilar, invoked the classic Hollywood film “The Wizard of Oz.”

“We’re not in Kansas anymore,” Mr. Kilar said in a statement.

No longer, he said, would a film’s success be judged solely by the box office revenue it generates in theaters. Instead, it would be measured partly by the number of HBO Max subscribers it is able to attract. And just like Dorothy entering the Technicolor world of Oz, Hollywood feels as if it is stepping into a new era — one with streaming at the center.

The end-of-the-year holiday season usually means that theaters are packed with blockbuster crowd pleasers, award hopefuls — and moviegoers. Not this year. With many theaters shut because of the coronavirus and the ones that are open struggling to attract audiences, many studios have either pushed the release dates of major films into 2021 or created a hybrid model in which the theaters still in operation can show new releases while they are also made available through streaming or on-demand services.

“Wonder Woman 1984” is the most prominent example so far to be released using the hybrid model. But when it appears on HBO Max on Christmas Day, it will join Pixar’s animated “Soul,” and DreamWorks Animation’s “The Croods: A New Age” as marquee, holiday-season films that were expected to be box office favorites but are now likely to be primarily seen in people’s living rooms.

For companies that have their own streaming platforms, like WarnerMedia and Disney, releasing movies this way is now seen as an opportunity to drive subscriptions. Both companies have said that the moves will only last through the pandemic, but they also both recently shuffled their executive responsibilities to make it clear that streaming is the new priority. (Disney, for example, now has a central division that decides how its content is distributed, a change in strategy that puts Disney+ at the top of the studio’s priorities.) And audiences may not want studios to go back to the old way of releasing films that gave theaters 90 days of exclusive rights.

“There will be a new normal,” said Jason Squire, editor of “The Movie Business Book” and a professor at the University of Southern California’s School of Cinematic Arts. “Over the years, there has been a lot of tension between theatrical exhibition and studio distribution but not a lot of change. The pandemic has jump-started the change.”

It wasn’t long ago that Hollywood viewed streaming as an unwelcome insurgency. Several years ago, when Netflix began to seriously compete for Oscars, traditionalists scoffed at the thought of bestowing prestigious awards on films that were only nominally released theatrically. (This year, bowing to pandemic reality, the motion picture academy announced that films could skip a theatrical release and be eligible for Oscar consideration.)

Still, studios have long wanted to shorten the exclusive window given to theaters. Theater chains aggressively lobbied against that, worried that people would be reluctant to buy tickets to a movie they could soon see at home.

The sanctity of the theatrical release was being zealously guarded even after the pandemic lockdowns began. In April, Universal Pictures had a successful video-on-demand release for “Trolls World Tour” and said it would make more movies available that way without an exclusive theatrical run. Adam Aron, the chief executive of AMC, the largest theater operator in the world, called the move “categorically unacceptable” and said his company would no longer book any Universal films.

By July, however, the two companies signed a multiyear deal whereby Universal movies would play in AMC theaters for a minimum of 17 days before becoming available in homes through premium video-on-demand, or P.V.O.D. in industry parlance. This past week, Universal signed similar deals with Cinemark, the third-largest theater chain in North America, and Cineplex, Canada’s top exhibitor, adding the provision that for movies opening to $50 million in ticket sales, the exclusive theatrical window will stretch to 31 days. 

The shortened window means the studio can theoretically spend less on marketing than is typically required when theatrical and home video debuts are three months apart. And studios typically keep 80 percent of premium on-demand revenue, while ticket sales from theatrical releases are split roughly 50-50 between studios and theater companies.

“Our hope is that by putting P.V.O.D. into the marketplace, we are improving the economics for the studio and as a result of that there will be more films that will get released theatrically,” said Peter Levinsohn, vice chairman and chief distribution officer for Universal. “The whole goal here is to have more efficiencies in our marketing, keep the films more profitable and stop the films from being sold off” to subscription services like Netflix or Amazon.

Warner Bros. chose to defend the tried-and-true theatrical model, hoping that Christopher Nolan’s “Tenet” would draw people back to theaters this summer after the first wave of the virus passed and 68 percent of American theaters were able to reopen. But with theaters still closed in the two largest markets, New York and Los Angeles, the film only grossed $56 million in its entire U.S. run. That was a far cry from Mr. Nolan’s previous theatrical achievements, like “Interstellar,” which earned $188 million domestically, and a stark warning to other distributors that the traditional way of releasing films was not going to work in 2020.

Today, the theatrical climate is more grim. Half of the theaters in the United States are closed and virus cases are rising around the country. Regal Cinemas, the second-largest chain in the U.S., has closed all of its theaters, citing a lack of films and audience. If there is not a federal grant program available to theaters soon, John Fithian, chief executive of the theaters’ national trade association, said he expects 70 percent of them will either close permanently or file for bankruptcy by early next year.

Big-budget spectacles have kept audiences flocking to movie theaters even through waves of home entertainment competition, from VCRs to streaming. That’s benefited both theater chains and studios, and it’s why few expect movies of the size of “Wonder Woman 1984” to be going directly to streaming post-pandemic.

A move away from theaters would affect what kinds of films are made. In short, if there is less box office money to be collected — because of a reduction in the number of movie theaters or a permanent shift in consumer behavior — studios would be forced to make fewer big-budget films. For those who believe Hollywood has become too reliant on lumbering superhero movies, that may actually be welcome news. The thousands of people each of those films employ would undoubtedly have a different perspective.

But others are not sure the change will be so drastic, pointing to the power of the theatrical experience.

Charles Roven, a producer for “Wonder Woman 1984,” said in an interview that he was confident that its release was not a sign of a new long-term strategy. “There is no question they want to make HBO Max successful and they should,” he said of Warner Bros. “But to say that this particular thing is what’s going to happen in the future, that would be taking a leap.”

Disney chose to bypass U.S. theaters altogether and release the $200 million “Mulan” on Disney+ in September, charging subscribers $30 on top of their monthly fee to watch the live-action adaptation of the animated film. Sales were hurt by an outcry over a filming location in China, but Bob Chapek, Disney’s chief executive, told analysts earlier this month that he saw “enough very positive results before that controversy started to know that we’ve got something here in terms of the premier access strategy.” Disney is planning to send several more big-budget movies to Disney+.

For studios without their own streaming services, the calculus is a bit different. While many opted to postpone their theatrical releases until 2021, others sold off films as a way to recoup some cash. Paramount offloaded “The Trial of the Chicago 7” to Netflix and “Coming to America 2” to Amazon, for example. In a twist, Netflix is currently one of the few studios still sending product to the struggling chains. From now to the end of the year, Netflix will give eight of its films limited theatrical runs before they appear on the service, including potential Oscar contenders like “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom” and David Fincher’s “Mank.”

Universal is the other big studio still supplying films to theaters, buoyed by its new P.V.O.D. deals with theaters that allow it to distribute both larger movies like the “Croods” sequel  and smaller films  from its indie subsidiary, Focus Features.

That’s good news for Bobbie Bagby Ford, an executive vice president at the family-owned B&amp;B Theaters, the nation’s sixth-largest theater chain based in Liberty, Mo.

Ms. Bagby Ford said that before the pandemic her company would not have accepted Warner’s plan to release “Wonder Woman 1984&quot; in theaters and on HBO Max at the same time. Now though, any opportunity to show a film that could do some actual business would be a relief for a company that is staving off bankruptcy.

“Our moviegoers in the Midwest are very excited to come back, and they have been asking about ‘Wonder Woman’ for months and months and months,” Ms. Bagby Ford said. 

Mr. Kilar, WarnerMedia’s chief, said in his statement that the pandemic was the main reason to release “Wonder Woman 1984” in theaters and through streaming. But he also noted how the move put the control of how to watch the film firmly in the hands of the audience. 

“A little over four million fans in the U.S. enjoyed the first ‘Wonder Woman’ movie on its opening day in 2017,” Mr. Kilar wrote. “Is it possible for that to happen again this Christmas with ‘Wonder Woman 1984’ between theaters and HBO Max? We are so excited to find out, doing everything in our power to provide the power of choice to fans.”

Should that work, it’s unlikely things will ever be the same.





No.19 article:
G20 Summit Closes With Little Progress and Big Gaps Between Trump and Allies

World leaders committed to some efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic, but the meeting illustrated the difficulty of carrying out an agenda when the United States is indifferent or hostile to many goals.

WASHINGTON — Officials at the Group of 20 summit meeting released a closing statement on Sunday that served as perhaps the Trump administration’s final reminder of the wide gulf between the United States and its allies on handling global threats like the coronavirus pandemic and climate change.

In its statement, or communiqué, the group emphasized what it called the “important mandates of the United Nations’ systems and agencies, primarily the W.H.O.,” referring to the World Health Organization, an agency Mr. Trump announced a withdrawal from in July, threatening to cut off one its largest sources of funding. The communiqué, released after a two-day virtual meeting hosted by Saudi Arabia, said the group supported strengthening the W.H.O.’s “overall effectiveness in coordinating and supporting the global response to the pandemic and the central efforts of member states.”

Over all, the communiqué offered little in terms of any breakthrough announcements beyond general appeals for more global cooperation and “affordable and equitable access” to therapeutics and vaccines. The lack of more significant initiatives underscored how difficult it is for the G20 to carry out an agenda when the United States is indifferent — Mr. Trump skipped part of the summit to play golf — or even hostile to many of its positions, even during a pandemic that has killed more than 1.3 million people globally.

The statement came the same day as another reminder of Mr. Trump’s rejection of international agreements: The United States formally withdrew from the Open Skies Treaty, negotiated three decades ago to allow nations to fly over one another’s territory with elaborate sensor equipment to assure that they are not preparing for military action. American officials had long complained that Russia was violating the accord, and Mr. Trump had announced the action in May, starting a six-month clock on the withdrawal.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. had favored remaining in the treaty. When he arrives in office in January, he will quickly have to confront the expiration of the last remaining major arms control agreement with Russia, New START, a clean extension of which Mr. Trump has refused to sign off on. Mr. Biden has said he will try to save that accord.

The G20’s closing statement on Sunday also referred to other areas where Mr. Trump has caused friction, calling climate change one of “the most pressing challenges of our time” and saying that the Financial Stability Board, a group of international regulators, was “continuing to examine the financial stability implications” of the issue. The United States had resisted the inclusion of climate change in a joint declaration of finance ministers this year but eventually relented.

Mr. Trump, who has brushed aside dire predictions about the effects of climate change and routinely refused to acknowledge it as a man-made problem, most recently removed the scientist responsible for the National Climate Assessment. That scientist served as the federal government’s premier contribution to climate knowledge and the foundation for regulations to combat global warming.

In his remarks at the virtual meeting on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump reiterated his opposition to the Paris Agreement, claiming it was “not designed to save the environment” but instead “was designed to kill the American economy.” The United States formally withdrew from the climate accord this month, but Mr. Biden has pledged to rejoin.

Mr. Trump’s go-it-alone dynamic has hampered conferences of global leaders since he took office. Before last year’s G20 summit in Osaka, Japan, Mr. Trump set the tone by attacking America’s closest allies, including the host country. When he attended the 70th anniversary of NATO in London last year, Mr. Trump left abruptly after an embarrassing video of other world leaders privately mocking him surfaced.

The lack of American leadership at such forums comes as the world continues to face severe economic strain from the pandemic. The International Monetary Fund projected last month that the global economy would contract 4.4 percent in 2020 and that the recovery would be long, uneven and uncertain. Poor countries have been particularly vulnerable to the effects of the virus; the World Bank estimated in October that the pandemic could push more than 100 million people into extreme poverty this year.

On Sunday, the leaders threw their support behind a new framework to provide debt relief for poor countries that have been hit hard by the pandemic and reiterated their commitment to freezing bilateral debt payments through June. More than 40 countries have gained over $5 billion in immediate debt payment relief this year. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, had already backed the measure, but it was not clear it was on Mr. Trump’s radar.

And, after four years of Mr. Trump shaking up the global order on international trade, the communiqué underscored a commitment to the future of the World Trade Organization, expressed support for the “multilateral trading system” and called for a “stable” trade environment and open markets. Although there was no mention of tariffs, the language could be read as a rebuke to Mr. Trump’s penchant for protectionism and trade wars.

It was not just the formal language that underscored the rift between European leaders and the outgoing American president. On Saturday, Mr. Trump was not listed as a participant at a sideline event at the conference on pandemic preparedness and response. Speakers at the event included President Emmanuel Macron of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Mr. Trump, however, played golf at his club in Virginia, his fifth day there since the election, whose results he is still contesting despite no evidence to support his claims. Mr. Trump was back at Trump National Golf Club on Sunday afternoon for his sixth tee time.

Former Republican advisers criticized the move.

During the global financial crisis, “George W. Bush convened the first G20 leaders’ summit to chart the course for repair and reform of the world economy,” said Daniel M. Price, a former adviser to Mr. Bush who was responsible for international trade and investment. “When that forum met yesterday to address the Covid-19 crisis, Donald Trump chose to play golf, underscoring the task facing President-elect Biden to restore the trust and confidence in U.S. leadership so depleted by his predecessor.”

In a statement on Sunday afternoon, the White House summarized Mr. Trump’s participation in the weekend summit and seemed to suggest that he would be involved in the G20 next year, when Italy will host.

“President Trump thanked Saudi Arabia for its leadership during its G20 presidency and looked forward to working with Italy as incoming G20 president,” Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press secretary, said in a statement.





No.20 article:
Where the Pomegranate Harvest Is Life, the Taliban Brought Ruin

An incursion that devastated a prized crop shows the loss and uncertainty that many Afghans endure.

ARGHANDAB, Afghanistan — Crack a pomegranate in half and its blood-red seed-filled chambers make it look almost like a broken heart. In Arghandab district, which in Afghanistan is almost synonymous with the fruit, a Taliban offensive has cut the heart out of the harvest season, leaving farming families desperate.

The offensive here in southern Afghanistan came at the end of October, the prime month for a pomegranate harvest that goes from September to November. On a recent day this month, Gulalay Amiri and 10 of his workers gathered whatever was left in fear. Several farmers in an orchard nearby had recently been killed by buried Taliban explosives.

“When the fighting started we couldn’t come here,” said Mr. Amiri, kneeling among his workers with pink earmuffs framing his tanned and aging face. He and his men were disappointed at how few bags and boxes they were able to fill. “Most of the pomegranates were destroyed.”

Arghandab was at the center of some of the most intense fighting at the height of the war 10 years ago, when Americans came to Kandahar Province to drive the Taliban out during President Barack Obama’s troop surge. But in recent years, locals said, things had stayed relatively quiet, and Arghandab had experienced a streak of good harvests.

But even in the midst of peace negotiations between the Taliban and Afghan government, residents described the recent fighting as the worst they had seen since the Soviets came in the 1980s, bulldozing their fields and scorching the earth.

In the broader scheme of 40 years of war, a botched pomegranate season pales in comparison to the rising violence across the country. But for the people of Arghandab — from farmer to shopkeeper, all trying to eke out livings — the fighting only highlights the uncertain fates confronting so many Afghans despite the talk of peace.

“I am faced with loss,” Mr. Amiri said, his gloved hands rotating a pomegranate, looking for rot or cracks. He had to fire 40 of his workers because of the fighting — a trend that has affected roughly 1,000 day laborers in Arghandab.

An important part of Afghanistan’s agricultural economy belongs to the pomegranate, and while domestically traded and grown in other provinces, the fruit is the pride of Kandahar. The province is a major exporter to Pakistan and India, but this year the shipments were late and smaller than usual, according to fruit exporters interviewed for this article. One said he made only a third as much as usual this year.

“The Arghandab crop was not good because we did not receive it on time,” said Jan Mohammed, 34, another pomegranate exporter based in Kandahar city. “It has not been a good year.”

The monetary losses pull down an economy already flagging, like other countries’, with the spread of the coronavirus.

Those financial impacts were acutely felt by the people of Arghandab.

Lewanai Agha, 76, in a white scarf and turban, looked on from the edge of his orchard as Mr. Amiri boxed his pomegranates. Both Mr. Agha and Mr. Amiri have farmed and sold pomegranates their entire lives, like many here, and the fruit has been a way of life for generations.

Each box of pomegranates here is proudly marked with a green stencil denoting its origin: Arghandab.

When the fighting started, Mr. Agha, himself an insurgent commander during the war against the Soviet Union in the 1980s, sent the women and children of his 32-strong family to Kandahar city while he and the other men stayed to protect his land and livestock.

“We were in the crossfire,” said Mr. Agha, his eyes narrowing as he recounted the fighting. He was unable to take his fruit to market. And after a rainstorm, most of his pomegranates were destroyed. In 2019, Mr. Agha made roughly $9,300, he said. This year: about $620.

“The orchard was our only source of income,” Mr. Agha said. “We don’t know what else to do.”

His entire family relies on that revenue, Mr. Agha said. “This is the only time we’ve suffered like this since the Soviet invasion.” That was when Soviet troops bulldozed his orchard.

As long as Mr. Agha can pick pomegranates and feed his family, it doesn’t matter which flag — the government’s or the Taliban’s — flies over his head, he said. Mr. Agha, like many farmers caught in the unending back-and-forth struggle of the war, showed a level of antipathy toward both sides of the conflict. 

Mr. Agha’s orchard sits yards away from the banks of the Arghandab River and a strategically important bridge, built more than a decade ago, that allows people and vehicles to cross on their way to and from Kandahar city.

That strip of land quickly became the Taliban’s front line, where machine gun and rocket fire was reflected in the river’s flowing waters nightly as October turned to November.

Why the Taliban attacked at the height of the harvest is unclear. A Taliban official, who spoke to The New York Times on condition of anonymity because he was not cleared to speak publicly about tactics, explained that the insurgents had not meant to push so far into Arghandab and had wanted to focus on other districts. But for some reason, he said, the fighters went farther into the orchards than planned, prompting an outcry from local elders. The fighters then withdrew — out of respect, the official said, not because of U.S. airstrikes or the government’s counterattacks.

Now with the fighting receding to other districts in the south, hidden explosives left behind in fields remain a threat to the thousands of families reliant on the pomegranate harvest. Roadside bombs have always been a staple of the Taliban, but their use in the orchards at the height of the harvest, likely to delay the government’s advance, was seen as especially cruel.

Abdullah Khan, 30, an Afghan national police commander in charge of the checkpoint that overlooked Mr. Amiri’s packaging efforts and the strategic Arghandab bridge, recalled how he could hear the rumble of the American jets overhead during the fighting.

That American bombardment was the only thing that kept the Taliban from completely overrunning the district, security officials said.

“They came in large numbers,” Mr. Khan said of the advancing Taliban. What set the recent offensive apart — the worst he had seen in his 20 years in the district — was that the insurgents did not fight with hit-and-run attacks, they came in waves and held their ground.

One of Mr. Khan’s concrete outposts at the checkpoint clearly bore the marks of a rocket strike: a shallow crater surrounded by raylike gashes from spiraling shrapnel. “No one could rescue us,” he said.

Mr. Khan insisted that the police had stayed and fought for the outpost. Nearby farmers accuse them of abandoning the post — as was said to have happened at several other police checkpoints. Mr. Khan’s men, dressed in civilian clothes, drinking tea and smoking hashish at 10 in the morning, wouldn’t say one way or the other.

With his pocket of government control now quiet, Mr. Khan and his fellow police officers have been fielding relentless complaints. Arghandab’s farmers just want to return to their orchards and fields, free of Taliban explosives and hoping for some sort of aid from the government as winter sets in.

That includes Mr. Agha and his large family.

About 3,500 families have been affected by the fighting, said Sharif Ahmad Rasuli, the district governor in Arghandab, adding that only 200 had received some sort of food aid by mid-November. Fifteen civilians were killed in the attacks, he added, including at least five farmers who later died in their fields from hidden explosives.

“If we don’t get any aid our lives will be destroyed,” Mr. Agha said. “We won’t be able to eat or fill the stomachs of our children.”





No.21 article:
Undocumented and Pregnant: Why Women Are Afraid to Get Prenatal Care

Undocumented women are risking their health by postponing prenatal care and giving birth at home in response to the Trump administration’s immigration enforcement policies.

EDINBURG, Texas — Britani first learned there was something wrong with her pregnancy late one night in July 2019 when she started bleeding and rushed to an emergency room.

The doctor on duty said she had an infection that could cause her to miscarry. Britani agreed to find an obstetrician to treat the problem, knowing that she would not keep her word.

As an undocumented immigrant, Britani, now 20, had no health insurance and could not afford to pay for her treatment in cash. Her only option would be to apply for public benefits, but she had heard from friends that doing so could make her a target for deportation or jeopardize her pending green card application. So she sat tight, hoping the infection would go away on its own.

A few weeks later, Britani shook her husband awake in the middle of the night and told him to get his mother in the next room. They returned to find Britani doubled over in pain, her face wet with tears.

“There’s a lot of blood,” Britani said.

When President Trump unleashed his crackdown on immigration, people without legal status scrambled to erase the traces of their existence to avoid being swept up. They stayed home to hide from aggressive new street arrests. And thousands dropped out of welfare programs to steer clear of a policy that posed a less visible threat. Under an expansion of the limits on “public charge,” the administration said it would withhold legalization for undocumented immigrants who had used certain public benefits.

Though undocumented immigrants are ineligible for most welfare programs and have been shown to use those that are available at lower rates than American citizens, the Trump administration said the expansion was necessary to discourage people who could not support themselves financially from moving to the United States. “Give me your tired and your poor who can stand on their own two feet and who will not become a public charge,” Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, the acting director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, said at the time.

The policy contained exemptions for some vulnerable groups, including pregnant women. But doctors and public health officials say that many undocumented women are convinced nonetheless that their chances of legalization will be diminished, and they worry that immigration officers, who are often seen at hospitals along the border, could target them for deportation.

The result, they say, is an escalating climate of fear that is having disastrous consequences for the health of pregnant women and their babies.

Within days of when the public charge policy became public, followed by wall-to-wall coverage on Spanish-language news outlets and dire warnings on social media, medical clinics saw no-show rates for prenatal care appointments rise sharply. Midwives say that requests for home births from undocumented women who wanted to avoid going to a hospital soared. Doctors said they saw a spike in the number of women arriving in emergency rooms with serious complications, or already in labor, without having been to a single prenatal appointment.

The problem has been particularly pronounced in Texas, which has the second-largest population of unauthorized immigrants in the country.

“Are we going to fall off a cliff soon with the health of immigrant women?” said Dr. Tony Ogburn, an obstetrician at DHR Health, a busy hospital in Edinburg, Texas, near the Mexican border, where between 8,000 and 9,000 babies are delivered every year. “I think we’re already there.”

Even before Mr. Trump took office, research from past cases had shown that undocumented women were more likely to skip prenatal care and to experience complications during labor. And while recent immigrants from Latin America are often healthier than American-born women, babies born to undocumented women are more likely than others to be born underweight and to be delivered prematurely — the most common cause of infant mortality — particularly after immigration raids.

The disparities were linked to the stress of living on the margins of society, as well as the fact that undocumented immigrants are eligible for fewer public benefits than American citizens, and are often wary of using government help out of concern that they could face repercussions.

Dr. Ogburn said many of his clients in Texas skipped expensive ultrasounds — crucial to identifying potential problems — because they were paying in cash and could not afford such procedures.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has indicated that he would begin to reverse the changes to public charge designations during his first 100 days in office, but experts say some of the fear that has been instilled is likely to linger.

Britani, who like the other women in this article requested that her last name not be published because of her immigration status, said that when she landed in the emergency room for the second time, doctors told her she had developed another infection, this one more severe.

She was admitted to stay overnight. The next morning, a social worker asked the family how it planned to pay for the treatment. “They put you between a rock and a hard place,” Britani’s mother-in-law, Maria, who is also undocumented, said later. “It’s your baby or your immigration status.”

Her only option, the family decided, was to apply for a limited version of public benefits available to undocumented pregnant women in Texas, which allowed Britani to get the first ultrasound of her pregnancy, well into her second trimester. But the grainy black-and-white images of her growing daughter were hardly relieving. “I was scared because I didn’t know if we had done the right thing,” she said.

The colonias of South Texas where she lives, along with about half a million people in ramshackle houses and rusty trailers, are where health workers have had to work hardest to persuade women to seek care.

Pregnancy has never been easy for the people who live there. Jennifer and her husband, Diego, who both came to the United States as young children, had recently lost their quasi-legal status under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program because they could not afford to renew it. Then in January of last year, Jennifer bought a test from the dollar store and discovered she was pregnant.

The couple decided to move temporarily to Indiana, where they found work in a factory that paid $13 an hour — twice as much as an undocumented worker typically earned in South Texas. She went eight months without prenatal care. “I was worried,” she said, but she also felt resigned.

Obstetricians associated with the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley have brought mobile medical clinics into the colonias, hoping that pregnant women would be more likely to attend appointments near their homes. The clinics rely on “promotoras” — health workers with strong community ties — to help coax patients into getting treatment, which is free or heavily discounted.

Maria Aguilar, a promotora who was born in Mexico and was herself undocumented for a time, spends her days delivering food and medicine to those too scared to go out. She brings masks to women who work the fields through their pregnancies, to protect them from exposure to pesticides. But she said women often ignore her phone calls because they were scared of seeking treatment. By the time they reach out to her in crisis, some have already miscarried.

Asked how frequently such fears are raised in her work with patients, Ms. Aguilar said, “To be honest, we haven’t seen anyone who doesn’t have this issue.”

A similar chilling effect was seen after the welfare reform that took place under President Bill Clinton limited immigrants’ access to benefits. The law was followed in Texas by an increase in maternal mortality and morbidity, said King Hillier, a vice president of the Harris County hospital district, which includes Houston.

He said a more extreme version of the phenomenon was occurring now, as social media warned undocumented women to stay away from public assistance programs of any kind.

“What we were dealing with in the late ’90s was basically word of mouth. And now you have mass media 24-7,” including misinformation and rumors, he said.

Even in the liberal enclave of Austin, the state capital, practitioners say they are limited in what they can comfortably say to ease patients’ worries about the aggressive new tactics being used to track down immigrants for arrest.

“Nobody can falsely reassure them because anything is possible these days,” said Margaret Kini, an obstetrician-gynecologist at one of the largest low-income clinics in the city.

Griselda, an undocumented woman who has lived in Austin for more than two decades, said Mr. Trump’s election in 2016 produced an immediate impact in her community. Soon after, the father of one of her children’s classmates was deported, spooking her and the other parents. A few months later, a police officer pulled her over and wrote her a ticket, giving a warning to her son. “He said, ‘If I want, I can take your mom, because she’s illegal.’”

All of it cast a shadow over the discovery in January 2019 that she was pregnant with her fourth child. Rather than going to a hospital, as she had done to deliver her first three children, Griselda found a midwife to deliver her daughter, Ava Valentina, at home. Because she hopes to legalize one day, she has continued to avoid using government services, including those to which the baby is entitled as a U.S. citizen, for fear that it could have repercussions down the road.

“I don’t want to be a public charge,” she said, holding her week-old baby girl, worrying about the cost of her two-month checkup that was coming up, when the baby would need to be vaccinated. “If I can afford to, I’ll pay for it myself.”

Paula Rojas, who delivered Griselda’s baby, said complications have often upended her clients’ best-laid plans to avoid a hospital.

Melissa and her husband, both Christian missionaries from Mexico, had been living outside Austin for about a year when they discovered she was pregnant. Melissa planned to deliver her baby at a birthing center — a licensed facility that accepts cash payments from low-income women.

But Ms. Rojas, who was helping her by providing naturopathic prenatal care, worried that Melissa would not make it nine months without requiring a medical intervention. She had seen it happen with other undocumented patients who developed stress-related ailments that can lead to premature birth and other problems. Melissa was constantly fretting, she said, and struggled to sleep at night.

About seven months into her pregnancy, Melissa was rushed to a hospital with pre-eclampsia, a dangerous condition that threatens the life of both the mother and the baby. Her son, Josías, was delivered via emergency C-section and weighed only four pounds. A nurse carried him directly to an incubator.

The next evening, in the darkness of her hospital room, Melissa asked about paying her bill in cash. A nurse explained that Josías would need to live in the hospital for at least a month, and that it would likely cost hundreds of thousands of dollars to keep him alive.

After months of avoiding it, she would have to apply for public benefits.

As the nurse turned down the lights in her room, Melissa closed her eyes, trying not to think about the future, but she could not sleep all night.





No.22 article:
Jill Paton Walsh, Multigenerational Writer, Dies at 83

Her books for young readers had won acclaim when, in 1994, one for adults made the Booker Prize shortlist — but only after she had resorted to publishing it herself.

Jill Paton Walsh was greeted with acclaim in the 1960s when she began writing young-adult books that challenged her readers in both plotting and messaging. There was “Fireweed” (1970), a story of two British adolescents who set up housekeeping in a bombed-out building during World War II. There was “Goldengrove” (1972), about two youths who navigate the transition from childhood to adulthood during an eventful summer.

But in 1994 Ms. Paton Walsh achieved a whole different level of acclaim, by an unlikely route, with a book for adults, “Knowledge of Angels,” a genre-defying medieval fable about an atheist and a girl raised by wolves. Here she delved into themes of faith and reason and more.

Yet despite her success with books for young readers, “Knowledge of Angels” struggled to assert itself: No one in her native England would publish it.

“British publishers wouldn’t even say what they didn’t like about it,” Ms. Paton Walsh told The Daily Mail of London that year, “so I couldn’t even change it to suit them.”

And so, in a move that was rare for the time, she published it herself — and had the last laugh. The book was shortlisted for the Booker Prize, one of the top literary awards in the world, and is said to be the first self-published book to make that elite list.

Peter Lewis of The Daily Mail had a crisp rebuke for all those publishers — 19 was the final count — who had said no to the book. “To open it and start reading,” he wrote, “is to be appalled by their lack of judgment.”

Ms. Paton Walsh died on Oct. 18 in a hospital in Huntingdon, England, near Cambridge. She was 83 and also lived in Huntingdon. Oliver Soden, her literary executor, said the cause was heart and kidney failure.

Ms. Paton Walsh was a versatile writer whose more than two dozen books included several in the Lord Peter Wimsey detective series, which had been created by Dorothy L. Sayers (1893-1957). She completed “Thrones, Dominations” (1998), which Ms. Sayers had begun in the 1930s but never finished. Then Ms. Paton Walsh wrote three of her own Wimsey books, “A Presumption of Death” (2002), “The Attenbury Emeralds” (2010) and “The Late Scholar” (2014).

Gillian Honorine Mary Bliss was born on April 29, 1937, in London. Her father, John Bliss, was an engineer for the BBC who at his death had 363 patents to his name. Her mother, Patricia Paula (DuBern) Bliss, was a homemaker.

As a child, Gillian spent part of the World War II years in Cornwall, on the coast. “A part of me is still rooted in that rocky shore,” she wrote in the autobiographical series “Something About the Author,” “and it appears again and again in what I write.” Several of her young-adult books have a seaside setting.

She attended St. Anne’s College, Oxford, graduating in 1959, and recalled listening to lectures there by J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis.

“The subject of the lectures and tutorials was always literature or philology — we wouldn’t have dared ask those great men about their own work! — but the example they set by being both great and serious scholars, and writers of fantasy and books for children, was not lost on me,” she wrote in the autobiographical essay.

She married Antony Edmund Paton Walsh in 1961 and had her first child with him. Finding domestic life somewhat drab, she began writing to relieve her boredom. An editor at Macmillan told her that her first manuscript wasn’t good enough but took an option on whatever she would produce next. That was “Hengest’s Tale,” which she described as “a gory epic retold out of fragments of ‘Beowulf.’” In 1966, it became her first published book.

Next came “The Dolphin Crossing” (1967), followed by “Fireweed.” Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1970, the British children’s book author and editor John Rowe Townsend called it “an outstanding novel for young people: original, haunting, poetic.”

Mr. Townsend would soon become a much bigger part of her life: They met in the early 1970s and began a relationship, although she remained with her husband until their children were grown. (He did not want a divorce because of his Roman Catholic faith; she had been raised in the church but called herself “a lifelong lapsed Catholic.”)

Her next young adult book, “Goldengrove,” was about two youngsters accustomed to spending summers at their grandmother’s seaside home and how one particular summer changed everything. Writing in The Times Book Review, Barbara Wersba, herself an author of young adult books, praised Ms. Paton Walsh’s ability to write “as though she were still 12 years old.” But, she wrote, that didn’t mean that Ms. Paton Walsh’s books were juvenile.

“I find it significant that ‘Goldengrove’ will be marketed for children between the ages of 11 and 14,” Ms. Wersba wrote, “and never reach their parents. The current division of fiction into Lots of Sex for the grown-ups and Less Sex for the kids is not only silly but wasteful, for the grown-ups are missing some beautiful and highly original work.”

Ms. Paton Walsh aged the “Goldengrove” characters in “Unleaving” (1976). In 1979, with “A Chance Child,” she gave readers a compelling look at child labor in the 19th century.

Her goal with her works for children, she told The Guardian in 1994, was to convey to them “that whatever they think of the world, it is actually much more complicated.”

“I hope to show them how difficult it is to make judgments,” she said, “how often the bad person turns out to be good, that life is unexpected.”

She tried her first novel for adults, “Lapsing,” in 1988. A tale about an Oxford undergraduate, the book drew on her own experiences with faith and love and earned good notices. So did a second novel for adults the next year, “A School for Lovers.” But sales were modest, and when she shopped the ambitious “Knowledge of Angels,” there were no takers in her home country — though Houghton Mifflin had already published the book in the United States. The Guardian would describe it as “a compelling medieval fable centered on the conflict between belief and tolerance, and veined with a complex philosophical argument about the existence of God.”

With the aid of Mr. Townsend, Ms. Paton Walsh self-published the book in England, and though it did not win the Booker Prize, its nomination drew considerable attention.

After the nomination, Ms. Paton Walsh chided the British publishers, telling The Times, “They’re all afraid of their jobs, and they make their decisions by committee.”

After her first husband’s death in 2003, Ms. Paton Walsh married Mr. Townsend in 2004. He died in 2014. She married Nicholas Herbert, third baron of Hemingford, in September. He survives her, as do a brother, Christopher Bliss; three children from her first marriage, Edmund Paton Walsh, Margaret Paton Walsh and Clare Murphy; and three grandchildren.





No.23 article:
English Gyms Offer a New Workout: Civil Disobedience

Despite police raids and the threat of heavy fines, some health clubs have stayed open in an act of defiance against a coronavirus lockdown.

LONDON — The technique is deft and the maneuver swift as the instructor first levers his pupil onto one side, then pivots to leave him prostrate and immobilized on the dark blue mat.

But as the sparring gets underway at this Brazilian jiu-jitsu club in London, its director, Eduardo Carriello, is readying himself for a tougher fight: with the law.

In defiance of coronavirus lockdown rules — and despite six visits from law enforcement — the center has stayed open, and Mr. Carriello insists that doing so is a duty to his members and the wider community.

When Britons first faced tough coronavirus restrictions in March, compliance was high as millions obediently stayed at home, emerging only to shop for food, to exercise briefly or — once a week — applaud health care workers.

Current restrictions are less stringent than in March (schools and universities are open), but in a country with one of Europe’s highest Covid-19 death rates, Prime Minister Boris Johnson says they are vital to prevent the National Health Service from being overwhelmed.

Midway through the new lockdown in England, though, support is more patchy and the consensus is fragmenting as more people come around to Mr. Carriello’s point of view.

“I have no problem being arrested,” Mr. Carriello said. “I am not committing a crime, I’m just exercising my rights.” A fourth-degree black belt who arrived in London from Brazil 18 years ago with little money and not much English, he now runs the newly refurbished Gracie Barra club at the Oval in south London.

Brazilian jiu-jitsu helps those suffering from depression, mental illness or stress, he said, though, despite his obvious physical fitness, Mr. Carriello now knows about extreme anxiety.

“I have never been so stressed in my entire life,” he said, reflecting on the repeated visits from the authorities and adding, “If they extend this lockdown we are going to have a civil war.”

The resistance is not confined just to gyms, which are supposed to be closed to adults until the scheduled end of the current lockdown on Dec. 2. In recent weeks fines have been issued to hundreds of Britons, including people partying on a moored boat in Liverpool and seven women caught traveling in a stretch limousine in the West Midlands.

Rebel gym owners say they are staying open on principle and to help people stay healthy, rather than for financial reasons. Many worry that curbs on them will continue after Dec. 2, at which point regional Covid-19 rules may return, potentially keeping some businesses shut. Mr. Johnson is expected to give more details on his plans this week.

According to one set of official figures, gyms rank below secondary schools, pubs and restaurants and supermarkets (but above care homes and universities) as places identified as a possible source of infection. In fact, fitness centers vary hugely in terms of available space and ventilation, though participants in martial arts classes are unlikely to observe social distancing.

In the United States, gyms in many areas have been allowed to remain open, although some states have placed limits on their operations. In New York City, gyms are open with restrictions even though schools have been closed, generating anger among some parents.

In England, because responsibility for enforcing the lockdown is split between local municipalities and the police — and Covid-19 regulations give neither an automatic right to enter property — some gyms have played a cat-and-mouse game with the authorities, keeping them at bay and disputing legal orders.

Some have overplayed their hand, however, perhaps spurred on by social media posts erroneously suggesting that they can cite common law or even Magna Carta of 1215 (the medieval document that inspired protections for cherished liberties) to resist the power of the state.

In Wood Green, north London, one gym owner was taken to court and threatened with fines totaling £77,000, or a little more than $100,000.

“The highest daily number of positive Covid cases was recorded in the U.K. last week, and we had to make it clear that everyone has to work together and follow the legislation put in place to contain the spread of the virus,” said Joseph Ejiofor, leader of Haringey Council, which includes Wood Green.

“I understand why the owner felt passionately about staying open, but the law is the law and it applies to everyone,” he added.

Yet some legal experts are not quite so sure. They worry about confusion around the law, uneven enforcement of regulations and suspicions that young men from ethnic minority groups have been disproportionately targeted by the police for minor lockdown breaches.

“Whilst I wouldn’t recommend trying to use Magna Carta to keep your gym open, there has been huge inconsistency in the enforcement of these regulations,” said Adam Wagner, a civil liberties lawyer whose podcast has recently focused on the Covid-19 rules.

This, he added, was “partly because the police don’t always understand their powers and partly because there seems a bit of skepticism within the police about using powers that are difficult to interpret and keep changing. So while some seem to have almost given up, others are going in hard.”

Gym owners who have experienced the harsher tactics include Michelle Meade-Wyatt, owner of Ripped Gym in Harlow, north of London, whose arrest was captured on a cellphone video.

Ms. Meade-Wyatt concedes that she made herself something of a target with her open defiance. “I effectively said, ‘I don’t believe this lockdown is legal and I am staying open,’” she said.

Still, she feels a sense of bewilderment after joining a demonstration against lockdown measures in Liverpool, where she lives, and being arrested again.

“I am a law-abiding businesswoman, I am 45, but I’ve been arrested twice in 10 days and I’m spending time sitting in police cells,” she said.

Hannah Lanel, founder of The Fore Fitness and Wellness Studio in north London, has deployed lower-key tactics. On one occasion she tried unsuccessfully to convince officials that, since her fitness studio occasionally sells plants, it could be treated as a garden center that can stay open under lockdown rules.

“If you are not sure of your position, you are going to be intimidated into closing,” she said. Having been served a formal notice to close, she is now looking at other routes to stay open, like acting as an educational provider.

But, like many other gym owners, she believes that fitness and sports centers should be allowed to stay open because they help the nation’s health, and combat obesity, which is a risk factor for Covid-19.

Those who seem to agree include around 20 martial arts students, each wearing a garment known as a gi, who attended two Brazilian jiu-jitsu classes on one recent morning in support of Mr. Carriello’s act of rebellion. Some talk of how the activity helps their mental health; others see their attendance as an expression of individual freedom.

After an energetic warm-up, a lesson and some sparring, Thorstein Thorsteinsson, 54, a realtor originally from Iceland, said he recognized the threat from Covid-19 and wanted to protect the vulnerable, but thought people should be able to make their own assessment of risk.

He worries about the loss of liberties from lockdown laws while acknowledging that it is unusual to spend a martial arts lesson resisting the law, as well as an opponent.

The possibility of the class being interrupted by the police does not deter him, however.

“If it happens, it happens, and if they want to arrest me or other people they will do so,” he said.





No.24 article:
The E.U. Puts Its Foot Down on the Rule of Law

While the leaders of Hungary and Poland resist.

After years of passively watching nationalist governments in Hungary and Poland undermine democratic rule, the European Union finally drew the line this year and declared that disbursements from the E.U. budget and a special coronavirus relief fund would be contingent on each member’s adherence to the rule of law. Hungary and Poland have shamelessly retaliated by threatening to veto the Union’s next seven-year budget, emergency funds and all, unless the condition is scrapped.

The governments in Budapest and Warsaw couched their defiance with their usual plaints that the bloc was behaving like their former Soviet overlords. “This is not why we created the European Union, so that there would be a second Soviet Union,” declared Viktor Orban, the proudly illiberal prime minister of Hungary. But such posturing has long been discredited, especially as both right-wing governments have happily reaped huge subsidies from the European Union.

The cynical reactions of Mr. Orban and the right-wing Law and Justice government in Warsaw demonstrated how far they have strayed from the fundamental principles they signed on to when they joined the European Union. They make no bones about it: Hungarian and Polish officials recently met to set up a joint institute to combat the “suppression of opinions by liberal ideology.”

Mr. Orban in particular has systematically worked to curtail the independence of the judiciary, bring the press to heel and curb civil society. With Fidesz, his nationalist party, in full control of Parliament, he took advantage of the coronavirus pandemic in March to assume broad and open-ended emergency powers that effectively allow him to rule by decree for as long as he wants.

Poland’s Law and Justice Party, run from behind the curtain by Jaroslaw Kaczynski, has faced more opposition and so has moved more slowly, but in the same direction, and with the same illiberal zeal. Its latest effort was to have the Constitutional Court, packed with followers, sharply narrow already restricted access to abortion in Poland last month. An eruption of protests — which are continuing — forced the government to delay implementing the decision.

The European Union has long been cognizant of the illiberal drift of this duo, but the focus on unanimity in E.U. decision-making rendered it largely powerless to do anything about it. Hungary and Poland are the only two countries in the history of the Union to have been investigated by the executive arm of the bloc, the European Commission, under Article 7 of the Union treaty, which authorizes suspension of a member’s voting rights if it is found in “serious breach” of E.U. values. Actually doing so would require a unanimous vote by the rest of the Union, and either Hungary or Poland would block punishment of the other.

Withholding funds from wayward members, by contrast, would not require unanimity. The budget, however, does, so that’s where Hungary and Poland made their stand. If the 1.8 trillion-euro ($2.1 trillion) budget is blocked, E.U. rules allow for some emergency spending, but the sorely needed, and painfully negotiated, €750 billion emergency stimulus package would be delayed, dealing a serious blow to a continent in the grips of a major second wave of the coronavirus, and especially Spain and Italy, the hardest hit E.U. members. Though Hungary and Poland would also lose, they are betting that they can outbluff the rest.

So far, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, whose country currently holds the bloc’s rotating presidency, has been reluctant to enter into an open war with Mr. Orban or Mr. Kaczynski. After a video conference of E.U. leaders on Thursday — including Mr. Orban and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki of Poland — Ms. Merkel declared only that it was “a serious problem that we have to solve and we will work hard and earnestly on it.”

That work should focus on compelling Hungary and Poland to back down. Whatever other disagreements E.U. members may harbor — and, as Britain’s exit showed, these are many and deep — the concept of the Union as a community of democratic values has remained at its heart.

If Hungary and Poland succeed in what amounts to blackmail, other wavering members — Slovenia, for one, has already signaled that it is sympathetic to their cause — would follow suit, and liberal democracy would suffer a major setback. It is not by chance that Mr. Orban, in particular, has openly lauded President Trump and has found common cause with the likes of Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro, Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan or Mr. Trump’s former political strategist Steve Bannon.

The European Union has finally found a lever to compel members to hew to the fundamental tenet of Western democracy, the rule of law. The Union must make clear that it is prepared to use it.





No.25 article:
Get Me Meacham! Biden Brings Back the Media’s Good Old Days

The next president promises to do for old-line newspaper columnists what Donald Trump did for cable. What a time to be George Will!

One afternoon in the spring of 2009, Jon Meacham sat in front of the freighted wooden bookshelf in his office and talked to me about a job writing for Newsweek.

I was by then not so sure about the future of print, but Mr. Meacham, the magazine’s editor in chief, told me that his corporate masters had a plan: Newsweek would rid itself of most of its existing, middlebrow subscribers and charge the remaining ones more for a highbrow product. The plan didn’t make much sense to me and, obviously, did not work. The next year, Mr. Meacham, once described as the “oldest 34-year-old journalist in the world” (this was praise in the world of newsweeklies) — left to write and teach at Vanderbilt.

So suffice it to say that if you’d asked me earlier this year who would be the most politically relevant American writer of 2020, I would not have picked Jon Meacham.

But Joe Biden did. The former vice president won the presidency despite reporters’ bored skepticism and editorial board snubs. And Mr. Meacham, a Pulitzer-winning historian whose books have lionized figures like President George H.W. Bush and Representative John Lewis, is the media figure he’s closest to, an occasional source of historical advice who helps with his biggest speeches. (This revelation cost Mr. Meacham a formal MSNBC contributor job when it was reported in The New York Times this month.) Mr. Meacham’s surprising turn at the center of American politics is a reflection on Mr. Biden’s relationship with the news media, one very different from his predecessor’s, and a hint at the future.

“Is Donald Trump’s transformation of the presidency into a reality show permanent? Or can President Biden govern with stability and even dignity amid a media climate that tends to value chaos over problem-solving?” Mr. Meacham, who declined my request for a full interview, asked, in a letter written with a fountain pen and delivered to my home by a boy on a horse. (No, it was an email, but you get the idea.) He wrote that he thinks that “Biden has a good chance to pull this off by focusing on the realities of the moment and making things about the people, not about himself.”

Joe Biden has been around so, so long that many people may assume he has an equally long, warm relationship with the Washington press corps, the sort of backroom intimacy depicted in “The West Wing” and “House of Cards.” But Mr. Biden shares one thing with Donald Trump: He spent most of his career as a bit of an outsider to Washington’s social world, his face pressed against the glass. The cool kids, including President Barack Obama, occasionally mocked him behind his back for his cornball earnestness.

Mr. Trump’s obsession with the media took the form of constant, obstreperous complaints and news-making leaks, a style Mr. Biden has suggested he finds merely embarrassing. Mr. Biden sought their approval with a more diligent and solicitous approach. As vice president, for instance, he was particularly attentive to the wise men of Washington, especially the foreign policy columnists David Ignatius of The Washington Post and Thomas L. Friedman of The Times. Mr. Biden liked nothing more than a wide-ranging, high-minded conversation about world affairs after he had returned from a trip to China or India.

It seems that what Donald Trump did for the once-dying industry of cable news, Joe Biden may do for the dusty old newspaper column. What a time to be George Will!

But what of the working reporters in the White House? Most of the writers in that group are generations younger than the 78-year-old Mr. Biden. They may not have read all of Mr. Meacham’s books. And the president-elect appears to have learned from his campaign that he can mostly ignore the news media and sneer at Twitter.

He also has the advantage that Mr. Trump has so raised the bar on presidential scandals and gaffes that even his loosest talk or most questionable hire may not scandalize. But Mr. Trump has also gotten us all used to an extraordinary, if inadvertent, level of transparency. He rarely resisted answering shouted, timely questions, and his leaky White House offered journalists and their audience an X-ray portrait of a government running off the rails. The internet, meanwhile, is noisier and even more polarized than when Mr. Biden and Mr. Obama left office four years ago.

A former Obama aide, Tommy Vietor, recently advised Mr. Biden to focus on going directly to social media and to work closely with friendly left-leaning online outlets. “Give them scoops and access,” he wrote, “and grow their audiences and influence the way Trump’s team has nurtured fringe rags like Newsmax and OAN,” a reference to One America News.

That doesn’t sound like the Biden playbook. In fact, when I told Shailagh Murray, a former senior adviser to Mr. Biden, that I was writing about Mr. Biden and the media, she asked why. He’d always been so by the book, working through staff members, pretty much the same to reporters as everyone else. “I mean, it’s important … but boring,” she said of this column.

It wasn’t always boring. The only place to start is a legendary 1974 profile of then-Senator Biden in Washingtonian by the future celebrity biographer Kitty Kelley, “Death and the All-American Boy,” which goes viral every time it is posted to Twitter for a level of openness that is still shocking in 2020. He’s aware of others’ fascination with him, a handsome 31-year-old senator whose wife had just died and is raising two boys as a suddenly single father. He is startlingly open about how he dresses, about every aspect of his relationship with his late wife, about the woman he’s dating — a Capitol Hill reporter from The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Francie Barnard. “Why should someone like Francie marry a guy like me who is still in love with his wife?” he asks Ms. Kelley. (Ms. Barnard died last year at age 73. Her obituary takes note of her journalism, a gender discrimination lawsuit and four marriages, one to Bob Woodward.)

It was all a bit much in 1974, and Mr. Biden later said he felt like a “sucker” for telling all. He never opened up about his personal life to a reporter quite like that again, though he allowed one, Richard Ben Cramer, deep inside his political world during the 1988 presidential campaign. And Mr. Cramer turned Biden’s noisy, hectic internal monologue, his family loyalty, his spaghetti binges and small-time real estate deals that never quite made him rich, into the most memorable chapters of the 1992 classic “What It Takes.” There, Mr. Biden was “a wild stallion who’d never felt the bridle,” with a gift for “the connect” but a maddening lack of focus.

Many politicians would be wounded by that kind of depiction. But Mr. Biden doesn’t really seem to hold grudges. He has given as much time to The Times columnist Maureen Dowd as any other journalist in recent years — even though she exposed the plagiarism that helped scuttle that 1988 campaign. And he absorbed Mr. Cramer’s portrait and even seemed to allow it to shape his public identity.

“So that’s how people see me?” Mr. Cramer recalled in a 2010 interview about how Mr. Biden marveled to him. When Mr. Cramer died in 2013, Mr. Biden remarked on the sensation of finding “both the observations and criticisms so sharp and insightful that you learn something new and meaningful about yourself.”

Through his decades in Washington, Mr. Biden developed a reputation as someone who would talk your ear off about judicial nominees or his plan to divide Iraq into three parts, but not one who would, à la Senators Lindsey Graham and John McCain, invest more deeply in relationships with Washington journalists. He is, that is, a talker, not a schmoozer.

During the Obama years, Mr. Biden’s staff invited establishment columnists to his residence at the Naval Observatory for lunches, where he served as a background source for stories about President Obama’s strategy around the world and on Capitol Hill. He also gamely allowed his staff to shape an online persona of him on Facebook and Twitter that was a cleaned-up version of the Trans Am-washing, shirtless Onion Joe Biden — this persona drove a Corvette instead — without ever developing a personal fluency with social media.

But it misreads Mr. Biden to see him as either a true insider or a media operator with anything like President Trump’s grasp of individual reporters’ needs, his instinct for when to call journalists or their bosses and his shrewd shaping of his own image. On the campaign trail, much of the news on the Biden beat came from NBC’s mild-mannered Mike Memoli, who has covered Mr. Biden since 2008 — but who never got the sort of free-ranging access and wide-open interviews that Mr. Obama granted Mr. Friedman (a golf partner) and The New Yorker’s David Remnick, or that Mr. Trump gave a rotating crop of Fox News hosts. Mr. Biden’s moments of connection to journalists have come in the same way they do to many people — a phone call about a relative who has died or a child who has fallen ill.

Mr. Meacham’s work may offer a bit of a clue as to how Mr. Biden, who interviewed the historian for more than an hour at the University of Delaware in 2019, will handle reporters in the West Wing. Mr. Meacham’s work is aimed at the big picture and toward a conservative form of narrative — heroic leaders and patriotic themes — that depicts America confronting big challenges like the civil rights movement of the 1960s and choosing the liberal path. It’s a bit hard to see how those sepia tones and stirring themes would play in a White House communications office putting out a thousand fires a day at the speed of Twitter. But Mr. Meacham, who has told associates he does not expect to join the administration, sees virtue in past presidents who were able to look past the pressure from the media of their days.

In “Destiny and Power,” his sympathetic, all-access biography of George H.W. Bush, Mr. Meacham recalled President Bush’s subdued public reaction to the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. “The press gets all over me. ‘Why aren’t you more excited?’ ‘Why aren’t you leading?’” the president wrote in his diary.

To Mr. Bush, the answer was obvious: He didn’t want to destabilize the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, and some bad press was a small price to pay. If he’d declared victory, he wrote, “You would’ve had chaos, and the danger of military action, bloodshed, just to make a few critics feel good — crazy.”

It’s an older set of values, and one that has already frustrated some of President-elect Biden’s supporters as he forgoes a full-throated confrontation over President Trump’s refusal to concede and delivers without fanfare a stream of appointments and an online transition fund-raiser.

The question now is whether the electorate and we in the media can break our addiction to the Trump news cycle.





No.26 article:
A Quarterback With N.F.L. Potential Pledges to an H.B.C.U., Joining a Trend

“I want to be a trendsetter,” said Noah Bodden, who has announced he will play for Grambling State instead of for one of the wealthier, higher-profile teams at predominantly white colleges.

In the hallway of his family’s apartment in Valley Stream, N.Y., last month, Noah Bodden overturned a large green trash bag, spilling out several pounds of recruiting letters.

The envelopes bore the insignia of many prominent college football programs across the country, like Louisiana State, Baylor, Oregon, Tennessee and Arizona State. Some included handwritten notes from coaches to Bodden, one of the most promising high school quarterbacks in the country.

“You will make our team better the first day you step on campus,” one coach wrote.

It was all very flattering for Bodden (the first syllable “Bo” rhymes with “snow”), especially considering the power and prestige behind the outreach from teams that regularly play on national television and have extravagant facilities.

But in a surprising move, Bodden spurned them all. He pledged to go to Grambling State University, a historically Black college in rural Louisiana. Grambling has a rich football history, but like all H.B.C.U.s, it struggles to compete with the cachet and the financial advantages of major football powerhouses.

“I want to be a trendsetter,” Bodden said last month while sitting on a stoop across the street from his home. “I want to be like LeBron James and bring everybody with me.”

Bodden, 17, lives with his parents in a modest apartment above a check-cashing store. He worries about his homework, delivers food for Door Dash in his compact car and, by taking his talents to Grambling, is highlighting the growing appeal of H.B.C.U.s for many young athletes of color.

“It’s going to bring a lot of attention to Black colleges, and deservedly so,” said Doug Williams, who played for Grambling in the 1970s and in 1988 became the first Black quarterback to start in and win a Super Bowl. Three decades later, Williams is part of a scouting committee sponsored by the N.F.L. that is pushing to ensure that H.B.C.U. players get fair consideration in the league’s annual draft.

Bodden, a senior at Christ the King High School in Queens, announced his decision in a splashy video in late September. It came a month after the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wis., and four months after George Floyd was killed in police custody in Minneapolis. Those cases and others spawned widespread protests that extended to the sports realm.

Professional players in men’s and women’s basketball, baseball and soccer sat out games, and high school athletes took steps, as well. Among them was Makur Maker, a 6-foot-11 basketball recruit, who said he would attend Howard University instead of U.C.L.A. or Kentucky. A handful of other athletes in football and in men’s and women’s basketball also said they would go to H.B.C.U.s.

Bodden pledged to Grambling for similar reasons, in part to help broaden the appeal of H.B.C.U.s to elite nonwhite athletes, some of whom worry about being exploited at predominantly white universities even as they help raise the profiles and profits of those institutions.

“With the social unrest this summer, a lot of H.B.C.U.s have been getting transfers and contacted by players they wouldn’t have gotten before,” said B.J. Jones, a former linebacker at Southern University in Louisiana and a writer and commentator for the website HBCU Gameday. “I think a lot of kids are now thinking, ‘Hey, you can love my talent. But do you love my humanity?’”

Jones said he could not recall a recruit of Bodden’s stature from a northern city in the United States who had committed to a historically Black college. Most H.B.C.U. players come from within the schools’ general geographical footprint in the South. But Bodden, Jones said, should find Grambling to be welcoming.

Jones, who was a third-generation H.B.C.U. football player, insists that Black colleges tend to emphasize developing student-athletes into well-rounded people rather than focusing simply on their sports. His grandfather played football at Tuskegee University, and his father and brother at Alabama State. When Jones was at Southern, which is near the Louisiana State campus in Baton Rouge, he and his teammates worked out and socialized with their L.S.U. counterparts. Jones said many of them envied the hospitality and comfort they felt while walking around the Southern campus.

“They would light up when they came to visit,” Jones said. “They would tell us, ‘I don’t feel ownership in my school like you do.’ It’s not just how you treat the Black athlete on campus. It’s also about how you treat the ordinary Black student who maybe can’t give you anything.”

This year, H.B.C.U.s canceled all of their fall sports because of the pandemic while the marquee conferences, which have television deals far more lucrative than those of Grambling and its fellow Black colleges, went to great lengths to stage football seasons. Williams said the H.B.C.U. decision revealed the schools to be motivated more by students’ well-being than by financial concerns.

Bodden believes that Grambling can help his chances to be drafted by an N.F.L. team, even though the university is in the N.C.A.A.’s Football Championship Subdivision, the second tier of the college game, and rarely appears on national television.

“It is by no means a mistake,” said Phil Simms, the Super Bowl-winning Giants quarterback who, along with his son Matt, has helped train Bodden. “Look, I went to Morehead State. If you’ve got it, the scouts will find you.”

Bodden hopes to compete for a starting job as a freshman, and there is less chance of that happening on a team in one of the elite Power 5 conferences.

“It’s all about getting to the league,” Bodden said, referring to the N.F.L. “If I had a good chance of going to Arizona State and starting, or at least having a shot right behind Jayden Daniels, I would go there. But that’s not the best decision for me right now.”

Only one Grambling football player has been drafted by an N.F.L. team in the past decade. Bodden believes he can be the next.

Bodden is 6-foot-4, weighs 215 pounds and has a right arm able to loft perfect spirals with incredible ease. He is rated the 48th best senior pocket-passing quarterback by 247 Sports, a network of websites that focus on college recruiting for football and basketball.

Matt Simms, a former quarterback for the Jets and the University of Tennessee, said he has seen N.F.L.-caliber talent in Bodden.

“I’ll tell him from time to time during a workout, ‘Just so you know, that throw was good enough to be the sixth or seventh best throw in the N.F.L. this week,’” Simms said. “It’s scary to think about how good he can get, because he can already throw the ball 50 yards, 20 feet off the ground.”

Bodden began working with the Simmses at the suggestion of Bruce Eugene, the offensive coordinator at Christ the King, who was a star quarterback at Grambling. Eugene said that he had initially favored Kansas, Virginia Tech and Georgia Tech for Bodden, and had not pushed Grambling, but that he was overjoyed by the decision.

Bodden’s parents initially wanted him to accept an offer from Kansas.

“But we support his decision now,” said his mother, Maria Sisternes. “We are very proud of him making the choice that is right for him.”

With 15 Black college football championships, Grambling has gained a reputation as “the Notre Dame of H.B.C.U.s.” In 1971, seven Grambling State players were taken in the first five rounds of the N.F.L. draft.

But of the roughly 1,750 active players on N.F.L. rosters when the season began Sept. 7, only 29 had come from H.B.C.U.s., according to HBCU Gameday. And since the A.F.L. and the N.F.L. began drafting together in 1967, only 13 quarterbacks have been selected from H.B.C.U.s, according to the Football Perspective website.

As integration began to take hold in college football in the early 1970s and the best players migrated to the large, predominantly white universities, the talent pool for H.B.C.U.s shrank.

The last Grambling quarterback drafted by an N.F.L. team was Clemente Gordon in 1990, and the last before that was Williams, who was selected in the first round by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 1978. Williams, who also coached at Grambling, replacing the legendary Eddie Robinson in 1998, now works for the Washington Football Team as senior vice president for player development.

“He’s going to have a culture shock, with the hospitality he is going to get,” Williams said of Bodden. “It’s not just a game there, it’s a family reunion. I can’t even imagine not going to a historically Black college.”

Bodden says he has made his decision, but he has yet to commit in writing. He can sign a national letter of intent no sooner than Dec. 16.

He could still change course. But he insists that won’t happen.

“I’m trying to promote a positive vibe,” Bodden said. “Imagine if a whole bunch of other recruits go to H.B.C.U.s, too. If you are good, they are going to come join you.”





No.27 article:
2020 N.B.A. Free Agency Updates: Trades and Signings

The Bucks are trying to satisfy Giannis Antetokounmpo, the Warriors are scrambling and the Rockets are dealing with two unhappy stars.

The N.B.A. off-season this year may be defined just as much by which players teams are able to get as by the ones they are able to keep.

The trade market opened last Monday with Chris Paul going to the Phoenix Suns, and now free agency is here, with all eyes on Houston and Milwaukee — teams hoping to bring in sufficient talent to satisfy the expectations of their biggest stars.

Teams were allowed to begin negotiations with free agents on Friday at 6 p.m. Eastern time, but the new contracts could not be signed until 12:01 p.m. Sunday.

We have compiled some of the notable transactions. Follow Marc Stein on Twitter @TheSteinLine for more.

The Los Angeles Clippers badly needed a free-agent victory and finally got one Saturday when Serge Ibaka agreed to a deal that will reunite him with Kawhi Leonard, his former teammate.

The Nets — largely because of Ibaka’s close relationship with Kevin Durant — and the Raptors were widely considered the favorites to sign Ibaka, a versatile 7-footer who had spent the past three-plus seasons in Toronto. But Ibaka is joining the Clippers after they offered a two-year deal worth $19 million, according to a person with knowledge of the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly. The deal included a player option that would allow Ibaka to return to free agency next summer.

The Clippers had a major need in the frontcourt after Montrezl Harrell, the league’s reigning sixth man of the year, agreed to a deal with the Lakers on Friday.

The Nets were limited to offering Ibaka $5.7 million for the first year of a potential deal, according to a person familiar with the negotiations. Ibaka will receive the league’s full midlevel exception of $9.25 million from the Clippers in the coming season.

Ibaka averaged 15.4 points and 8.2 rebounds a game for the Raptors last season while shooting 38.5 percent from 3-point range — a huge asset for any team looking to space the floor.

The Clippers have become an off-season nemesis for the Raptors, who lost Leonard to them in free agency a little over a year ago — mere weeks after the Raptors finished their run to the 2019 N.B.A. championship.

Ibaka was a popular figure in Toronto, on and off the court. As host of his online show “How Hungry Are You?” he invited guests like Leonard and Durant to sample cuisine from the Republic of Congo, his home country. (Ibaka got Durant to sample snake.) On another online show, “Avec Classe,” he memorably argued with Raptors forward OG Anunoby about who had a better scarf game.

The Los Angeles Lakers keep making moves — to get younger and more dynamic. The latest seemed to come as a surprise to many, including some players around the league. Montrezl Harrell is joining the Lakers on a two-year, $19 million deal, according to Rich Paul, his agent at Klutch Sports.

Harrell, a bruising, high-energy forward, isn’t moving far — in fact, he won’t need to move at all. He spent last season with the Clippers, averaging 18.6 points and 7.1 rebounds a game, both career highs. The Lakers and the Clippers, of course, both play at Staples Center.

Patrick Beverley, Harrell’s teammate on the Clippers, appeared to express his displeasure with the news on Twitter: “what,” he wrote, bracketing the word with an emoji of a man smacking his forehead and another of an emoji cursing. Beverley followed that by tweeting that he was happy for Harrell.

The Lakers now have last season’s top reserves. Harrell and Dennis Schroder, the point guard whom the Lakers acquired from the Oklahoma City Thunder in a trade last week, finished first and second in voting for the Sixth Man of the Year Award.

Schroder is likely to start for the Lakers. Harrell could continue to come off the bench. Either way, he will give the team added toughness. A second-round pick of the Houston Rockets in 2015, Harrell has also developed a reliable offensive game from the low post.

Several days (and even weeks) of speculation about Gordon Hayward’s future were resolved Saturday with a surprise: Hayward is headed to the Charlotte Hornets, who are spending big — and we mean big — on the veteran swingman.

Hayward, 30, who struggled to stay healthy in three seasons with the Boston Celtics, agreed to a four-year deal worth $120 million, according to ESPN. His agency, Priority Sports, confirmed that Hayward had agreed to a deal.

The Hornets are expected to waive the veteran Nicolas Batum to create the needed salary-cap space for Hayward and spread the payments they will owe Batum over the next three seasons. Going that route would mean Charlotte is in essence paying in the $39 million range in each of the first three seasons of Hayward’s contract.

The Knicks and the Indiana Pacers had interest in Hayward — but not at that price. The contract is the most significant outlay for Michael Jordan in his tenure as the Hornets’ owner, and a gamble for a team that has been making moves in an attempt to become more of a factor in the Eastern Conference. Worth noting, perhaps: Last summer, the Hornets lost Kemba Walker in free agency in a sign-and-trade with the Celtics.

After developing into an All-Star with the Utah Jazz, Hayward signed a big-money deal with the Celtics in 2017 — then sustained a grisly season-ending ankle injury in his first game with the team. He made a halting return for the 2018-19 season, averaging 11.5 points game. He was more productive last season — he averaged 17.5 points a game while shooting 50 percent from the field — but missed a large chunk of the regular season with a fractured hand and sat out most of the playoffs with an ankle injury. The Celtics lost to the Miami Heat in the Eastern Conference finals.

In Charlotte, Hayward will be a part of a new-look roster. On Wednesday, the Hornets drafted LaMelo Ball, the former high school prodigy from Southern California, with the third overall pick. Charlotte has not gone to the playoffs since 2016.

Hayward became an unrestricted free agent on Thursday after declining his player option for next season with the Celtics.

The N.B.A. has opened an investigation into the Milwaukee Bucks’ reported attempt to trade for Bogdan Bogdanovic of the Sacramento Kings, according to a person with knowledge of the probe.

The league, as The New York Times first reported Thursday, is looking into whether the reported transaction violated its anti-tampering rules, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the investigation publicly. The N.B.A. will seek to determine if the Bucks and the Kings, as ESPN first reported early Tuesday, had already reached an agreement on a sign-and-trade deal that would bring Bogdanovic to the Bucks — several days before free-agent discussions were allowed to start.

The Bucks and the Kings declined to comment.

Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner, pledged in September 2019 that the league would enforce its anti-tampering rules more stringently after numerous free-agent deals in June 2019 became public within minutes of the start of free agency, suggesting they had been negotiated in advance. The maximum penalty for a tampering violation was raised to $10 million from $5 million and set at $6 million for teams making unauthorized agreements with players, with Silver adding that penalties could also include voiding contracts, suspending team executives and forfeiting draft picks.

On Sunday, Bogdanovic signed a four-year, $72 million offer sheet with Atlanta that the Kings will have two days to match, according to two people with knowledge of the offer who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.

Fred VanVleet, a 26-year-old guard who was a part of Toronto’s championship team in 2018-19, has agreed to a four-year, $85 million deal to stay with the Raptors, according to The Athletic.

VanVleet averaged a career-high 17.6 points and 6.6 assists per game last season as the Raptors, without Kawhi Leonard, sought to defend their title. They came up short, losing to the Boston Celtics in seven games in the second round of the playoffs, but VanVleet performed well. He averaged 19.6 points and 6.9 assists per game during the postseason, including a 30-point, 11-assist game to open the first round against the Nets.

He first signed with the Raptors after going undrafted out of Wichita State in June 2016. Pinned to his Twitter feed is a tweet posted late the night of that draft that reads, “Bet on yourself.”

In the coming season, VanVleet and the Raptors will be based in Tampa, Fla. — at least to start — after Canadian health officials decided not to let them play in Toronto because of the coronavirus pandemic.

Bob Myers, the general manager of the Warriors, recalled getting the bad news from one of Klay Thompson’s agents. It came in the form of a text message:

Klay might have hurt himself. Call me.

It was only hours before Wednesday’s draft, and the news quickly circulated among Thompson’s teammates and friends, and among fans who had been rooting for the Warriors to reassemble the pieces needed for another title chase.

But that calculus had all changed by Thursday, when tests revealed that Thompson — one of the great shooters of his generation and a key player in three championship runs — would miss the coming season after tearing his right Achilles’ tendon during a workout in Southern California.

Thompson, 30, missed all of last season after tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in the 2019 N.B.A. finals. Back-to-back seasons for a player in his prime: Gone.

“Watching his journey, watching his growth — nobody deserves this,” Myers said in a news conference Thursday. “This is a guy that loves basketball. He bleeds basketball.”

Of course, the cupboard is not entirely bare for the Warriors. Stephen Curry should be back to full strength after missing all but five games last season with a broken left hand. Draymond Green is no slouch. And the Warriors bulked up their post presence by using the second overall pick in the draft on James Wiseman, a center from the University of Memphis.

But Thompson’s absence looms large — especially in the Western Conference. The Los Angeles Lakers just won a championship. The Clippers want one of their own. The Denver Nuggets are emerging as a perennial threat.

The Warriors wasted no time trying to compensate — a little, at least — by agreeing to trade for Kelly Oubre Jr., a 24-year-old forward, from the Oklahoma City Thunder in exchange for future first- and second-round picks. Oubre spent last season in Phoenix, where he averaged a career-best 18.7 points a game while shooting 35.2 percent from 3-point range.

On Saturday, the Clippers were thwarted in an attempt to round out their backcourt when Rajon Rondo, fresh off his championship run with the Lakers, agreed to join the Atlanta Hawks on a two-year deal worth $15 million, according to a person familiar with the negotiations who was not authorized to discuss them publicly.

In a post on Instagram, Rondo bade farewell to the Lakers, writing that he was “truly grateful” for the opportunity. Despite struggling to stay healthy, he had been a key (and timely) presence for them in the playoffs, scoring 19 points in the Lakers’ title-clinching win over the Miami Heat in Game 6 of the N.B.A. finals.

Long-range shooting is a valuable commodity. Ask Joe Harris.

The Nets are re-signing Harris to a four-year deal worth $75 million, according to a person briefed on the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly. Harris’s agency confirmed that he had reached an agreement with the team.

After barely playing for the Cleveland Cavaliers in his first two seasons in the league, Harris was recovering from foot surgery in 2016 when the Cavaliers traded him to the Orlando Magic, who promptly waived him.

He eventually landed on the Nets, who signed him to the league minimum. He quickly developed into a dependable 3-point shooter, then continued to expand his game. In 2018, he signed a two-year deal worth $16 million.

Last season, Harris averaged 14.5 points while shooting 42.4 percent from 3-point range, which put him among the league leaders. He set himself up well for free agency. The Nets were not about to let him get away.

A former second-round pick, Harris will space the floor for Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving, and his importance is reflected in his new contract.

The Lakers made a splash at the start of free agency by agreeing to a one-year deal with Wesley Matthews for $3.6 million, according to a person briefed on the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.

Matthews, a 34-year-old wing, started for the Milwaukee Bucks last season, averaging 7.4 points while shooting 36.4 percent from 3-point range.

The Lakers could be getting a small discount as the defending champions. Matthews wants a ring, and the Lakers are gearing up for another title run.

Less than three weeks into his job as the Philadelphia 76ers’ president of basketball operations, Daryl Morey is addressing an area that he clearly wanted to upgrade: the team’s perimeter shooting.

On Thursday, the 76ers worked out a trade for Seth Curry after moving toward a deal for Danny Green. The two are veteran guards who figure to help the team space the floor around Ben Simmons and Joel Embiid. There is no doubt that Simmons and Embiid are ascendant stars. But they have not figured out how to put it all together when it matters most, a problem that was especially glaring when the 76ers were swept by the Boston Celtics in the first round of the playoffs a couple of months ago.

Perhaps playing with some teammates who can make 3-pointers will help. Last season, the 76ers ranked just 22nd in the league in 3-point attempts.

To that end, Morey made a couple of bold moves. First, he agreed to send Al Horford to the Thunder as a part of a package for Green, according to ESPN. Hobbled by a hip injury last season with the Lakers, Green was largely ineffective in the postseason — but when healthy, he is a reliable perimeter threat.

Later, Morey sent Josh Richardson and the rights to the No. 36 draft pick, Tyler Bey from the University of Colorado, to the Dallas Mavericks for Curry, who averaged 12.4 points a game last season while shooting a career-best 45.2 percent from 3-point range. Curry, whose older brother, Stephen, stars for the Warriors, also happens to be the son-in-law of 76ers Coach Doc Rivers.

Dragic told The Associated Press that he had agreed to a two-year deal to remain with the Miami Heat after helping lead the team to the N.B.A. finals last season.

“Happy to be back,” Dragic told The A.P. “That was my plan, to come back, but in this crazy business you never know.”

Dragic, 34, had a terrific season in Miami, averaging 16.2 points and 5.1 assists a game — mostly off the bench. He excelled as a starter in the postseason, averaging 19.1 points a game as the Heat made a deep run in the bubble. But he injured his foot in Game 1 of the N.B.A. finals, and his absence at point guard went a long way toward derailing the Heat’s title hopes against the Lakers.





No.28 article:
China’s New Testing Policy for Travelers Is Problematic, Experts Say

Airline passengers must present negative antibody test results before boarding. Scientists consider it a largely useless way to curb disease transmission.

As cases of the coronavirus continue to climb worldwide, many countries are doubling down on testing policies that can grant or bar entry to travelers attempting to move across international borders.

But an unusual new testing policy, announced by China at the end of October, has health experts baffled. It requires inbound travelers to present negative results from an antibody test — which can neither reliably rule out infections nor prove that a person is not transmitting the virus to others.

“I don’t understand why they would be doing this,” said Dr. Krutika Kuppalli, an infectious disease physician at the Medical University of South Carolina. “It seems like this is their method of security theater.”

The strange guidelines, experts said, seemed to reflect an outdated understanding of the ways in which the virus and the immune system interact. In the spring, several companies attempted to market antibody tests as potential diagnostics of active infection. Some (but not all) later tempered or walked back these advertisements as researchers gathered more information about the timing of the antibody response to the virus, which does not kick into gear until levels of the pathogen are waning.

“I thought we were past this stage,” said Elitza Theel, a clinical microbiologist and expert in antibody testing at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. Guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention describe antibody positives as a generally poor proxy for the presence of active virus in the body.

Previous iterations of China’s policies stipulated that travelers would need to test negative only by a “nucleic acid test,” a tool that hunts for the coronavirus’s genetic material. Most available tests that meet this requirement rely on a laboratory technique called polymerase chain reaction, or P.C.R., which can home in on the virus even when it is present at very low levels in the body.

But as the coronavirus continued to spread in countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Russia, Chinese health officials became concerned that some foreign travelers might slip through the diagnostic cracks. The officials opted to pair P.C.R. with a second test to help ensure “greater accuracy in Covid-19 screening,” a spokesperson for China’s embassy in the United States wrote in an email.

In theory, that could be a sound strategy, said Deepta Bhattacharya, an immunologist at the University of Arizona: “We’re fans of being able to check with two independent kinds of tests.” But the approach quickly falls apart, he added, if officials select the wrong test as a safety net, as appears to be the case with China.

In addition to requiring negative nucleic acid test results, China now asks travelers to prove they have tested negative on an IgM antibody test, taken within 48 hours of boarding. These tests detect disease-fighting molecules called antibodies, in particular one called immunoglobulin M, or IgM, which is usually the first type of antibody roused against infectious invaders. IgM’s presence is ephemeral; eventually, two other types of antibodies that are much longer-lived, called IgG and IgA, take over.

But IgM antibodies are, at best, a lagging indicator of a viral infection, Dr. Bhattacharya said. Against the coronavirus, IgM antibodies seem to be particularly sluggish; it can take two weeks after the onset of symptoms, perhaps more, for many people to mount an IgM response that is reliably detectable by an antibody test.

Contagiousness, meanwhile, is thought to peak during the couple of days before and after people start feeling sick, after which levels of the virus dwindle.

It’s possible that an IgM test might turn positive as the virus is on its way out of the body, Dr. Theel said. But these products look for a delayed reaction to the virus, rather than the virus itself. As such, the absence of IgM does not guarantee a person is virus-free.

Many tests designed to detect IgM have bedeviled researchers with false positives, mistakenly identifying antibodies in people who actually lack them. “Some of these tests are kind of garbage,” Dr. Kuppalli said.

In the spring, faulty antibody tests flooded the market after being hastily greenlit by the Food and Drug Administration. Alarm about their poor accuracy prompted the agency to revoke clearance of several products. Test quality has improved substantially since then, but IgM remains difficult to accurately detect compared with other antibody types.

When asked whether these concerns would be addressed by China’s new testing policy, the embassy spokesperson said only that the IgM antibody test was capable of producing “stable” results. Combining nucleic acid tests and IgM antibody tests “has been put into practice in some countries on a trial basis, and is working well,” said the spokesperson, echoing earlier comments made at a news conference. The spokesperson did not respond to repeated requests for clarification or comment on which countries had implemented such protocols, or whether data existed to support the efficacy of the dual-test tactic.

Another concern, Dr. Theel said, is that IgM tests can also be very difficult to find. The new requirements could raise needlessly stressful barriers for people trying to make their way home, and waste time and money. “That is a huge inconvenience, for a test that adds, in my opinion, minimal value,” she said.





No.29 article:
Republicans Rewrite an Old Playbook on Disenfranchising Black Americans

As they try to somehow reverse Joe Biden’s victory, President Trump and his allies have targeted heavily Black cities, painting them as corrupt and trying to throw out huge numbers of votes.

In Pennsylvania, President Trump and Republicans loyal to him have sought to overturn his defeat by making false claims about widespread voting fraud in Philadelphia.

In Georgia, they have sought to reverse his loss by leveling similar accusations against Atlanta.

In Michigan, Republicans have zeroed in on Detroit, whose elections system the president has falsely portrayed as so flawed that its entire vote should be thrown out.

Lost on no one in those cities is what they have in common: large populations of Black voters.

And there is little ambiguity in the way Mr. Trump and his allies are falsely depicting them as bastions of corruption.

“‘Democrat-led city’ — that’s code for Black,” said the Rev. William J. Barber II, the president of the civil rights group Repairers of the Breach. “They’re coupling ‘city’ and ‘fraud,’ and those two words have been used throughout the years. This is an old playbook being used in the modern time, and people should be aware of that.”

Mr. Trump’s fruitless and pyromaniacal campaign to somehow reverse President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory in the election rests on the wholesale disenfranchisement of hundreds of thousands of voters, a disproportionate number of them Black Americans living in the urban centers of Georgia, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan.

Notably absent from the effort has been any focus on predominantly white suburban areas where the president performed better, but where he lost ground compared with four years ago and arguably lost the election.

The campaign is not Mr. Trump’s alone. He has had help from supporters and allies throughout the country, as well as from the Republican National Committee and its state branches.

And, in a year in which the nation elected its first Black vice president, Senator Kamala Harris of California, the push represents a newly conspicuous phase of a decades-long effort by the Republican Party to expand power through the suppression of voters of color. Those voters have largely remained loyal to the Democrats while Republicans consistently win the white vote.

Over the past several years, that Republican effort has consisted mostly of new state and local election laws that, in the name of combating fraud, have restricted voting in ways that often place a disproportionate burden on Black and Latino voters. Civil rights leaders and Democrats have cited these laws as not-so-subtle efforts at voter suppression, and, in several court cases, judges have agreed.

Mr. Trump has frequently maligned Black leaders and cities. He applauded Black voters who chose not to vote in 2016 even as he has claimed to have done more for Black Americans than any president since Abraham Lincoln. And he has not flinched in pursuing what Vanita Gupta, the president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, called “a return to very blatant Jim Crow tactics — to just try to throw out validly cast ballots and targeting certain cities that are Black-majority.”

Ms. Gupta, who was the chief of the Justice Department’s civil rights division under President Barack Obama, added: “People will say this isn’t the intent, the intent is more partisan. But I think what we are seeing through this election cycle is that in many instances it can appear motivated by partisan politics, but in the end the victims are Black voters.”

Over the weekend, Mr. Trump shared on Twitter his hope that the courts or state lawmakers would throw out the popular vote entirely in states he lost, effectively allowing legislatures to submit their own, pro-Trump slates of electors to the Electoral College.

His lawsuits trying to scuttle the state-by-state certification process that will cement Mr. Biden’s presidency at the Electoral College have failed miserably — including in a stinging dismissal on Saturday by a federal judge in Pennsylvania — and he has put more pressure on local officials to intervene on his behalf.

His effort faces two tests on Monday. Pennsylvania counties are set to submit their certified vote totals. And Michigan’s four-member state canvassing board has its deadline to certify the state’s election results. At least one of its two Republican members has indicated he may not do so because of minor irregularities in Wayne County, which includes Detroit.

State officials and election lawyers say it is highly unlikely that even a failure by the canvassing board to certify would ultimately cost Mr. Biden the state in the Electoral College. But the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the nation’s oldest civil rights law firm, is not taking any chances with the votes from Detroit, with a population that is 79 percent Black.

In a lawsuit it filed against Mr. Trump and his campaign over the weekend, the firm said, “Defendants are openly seeking to disenfranchise Black voters,” adding, “Defendants’ tactics repeat the worst abuses in our nation’s history, as Black Americans were denied a voice in American democracy for most of the first two centuries of the republic.”

The firm said Mr. Trump’s attempt to pressure the Michigan canvassing board and the State Legislature was a violation of the provision against voter intimidation in the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

That provision, initially devised to crack down on tactics meant to drive Black and Hispanic voters away from the polls, stipulates that it is illegal “to intimidate, threaten or coerce any person for urging or aiding any person to vote or attempt to vote.” The NAACP Legal Defense Fund is asking the Federal District Court in Washington to order the party to cease its pressure campaign.

“The Voting Rights Act of 1965 flatly prohibits defendants’ efforts to disenfranchise Black people,” the suit reads. “This is a moment that many of us hoped to never face. But here we are, and the law is clear.”

It was the Voting Rights Act, signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson against the wishes of some of his fellow Southern Democrats, that truly started the Republicans on a path to impose limits on voting in the name of fighting election fraud, for which little evidence exists.

The G.O.P. was the original party of civil rights during slavery and afterward. But during the 1960s and beyond it sought to appeal to disaffected, segregationist Democrats through a so-called Southern strategy.

As the percentage of nonwhite voters in the country grew, Democrats began to gain an edge. Republican governors and legislatures enacted a raft of new voting laws, such as requirements that voters at the polls show types of official photo identification that Black and Hispanic people were disproportionately less likely to have.

Mr. Barber said the victory by Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris was all the more remarkable given that it came in the face of those changes in voting laws, showing that “when people have an opportunity to vote, they will clearly vote their interests.”

Mr. Trump’s campaign against the results has focused on moves by state and local officials to make voting easier during the coronavirus pandemic, particularly mail voting.

But the degree to which the president is now pinpointing voters of color for disenfranchisement is striking even by modern Republican standards, especially after he performed better with Black voters this year than he did four years ago.

Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee noted in an interview that Mr. Trump was hyper-focused on his city, which is about 39 percent Black and 19 percent Latino, and not on the predominantly white and Republican-leaning suburbs outside it, which had the same regulations that the Trump campaign was challenging in Milwaukee.

“We are absolutely witnessing in real time an effort to disenfranchise people of color throughout Milwaukee County,” said Mr. Barrett, a Democrat. (The president is also pressing for a recount in Dane County, a predominantly white area of Wisconsin with a considerable college student population.)

In Pennsylvania, Mayor Jim Kenney of Philadelphia, also a Democrat, pointed to the Republican-led General Assembly’s refusal to allow election officials to begin processing absentee ballots early as a direct attack on the vote in his city, which would struggle under the sheer volume of votes while more rural and white counties would have a much easier time processing votes.

“There were efforts right from the very beginning,” Mr. Kenney said.

Perhaps nowhere was the targeting of Black votes more explicit than in Wayne County, Mich., home to Detroit. Though Republicans pressured the Wayne County board of canvassers not to certify the vote, the number of precincts with slightly mismatched data was lower than it was in 2016, when Mr. Trump won the state by a smaller vote margin and the result was certified unanimously.

In initially resisting the certification of Wayne County’s votes, one of the Republican board members, Monica Palmer, said she was willing to certify every municipality in the county except Detroit, even though some cities, like the largely white Livonia, had worse irregularities. (Ms. Palmer and her fellow Republican on the board, William Hartmann, did vote to certify but have since said they were unfairly pressured into doing so.)

The Republican effort this election cycle, with its focus on disenfranchising so many Black voters, threatens to have a lasting effect on the party, current and former party members said.

“The totality of what Trump is doing and the party is supporting, combined with having the first African-American female vice president — I think it’s difficult to comprehend how much this is going to have an impact,” said Stuart Stevens, a former Republican strategist for Mr. Bush and Mitt Romney who is now an adviser to the anti-Trump group the Lincoln Project.

Michael Steele, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee, said, “How do any of the reported candidates for 2024 come back and say, ‘Oh well, we were silent while the president was trying to throw out the votes in Detroit and Milwaukee and Philadelphia, but overlook that, and support the party and support us now’?”

“It makes no sense,” he added, “for getting support in the Black community going forward.”





No.30 article:
Is This Where We Are, America?

Some people oppose student loan forgiveness because they want others to suffer, too.

I took out my first student loans more than 20 years ago. I had dropped out of college just before the start of my junior year. I took a couple of years off, and when I went back I had to pay for my final two years myself. I understood the responsibility I was assuming, but I was working minimum wage jobs at the time — retail, telemarketing, bartending. Repayment seemed like a vague, distant concept in large part because I could not fathom being able to repay such staggering amounts of money. I went to graduate school and got two more degrees, and though those programs were funded, I took out student loans because it was impossible to live on the meager stipends we were given.

One of those jobs I had as an undergrad the second time around was at a student loan company, processing loan consolidations. I saw applications from people who owed $15,000 and people who owed $400,000 and everything in between. I learned how expensive chiropractic and dental schools are. I spoke with a young woman who attended Brown and was working at Walmart and had $300,000 in loans and was desperate for help. Her monthly payment was more than she earned from her full-time job. But mostly, I learned the intricacies of the student loan system, the ways to repay and defer or forbear them, what it takes to pay them off, and how the system is designed to extract as much money as possible from people simply trying to get an education, trying to get the necessary credentials to prosper.

Every month, I pay $1,000 to the federal government. My balance has hovered around $140,000 for the past 10 years because most of each payment goes toward the interest. This is a common story, but this is not a sad story because I can afford to pay my loans. In another 15 years, whatever remains on the balance will be discharged, though I will have to pay income tax on the discharged amount. And still, my loans are always looming on the periphery of my life, influencing every fiscal decision I make.

Student loans are the kind of debt from which there is often no escape. They generally cannot be discharged by claiming bankruptcy. Deferment and forbearance periods are finite. If you default, the stain of it will follow you for quite a long time. The consequences can be devastating — wage garnishments, no tax refunds, whatever the government needs to do to get its money back — and your credit score can be destroyed.

Many progressive politicians feature student loan forgiveness as one of their key policy ideas because they understand how big a problem the student debt crisis is and what it will become without intervention. With Joe Biden as president, there is a distinct possibility that some form of student loan forgiveness might become a reality.

But the debate about the issue is contentious. It’s either a great idea or a terrible one. It’s a way of evening the playing field or it’s unfair to people who have paid off their student loans or who never borrowed or attended college. A great many Americans are concerned with fairness only when they think someone else might get something they won’t get. And they are seething with resentment as they imagine a country in which we help one another. It’s appalling, that this is where we are … that this is who we are.

No one benefits from everything our government does. I don’t have children, but some of the money I pay in taxes goes toward education. This serves the greater good and indirectly benefits me. We’re all paying for infrastructure we don’t personally need or use. It’s part of the social contract, but that contract holds up only when we are all willing to abide by its terms.

Much of the political division about student loan forgiveness can be explained by the fact that people want to benefit from the social contract without adhering to its terms. Or they care about the social contract only as it applies to the right kinds of people. And, of course, there is the bootstrap mentality — If I have achieved success, surely you can too —  which is delusional at best. Then there are those who worship at the altar of personal responsibility: If you assume a debt, you must repay it. And worst of all, there’s the sufferance doctrine: If I have experienced hardship, you must experience hardship, too.

Damon Linker, a columnist for The Week, tweeted: “I think Dems are wildly underestimating the intensity of anger college loan cancellation is going to provoke. Those with college debt will be thrilled, of course. But lots and lots of people who didn’t go to college or who worked to pay off their debts? Gonna be bad.” This is what passes for political thinking these days — empty statements rising out of the notion that we have to govern from a place of fear about what might anger “lots and lots of people.”

Conventional wisdom seems to be that we must not trigger people by discussing radical ideas like universal health care, civil rights for the L.G.B.T.Q. community, reckoning with police violence and the carceral system, protecting women’s bodily autonomy, and, of course, student debt forgiveness. Somehow, compromise has come to mean not doing anything to upset anyone who is completely fine with ignoring the most urgent problems of our day.

Here’s the thing about anger. We seem to prioritize only one kind — anger in reaction to progress. And we never seem to acknowledge the anger rising out of oppression, marginalization, and under representation. The end of slavery and desegregation angered lots and lots of people, and so did taxation, suffrage, marriage equality. Progress angers people, but change is not the problem. The rage and resentment are.

People are struggling. The $1,200 stimulus checks have been spent. The additional $600 a week of unemployment funding has run its course. The Paycheck Protection Program has shut its doors. The economy continues to falter because we lack coherent federal leadership, and conditions will only worsen. We are on a precipice, as we have been before and will be again. A lot of political thinkers believe that now is the time for moderation, that we are in a boat that must not be rocked.

But now is not the time for half-measures. Now is the time for grand gestures and innovative thinking. Now is the time for remembering the social contract and recommitting to the idea of a unified country where we understand how intimately we are all connected. Now is the time for understanding that empathy is infinite if we allow it to be.

This country has to rise out of the bitter ashes of Donald Trump’s presidency. Student loan forgiveness won’t solve all the problems we are facing, but it will ease a significant burden for tens of millions of people. It will stimulate the lagging economy. And though not everyone will directly benefit, the country as a whole will improve. As a public, we owe a debt to one another — the debt of belonging to a community. It’s time that debt was paid.





No.31 article:
Andrew White, Virtuoso Saxophonist and Coltrane Scholar, Dies at 78

A man of, in his words, “various artistic gifts of excess,” he amassed a trove of self-released recordings, books and musical transcriptions.

Andrew White, a profusely talented and proudly eccentric musician and scholar best known in jazz circles for transcribing more than 800 of John Coltrane’s saxophone solos, died on Nov. 11 at an assisted-living facility in Silver Spring, Md. He was 78.

The cause was complications of two strokes he had recently suffered, said Nasar Abadey, Mr. White’s longtime drummer.

Mr. White rightly described himself as a man of “various artistic gifts of excess.” To even gesture at the breadth of his career would require a half-dozen labels: saxophonist, multi-instrumentalist, composer, author, business owner, teacher.

He leaves behind one of the largest troves of self-released recordings, books and musical transcriptions by a single musician in jazz history.

In the 1960s and ’70s, Mr. White played electric bass for Stevie Wonder and the 5th Dimension; English horn with Weather Report; oboe in the American Ballet Theater Orchestra; and saxophone in bands led by McCoy Tyner and Elvin Jones, both former members of Coltrane’s quartet.

But eventually, settling down in his native Washington, Mr. White focused his inexhaustible energies on his own projects. On Coltrane’s birthday in 1971, convinced that the music industry had neither an interest in his talents nor the ability to contain them, Mr. White started Andrew’s Musical Enterprises Incorporated, a label and publishing house that he ran with the help of his wife, Jocelyne White, an elementary-school teacher.

Over an uninterrupted 49-year period, Andrew’s Music published more than 1,000 transcriptions; more than 40 LPs of his own music, running from jazz to funk to classical; and numerous books, including “Trane ’n Me” (1981), a well-regarded musicological treatise on Coltrane that was translated into German, and “Everybody Loves the Sugar” (2001), an 800-page autobiography.

In “Trane ’n Me,” Mr. White feigned humility, then cut playfully to the chase: “I have been dubbed ‘the world’s leading authority on the music of John Coltrane.’ They call me that, but I’m too modest to make any such claim; however, if you want to pay me, you can call me anything you please except late for dinner.”

Placing an order with Andrew’s Music meant inquiring by phone, snail mail or fax machine at Mr. White’s Washington home, which he called “the other White House.” Well into his 70s, he continued to head to the neighborhood post office to mail out typewritten brochures and fulfill orders.

The covers of his books and records were typically titled in stark black or gold lettering over a white background. Book text was typewritten. But the content bridled with energy and humor.

Mr. White was known to treat concerts as physical endurance tests, and at least one show at the Top O’Foolery in Washington lasted for 12 hours straight, wearing out multiple rhythm sections in the process. He released most of that performance as a live set, stretched across nine LPs.

Appreciating his music required some fortitude on the listener’s part, too: His improvisations were brilliantly sophisticated but sonically severe, with rapid-fire notes coming out in a caustic, bellowing tone. He knew this made him unappealing to record labels — but he didn’t mourn the loss of opportunity.

“I’ve always been interested in exploiting all aspects of what I do,” he told The Washington City Paper in 1996. “I wouldn’t be able to do that with any record company, because their thing is to pigeonhole.”

And he welcomed the chance to stay weird. All of his work was touched by a ribald sense of humor and a taste for absurdity, and he teased the divide between self-promotion and self-parody. He rarely stood for a photograph with his tongue in his mouth. As he got older, the suits he wore only grew more flamboyant.

In the promotional materials (self-penned, of course) for “Everybody Loves the Sugar,” Mr. White promised a book full of “my perennial, suggestive prurience, total political incorrectness and fiendishly pious irreverence.”

His home office, which he delighted in displaying to guests, was plastered from floor to ceiling with photos of topless women. On the request of a buyer whose girlfriend had a particular kink, Mr. White said, he created a nearly hourlong album consisting entirely of flatulence.

Andrew Nathaniel White III was born in Washington on Sept. 6, 1942, but grew up in Nashville, where his father was a minister in the A.M.E. Church and a civil rights activist who went on to serve as president of the local N.A.A.C.P. chapter.

At 8, Mr. White started on the soprano saxophone, a notoriously difficult horn, which caused him to develop his “iron embouchure,” as he told JazzTimes in 2001. Before long he was teaching himself to transcribe from recordings of Charlie Parker, Miles Davis and others and writing his own music.

When he started Andrew’s Music in the early 1970s, his Coltrane transcriptions were among the first things he published. The first five volumes, totaling more than 600 solos, came out in 1973; a copy of them is now housed at the library of Syracuse University.

By the time he graduated from high school he had learned the alto and tenor saxophones as well as the oboe and upright bass.

He returned to Washington in 1960 to study music theory at Howard University, with a minor in oboe. As a freshman he co-founded the J.F.K. Quintet, a modern jazz outfit that quickly turned heads.

The group established a Monday-night residency at Bohemian Caverns, the city’s premier jazz club, where the audience often included jazz luminaries traveling through Washington. Coltrane and Eric Dolphy, a member of Coltrane’s group at the time, became fans. Cannonball Adderley was so impressed that he helped the quintet get a recording contract with Riverside Records, which released the group’s only two albums, “New Jazz Frontiers From Washington” (1961) and “Young Ideas” (1962).

As musical director, Mr. White’s arrangements on those records are a master class in the standard hard-bop sound of the day, influenced especially by the Clifford Brown-Max Roach Quintet and the Miles Davis Quintet. But when he fires up a solo, things go askew. He unlooses high and wobbly notes in sprees, and the tonal center is thrown off.

Critics compared Mr. White’s playing to that of Dolphy, another outré alto saxophonist and multi-reedist, but Mr. White saw it differently.

“I don’t have any Eric Dolphy influence,” he told JazzTimes. “We were doing what we were doing about the same time.”

“I was listening to him talk while he was explaining this scale and his approach to using this intervallic concept, and my eyes started bulging,” he continued, remembering a conversation they had at Bohemian Caverns. “What I was thinking while listening to him is that I was working from the exact same scale at the same time. To me it was a coincidence; I’ve told this story to other people, and they say it’s mystical.”

After college, seeing no commercial future as a straight-ahead jazz musician, Mr. White studied oboe at the Paris Conservatory for a year on a John Hay Whitney Foundation grant, then spent two years at the Center of Creative and Performing Arts at the State University of New York at Buffalo (now the University at Buffalo). He lived in New York in the late 1960s and early ’70s as his work as a side musician picked up, then returned to Washington after marrying Jocelyne Uhl in 1970.

They were married for 41 years, until her death in 2011. Mr. White leaves no immediate survivors — just a few thousand published artifacts, spilling with spirit.





No.32 article:
Army Agrees to Review Thousands of Unfavorable Discharges for Veterans

If approved by a federal judge, the settlement agreement in a class-action lawsuit could result in thousands of veterans gaining access to the Department of Veterans Affairs’ full array of benefits.

The U.S. Army would review the cases of thousands of former soldiers who were separated from the service after Oct. 7, 2001, with less-than-honorable discharges and potentially upgrade their service paperwork to read “honorable,” under a settlement agreement filed this week in U.S. District Court in Connecticut.

The agreement, which requires a judge’s approval, could result in thousands of veterans gaining access to the full array of Department of Veterans Affairs benefits, which they were previously not guaranteed because of minor misconduct while in uniform.

The agreement, which was filed on Tuesday, was a result of a class-action lawsuit filed against the service in 2017 by two Army veterans from Connecticut, Steve Kennedy, 34, of Fairfield, and Alicia Carson, 32, of Southington.

Their lawsuit alleged that the Army Discharge Review Board had systematically failed to follow guidance set by then-Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel in 2014 that required the service to consider mental health conditions when veterans request that their discharge status be upgraded.

Mr. Kennedy was granted a discharge upgrade in 2018, after being denied twice before, he said. Ms. Carson also had her discharge upgraded to honorable in 2017, after the lawsuit was filed, according to the Veterans Legal Services Clinic at Yale University, which represents the plantiffs together with the firm of Jenner &amp; Block.

The agreement would compel the Army to automatically review the cases of about 3,500 former soldiers who have displayed symptoms of, or claimed, mental health and behavioral disorders or who experienced sexual trauma on active duty, and had their applications for discharge upgrades rejected by the Army Discharge Review Board.

As many as 50,000 to 100,000 additional former soldiers may be eligible for upgrade reviews as members of the class-action suit, according to the Yale clinic.

“I think for me and a lot of people there was a lot of shame associated with it, and it was something I wanted to keep it to myself,” Mr. Kennedy said of his general discharge. In the years since being forced out of the Army, he earned a bachelor’s degree and is now studying for a law degree at the University of Connecticut.

“The board in my case directly reconsidered and approved my honorable discharge,” Mr. Kennedy said. “The most important thing to me is that everyone else gets that same review.”

In a statement on Thursday, Alexander Conyers, deputy assistant secretary of the Army, said, “The Army Review Boards Agency, which acts on behalf of the secretary of the Army, impartially reviews and assesses cases in a manner that is fair and equitable to soldiers, former soldiers and the Army.”

“As the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut has not yet approved a settlement and Kennedy v. McCarthy remains in litigation,” he added, “any comment regarding a proposed settlement would be premature.”

Messages left with lawyers representing the Army in the settlement agreement on Thursday were not immediately returned.

Following a 14-month tour as an infantry soldier in Iraq, Mr. Kennedy said, he committed a minor infraction in 2009 and was sent to a mental health clinic at Fort Bragg, N.C., where doctors found he had depression and recommended him for separation, saying they could not provide adequate care. As a result, he received a general discharge, not an honorable one. 

According to the legal clinic at Yale, the Army has discharged about 150,000 soldiers since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks with so-called bad paper discharges like Mr. Kennedy, many of whom showed symptoms of mental health disorders like depression and post-traumatic stress, or suffered from traumatic brain injuries following their combat service.

When a soldier, sailor, airman, Marine or Coast Guardsman is discharged from the military, the service is characterized as honorable, general under honorable conditions, other-than-honorable, bad conduct, or dishonorable. Only the first, honorable, guarantees the new veteran access to the Department of Veterans Affairs’ full array of benefits. 

The type of discharge a service member receives after being separated for minor misconduct is subjective and can vary. 

Veterans who receive what are often referred to as “bad paper discharges,” the clinic says, can suffer from a prolonged stigma, often harming their ability to find civilian jobs.

If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK). You can find a list of additional resources at SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources.





No.33 article:
Biden Team, Pushing Quick Stimulus Deal, Prepares for Renewed Recession

Economists warn that lawmakers must pass aid now, as a renewed coronavirus surge chills consumer spending and business activity.

WASHINGTON — Advisers to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. are planning for the increasing likelihood that the United States economy is headed for a “double-dip” recession early next year. They are pushing for Democratic leaders in Congress to reach a quick stimulus deal with Senate Republicans, even if it falls short of the larger package Democrats have been seeking, according to people familiar with the discussions.

Until now, Mr. Biden, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, have insisted that Republicans agree to a spending bill of $2 trillion or more, while Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, wants a much smaller package. The resulting impasse has threatened to delay additional economic aid until after Mr. Biden’s inauguration on Jan. 20.

Many of the president-elect’s advisers have become convinced that deteriorating economic conditions from the renewed surge in Covid-19 infections and the looming threat of millions of Americans losing jobless benefits in December amid a wave of evictions and foreclosures require more urgent action before year’s end. That could mean moving at least part of the way toward Mr. McConnell’s offer of a $500 billion package.

But top Democrats remain publicly adamant that Republicans need to move closer to their opening offer of $2.4 trillion. Mr. Biden, Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer have given no public indication of how much they are willing to scale back their ambitions in order to reach a deal with Mr. McConnell, arguing that the Republican leader has not been willing to compromise.

“The Covid-19 pandemic and economic recession will not end without our help,” Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer wrote in a letter this month, asking Mr. McConnell to resume negotiations. “It is essential that this bill have sufficient funding and delivers meaningful relief to the many Americans who are suffering.”

Mr. Biden’s team is also considering a range of other policy options for fighting a renewed downturn and the prospect of rising unemployment when he takes office, according to the people familiar with his plans. Some of them, like a sweeping spending bill that includes all or large parts of his campaign proposals for infrastructure, could depend on Democrats winning Senate control in two special elections in Georgia in January.

Others would not require Congress. Mr. Biden’s aides have weighed having the president-elect announce in the coming weeks that he will sign executive orders on his first day in office extending moratoriums on evictions and foreclosures, and deferrals of some student loan payments that are set to expire at the end of the year, the people familiar with the discussions said. He could also announce that he will sign an order providing a more gradual schedule for repayment of payroll taxes that some employers, including the federal government, had deferred into 2021 under an executive order issued by President Trump.

Such orders could lessen or avoid an economic cliff of expiring protections for renters, homeowners and some borrowers, which experts fear could hasten an economic contraction.

The Biden team is also exploring how to circumvent a last-minute move by the Trump administration to end Federal Reserve lending programs that have helped stabilize markets by requiring the central bank to return hundreds of billions of dollars to the Treasury Department, according to the people familiar with the discussions. One possibility would be for Mr. Biden’s Treasury to reissue that money to the Fed under new parameters meant to encourage more aid to small and medium-sized businesses than previously supplied.

But the most important measure could be quick congressional approval of a stimulus bill.

“There needs to be emergency assistance and aid during the lame-duck session to help families, to help small business,” Jen Psaki, a Biden transition aide, said on Friday before a meeting with Mr. Biden, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer. “There’s no more room for delay, and we need to move forward as quickly as possible.”

A readout from the meeting said Mr. Biden and the other Democrats “agreed that Congress needed to pass a bipartisan emergency aid package in the lame-duck session” but did not indicate what size package was warranted.

The economy returned to growth in the second half of this year after falling into a sharp and rapid recession. But sluggish retail sales growth in October, rising claims for unemployment insurance last week and a multiweek decline in employment and hours worked at small businesses nationwide have increased the odds that the economy could tip back into recession.

“The pandemic is raging, and it’s starting to do damage again,” said Mark Zandi, an economist at Moody’s Analytics.

Economists close to Mr. Biden and his campaign are circulating a spreadsheet containing new projections from Mr. Zandi, which predict that the economy will begin to shrink again in the first half of next year unless lawmakers break a prolonged impasse in stimulus talks.

Such a reversal would result in what economists call a double-dip recession, even as pharmaceutical companies prepare to distribute Covid-19 vaccines that lawmakers and economists hope will curb the pandemic and jolt the economy back toward rapid growth late next year or in 2022. Companies would shed 3 million jobs in the first half of 2021, Mr. Zandi projected, and the unemployment rate would climb from its current rate of 6.9 percent back to nearly 10 percent.

Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities who was part of Mr. Biden’s inner circle of economic aides in the campaign, said that “speed, size and composition are all important” in a stimulus agreement, “but speed is especially important.”

A dispute over the size of the package has stalled talks for months. Democrats have rejected multiple Senate Republican proposals — the latest at about $500 billion — as insufficient to address the economy’s needs, particularly because they do not include money for state and local governments to plug budget holes and avoid public-sector layoffs. Mr. Zandi said that such a package “maybe barely gets you through to a vaccine” but risks running out when the economy still needs help.

Several Republicans have expressed wariness about spending much more, revisiting concerns about the national debt and insisting that the economy is improving.

“We want to reach agreement on all the areas where compromise is well within reach, send hundreds of billions of dollars to urgent and uncontroversial programs, and let Washington argue over the rest later,” Mr. McConnell said in a speech on the Senate floor this week, deriding the Democratic offer. “By playing all-or-nothing hardball with a proposal this radical, our colleagues have thus far guaranteed that American workers and families get nothing at all.”

The legislative window before the start of the next Congress in January is quickly tightening, leaving many skeptical that a stimulus package could be passed before the end of the year. Most of the discussion around spending has centered on avoiding a government shutdown and approving the necessary dozen annual spending bills. About one week of scheduled legislative days remain, during which lawmakers will need to pass legislation to fund the government beyond Dec. 11. It is unclear whether either chamber will remain in Washington if that deadline is met, particularly when Capitol Hill is struggling to stem the spread of the coronavirus among the rank and file.

Economists are increasingly stressing the need for lawmakers to act quickly, even if that means reaching agreement on smaller package. A bipartisan group convened by the Aspen Institute’s Economic Strategy Group — including former Treasury secretaries under Democratic and Republican administrations — urged lawmakers on Thursday to approve a package that includes aid to small businesses, individuals and state and local governments, saying the economy “cannot wait until 2021” for relief.

“What I’m really worried about is the millions of people who are going to be without food or without a home during the winter,” said Melissa S. Kearney, the economist who directs the strategy group. “That level of individual suffering, really, to me, should be everyone’s priority and move them past their political differences.”




No.1 article:
Italy reports 630 Covid-linked deaths in a day – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Cities must move to the frontline of efforts to fight gender inequality, which has grown worse in the coronavirus pandemic, said six mayors from three continents as they joined forces in a new network to advance women’s rights.

Around the world, women’s jobs, unpaid labour, health and safety have been upended by the impacts of Covid-19 and need critical attention, said the leaders of City Hub and Network for Gender Equity (Change).

The network aims to promote and share innovative projects focused on combating gender inequality with city mayors around the world.

“Local governments can and should lead,” said Los Angeles mayor Eric Garcetti, the network’s first chair, who joined the mayors of Barcelona, Freetown, Mexico City, London and Tokyo in an online webinar with the media.

Data from the World Economic Forum shows that at the current pace, the gender pay gap will not close for 257 years, he said. “We must act with urgency,” Garcetti said. “We can’t allow this pandemic to set us back further.”

Women’s jobs have been 1.8 times more vulnerable to being lost in the pandemic than men’s, said a study by consultants McKinsey &amp; Co, while government data showed of the 1.1 million US workers who dropped out of the workforce in September, 80% were women.

In Los Angeles, every city department must have a gender action plan and show progress on tackling gender inequality, such as appointing women to boards and top positions, closing the gender pay gap and ensuring more girls use public spaces like sports fields, Garcetti said.

Ada Colau, the first female mayor of Barcelona who called her administration a “feminist government”, singled out unpaid care work of children and ageing relatives.

“We must fight against the inequality and injustice that women still suffer and end the invisibility of care work – a burden which is mostly borne by women,” Colau said.

London’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, who called himself as a “proud feminist”, said a report found in England, mothers were 47% more likely than fathers to have lost or left their jobs in the pandemic.

With women accounting for eight out of 10 people in low-paid jobs, London’s government has invested £3m to “re-skill” and “up-skill” women for better-paying jobs, he said.

“I want gender equity hardwired into everything we do, not simply child care, though important it is, but from housing to a hiring policy to recruitment retention from policing to the environment,” Khan said.

Mexico City mayor Claudia Sheinbaum said a key priority is combating domestic violence that has worsened during lockdown.

The city government has launched a network of 100 female lawyers who help women file reports of domestic abuse and provide free legal advice, she said.

Two-thirds of the city’s 50,000 small businesses loans provided since the pandemic started have gone to help women become economically independent, Sheinbaum said.

In Sierra Leone’s capital, Yvonne Aki-Sawyerr, the first female mayor of Freetown, said she was focused on stemming the world’s highest maternal mortality rates and supporting working mothers with child care.

Last month, Freetown’s government launched a digital mobile phone literacy programme aimed at women and opened the city’s first free day care for young children of market traders, most of whom are women, she said.

Premier League clubs can welcome back spectators in highly limited numbers next month for the first time since March, following an announcement by the British government.

Up to 4,000 people can return to outdoor sports stadiums in parts of England classified as at low risk from coronavirus from 2 December, permitting the resumption of attendance at football, rugby and racecourses among other sports.

The crowd ceiling will be set at 4,000 or half the stadium capacity, whichever is lower, in the lowest-risk tier 1 parts of the country once a stricter lockdown due to the pandemic ends.

In tier 2 areas, the limit will be 2,000 outdoors, or half the capacity, it said.

In the highest tier 3 regions where Covid-19 remains acute, no spectators will be allowed.

A few pilot events have been held with spectators, such as a cricket match at The Oval, while Brighton hosted Chelsea before this season’s Premier League got underway.

However, England’s football and rugby leagues, and horse racing venues, have not allowed spectators since the first lockdown began in March.

Rugby and racing were among the sports to receive financial aid from the government last week. Sports facing financial losses as a result of the absence of fans from stadiums can access a £300m winter survival package of loans and grants.

The government said it would spell out which regions of England will sit in which tier on Thursday, based on the latest weekly Covid data. Before the current lockdown, most of the country including London was in tier 2.

But three of the biggest Premier League clubs – Liverpool, Manchester United and Manchester City – are located in what were previously the highest tier 3 areas, so it remains to be seen whether they will be allowed to admit fans after 2 December.

The government said that where spectators are allowed, only home fans will be permitted, to prevent unnecessary travel on public transport by opposing fans.

Brazil reported a further 16,207 coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, and 302 deaths.

The South American country has now registered 6,087,608 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 169,485, according to government data, in the world’s third worst outbreak outside the US and India.

The White House plans to hold indoor holiday receptions in the coming weeks despite the advice of public health professionals urging Americans to sacrifice their normal holiday gatherings to curb the spread of the virus.

US officials have warned against large gatherings on Thursday’s Thanksgiving holiday, instead urging Americans to stay at home and forgo travelling to see relatives as Covid cases topped 12 million over the weekend.

The White House said President Donald Trump and his wife, Melania,will remain in Washington this week, skipping their annual Thanksgiving at Trump’s private club in Florida, and the first lady plans to hold a holiday reception a few days later on 30 November, according to an invitation obtained by ABC News.

It follows a series of White House events in recent months that have been linked to outbreaks, including Trump’s own bout with the disease from late September into early October. A White House aide and four others have tested positive in recent days.

Stephanie Grisham, a spokeswoman for the first lady, said the White House would provide the “safest environment possible” for the Christmas and Hanukkah celebrations with smaller guest lists than years past, masks “required and available,” social distancing encouraged and hand sanitiser provided.

“Guests will enjoy food individually plated by chefs at plexiglass-protected food stations. All passed beverages will be covered,” she said in a statement. “Attending the parties will be a very personal choice. It is a longstanding tradition for people to visit and enjoy the cheer and iconic decor of the annual White House Christmas celebrations.”

Health professionals within the administration have advised against large indoor gatherings.

“We want everyone to understand that these holiday parties can be super spreader events,” US surgeon general Jerome Adams told ABC News, urging celebrations to be held outdoors with as few people as possible and pointing to recommendations by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

“These apply to the White House, they apply to the American people, they apply to everyone,” Adams said.

While the number of US air travellers was still down about 60% compared to a year ago, federal transportation officials on Monday reported screening the highest number of passengers since March.

Here’s a quick recap of the latest coronavirus developments across the globe:

India will be given first priority for the delivery of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine after its British developers claimed success following mass testing, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume has said.

The chief executive of the Serum Institute of India, Adar Poonawalla, said the manufacturer has already produced 40m doses of the vaccine so far.

Poonawalla, whose father founded the vaccine manufacturer, told television broadcaster NDTV they should have 100m doses by January. 

He said he expected some 90% of Serum Institute’s doses were to be sold to the Indian government at around 250 rupees ($3), while the rest would be sold to the private markets for the higher price of 1,000 rupees. 

With an emergency use licence, they hoped to start rolling the vaccine out in December or January, Poonawalla added. 

AstraZeneca and Oxford University said their drug has up to 90% efficacy and can be transported easily at normal refrigerator temperatures - unlike some of the other candidates, which require extremely cold storage.

AstraZeneca said it planned to produce up to 3 billion doses of the vaccine in 2021 if it passes the remaining regulatory hurdles.

Indian health minister Harsh Vardhan told India Today TV he expected 250-300 million Indians would be immunised by September next year.

First would be health workers, other frontline workers including the police, paramilitary and those working in sanitisation, as well as people aged above 65, Vardhan added.

Prime minister Narendra Modi is expected to meet state leaders on Tuesday for discussions about the distribution of the vaccine, local media reported.

India is the second worst-infected nation after the US, with more than 9.1 million virus cases.

Pope Francis has taken aim at protests against coronavirus restrictions, contrasting them with the “healthy indignation” seen in demonstrations against racism after the death of George Floyd.

“Some groups protested, refusing to keep their distance, marching against travel restrictions – as if measures that governments must impose for the good of their people constitute some kind of political assault on autonomy or personal freedom,” he said in a new book.

He railed against those who claim “that being forced to wear a mask is an unwarranted imposition by the state”.

You’ll never find such people protesting the death of George Floyd, or joining a demonstration because there are shantytowns where children lack water or education, or because there are whole families who have lost their income. 

On such matters they would never protest; they are incapable of moving outside of their own little world of interests.

The British prime minister Boris Johnson said he hoped almost all Britons at high risk from Covid-19 would be vaccinated against the disease by Easter.

“We should be able to inoculate, I believe on the evidence I’m seeing, the vast majority of the people who need the most protection by Easter,” Johnson told a news conference. 

He also said people will not be forced to have vaccinations against Covid-19.

There will be no compulsory vaccination. That’s not the way we do things in this country.

We think it (vaccination) is a good idea, and you know I totally reject the propaganda of the anti-vaxxers, they are wrong.

Everybody should get a vaccine as soon as it is available.

Mexican church and civic leaders have cancelled an annual gathering that attracts massive crowds of Catholic pilgrims, to protect people amid an intensifying coronavirus outbreak.

The feast day of the Virgin of Guadalupe celebrated on 12 December typically features lavish pageantry at her namesake basilica in the north of Mexico City where throngs of pilgrims arrive on their knees in prayer.

But this year the festivities will move online, according to a statement issued by the bishops’ conference and city government.

“The health conditions the country is experiencing due to Covid-19 do not permit us at this time to celebrate the Virgin of Guadalupe together at her sanctuary,” the statement said.

The closure will run from 10 December through 13 December, and a security perimeter will be erected to ensure compliance.

The basilica is the most visited Catholic shrine of the Americas and was built next to a hill where legend holds that Jesus’s mother, Mary, appeared to an Aztec man.

The authorities said that while millions would like to attend the celebration “in search of comfort in the face of anguish, despair and helplessness... the common good motivates us to take containment measures to avoid further spread of the virus.”

Since the pandemic reached Mexico in the spring, most in-person religious gatherings, including Catholic Masses, have been pared back or cancelled and replaced with online services.

Spain’s King Felipe VI has started 10 days of quarantine after coming into close contact with someone who later tested positive for Covid-19, a Royal House source said.

The king, 52, has cancelled his public appearances during the quarantine period after the person tested positive on Monday, one day after they were in close contact, the source added.

Felipe VI had chaired a scientific meeting in Madrid earlier on Monday.

Queen Letizia and their two daughters will continue their royal activities, the source said.

Hi everyone, this is Jessica Murray taking over the global liveblog for the next few hours.

As always, please do get in touch with any story tips or personal experiences you would like to share. 

Email: jessica.murray@theguardian.comTwitter: @journojess_





No.2 article:
Oxford Covid vaccine hit 90% success rate thanks to dosing error

Participants given first shot at half strength by mistake were found to be better protected

The Oxford University and AstraZeneca vaccine trials reached 90% efficacy by accident thanks to the “serendipity” of an error that led to some participants receiving half doses, it has emerged.

On Monday scientists revealed that the Oxford vaccine had an overall efficacy of 70%, but could be around 90% effective when administered as a half dose followed by a full dose a month later.

“The reason we had the half dose is serendipity,” said Mene Pangalos, executive vice-president of biopharmaceuticals research and development at AstraZeneca.

When university researchers were distributing the vaccine at the end of April, around the start of Oxford and AstraZeneca’s partnership, they noticed expected side effects such as fatigue, headaches or arm aches were milder than expected.

“So we went back and checked … and we found out that they had underpredicted the dose of the vaccine by half,” said Pangalos.

Instead of restarting the trial, he said researchers decided to continue with the half dose and administer the full dose booster shot at the scheduled time.

About 3,000 people were given the half dose and then a full dose four weeks later, with data showing 90% were protected. In the larger group, who were given two full doses also four weeks apart, efficacy was 62%.

Scientists said they still could not fully explain why the half dose gave better protection, but said it may be that it triggers the immune system differently.

Prof Sarah Gilbert from Oxford University, who led the research, said: “It could be that by giving a small amount of the vaccine to start with and following up with a big amount, that’s a better way of kicking the immune system into action and giving us the strongest immune response and the most effective immune response.”

Prof Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group and chief investigator of the trial, added: “What we don’t know at this moment is whether that difference is in the quality or the quantity of immune response. And that’s something we’re going to be digging into over the next weeks.”

The vaccine still needs to be approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, but could be made available in the coming weeks if given the go-ahead.





No.3 article:
Regeneron’s two-drug cocktail will be used to treat people who are at high risk of being hospitalized with the coronavirus

The federal government plans to immediately begin distributing a new monoclonal antibody cocktail from Regeneron, the same drug Donald Trump received when he was hospitalized with Covid-19 in October, officials said in a press call.

The two-drug cocktail with the tongue-twisting generic names casirivimad and imdevimab will be used to treat people who are at high risk of being hospitalized with Covid-19, but still have mild to moderate disease.

“We expect to distribute about 30,000 doses of the Regeneron product tomorrow with more to come in the ensuing weeks,” said the US health and human services secretary Alex Azar.

The federal government’s contract with Regeneron currently covers 300,000 doses, which will be distributed to states based on the number of people who test positive and are hospitalized for Covid-19. At such extremely limited quantities, demand will far outstrip supply.

More than 142,000 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 the day before the announcement. More than 12.3 million Americans have now been diagnosed with Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic, and more than 257,000 people have died, according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Resource Center.

The US Food and Drug Administration gave Regeneron emergency permission to distribute its antibody cocktail over the weekend. The emergency use authorization is far short of a formal approval, but will allow doctors another option when treating Covid-19, for which there are still few tailored therapies. However, because of the extremely limited quantities, it will not stop the pandemic on its own.

“Much of the attention, rightfully, has gone to vaccine development,” said Dr Janet Woodcock, director of the FDA’s center for drug evaluation and research. “We also have been working to develop a wide range of therapeutics to try to cover the time before we have the vaccine, as well as those individuals who are not protected by a vaccine.”

Officials said they hoped the antibody cocktail would help high-risk individuals, such as people who are older than 65 or obese, before they need to be hospitalized, and are approved in people older than 12. The drugs were designed off the back of another successful therapy for Ebola virus.

While the drug’s distribution will give some Americans access to the same drug that Trump received, they will not access it in the same dose. Regeneron’s FDA emergency authorization is for a 2.4-gram infusion, where Trump received a higher 8-gram dose.

This may be at least partly because of concerns around manufacturing capacity. Even at full manufacturing Regeneron will only be able to make 2m doses a year.

In October, Regeneron’s chief scientific officer, George Yancopoulos, said if he had only one patient, “I’d give the high dose,” but, “from a societal point of view and the need to treat as many people as possible, I’d give the lower dose,” according to Science Magazine.

In another point of difference from the president’s treatment, Americans will still probably shoulder the administrative costs of receiving the intravenous drug, even though the federal government has paid for the pharmaceutical itself.

Under normal circumstances, monoclonal antibodies are among the most expensive drugs on the market. The family of drugs is often used to treat cancer, and the average price over the last 20 years of drug approvals was more than $96,000. Officials did not immediately respond to questions about the likely cost of those services.

“It’s vital Americans be aware of these expanding options,” said Azar later in a press call. “We are now seeing positive news on the therapeutic and vaccine front nearly every day.”

Azar said the news should also be a reminder for Americans to “double down” on “masks, hand-washing and social distancing”, especially ahead of the upcoming Thanksgiving holiday. “There is light at the end of the tunnel,” he said.

While surveys show a majority of Americans have scaled back holiday plans, a meaningful minority appears to be traveling against health officials’ advice, raising the potential for “a surge superimposed upon a surge,” according to Dr Anthony Fauci, in a separate appearance on Washington Post Live.

Because of surging cases, Azar also urged Americans who have recovered from Covid-19 in the last three months to give convalescent plasma, which is used to treat people with active coronavirus infection.





No.4 article:
Lunar landing is due in about eight days and entire mission is scheduled to last 23 days

China has launched a robotic spacecraft to bring back rocks from the moon – the first such attempt by any country since the 1970s.

The Long March-5, China’s largest carrier rocket, blasted off at 4.30am Beijing time on Tuesday from Wenchang space launch centre on the island of Hainan carrying the Chang’e-5 spacecraft.

The Chang’e-5 mission, named after the ancient Chinese goddess of the moon, will seek to collect lunar material to help scientists understand more about the moon’s origins and formation. The mission will test China’s ability to remotely acquire samples from space before more complex missions.

If successful, the mission would make China only the third country to have retrieved lunar samples, joining the United States and the Soviet Union.

Upon entering the moon’s orbit, the spacecraft is meant to deploy a pair of vehicles to the lunar surface: a lander and an ascender. The landing is due to take place in about eight days, according to Pei Zhaoyu, a spokesman for the mission. The probe is due to be on the lunar surface for about two days, and the entire mission is scheduled to take around 23 days.

The plan is for the lander to drill into the lunar surface and scoop out soil and rocks using a robotic arm. This material would be transferred to the ascender vehicle, which is due to carry it from the surface and then dock with an orbiting module.

The samples then would be transferred to a return capsule for the trip to Earth, with a landing in China’s Inner Mongolia region.

“The biggest challenges … are the sampling work on the lunar surface, takeoff from the lunar surface, rendezvous and docking in the lunar orbit, as well as high-speed re-entry to Earth,” said Pei, who is also director of the Lunar Exploration and Space Engineering Center at China National Space Administration.

“We can conduct sampling through circumlunar and moon-landing exploration, but it is more intuitive to obtain samples to conduct scientific research – the method is more direct,” Pei added. “Plus, there will be more instruments and more methods to study them on Earth.”





No.5 article:
Qatar charges airport officials over invasive searches after baby found

Prosecutors have also launched proceedings to arrest child’s mother, who left country

Prosecutors in Qatar have announced that the airport police officers who ordered forced vaginal examinations of female passengers after a newborn child was discovered abandoned in a bin have been charged and could face prison sentences of up to three years.

Prosecutors did not say how many officers faced charges over the incident last month at Hamad international airport, which sparked widespread anger in Australia, a key destination for the state-owned Qatar Airways.

“Extensive investigations revealed that some employees of the airport security department acted unilaterally by summoning female medical staff to conduct external examination to some female passengers, thinking that what they had done was within the law,” a statement from prosecutors said on Monday.

The public prosecutor said it had also charged the child’s mother, who left the country, with attempted murder and that it had launched legal proceedings to arrest her. The mother, identified as of “Asian nationality”, could face a maximum penalty of 15 years, the statement said.

It also said a male defendant had been identified as the child’s father after a DNA test. The mother had messaged the father telling him she had just given birth and that she was abandoning the child and leaving the country, the prosecutor said. It is not clear what charges the father faces.

The physical examinations of passengers bound for Sydney and nine other unnamed destinations triggered outrage in Australia. The government denounced the searches as inappropriate and beyond the circumstances in which the women could give free and informed consent. Rights activists say such exams conducted under duress amount to sexual assault.

In Qatar, as in much of the Middle East, sex and childbirth outside marriage are criminalised. Migrant workers in the past have hidden pregnancies and tried to travel abroad to give birth, and others have abandoned their babies anonymously to avoid imprisonment.





No.6 article:
Latest breakthrough comes as PM says he hopes most at-risk could be immunised by Easter

The world is moving a step closer to ending the coronavirus pandemic, the scientist behind Britain’s first vaccine has declared, as Boris Johnson said he hoped the majority of those most at-risk could be immunised by Easter.

Successful trial results for the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine, suggesting it could protect up to 90% of people, are the third set of promising findings in as many weeks. Before this year, there had never been a vaccine for a coronavirus.

The development came as a relief to the UK government, which has invested heavily and ordered 100m doses – enough for the whole adult population

Matt Hancock, the health secretary, said that subject to regulatory approval, the bulk of the UK rollout could come in the new year, while the prime minister said a “favourable wind” could allow the majority of people most in need of a vaccination to receive one by Easter. “I don’t want to give any more hostages to fortune than that, but that’s the best information we have,” Johnson told a Downing Street press conference.

It was also hailed as exciting news for the rest of the world, especially low-income countries. The vaccine is low-cost, at £3 a dose compared with more than £20 for the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, which also released results this month.

The latest vaccine does not need to be shipped and stored in ultra-cold freezers, solving a huge logistical problem posed by the others, and there is good data that it will work as well in elderly people as in younger people.

“The announcement today takes us another step closer to the time when we can use vaccines to bring an end to the devastation caused by [Covid-19],” Prof Sarah Gilbert from the University of Oxford, who has led the research, told the Guardian. “We will continue to work to provide the detailed information to regulators. It has been a privilege to be part of this multinational effort, which will reap benefits for the whole world.”

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

The long-anticipated efficacy results revealed on Monday delivered a major surprise. Overall efficacy from trials in the UK and Brazil was 70%, but the vaccine worked better in people given a lower first dose. Those who got a half dose, followed four weeks later by a full dose, enjoyed 90% protection, while efficacy among those who had two full doses was 62%.

While AstraZeneca said it would submit its data to the UK regulator immediately. New trials will have to be run in the United States, where the half-dose regime was not being tested, pushing back any possibility of the vaccine being available there before Christmas.

The scientists said they could not fully explain why a lower first dose appeared to give better protection. “We think that by giving a smaller first dose that we’re priming the immune system differently – we’re setting it up better to respond,” said Prof Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group and chief investigator of the trial. “And what we don’t know at this moment is whether that difference is in the quality or the quantity of immune response.”

Gilbert said people should not assume that the other two vaccines, which achieved 95% efficacy in trials and were both made using a different, novel mRNA technology that uses genetic code instead of virus, were better. The trials had not been set up to measure the same things.

“We need to bear in mind these are early data,” she said. “We have additional trials running. Those numbers may be a little bit different in the ultimate analysis. You can’t directly compare the readout from different clinical trials. If you don’t have the same criteria for enrolling people or endpoint cases, you can’t compare.”

Experts were enthusiastic about the vaccine, which has long been one of the biggest hopes for taming the pandemic worldwide. Oxford/AstraZeneca have joined Covax, the World Health Organization-led programme to distribute vaccines to all countries, and done deals with manufacturers in other countries. The Serum Institute of India is to make 1bn doses.

“If there is anyone out there who still doubts that a Covid-19 vaccine can help us out of this pandemic, the announcement today from Oxford University/AstraZeneca should surely dispel that doubt,” said Eleanor Riley, a professor of immunology and infectious disease at the University of Edinburgh. “This is excellent news – another vaccine that can prevent symptomatic infections and, even better is cheap to produce and easy to distribute.”

Dr Richard Hatchett, the chief executive of the Coalition for Vaccine Preparedness (CEPI) which is involved in Covax, said they believed the Oxford vaccine “has the potential to significantly alter the course of the global pandemic. The data released today suggest the vaccine is safe and comparable in its efficacy to other licensed vaccines – including influenza – that are widely used to protect people around the world today.”

Oxford/AstraZeneca say they believed their vaccine may help stop transmission, potentially preventing the spread of the coronavirus, as well as protecting people from becoming ill. Unlike other vaccines, they have collected weekly swabs sent from UK volunteers given home test kits. The data, which has not yet been published, suggests a reduction in asymptomatic infection among people who were vaccinated.

Hancock said that if the data was approved by the regulator, the vaccine would be available for most people next year. “This is really encouraging news on the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, that obviously we’ve been backing since the start,” he told Sky News. “And I’m really very pleased, really welcome these figures, this data, that show that the vaccine in the right dosage can be up to 90% effective.

“Of course, it’s vital that the independent regulator, the MHRA [Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency], will need to look at the data, will need to check to make sure that it’s effective and safe of course. But we’ve got 100m doses on order and should all that go well, the bulk of the rollout will be in the new year.”

Dr Charlie Weller, the head of vaccines at Wellcome, said every effective vaccine would be needed. “To have interim results from three vaccine teams within a year is incredible, and testament to a truly extraordinary global scientific effort. We need a range of vaccines, that can protect people of different ages and backgrounds wherever they live, and to be able to manufacture enough doses for the world.

“To meet the aim of vaccinating high-risk populations around the world over the next year we need at least 2bn vaccine doses.”





No.7 article:
Pope says anti-maskers stuck in &#x27;their own little world of interests&#x27;

Francis contrasts opposition to Covid measures with ‘healthy indignation’ over racism

Pope Francis has taken aim at protests against coronavirus restrictions, contrasting them with the “healthy indignation” seen in demonstrations against racism after the death of George Floyd.

“Some groups protested, refusing to keep their distance, marching against travel restrictions – as if measures that governments must impose for the good of their people constitute some kind of political assault on autonomy or personal freedom,” he said in a new book.

He railed against those who claim “that being forced to wear a mask is an unwarranted imposition by the state”. 

“You’ll never find such people protesting the death of George Floyd, or joining a demonstration because there are shantytowns where children lack water or education, or because there are whole families who have lost their income,” he said. “On such matters they would never protest; they are incapable of moving outside of their own little world of interests.”

The book, Let Us Dream: A Path to a Better Future, is derived from conversations with his British biographer Austen Ivereigh, and is largely centred on his response to the coronavirus crisis.

“With some exceptions, governments have made great efforts to put the wellbeing of their people first, acting decisively to protect health and to save lives,” the pope said.

However, he added that some had put the economy before public health. “Those governments have mortgaged their people,” he said.

The death in police custody of Floyd a 44-year-old African American man, triggered a wave of anti-racism protests in the US and around the world.

The pope again condemned the “horrendous” death and hailed how “many people who otherwise did not know each other took to the streets to protest, united by a healthy indignation.”

However, he cautioned against pulling down historical statues, a byproduct of some of the protests, describing it as “amputating history”.

“A free people is a people that remembers, is able to own its history rather than deny it, and learns its best lessons,” he said.





No.8 article:
83,870 people were hospitalised in the US Sunday of coronavirus, while 921 people died and millions have been screened at airports

More people are hospitalised with Covid-19 in the US than ever before, as cases continue to rise steeply amid the countdown to a Thanksgiving holiday many fear will have disastrous effect, given mass travel and indoor family gatherings.

According to Johns Hopkins University, the US has now recorded 12,248,118 cases. There were 142,732 new positives on Sunday, down from the record high of Friday, when more than 196,000 cases were recorded. But 83,870 people were hospitalised, a record, while 921 people died. The death toll was 256,589.

On Friday, 1,448 people died – the equivalent of one death every minute.

In Washington, Donald Trump has faced criticism for a lack of action. The lame duck president played golf on Sunday. On Monday he had no events on his public schedule.

In Wilmington, Delaware, where Joe Biden continues to plan for the transition of power, the president-elect was due to hold a virtual meeting with the US Conference of Mayors. Biden spoke to governors last week.

Despite news of impending vaccines, states across the US are feeling the strain. In just one example, Minnesota, the Minneapolis Star-Tribune’s front-page headline on Monday was: “No beds anywhere: hospitals strained to limit by virus.” The paper reported 7,219 new cases and 41 deaths and said demand for testing was surging.

Resources are also strained in states which saw early peaks and are now experiencing a resurgence. In New York, where schools are closed again, the Wall Street Journal reported that hundreds of bodies from the spring surge were still in refrigerated morgues on the Brooklyn waterfront.

Citing the city’s medical examiner, the Journal said many of the bodies “are of people whose families can’t be located or can’t afford a proper burial”. Mayor Bill de Blasio ruled out mass burials after controversy early in the pandemic.

In Nevada, the Democratic governor, Steve Sisolak, having tested positive himself earlier this month, announced new restrictions on casinos, restaurants and bars and other public venues, while imposing a broader mask mandate.

“Whether you believe in the science of Covid or not,” he said, “the reality is this – Covid is filling up our hospital beds, and that threatens all Nevadans.”

Oregon also reported a record high in new cases on Sunday, 1,517, bringing the total to 65,170. The death toll reached 820. The director of the state health department urged residents to cancel indoor Thanksgiving plans and those that involve large groups.

Millions bought tickets to fly for Thanksgiving before the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the top US public health agency, advised against holiday travel. Many are still crowding airports and boarding planes, despite relatively lenient cancellation policies among major airlines.

“Consumers should feel comfortable changing their plans and canceling their flights if they need to for health reasons,” John Breyault of the National Consumers League told the Associated Press.

More than 2 million people were screened at US airports on Friday and Saturday, according to the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). That was far lower than during the same period in 2019 but Friday was only the second time since mid-March that daily airport screenings passed 1 million.

On Monday, the TSA said it screened 1.047 million passengers on Sunday, the highest number since mid-March.

The CDC has said Americans should skip Thanksgiving travel and not spend the holiday with people outside their household. The nation’s top infectious diseases expert, Dr Anthony Fauci, said on Sunday he was worried crowding at airports could worsen an already perilous situation.

People at airports “are going to get us into even more trouble than we’re in right now”, Fauci told CBS. He also said new Covid cases from Thanksgiving would not become evident until weeks later, making for a “very difficult” situation as the country heads into colder weather and the December holiday season.

Airlines have said they are sanitising gates and kiosks, shortening lines and gatherings and purifying air. Most are offering opportunities to travel later, though a replacement flight might cost more.

The TSA said it had prepared for higher traffic, increasing staff to keep lines shorter and maintain social distancing.

“We have been handling passenger volumes reaching more than 900,000 a day frequently since early October,” the agency said.

Speaking to the Washington Post on Monday afternoon, Fauci said the news that two high-efficacy vaccines should be available to high-priority groups in December should encourage people to stay home and heed public health guidance over the holiday season.

“It should be an incentive for people,” he said, “despite the fact we all have Covid fatigue … because if help is on the way, you want to hang in there, not get infected, not infect your loved ones, because there is help that is close by and it’ll be getting better and better as months go by.”





No.9 article:
UK, France and Germany discuss working with Joe Biden on Iran nuclear deal

Foreign ministers hope US will lift sanctions in effort to revive 2015 agreement with Tehran

European foreign ministers from Germany, France and the UK have met to discuss a joint approach with the incoming Joe Biden administration on reviving the Iranian nuclear deal.

The three nations, whose ministers met in Berlin, are hoping Tehran can reach an agreement under which the US would lift its crippling sanctions in return for Iran ending its non-compliance with the 2015 agreement constraining its nuclear activities.

German officials added Europe would consider its response if Donald Trump in the dying days of his administration mounted a surprise attack on Iran’s nuclear sites.

Biden, the US president-elect, has said he wants the US to rejoin the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or JCPOA, the formal term for the Iran deal signed in 2015, if Iran ends its acknowledged breaches of the agreement, including the excess stockpiling of enriched uranium.

Germany, France and the UK, known as the E3, issued a strong joint condemnation last week of Iran’s latest breaches, including the use of more advanced centrifuges.

Gathering at a government villa outside Berlin, the foreign ministers Heiko Maas of Germany, Jean-Yves Le Drian of France and Dominic Raab of the UK met to discuss “what a further approach involving all signatories to the JCPOA, and perhaps also with a new US administration, could look like”, according to German officials.

One diplomat said the aim was to get the JCPOA back to its original purpose – curtailing Iran’s nuclear programme.

Formal talks between the Biden team and Europe cannot yet start, but the E3 has been urged to act as a mediator between the US and Iran, where a heated debate is under way about how to view the Biden administration’s intentions.

Some European officials are advising it may be easier for the EU to mediate an understanding whereby Iran quickly ends its breaches of the agreement and the US president lifts its economic sanctions by executive order. The agreement could temporarily be reached with or without the US formally returning to the JCPOA.

There may be barriers to such a quick formal return to the agreement, however, if Iran were to demand watertight mutual guarantees of future compliance, and possible US compensation for imposing sanctions. The US, for its part, may require Iran agree to update and broaden the 2015 agreement to include Iran’s missile programme and Iran’s relations with its neighbours, such as Saudi Arabia.

The Iranian foreign minister, Javad Zarif, last week suggested Iran might need guarantees before letting the US rejoin the old JCPOA.

The former EU chief negotiator Federica Mogherini advised the US not to try to negotiate an updated JCPOA too quickly. Speaking at a European Leadership Network event, she said: “I don’t see the possibility of moving on to new elements unless and until JCPOA is fully implemented by both sides. I think this is the starting point and I think we would be mistaken and under a very serious illusion if we were thinking of doing this the other way around.” 

Wendy Sherman, the US lead negotiator on the Iran deal between 2011 and 2015, admitted last week: “The nuclear deal is barely hanging on by a thread” in the last months of the Donald Trump administration. “We are in a really tough, tough place where it appears President Trump is trying to create as many chips on the side of the US and Iran is trying to create as many chips on the side of Iran before the new administration arrives,” she said.

Sherman said she believed the Biden team needed to start consultations very quickly with European partners. “Biden has said if Iran is ready to come back into compliance, the US is ready to re-enter, but getting from here to there is complicated,” she said. “Everything is not going to fall back into place on day one.”

She advised that the window for gaining any traction may be quite short because Iran is holding its own presidential elections in June. She predicted that conservative hardliners will do well in those elections, making talks more difficult.





No.10 article:
Rate of 631.7 cases per 100,000 blamed on deprivation and ‘wilful disregard’ of rules

A district of Kent has become England’s worst-hit Covid hotspot, with local leaders putting the jump in cases down to deprivation and a “wilful disregard of the rules”.

Swale reported a rate of 631.7 cases per 100,000 people for the seven days to 18 November, according to government figures – up from 425.8 per 100,000 over the previous seven days.

The coastal borough, which includes Sittingbourne, Faversham and the Isle of Sheppey, has overtaken Hull as the English authority with the highest Covid-19 rate.

The news has come as a shock to local residents and businesses as it has been rare during the pandemic for an area in the south-east to fall into the top 20 local authorities in England for infection rate.

Amid concerns over compliance with coronavirus restrictions, the leader of Swale council, Roger Truelove, called an emergency meeting on Monday afternoon to address the soaring case numbers.

He said: “I know most people and businesses are doing what they should, but it is frustrating to still see people not wearing face coverings or keeping their distance when they should. This kind of wilful disregard of the rules means we are more likely to have further restrictions imposed on us in December.”

Senior representatives from Kent county council, Kent police, HM Prison Service, the Department for Work and Pensions and the local voluntary sector were invited to attend.

After the meeting Truelove said: “What we really want to get across to our local population is that if we don’t get our figures down, we are going to be in a very high restrictive tier going forward throughout the winter.”

Deprivation has also played a role, Truelove added, as the areas worst affected are the poorest and most deprived, where people live in houses close together and may not be able to work from home. He added: “It doesn’t take many people to not observe the social distancing for it to cause a spike.”

Truelove believes there is a notable difference in the intensity of compliance to the restrictions between the first and second national lockdown. The council will therefore “supercharge the messaging to people” to take the pandemic seriously and follow the restrictions in place.

“We do get reports of crowding in supermarkets and so we will be writing to supermarkets,” Truelove said. He added there had been reports of children who were supposed to be isolating being taken out shopping.

Jack Connor, who represents Swale at the Kent youth county council, agreed that cases had risen sharply in the area because residents, including young people, had been “flouting the rules”. He is supportive of the area entering tier 3 restrictions and hopes the latest figures will be a wake-up call to residents. He said the role deprivation had played and the decision to keep schools open should not be ignored as factors.

Sarah Simmons, a consultant at the Three Mariners pub in Oare near Faversham, said the lack of clarity on whether Swale would enter the highest tier and how long for was a devastating blow for local businesses. “Words cannot express the fear and emotion for all those in our industry right now.

“We’re desperate to trade, but we’re even more desperate for guidance.” She warned that the lack of a long-term plan and the stop and start of the industry, which is people-led and depends on fresh product, made the businesses more difficult to run.

Danni Hollands, marketing manager at the Black Lion pub in Lynsted near Sittingbourne, said the significant increase in cases over a short period had come as a shock to the area and that she was worried about what it meant for the hospitality sector. “We feel as an industry that we’ve kind of been sidelined. Yes, it’s very difficult to control the pandemic in the hospitality industry, hence why we’ve been hit the hardest, but the financial support we are getting from the government is absolutely minimal and really isn’t helping.”





No.11 article:
Saudis may stall on Trump&#x27;s Middle East peace plan now he’s on the way out

Analysis: Palestinians are hoping a Biden presidency will slow the growing rapport between Saudi Arabia and Israel

During the last year of Donald Trump’s presidency, the question of whether Saudi Arabia would make peace with Israel had come down to a question of when.The terms of such a deal were more or less agreed during Trump’s tumultuous term, thrashed out between his envoy and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and the kingdom’s effective ruler, Mohammed bin Salman, who held a very different view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict from other Saudi leaders.Their outlook centred on Iran rather than the Israeli-Palestinian conflict being the centre of the region’s dysfunction. And Israel, they agreed, could help, not hinder, progress on that score. Prince Mohammed eschewed his father and uncles’ views that a return to 1967 lines was a starting point for peace, in favour of the Kushner line that Palestinian leaders had caused talks to stagnate.Ties warmed quickly, especially from May 2017, when Saudi Arabia received Trump as a conquering hero after he overturned the nuclear deal with Tehran and reorientated Washington’s focus to Riyadh.The secret channels used to communicate between the kingdom and Israel were discarded. So was the need for mediators, as Saudi officials made regular visits to Tel Aviv and vice versa. Denials of such trips were replaced by hints that they had taken place. Then came peace deals with Saudi allies, the UAE and Bahrain, and now a visit by Benjamin Netanyahu to Prince Mohammed on Saudi soil that Israel didn’t bother to disguise.

Despite a flight path visible on flight tracking sites, which showed the arrival of Netanyahu’s preferred charter jet on the shores of the Red Sea city of Neom, Riyadh responded with a pro forma denial.There to meet the Israeli prime minister on the shores of the Red Sea was outgoing US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, on a mission to finalise as much as he can before he loses his job in eight weeks. Securing a peace pact is something Pompeo, Kushner and Trump have desperately pushed for and such a deal would indeed be seismic in the Middle East, where many are nervously awaiting its impact.

The so-called Trump peace plan offered up to $50bn in international investment for the creation of a Palestinian state on a sliver of the West Bank, which would not require Israel to uproot any of its settlements there. It was widely denounced as a Pythonesque approach to peace that effectively expected a Palestinian capitulation.The Palestinians, fearful of their cause all but being obliterated, have flagged restarting talks when Joe Biden takes over the White House and have resumed security cooperation with Israel in advance. Their hope is that Prince Mohammed will not sign up to the plan before 20 January, presenting the incoming president with a fait accompli.Prince Mohammed knows what such a concession would mean, both for the kingdom and for Trump. He had given the go-ahead for Bahrain, a junior ally of Riyadh, to sign a deal and had been inclined to follow suit if Trump had won a second term.

His reward for doing so would have been significant; access to defence technology that could have put the kingdom on a strategic par with Israel was one inducement. Investment and standing with Washington were others.

His incentive to do so now though is less clear. Unless Trump’s aides can conjure up a way to offer rewards that would be safeguarded when the White House changes leader, Prince Mohammed may decide not to play his hand for now. How normalising ties would affect relations with the incoming administration, and whether doing so may influence Biden on Iran, remain key considerations.Pompeo, a Christian Zionist who sees safeguarding Israel as a divine mission, has a lot to play for in the coming weeks. At face value, the heir to the Saudi throne has much more time – and a lot more to consider. Meanwhile, after a miserable four years in the US tipped the balance of power even further from them, the Palestinian hope is that Biden will somehow stop their slide.





No.12 article:
A Covid Christmas and the price of life

Dr Hazel Chipchase on the care she received from stressed NHS staff, Dr Michael Peel on putting a price on lives. Plus John Yates and Ron Brewer on the coronavirus Christmas problem

I read with interest the letter (20 November) from a consultant neurosurgeon as I recovered from neurosurgery at Salford Royal hospital, which was undertaken on 8 November. I noticed that many of the staff who treated me probably missed Diwali, which seemed to go unremarked. They had frameworks of support in place but there was an increasing toll on them from increased safety measures, their domestic lives complicated by school closures and support issues.

As a retired clinical psychologist, I could see firsthand the trauma of patients going through frightening interventions without physical family support, and seeing patients die around them in some cases. This had a knock-on impact on the teams supporting them. I felt humbled at the love and care shown to me, almost without exception. I also felt angry at the grudging attitude to staff pay by the government for people who have given so much. Dr Hazel Chipchase Cheadle Hulme, Cheshire

• I am concerned about the idea of putting a price on human lives in the cost-benefit analyses of restrictions on personal mobility to reduce the spread of Covid-19 (Threat of Tory revolt remains as Johnson to unveil post-lockdown measures for England, 23 November). Steve Baker, deputy chairman of the so-called Covid Recovery Group, mentioned on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme “quality-adjusted life years”, a technique used by Nice to balance the cost of individual clinical interventions against the estimated benefits. There have been many debates about its ethics at an individual level, and it has never been used at the population level. Any outcome will depend on the exact rules, compliance, how they are communicated, and how they are enforced, none of which have been consistent so far. By their very nature they will discriminate against socially disadvantaged communities. Is this another example of the Tories misusing science and statistics?Dr Michael PeelLondon 

• Although it hasn’t yet been confirmed, it would appear the government is considering a five-day relaxation from 24-28 December for people to meet family and friends (Matt Hancock hoping to allow Christmas gatherings ‘UK-wide’ despite Covid warnings, 20 November). Scientists have suggested that the consequence may be a 25-day lockdown. What the government seems to be overlooking is that in many parts of the UK, the new year is also a significant time for families and friends to celebrate. If five days is the limit, surely Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and Boxing Day along with New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day would be a better arrangement?

If the government doesn’t think this through there is little doubt that rules will be broken en masse around the new year, which will inevitably lead to more virus spreading. My fear is that the government will plough ahead with its own not-so-bright idea in the full knowledge of the consequences of people ignoring any new year’s lockdown – another case of misplaced pride putting more people’s health at risk. John Yates Warrington, Cheshire

• If it is agreed to allow large family gatherings over the Christmas period, with all the risks of further spreading of the virus, I am willing to promise to stay at home on my own in exchange for a big government-supplied cardboard box of Christmas goodies of Harrods-hamper standard.Ron BrewerOld Buckenham, Norfolk





No.13 article:
Netanyahu holds secret meeting with Saudi crown prince

Israeli PM flew to Saudi Arabia to meet Mohammed bin Salman and the US’s Mike Pompeo

Benjamin Netanyahu made an unannounced trip to Saudi Arabia over the weekend to meet the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, and the US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, according to an Israeli cabinet member.

The Sunday night visit would mark the first reported meeting between leaders of the long-time foes, one that Israel has been pushing for in its efforts for regional acceptance despite previously being considered a far-fetched ambition.

Israel’s prime minister’s office did not respond to a request for comment. Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister, Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud, denied the two had spoken. “No such meeting occurred,” he tweeted. “The only officials present were American and Saudi.”

The message from several high-ranking officials in Israel suggested the opposite. If there was any agreement to keep the meeting secret, possibly to save Saudi Arabia’s leadership from facing anger from its pro-Palestinian population, it was soon broken.

On Monday afternoon the education minister, Yoav Galant, a member of Netanyahu’s security cabinet and his Likud party, confirmed the face-to-face had taken place.

“The very fact the meeting happened and was outed publicly, even if half officially right now, is a matter of great importance,” Galant told Israel’s Army Radio.

Hebrew-language reports, citing unnamed Israeli officials, gave particular details, including that Netanyahu was accompanied by Yossi Cohen, the head of the country’s Mossad spy agency.

Meanwhile, the defence minister, Benny Gantz, appeared in a speech to confirm there had been a trip, condemning “the irresponsible leak of the secret flight to Saudi Arabia”.

Netanyahu has long promoted himself as a politician who can boost Israel’s standing in the region without giving concessions to the Palestinians. Asked about the trip on Monday, the 71-year-old leader avoided the issue, but would not deny it either, saying he “had never commented on such things and I don’t intend to start doing so now”.

Flight tracking data showed a private jet previously used by Netanyahu took off from Tel Aviv to Saudi Arabia’s Red Sea city of Neom, where Prince Mohammed and Pompeo had a scheduled meeting, on Sunday night. The aircraft remained in the city for a few hours before returning to Israel.

Pompeo was travelling with American reporters on his international trip but left them at Neom airport when he went into his visit with the crown prince.

Later, without mentioning Israel, Pompeo tweeted that he had a “constructive visit” to Neom. “The United States and Saudi Arabia have come a long way since President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and King Abdul Aziz Al Saud first laid the foundation for our ties 75 years ago,” he said.

Separately, one of the Israeli prime minister’s social media aides, Topaz Luk, appeared to hint at the Saudi meeting by tweeting that Netanyahu was “making peace” while Gantz, his former domestic rival, was “doing politics”.

Gantz had on Sunday appointed a committee to investigate the government’s controversial £1.5bn purchase of German submarines. Several associates of the prime minister, including his cousin, have been named as suspects in an ongoing investigation, known as Case 3,000, although Netanyahu is not a suspect and denies wrongdoing.

The committee could look into allegations that Netanyahu behaved improperly and had conflicts of interest. Israel’s longest-serving leader is already battling three other corruption cases in court, on charges he denies.

Gantz left opposition this year to become defence minister in a Netanyahu-led coalition, but their partnership has been beset by infighting. Despite their differences, Gantz has supported Washington-brokered deals made by Netanyahu with two other Gulf states, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain.

While a similar deal with the regional powerhouse Saudi Arabia remains out of reach, Sunday’s trip in itself would mark a serious diplomatic win for Israel. Although the country shares a common enemy in Iran with Saudi Arabia and other Arab states, the continued occupation over Palestinians has left Israel isolated in the Middle East.

The Saudi kingdom’s official position, and that of the Arab League, is that Israel would only receive “normal” ties in return for a statehood deal with the Palestinians.

As the birthplace of Islam and due to its regional diplomatic dominance, the Gulf nation has been a key player in past decades to promote the Palestinian cause. Still, its relations with Israel have quietly warmed in recent years, led by its de facto leader, the 35-year-old Prince Mohammed.

In September, after Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, met Mohammed in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia approved the use of its airspace for Israeli flights.

Kushner has developed a rapport with the crown prince, a relationship that has made the Palestinian leadership distrustful of its ally.

The Trump administration, which is close to Netanyahu, has made efforts in its final weeks to bolster the hardline Israeli government, both with diplomatic and symbolic gestures.

Earlier on his trip, Pompeo became the first top US diplomat to officially visit an Israeli settlement in the West Bank, a clear nod to the nationalist settler movement that has seized land in the occupied Palestinian territories.

Meanwhile, Washington has been hoping for other Arab countries to agree to formal relations with Israel. In October, after announcing a deal that may lead to Sudan fully normalising ties with the Jewish state, Trump said other Arab governments were open to the idea.

“[We] have many, many more coming. We have – they’re coming at us hot and heavy,” he said.





No.14 article:
Bishop of Blackburn says he and others would have to ‘reconsider their allegiance’

A Church of England bishop has said he and other conservative evangelicals may leave the church if it changes traditional teaching on sexuality and identity.

Julian Henderson, the bishop of Blackburn, said such a move would be “a moment for people to have to reconsider their allegiance to the church”.

He made the comments in a slick 30-minute video, produced by the C of E Evangelical Council (CEEC), which sets out orthodox biblical teaching on sexuality and relationships.

The Beautiful Story urges evangelical members of the church to stand for election to the C of E’s ruling body, the General Synod, in order to oppose and vote against any change to traditional teaching.

Henderson, who is president of the CEEC, says on the video: “As and when the church gets to the point where it changes its teaching and its liturgy and its practice in these areas, it is going to be a moment for people to have to reconsider their allegiance to the church.

“At the moment I want to be in the Church of England, I want to fight for the traditional teaching of the church on these matters. But the time may come when it’s going to be essential for those who hold to scriptural teaching on marriage and same-sex relationships to say: ‘We cannot operate under this particular system and support this kind of doctrine and practice within the life of our church.’ And that may then lead to having to look for alternative solutions.”

This month C of E leaders said a decision on sexuality and identity issues that have divided the church for decades would be taken in 2022.

At the moment the church does not allow same-sex marriage and does not officially bless same-sex civil marriages. Gay clergy are permitted to be in relationships so long as they are celibate.

The bishops’ pledge came after a three-year mission to examine issues of sexuality and identity, known as Living in Love and Faith, produced a raft of materials designed to facilitate yet further discussion by parishes and congregations.

Addressing an online meeting of the synod on Monday, Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, spoke of the “complexity of the issues” in which there were “few or no binaries”. “It is not as simple as some on all sides of the discussion like to pretend,” he said.

Jayne Ozanne, a leading campaigner for LGBT equality in the C of E, said the video “sets out the harmful teaching to which many evangelical churches are subjecting their congregations – including their LGBT+ congregants”.

She wrote in a blog: “Make no mistake about it, Church of England, this sort of teaching is wrong, harmful, dangerous and must be stopped. What is it going to take? Another young person deciding to take their life?”

She called for an independent inquiry into the “harmful practices and rhetoric that LGBT+ people are being subjected to in our society, and by certain religious groups in particular.”





No.15 article:
How the new tiers – to come into effect after lockdown ends on 2 December – compare with the old ones

While the end of the month-long Covid-19 lockdown 2.0 in England will come as welcome news to many, the strengthened tier system with which it is to be replaced could leave some people scratching their heads as they grapple with a fresh set of complex rules. Here we explain how some of the key aspects of the new system – due to be imposed when restrictions end on 2 December – compare with the old one.

From 2 December

Under the new system hospitality businesses in England can stay open until 11pm with table service only but last orders must be made by 10pm, in an effort to stagger departures. The “rule of six” will also remain in place indoors, meaning social household mixing is still allowed.

Spectator sport is set to resume, albeit with limits on numbers and abiding by social distancing. In tier 1, there will be a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of occupancy of the stadium or 4,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

In tier 1, people will be encouraged to minimise travel and work from home where possible. Support bubbles – which allowed a single household to join with another household – are also being broadened across all tiers. Parents with a child under one will be able to form a support bubble, as well as those with a child under five who needs continuous care, such as a child with a disability. Also, in cases where there is a single adult carer, for a partner with dementia for example, they would also be able to form a support bubble.

How was it before?

In the least restrictive tier, also known as alert level “medium”, the rule of six applied indoors and outdoors, meaning up to half a dozen people from different households could gather. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could stay open but were forced to shut by 10pm – a move that prompted much criticism, including from Conservative backbenchers. 

From 2 December

Under the new system, although hospitality venues will be allowed to stay open until 11pm – with last orders at 10pm – only those that serve substantial meals can operate. It means pubs and bars that do not will have to close.

As before, social mixing outside of households or support bubbles will not be allowed indoors. The rule of six will apply outdoors.

Spectators will be allowed to watch sport in tier 2, with a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of the capacity of the stadium or 2,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

How was it before?

In the “high” alert level tier, faced by Londoners and others, people were prohibited from mixing socially indoors with anybody outside of their household or support bubble but the rule of six remained in place outdoors. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could open until 10pm but people were only allowed to visit with their household or support bubble. 

From 2 December

Hospitality venues will have to close, except for delivery and takeaway service. In tier 3, hotels and other accommodation providers must also close, except for specific work purposes where people cannot return home. Outdoor sports, including golf and tennis, will be allowed to continue in all tiers, as will amateur team sports such as football. Unlike the first two tiers, spectators will not be allowed to watch sport in tier 3.

People are still not allowed to mix socially indoors with other households, unless it is with their support bubble. Up to six people can meet outdoors in some public places, such as parks, but not private gardens.

Indoor entertainment venues, such as cinemas, casinos and bowling alleys, must also close.

Across all tiers, shops, personal care, gyms and the wider leisure sector are set to reopen. Collective worship and weddings – with a maximum of 15 in attendance – can also resume.

How was it before?

In the most restrictive tier, known as the “very high” alert level that was endured by vast swathes of the north of England, mixing socially indoors between households – unless a support bubble was in place – was banned. Under baseline measures hospitality venues serving substantial food could remain open until 10pm. Up to six people from different households could socialise outdoors in public spaces, such as parks, beaches or public gardens.

• This article was amended on 24 November 2020 to add clarifying text on the restrictions surrounding social interaction in tier 3. In an earlier version, a reference to the closure of indoor entertainment venues was incorrectly placed in tier 2, rather than tier 3.





No.16 article:
Nicolas Sarkozy in court in Paris to face &#x27;bugging affair&#x27; charges

Ex-French president accused of corruption and influence peddling for allegedly trying to bribe a judge

Nicolas Sarkozy has become France’s first former president to appear in the dock as he went on trial accused of corruption and influence peddling for allegedly trying to bribe a judge for information.

The former leader was called under his full name, Mr Sarkozy de Nagy-Bocsa. He responded that “Sarkozy was enough”. Reminded that the legal record demanded his full name, he added: “For the moment I don’t need to use it.”

Sarkozy arrived at the court shortly after 2pm on Monday, choosing a little-used entrance to avoid the cameras outside. Inside the tribunal building, police kept journalists at a distance. He left when the case was adjourned about an hour later.

His appearance in the dock was brief; one of his two co-defendants had requested the hearing be postponed because coronavirus makes it too risky for him to appear in court. The court agreed to adjourn the hearing until Thursday for a medical report.

Before Monday’s trial, Sarkozy, 65, who has repeatedly denied the accusations, told French television he was ready for the courtroom battle.

“I am combative. I have no intention of being accused of things I haven’t done. I’m not corrupt and what has been inflicted on me is a scandal that will rest in the annals. The truth will out,” Sarkozy told BFMTV earlier this month.

Only one other president, Sarkozy’s political mentor Jacques Chirac, has faced trial after leaving office – but because of ill health Chirac never appeared in court for his conviction in a fake-jobs scandal.

The case is the first of several investigations against the rightwing politician who led France between 2007 and 2012 to come before judges after years of attempts to have the charges dropped or nullified.

In what is known as the “bugging affair”, the prosecution alleges Sarkozy and his lawyer, Thierry Herzog, attempted to bribe a senior magistrate, Gilbert Azibert, to hand over secret information from a separate investigation against the former French leader. In return, Sarkozy is accused of offering to help secure Azibert a cushy job on the Côte d’Azur.

Sarkozy has been targeted in an array of legal investigations – from allegations of receiving illicit campaign funding from the late Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi to receiving alleged kickbacks from arms sales to Pakistan.

French detectives began monitoring Sarkozy’s communications in September 2013 as part of an investigation into claims he had received an undeclared and illegal €50m donation from Gaddafi to fund his successful 2007 presidential campaign.

What they heard from the recorded conversations, however, pointed investigators in a new and unexpected direction. They revealed the former president and Herzog were “secretly” communicating using mobile telephones registered under false names. Sarkozy’s phone was attributed to a Paul Bismuth.

Additional wiretaps on these phones picked up conversations suggesting Sarkozy had been in contact with Azibert, then a member of the cour de cassation – the highest court in France – via Herzog to request confidential information about a separate investigation into whether Sarkozy received donations from the ailing L’Oréal heiress Liliane Bettencourt.

The Bettencourt case was eventually dropped, but by then an investigation into corruption and influence peddling relating to the wiretaps had been opened.

Sarkozy has always strenuously denied any wrongdoing in all past and present investigations. He has previously claimed the Bismuth accusations were “an insult to my intelligence”.

Herzog also argued that the bugging and recording of their phones broke client confidentiality rules, but his repeated attempts to have the evidence thrown out or the case dismissed failed.

The three defendants, Sarkozy, Herzog and Azibert, risk up to 10 years in prison and hefty fines if convicted.

Sarkozy is expected to appear in court next year in yet another case, the “Bygmalion affair”, in which he is accused of overspending on his 2012 re-election bid. No dates have been set for court hearings in other investigations linked to Sarkozy.





No.17 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

PM gives details of Covid Winter Plan to MPs, setting out post-lockdown rules 

Boris Johnson has set out a three-tier system of Covid restrictions for England to run until spring, saying that rules in many areas will be tougher than before the lockdown but imploring the public to make what he called “one final push” before the expected arrival of vaccines and mass testing.

Announcing the Covid Winter Plan to parliament, the prime minister said it would include an easing in some areas, such as reopening shops and gyms and letting crowds return to sporting events, but with tougher rules on pubs and restaurants.

The new regime, outlined in a 56-page document, expires at the end of March and puts areas in England into one of three tiers once the four-week national lockdown across England ends on 2 December.

While the three-tier system is broadly the same as before the lockdown, Johnson said restrictions in many areas would be tougher.

“I’m sorry to say that we expect more regions will fall, at least temporarily, into higher levels than before,” he told the Commons. “But, by using these tougher tiers and by using rapid-turnaround tests on an ever greater scale to drive [the R number] below one and keep it there, it should be possible for areas to move down the tiering scale.”

Under the plan, non-essential shops in all areas can reopen, as can gyms, hairdressers and other personal care businesses, with the formal instruction to stay at home coming to an end. The “rule of six” will again apply for outdoor gatherings.

In tier 1, the rule of six will be the same both indoors and outdoors, allowing people from across households to see each other indoors. In tiers 2 and 3, such meetings will only be allowed outdoors, and in the top tier, this can only happen in parks or public gardens. In the two higher levels, no household mixing will be permitted inside, beyond the expected relaxation of rules over Christmas.

Places of worship will also open and weddings will be allowed within local restrictions. Limited and socially distanced numbers of spectators will also be allowed at both indoor and outdoor sports events, although not in the most stringent tier.

For hospitality businesses in tier 2, alcohol can be served only with a “substantial meal”, while in tier 3 all pubs, restaurants and cafes must close except for delivery or takeaway.

Downing Street has also confirmed the change to the previous 10pm closing time for pubs and restaurants. Instead, they must stop serving at 10pm, but people can stay until up to 11pm, to stagger departures times and avoid overcrowding.

For sports events outdoors, in tier 1, up to 4,000 people or 50% of the usual capacity can gather, whichever is smaller, while in tier 2 the number is 2,000 people, or 50% of usual capacity. With indoor events, the ceiling is 1,000 people.

On Christmas, while Downing Street has confirmed the basic plan to allow some households to mix over a few days, details about this are not due until later this week. MPs are expected to vote on the overall plans early next week.

Johnson urged people to be careful with their festive plans. He said: “I can’t say that Christmas be normal this year, but in a period of adversity, time spent with loved ones is even more precious, for people of all faiths, and none. We all want some kind of Christmas, we need it, we certainly feel we deserve it. But what we don’t want is to throw caution to the winds and allow the virus to flare up again.”

He added: “This virus, obviously, is not going to grant a Christmas truce. It doesn’t know it’s Christmas, and families will need to make a careful judgment about the risk of visiting elderly relatives.” 

Johnson experienced some immediate pushback from sceptical Conservative MPs. Mark Harper, who chairs the Covid Recovery Group, which organised a letter from 70 Tory backbenchers warning about overly tight restrictions, said he could not guarantee the group’s support for the new system.

“I think many will hold their judgment until we know which areas go into which tiers,” Harper said. “I think that if you go into tier 3, you’ll struggle to spot much of difference from the lockdown.”

Another Tory MP, Julian Sturdy, gave immediate warning about the concern of some areas of being put into tier 3, saying his York constituency would find this unfair. 

The allocation of regions to tiers will not be announced until Thursday after more local data on coronavirus is assessed. Conditions will be the same for all areas in the same tier, with no local negotiations, in an attempt to prevent the wrangling that occurred under the previous tiered system.

The one area in which local authorities will get a say is whether to take part in expanded trials of mass and rapid testing for Covid, as is being tried out in Liverpool.

Johnson warned that for all the progress on vaccines and testing, “this will still be a hard winter”. People, he said, should be “pulling together for one final push to the spring”.

He said: “But we have turned a corner and the escape route is in sight. We must hold out against the virus until testing and vaccines comes to our rescue and reduce the need for restrictions.”

Tier positions will be reviewed every 14 days, and will be based on five criteria: case numbers across all age groups; cases in those aged over 60; the rate of rise or fall in infections; the percentage of those tested who have the virus; and current and projected pressures on the NHS locally. 





No.18 article:
The trial was scheduled to begin on Monday, but after pleading guilty they were taken away ahead of a sentencing hearing on Wednesday next week.

The trio of high-profile pro-democracy activists and former politicians,&nbsp;were facing multiple charges&nbsp;over an unauthorised protest outside police headquarters in June last year, and inciting others to take part.

They face a penalty of up to five years in prison&nbsp;





No.19 article:
Vaccine developed in UK by AstraZeneca and Oxford University ‘will save many lives’, says scientist

The Covid vaccine developed in the UK by Oxford University and AstraZeneca can protect 70.4% of people from becoming ill and – in a surprise result – up to 90% if a lower first dose is used, results from the final trial show.

The Oxford vaccine is the third to produce efficacy results, following Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna whose vaccines were made with a different technology. Both of those reported almost 95% efficacy and Pfizer has applied for a licence in the US and UK.

While the Oxford results may not immediately look so good, the scientists say they are not comparable, because they have included people who become mildly ill as well as seriously ill, unlike the other two. Their vaccine has some big advantages, because it is fridge-stable so easily transported and used anywhere in the world. It is also substantially cheaper, at about £3 a dose instead of more than £20 for the others.

The UK has pre-ordered 100m doses of the Oxford vaccine, which is central to its pandemic vaccination plans. Production has already begun and 4m doses have been supplied so far, which cannot be used until the vaccine is licensed.

Importantly, Oxford/AstraZeneca have already shown that the vaccine works as well in older people as in younger groups and is safe. There are early indications it might also help stop transmission of the disease.

“The announcement today takes us another step closer to the time when we can use vaccines to bring an end to the devastation caused by [Covid-19],” said Prof Sarah Gilbert from the University of Oxford, who has led the research.

“We will continue to work to provide the detailed information to regulators. It has been a privilege to be part of this multinational effort, which will reap benefits for the whole world.”

The scientists said they could not fully explain why a lower first dose appeared to give better protection. “We think that by giving a smaller first dose that we’re priming the immune system differently – we’re setting it up better to respond,” said Prof Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group and chief investigator of the trial.

“And what we don’t know at this moment is whether that difference is in the quality, or the quantity of immune response. And that’s something we’re going to be digging into over the next weeks.”

Gilbert added: “It could be that by giving a small amount of the vaccine to start with and following up with a big amount, that’s a better way of kicking the immune system into action and giving us the strongest immune response and the most effective immune response.”

Those given the half dose and then full dose four weeks later were in a smaller group of 3,000 people, of whom 90% were protected against Covid. In the larger group, given two full doses, four weeks apart, efficacy was 62%. In the US, trials have given only two full doses and the other regime will now need to be tested.

The interim analysis is based on 131 infections among participants, half of whom received the vaccine while the rest, in a control group, were given an established meningitis shot. AstraZeneca is still collecting data but said it would immediately submit its evidence for emergency approval of the vaccine around the world.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

 “These findings show that we have an effective vaccine that will save many lives,” said Pollard. “Excitingly, we’ve found that one of our dosing regimens may be around 90% effective and if this dosing regime is used, more people could be vaccinated with planned vaccine supply.

“Today’s announcement is only possible thanks to the many volunteers in our trial, and the hard-working and talented team of researchers based around the world.”

Speaking to the BBC Radio 4 Today programme earlier, he said: “There is just a hint in the data at the moment that those who got that regime with higher protection, there is a suggestion that it was also able to reduce asymptomatic infection. If that is right, we might be able to halt the virus in its tracks and stop transmitting between people.”

AstraZeneca’s chief executive, Pascal Soriot, said: “This vaccine’s efficacy and safety confirm that it will be highly effective against Covid-19 and will have an immediate impact on this public health emergency.

“Furthermore, the vaccine’s simple supply chain and our no-profit pledge and commitment to broad, equitable and timely access means it will be affordable and globally available, supplying hundreds of millions of doses on approval.”

The UK’s order of 100m doses of the Oxford vaccine is enough to vaccinate most of the population – with rollout expected in the coming weeks if the jab is approved.

The country also has orders for 40m doses of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine, which is likely to be approved first. It has ordered 5m of Moderna’s vaccine, which will arrive next spring.

Australia has ordered 33.8m doses of the Oxford vaccine.

The UK health secretary, Matt Hancock, called the data “really encouraging news” but said vaccines needed to be approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).

“This is really encouraging news on the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, that obviously we’ve been backing since the start,” he told Sky News. “And I’m really very pleased, really welcome these figures, this data, that show that the vaccine in the right dosage can be up to 90% effective.

“Of course, it’s vital that the independent regulator, the MHRA, will need to look at the data, will need to check to make sure that it’s effective and safe of course. But we’ve got 100m doses on order and should all that go well, the bulk of the rollout will be in the new year.”

He added: “And of course this vaccine, this homegrown vaccine, is easier to administer as well than the Pfizer vaccine, because it doesn’t need to be stored at -70. So having two vaccines that appear to have effectiveness, done right, in the 90% range is really, really good news.”

Boris Johnson tweeted: “Incredibly exciting news the Oxford vaccine has proved so effective in trials. There are still further safety checks ahead, but these are fantastic results. Well done to our brilliant scientists at UniofOxford &amp; AstraZeneca, and all who volunteered in the trials.”

• The headline on this article was changed shortly after launch on 23 November 2020 to reflect updates in the story.





No.20 article:
The MHRA and Covid vaccine approval: everything you need to know

What is the UK regulator’s role in assessing the quality, safety and effectiveness of vaccines?

The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) was not previously an organisation many of us gave much thought to. But positive results from trials of three Covid vaccine candidates, which will need its approval, mean it has been thrust to centre stage, standing between us and a semblance of normality.

As its name suggests, the MHRA, an independent executive agency, is responsible for regulating medicines, medical devices and blood components for transfusion in the UK. The regulator, the closest equivalent the UK has to the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) in the US, assesses the quality, safety and effectiveness of products.

It can take years. The MenB (Meningitis B vaccine), took nearly 20 years from the first idea to the vaccine being licensed for use, according to the University of Oxford’s Vaccine Knowledge Project, although that includes development and testing prior to the approval process.

Drug and vaccine licensing procedures in the UK have frequently been criticised as slow and cumbersome, but approvals have been sped up in recent years. For obvious reasons, the MHRA has prioritised review of Covid vaccines. It has also sought to streamline approval by receiving rolling data on the vaccine candidates as they go through trials.

Additionally, in October, the government changed the law to enable the MHRA to grant temporary approval for a vaccine before it has been given a licence by the European authorities. This brought forward arrangements that will be in place from January next year when the UK leaves the EU, ending Brussels’ involvement in the UK approval process.

Commenting on data received on the Pfizer vaccine, Dr June Raine, the MHRA chief executive, said the regulator would “aim to make a decision in the shortest time possible, without compromising the thoroughness of our review”. It will be assisted in the process by the UK government’s independent advisory body, the Commission on Human Medicines.

The MHRA receives most of its income from fee-charging activities, including fees for assessing medicines developed by private companies. In 2019-20, £104.6m came from this stream, out of total income of £166.7m. The Department for Health and Social Care (DHSC) also provides funding, which amounted to £43.5m in the last financial year. The medicines regulation part of the body’s remit is funded entirely from fees, whereas funding for medical devices comes from the DHSC. Other sources of income include research funding.

Anti-vaxxers propagating conspiracy theories that Bill Gates is promoting vaccines to implant microchips in people or solely to make profit have highlighted donations made by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to the MHRA. The cash has variously been provided for research work on oral polio vaccines internationally, research to support safer use of medicines during pregnancy, and work to improve the safety monitoring of medicines in low- and middle-income countries.

The MHRA is also involved in pharmacovigilance – monitoring the safety of all medicines throughout their marketed life. Clinical trials involve a relatively small number of patients for a limited length of time whereas vaccines responding to a pandemic such as coronavirus will be rolled out to very large populations and adverse drug reactions (ADRs) may emerge.

The swine flu vaccine, Pandemrix, made by GlaxoSmithKline, is a case in point. It was given to 6 million people in Britain during the 2009-10 swine flu pandemic but was withdrawn after doctors noticed a sharp rise in narcolepsy among those who received it. The regulator said because the sleep disorder was so rare in people vaccinated – approximately 100 are believed to have been affected in the UK – it could not have been detected in any clinical trial.





No.21 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Trial participants react to news that Oxford AstraZeneca Covid vaccine has up to 90% efficacy 

Dan McAteer describes his reaction more as a sense of relief than elation when his phone pinged on Monday morning with a push alert reporting that the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine has up to 90% efficacy.

Several months on from becoming one of thousands of volunteers in trials of the Covid-19 vaccine, the 23-year-old student is trying to comprehend the news that people could be vaccinated as early as next month

“The main thing is not wanting to hope too much, especially after the ups and downs of this year, but there is an underlying relief that this nightmare might finally be over,” he said.

Producing academic work to deadline under lockdown has not been easy. “Doing a one-year master’s from your bedroom is something I don’t recommend,” said McAteer, who had no adverse side-effects through a first month of keeping a diary and beyond. 

While somewhat jaded and worried about the ability of the British government not to botch the roll-out of the vaccine – “it’s going to require trust and efficiency” – in another breath he adds: “In all honesty it really is a great day and, dare I say it, things can only get better.”

He is particularly proud that the Oxford breakthrough could open the door to a cheap and more easily transportable solution – in comparison with some of the other vaccine candidates – to be made available to some of the world’s poorest countries.

“I think there has been a bit too much focus on the UK and the discourse has been all about what it can do for us. But in some ways the most important aspect of this vaccine is what it can do for developing countries, and I think that really is something to be proud of.”

McAteer still does not know if he was given the actual vaccine or a placebo, but anticipates that this information will soon be unblinded, and would happily take up the offer of receiving the vaccine if it emerges he is yet to have it.

Another Oxford volunteer quietly celebrating on Monday was Sarah Hurst, who said she was pleasantly surprised not to have felt any adverse impact since first getting a jab in June as part of the trial.

callout-coronavirus

She had been keen to take part, she said, adding: “I was in the area to do it and during lockdown there have been so many people who have been unable to do anything other than stay at home so I was glad to be able to play some part.”

“There have been indications that it will be unblinded but I understand that they will want to continue the trial to see how effective it is and I will probably choose to continue with it,” added the 47-year-old journalist, who lives with her 12-year-old daughter and her mother, who is in her 70s.

Like McAteer, she also emphasised the Oxford vaccine’s advantages, such as its ability to remain potent with limited need for specialist fridge storage.

“I love that this vaccine is portable and can be manufactured cheaply. Distribution will be crucial but I think that the people who should get it first should be key workers.”





No.22 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Oxford/AstraZeneca findings have certain advantages over those from other versions

Within weeks, the prospects of an end to the pandemic have changed utterly, with three vaccines against Covid-19 reporting good results in final clinical trials and at least one likely to be used before Christmas. But there are still huge challenges ahead.

The results from the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine, which is absolutely central to the UK’s vaccination strategy, may at first glance look not as good as those of Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna – the two mRNA vaccines that have both reported 95% efficacy.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

But although Oxford’s headline figure is 70% efficacy in the full trials, that rose to 90% for the group that was given a half dose of the vaccine initially, followed by a full dose four weeks later. Scientists have not yet fully worked out why, but think giving the immune system just a small first glimpse of the virus’s spike protein may be a better way to kick it into action the second time.

Whatever the reason, the 90% finding puts the Oxford vaccine on a par with Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna’s versions – if it is maintained in the full trial results. And Oxford has several major advantages over the others. First, it is stable at fridge temperatures of 2-8C, so no worries about freezer boxes containing more than 900 doses having to be used in a hurry or wasted. And for the developing world, it is doubly good news – no freezers needed and fewer doses required due to the initial half-dose.

Second, the Oxford vaccine is cheap, at £3 a dose, while the other two are more than £20 a dose. Oxford has from the start stressed its ambition to enable the entire world to be vaccinated. It has made arrangements to produce the vaccine around the globe.

Third, the vaccine has a good safety profile, in spite of the hitch some months back when a volunteer in the UK became ill and the trials were paused. And it has been shown to work as well in elderly people – who are most likely to die from Covid – as in other age groups, and with fewer side-effects.

It is great news for the UK government, which has invested heavily in the Oxford vaccine as well as ordering 100m doses. That is enough to immunise the country’s entire adult population. Ease of use – no freezer lorries or storage facilities at -70C – means GP practices can have a fridge-full and take it out to care homes without worrying it will go off. It also makes it possible to visit the frail and elderly in their own homes, so they do not have to be transported to vaccination centres.

But it is not all over yet. First the regulators have to pore over all the data from these trials and ensure the vaccines are safe. Normally this would take up to 210 days in the case of the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority (MHRA) in the UK, but provisions have been put in place for emergency authorisation – which then must be confirmed within a year.

Even so, no corners will be cut, the MHRA has said. First up is the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, which has filed its data with the MHRA and the Food and Drug Administration in the US. The FDA’s advisory group will discuss the Pfizer vaccine on 10 December. Moderna will be next in the US, because Oxford/AstraZeneca need to trial the half dose/full dose regimen there before they can submit data for emergency approval.

Once a vaccine is authorised by one of the regulators, the issue will be supply. Only a few million doses will be available this year. Pfizer/BioNTech have said they can produce 50m in 2020 – and they have orders from Europe for 200m doses, 100m from the US and 40m from the UK, so there is quite a queue.

Once a licensed vaccine becomes available for use, older people will take priority. In the UK, the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation has recommended care home residents and staff first, followed by the over-80s and NHS staff. Age is the chief criteria, but there are already calls for other vulnerable people with underlying health conditions that have forced them to shield at home to be higher up the list, as well as questions over the priority given to black, Asian and ethnic minority groups.

callout-coronavirus

Vaccination should be full steam ahead in January, but we do not yet know what the take-up will be. Anti-vaxxers with hard-wired objections to vaccines are a very small minority. But there are many more who are hesitant and doubtful, worried that a brand new vaccine, developed and manufactured in record time, may not be 100% safe.

And while the hope will be of a return to normality, it may still not be safe to party. The vaccines appear to work better than anyone dared hope. There was originally talk of 50% efficacy. But in a population of millions, 90% efficacy still means a lot of people – one in 10 – will not be completely safe. The pubs will reopen. But it will be months or even years before all our caution over social interaction can safely melt away.





No.23 article:
Authorities hope ban will cut number of people needing treatment at hospitals already stretched with Covid patients

Germans are being told to brace themselves for a ban on fireworks in their traditional new year celebrations, the only time of the year when private individuals are legally allowed to buy them.

Political leaders are expected to announce on Wednesday that the sale of fireworks, which are usually sold in the three days before New Year’s Eve – before millions are let off across the country during the festivities – is to be banned for the first time over fears of overwhelming hospitals battling the coronavirus pandemic.

About €200m (£178m) is usually spent on pyrotechnics, which are detonated everywhere from private balconies to public parks between 6pm on 31 December until 7am on 1 January, but the tradition also leads to a large number of injuries and a significant number of people needing surgery.

With hospitals already stretched due to the high number of coronavirus cases, including an increasing number of patients needing intensive care, lawmakers and doctors have said it would not be responsible to simply allow the normal celebrations to go ahead.

The news has been welcomed by anti-firework campaigners, who say as well as being a threat to public health, the fireworks cause considerable fine particle air pollution, are a threat to animals’ welfare, and create a large amount of refuse.

The firework ban comes on top of a halt this year to Germany’s popular Christmas markets, which normally lure hundreds of thousands of tourists from November onwards.

It is part of wide-ranging plans expected to be officially agreed upon on Wednesday at a “Corona summit” between the 16 leaders of Germany’s länder (regions), and the federal chancellor, Angela Merkel, which is likely to extend the current “lockdown lite”, which was initially only expected to last until the end of November.

It is understood that the extension would keep the restrictions in place until 20 December, allowing a short relaxation of rules over the Christmas period, before they are tightened up once more until around mid-January.

Berlin’s mayor, Michael Müller, who is the current head of the conference of state leaders, (MPK) presented its draft decision on Sunday and said: “We are in agreement that a lot has been achieved, but not yet enough.” The leaders agreed that while a growth in the number of cases appears to have been halted since tighter measures were introduced on 2 November, they still remain too high.

The decision will be a blow to restaurants, bars, theatres, cinemas and beauty salons, which had hoped they could open again in December. Shops and hairdressers have been allowed to stay open.

Contacts are expected to be restricted from 1 December until 17 January to the members of two households, up to five people, although children under 14 would not count as part of the five.

Between 21 and 27 December, hotels should be allowed to reopen so that people visiting families have an option to stay overnight elsewhere. It has been suggested that up to 10 people, not counting the under-14s, should be allowed to meet.

Employers are expected to be requested to close where possible, between 21 December and 3 January to allow for as many people as possible to follow the government recommendation to stay at home.

Jens Spahn, the health minister, said on Monday he expected that it would be possible to start vaccinating people in Germany against coronavirus as early as December.

The government has said its goal is to push the seven-day incidence of coronavirus cases to below 50 per 100,000, or around 5,900 cases. Incidence is currently around 143. On Friday 23,648 new cases were registered. Over 21,200 intensive care beds are currently occupied, with just over 12,000 in reserve.





No.24 article:
Police say 39-year-old had filled in a form stating he had a legitimate reason to leave home

French police have fined a man who left his home with a written lockdown declaration stating he was out to “smash a guy’s face in”.

The man, who has not been named, had reportedly correctly filled in the legally required declaration, known as an “attestation”, with his name, address and time he left his home in Lannion, Brittany.

However, officers found that instead of ticking one of the boxes stating a legitimate reason to go outside during France’s national lockdown – these include going shopping, visiting the doctor, travelling to work or exercising for up to one hour at a maximum distance of 1km – the man had written “aller péter la gueule à un mec”, an activity not covered by the form.

Daniel Kerdraon, the local police chief, said his officers had discovered the 39-year-old lurking behind a car late on Friday evening.

“When asked what he was doing he explained that he was waiting for someone to ‘smash their face in’ … he had the written form with his real name and the time he had left home – 10.15pm – but we told him his reason for going out was not valid. He was trying to fulfil the letter of the law, in his own way,” Kerdraon told local newspapers.

As well as the €135 (£120) fine for having an insufficient excuse for being out in public, the man was also fined €150 for being drunk in a public place. He could face further fines on Monday after he is questioned about carrying the flick-knife he was found with.

Anyone leaving their home for any reason during France’s lockdown must carry a permission form issued by the interior ministry. As might be expected of French bureaucracy, these declarations require the person’s name, address, date and place of birth and must be signed, dated and precisely timed.

This second lockdown, after a two-month strict “confinement” in March and April, began last month and is expected to run until at least 1 December. The French president, Emmanuel Macron, will give a televised address on Tuesday outlining how restrictions may be eased.

Police and gendarmes enforcing the restrictions have revealed over the past months some of the imaginative reasons and ruses people have used in order to be out and about.

During the earlier lockdown, one man told officers: “I’m fed up with my wife, I must absolutely go and see my mistress,” while another couple said they were out to pick daffodils before the flowers all died. Although visits to food shops are allowed, these must be for the purchase of “essential comestibles”; police did not consider three lemons for an aperitif to be essential. Another man stopped by officers said he was visiting his grandmother, whose name he could not remember.

One young man stopped on his scooter told police he was making an urgent medical delivery of blood. Indeed, the words “urgent blood” had been written in red lipstick on his topbox. Inside police found cannabis, cocaine and €800 in cash.





No.25 article:
Daniel Cordier obituary

Cordier, who has died aged 100, was also instructed to take some papers to Jean Moulin, Charles de Gaulle’s representative to the French resistance, in Lyon, which was then the organisational centre of the resistance. Having taken the documents to Moulin on 30 July, Cordier was startled to be invited to dine with him that evening. The next day, Moulin appointed Cordier as his secretary.

It is unclear as to why Moulin so impulsively decided to take Cordier into his service. He was desperately in need of assistance and it may be that Cordier arrived at the right moment. Whatever the reason, for the next 11 months Cordier lived in daily proximity to Moulin and became indispensable to him: decoding messages from London and coding Moulin’s replies, organising his meetings with resistance leaders, finding him places to hide, distributing funds to resistance leaders, and carrying message to politicians. He also prepared his breakfast and sorted his post. 

Cordier’s exhausting days were spent scurrying around Lyon from one rendezvous to another with the threat of arrest hanging over him at every moment. One day he asked Moulin if he could procure a bicycle out of the funds they received from London. Moulin agreed but a few days later the bicycle was stolen. “Buy another one,” Moulin told him. But when that too was stolen – bikes were a rare commodity under the occupation – Moulin lost patience: “Now you will have to walk.”

Although Cordier played a subaltern role, it was an important one. The leaders of the French resistance in the unoccupied zone resented De Gaulle’s attempt – through Moulin – to enrol them into his cause. Often the young Cordier found himself caught in the firing line between his boss and the resistance leaders. This was especially the case in March 1943 when Moulin, called back to London for a few weeks, left Cordier in charge.

At this moment the resistance was especially desperate for the funds from London that Moulin could provide, and it was to Cordier that the resistance leaders had to address themselves, leading one of them, Henri Frenay, to explode in fury one day: “The resistance has been left in the hands of a choirboy.”

On 27 May Moulin achieved, after painstaking negotiations, the setting up in Paris of the National Council of the Resistance. Cordier was not present at the meeting, However, his job was to meet and escort participants to the ultra-secret venue. But by now the noose was tightening around Moulin. Cordier saw him for the last time on 15 June. Five days later Moulin was arrested and died after being atrociously tortured by the Gestapo.

Cordier went on working as a Gaullist agent for London in occupied Paris (in this role he is depicted in Roger Vailland’s novel Drôle de Jeu, 1945, published in English as Playing With Fire, 1948) but, as he himself became increasingly exposed, he was called back to London in March 1944.

Daniel was born in Bordeaux, to a prosperous and conservative bourgeois family. When he was four, his parents, Jeanne (nee Gauthier) and René Bouyjou, divorced and his mother married Charles Cordier. The boy was sent to various Catholic boarding schools from which he was regularly expelled for undisciplined behaviour and sexual impropriety.

As an adolescent, he was passionate about literature, politics and music. In literature his hero was André Gide whose writings preached the gospel of personal and sexual self-fulfilment; in politics his hero was the extreme rightwing, anti-democratic and antisemitic polemicist Charles Maurras.

As an ardently patriotic young man, Cordier refused to accept France’s defeat by Germany in 1940. He got himself on to a boat heading (as he believed) for North Africa, from where he intended to continue fighting. Instead the ship took him to Britain where he joined the exiguous forces of General de Gaulle. Having enlisted in the Gaullist secret services, he was parachuted back into France.

In the service of the Free French, Cordier gradually grew out of his rightwing opinions. He could see only too clearly that the extreme anti-republicans he had once admired were usually the most ardent collaborators. One moment of epiphany occurred on the day in Paris when he saw an old man wearing a yellow star that identified him as Jewish. Cordier witnessed for the first time the abject reality to which his abstract antisemitic convictions had led. Moulin, a man of pronounced leftwing views, had also played a role in Cordier’s political evolution. He was both Cordier’s educator and a surrogate father figure.

After the war Cordier embarked on a new career as an art dealer. Between 1956 and 1964, his gallery in Rue de Miromesnil, with outposts in Frankfurt and New York, was one of the most important in Paris. In 1961 he organised the first Robert Rauschenberg exhibition in Paris. At the end of his life he became a major donor of paintings to the Pompidou Centre.

This new existence was also a homage to Moulin, a talented amateur painter and collector, one of whose covers during the war had been to run an art gallery in Nice. Often Moulin would talk to Cordier about modern art, about which the young man was completely ignorant. “Who is Picasso?” he asked Moulin one day. Moulin became his tutor in art, as in politics.

In the postwar years Cordier was not totally disconnected from politics. In May 1958, when De Gaulle came back to power through an army coup in Algeria, Cordier, now a committed man of the left, was one of those who feared that the man he had once revered would become a French Franco. Along with a number of other former resisters, he helped found (and fund) the Club Jean Moulin to defend democratic ideas in France. Democracy turned out to be safe but the club remained an influential political thinktank.

In 1976 Cordier embarked on a third career, which would last more than 30 years, as Moulin’s biographer. It started when Cordier found himself invited to participate in a television debate on the resistance. Among the other participants was his old adversary Frenay, who had recently published a book arguing that Moulin had been a crypto-communist.

Cordier, although outraged, lacked the evidence to prove Frenay wrong. What started out as an attempt to refute Frenay became a quest on Cordier’s part to reconstitute every moment of Moulin’s activity in the war. His researches on Moulin swelled to monumental proportions. By the time he had finished, the five volumes he devoted to Moulin ran to more than 4,000 pages. He may not have said the last word on Moulin, but his books are the starting point for any understanding of this significant figure.

Increasingly, Cordier’s work on Moulin made him a celebrity in his own right. He wrote a brilliantly readable memoir of his time with Moulin, Alias Caracalla (2009), which was made into a film. In 2018 he was awarded the Grand Croix of the Légion d’honneur and, after the death of Pierre Simonet two weeks ago, became one of the last two survivors of the 1,038 companions of the Ordre de la Libération. 

Well into his 90s Cordier remained remarkably vigorous intellectually and physically, enjoying the limelight, and revelling in the fact that he had had the last word against those resisters who had once so disdained him. Charming and prolix, he was also elusive, slippery and difficult to pin down. Like Moulin he was a man of masks and disguises.

Always discreet about his private life, although he came out as gay in the late 1990s, in the early 60s he became the guardian of an orphaned teenager living on the streets of Paris. Thanks to Cordier’s patronage, the boy, Hervé Vilard, became a successful French pop singer. Until the end of Cordier’s life they would speak on the phone regularly, and Hervé survives him.

 • Daniel Bouyjou-Cordier, French resistance agent, art dealer and writer, born 10 August 1920; died 20 November 2020





No.26 article:
Airport staff tested and flights cancelled as officials say two cargo handlers were first cases

A coronavirus outbreak in Shanghai has been traced to two cargo handlers who cleaned a container that had just arrived from North America, Chinese health officials have said.

Hundreds of flights were cancelled at Shanghai’s Pudong International airport, one of the world’s busiest transport hubs, amid chaotic scenes caused by a sudden decision to test airport staff on Sunday.

Overnight from Sunday into Monday, workers in full protective gear ushered staff into a multistorey car park to have the virus test. Videos posted online by Shanghai health authorities showed scores of people filing into the facility.

The virus outbreak is largely under control in China, but authorities have warned of the possibility for new outbreaks as the weather gets colder, and have reacted to a small number of local cases by testing millions of people and introducing lockdowns and school closures in Tianjin, Shanghai and Manzhouli.

Shanghai has reported at least seven local cases of Covid-19, after five months of no community transmission. The first cases, recorded on 9 and 10 November, were airport cargo handlers. Sun Xiaodong, a Shanghai disease control centre official, said the two employees had entered and cleaned the container on 30 October, suggesting a timeline matching that of the usual presentation of symptoms after infection.

Neither was wearing a mask inside the container, which was sealed off and damp inside. Sun added that the strain of the virus found in both workers was similar to that in North America.

“Research at home and abroad has shown coronavirus could live in enclosed, damp environments,” Sun told a news conference.

Airport officials said infections had only been found in the cargo handling area, not the passenger terminals.

Zhou Junlong, vice-president of the Shanghai Airport Authority, also said more than 17,700 employees of the cargo handling area had been tested, and that all of the 11,544 results returned so far had been negative. Videos purported to be from inside the airport show authorities wearing hazmat suits herding thousands of people to get tested. However, some reports on Chinese social media said the mass test was abandoned.

Zhou said authorities would run regular nucleic acid tests for high-risk cargo workers and offer them emergency use of vaccines on a voluntary basis.

China recorded 11 new infections on Monday, including two local cases in Shanghai, the National Health Commission said. Mainland China’s tally stands at 86,442 cases, with the death toll unchanged at 4,634.

Authorities say they have not yet found a link between the first two cases in Shanghai and the most recent ones.

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang and Reuters





No.27 article:
We would like to hear from religious people about their thoughts on people meeting each other for Christmas this year

Boris Johnson is expected to unveil plans to allow temporary mixing between UK households over Christmas on Monday afternoon. 

We would like to hear from faith communities on how they feel about the focus on the Christmas holiday?. How do you think it compares to other religious holidays that have been celebrated during the pandemic?

You can get in touch by filling in the form below. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions. One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.28 article:
Team’s coronavirus work built on decades of research pioneered by Sarah Gilbert and Adrian Hill

At the heart of Oxford’s effort to produce a Covid vaccine are half a dozen scientists who between them brought decades of experience to the challenge of designing, developing, manufacturing and trialling a safe vaccine at breakneck speed.

Prof Sarah Gilbert, the Kettering-born project leader, arrived at Oxford in 1994 to work with Prof Adrian Hill, a senior member of the team, on the malaria parasite, plasmodium. She soon fell into work on experimental vaccines, starting with one that roused white blood cells to fight malaria, followed by a “universal” flu vaccine.

As a student, Gilbert is said to have knitted cardigans with dogs on and played her saxophone in the woods to avoid disturbing her neighbours. As a researcher at Oxford, she gained a no-nonsense reputation, which some attribute in part to her raising triplets, though her husband gave up work to parent them.

Oxford’s coronavirus work built on research pioneered by Hill and Gilbert on vaccines based on a virus that causes common colds in chimpanzees. The adenovirus could be rendered harmless and then modified to smuggle genetic material into human cells. The trick was to make that material the gene for a protein on the surface of a nasty virus, one the immune system could lock on to.

Hill, an Irish vaccinologist described by the Lancet as having a “silent steeliness”, was first into clinical trials with an Ebola vaccine based on the chimp virus during the 2014 outbreak in West Africa. He and Gilbert patented the technology and in 2016 co-founded Vaccitech, an Oxford spin-off, to capitalise on the research. The chimp cold virus, ChAdOx, became their weapon of choice against what the World Health Organization called “Disease X” – a hypothetical future pathogen with epidemic or pandemic potential.

Before Sars-Cov-2, the virus behind Covid, came Mers-Cov, a related coronavirus that emerged nearly a decade ago in Saudi Arabia. It causes Middle East respiratory syndrome, or Mers, a more deadly but less transmissible disease than Covid. Building on Hill’s work, Gilbert and another team member, Teresa Lambe, developed an experimental vaccine against Mers-Cov. As that went into human trials in Saudi Arabia in December last year, Sars-Cov-2 had begun to stir.

The Oxford team went to work on the Covid vaccine on the morning of Saturday 11 January, just hours after scientists in China published the first genetic sequence of the virus. The vaccine was largely designed that weekend by Gilbert, Lambe and others. It wasn’t clear how fast the virus would spread, but Gilbert saw it as an opportunity to demonstrate rapid vaccine development against a new viral threat.

Within a few weeks, Oxford had usable vaccine for lab tests. Gilbert, who colleagues note can send emails from 4am until late at night, immediately gave some to Oxford’s manufacturing facility to churn out clinical grade shots for human trials. The Clinical Biomanufacturing facility, run by Catherine Green, was prepared for the task and quickly made the first batch of shots for phase 1 safety trials.

Next to step up was Sandy Douglas, who joined Oxford as a medical student in 2004 and worked on vaccines since 2007. He had been telling people for some time that the outbreak could be as bad as the 1918 flu and felt some in the scientific community had under-reacted to events in China. His team devised a way to make the vaccine at industrial scale and set up a consortium of manufacturers to produce it in the UK, the Netherlands, India and China. By March, facilities were gearing up to make tens of millions of doses before anyone knew whether the vaccine worked.

By the beginning of April, Oxford had enough vaccine to launch clinical trials. Andrew Pollard, the head of the Oxford vaccine group, who has spent 20 years running clinical trials, prepared and oversaw them. His team worked with doctors at 19 trial sites around the UK and six each in Brazil and South Africa to get the trials done. That month, the first shots went into volunteers.

Today, seven months later, the scientists can say that it works.





No.29 article:
Footage posted on social media shows officials wearing white suits containing crowds of people at Shanghai Pudong International airport after several people tested positive for Covid-19





No.30 article:
South Dakota gripped by pandemic amid Kristi Noem&#x27;s no-mask approach

State has alarming Covid positivity rate of almost 60% and governor’s hands-off policy is having dire consequences

Isolating herself from family after a Covid-19 diagnosis on the Rosebud Sioux Reservation in South Dakota, grandmother Cheryl Angel had few options for safe shelter and ended up far afield traipsing from one lonely hotel room to another.

“Our tribe didn’t have anything set up, and if it weren’t for my relatives, I would have died in there,” she said.

Relatives made two-hour drives to leave breakfast and supper outside her impromptu isolation ward, while inside she followed instructions to use a steroid inhaler four times a day and learned to inject herself with an epinephrine medication when she felt faint.

She vowed that if she survived the deadly disease, she would do all she could to help others receive better treatment, as South Dakota fell further into the grip of the coronavirus pandemic.

By the time her two sons caught coronavirus this fall, Angel had recovered and become involved in a grassroots community encampment taking care of homeless fellow Native Americans on Sioux land on the outskirts of Rapid City, in the west of the state

Physician Nancy Babbitt, who agreed to supervise training for coronavirus testing at the settlement, Camp Mniluzahan, lamented the heightened risks such vulnerable residents are facing amid state governor Kristi Noem’s determinedly hands-off pandemic policy – including being one of a minority of states with no statewide mask requirements to curb infection.

“My experience dealing with Covid-19 in South Dakota is one of failed leadership. Our governor has made it clear it’s up to the people, so we have to come up with creative ideas to help stop the spread,” Babbitt said.

She added that for vulnerable populations, whether in South Dakota or anywhere: “Safe quarantine is a luxury.”

Nevertheless, Noem encouraged crowds to South Dakota’s beautiful Black Hills to see Donald Trump when the president attended a fireworks display at Mount Rushmore in July, and to attend the Sturgis motorcycle rally in August, and scoffed at science-driven precautions.

Jodi Doering, an emergency room nurse in Woonsocket, sees the fall-out from this kind of denial.

“As I’m on my couch with my dog, I can’t help but think of the Covid patients … the ones that stick out are those who still don’t believe the virus is real,” she tweeted.

She described patients shouting “that president-elect Joe Biden was ‘going to ruin the USA’. All while gasping for breath”.

“They call you names and ask why you have to wear all that ‘stuff’, because they don’t have Covid.” she said, referring to the personal protective equipment front line healthcare workers wear.

“They stop yelling at you when they get intubated,” she added.

Her tweets have attracted some backlash, including from healthcare workers who said they had not experienced such things.

After the motorcycle rally, Noem further refused to cancel the South Dakota state fair in September, as she promoted tourism in the state and enthusiastically embraced presidential exhortations to states to “open up” for business.

South Dakota has an alarming positivity rate of almost 60% – nearly six out of 10 people who take a Covid test are infected – second only in the US to neighboring Wyoming.

More than 66,000 South Dakotans have contracted the disease and at least 644 have died, a number likely to rise as hospitals reach breaking point.

The South Dakota Medical Association has issued a statement in support of a mask mandate. The state’s largest city of Sioux Falls put one into effect, and the second largest, Rapid City, is awaiting a final council vote.

With USA Today newspaper headlines reporting earlier this month that South and North Dakota are in a situation “as bad as it gets anywhere in the world for Covid-19”, Noem held her first pandemic media availability in three months, firing back: “That is absolutely false” and citing different data sources.

The laissez faire approach all but ordains that the most vulnerable South Dakotans, who may live in remote towns scattered across the state’s nine tribal reservations, in small rural enclaves or the cities, will have to figure out their own ways of coping.

Those with low-income, lacking transportation and experiencing pre-existing health conditions all too easily find themselves in life-or-death situations.

When tribal governments set up Covid-19 checkpoints early in 2020 on highways connecting reservation jurisdictions with state lands, to curb infections, Noem threatened their sovereignty with legal action, seeking Trump’s back-up.

The Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, arguing the checkpoints were needed because reservations lack medical facilities and equipment to handle a large outbreak, especially stemming from lax official protocols, sued Trump for colluding with Noem to undermine tribal authority.

When Angel, who is Sicangu Lakota, contracted Covid-19, she wouldn’t stay at her rustic Rosebud home because two household members had pre-existing health conditions.

“Access to running water and private bathroom facilities is necessary to recover and to contain Covid-19,” she told the Guardian.

“The tribe didn’t have a safe or adequate quarantine area able to provide Covid-19 support” so, she added “I left the reservation.”

She alternated hotels as bookings permitted.

“At one point, I was so weak I could barely walk,” she said.

She added: “I wouldn’t have survived on the reservation. Like my son, I probably would have been flown out. And who knows of I’d have survived that.”

Her younger son drove his older brother to the Rosebud emergency room just in time for a life-saving flight to a Sioux Falls hospital.

While in isolation, she said: “My prayer was that, if I ever survive this, I’m not going to let anybody else be alone in a hotel room.”

Later, tending to residents’ needs at Camp Mniluzahan, Angel reflected: “This is what I envisioned when I was sick, alone, near death and couldn’t breathe.”

Babbitt added: “When I saw what was happening at the camp, it filled my heart – to see people making a difference.”

This article was amended on 25 November 2020 to reflect South Dakota being in a minority of states with no mask mandate, not the only one.





No.31 article:
Richard Wilbanks, 74, was walking his Cavalier King Charles spaniel, Gunner, around the pond near his retirement home when the alligator raced up from the water and grabbed the dog. Cameras set up by the Florida Wildlife Federation and the fStop Foundation captured the encounter.

Gunner suffered a small puncture wound to his stomach, &nbsp;while Wilbanks told CNN that his hands were 'chewed up'. He doesn’t want the alligator removed, he said. 'They’re part of nature and part of our lives'





No.32 article:
Pizza worker at centre of South Australia lockdown &#x27;unaware&#x27; of public attention

Spaniard remains in hotel quarantine without his devices, which were seized during investigation, while police say it is unclear if any potential crimes occurred

The Spanish national at the centre of a police investigation into his failure to disclose to contact tracers he worked shifts at the Woodville Pizza Bar is unaware of the growing public focus on him as he remains in hotel quarantine, Guardian Australia has learned.

The 36-year-old man, currently on a temporary graduate visa in Australia, had his devices seized by South Australian police over the weekend after they issued a search warrant to obtain them from his quarantine hotel room.

The man, who also worked in the kitchen at the Stamford medi-hotel, initially told contact tracers he had just picked up a pizza from the Woodville Pizza Bar when he contracted Covid-19. This information led South Australian authorities to believe there could be much more widespread community transmission in the state and sent South Australia into a six-day lockdown.

The lockdown came to an end three days early when investigators determined the man had worked shifts in the bar alongside another man who also worked as a security guard at the Peppers Hotel where the Parafield outbreak originated.

Investigation Task Force Protect was established by South Australian police last week to look into any alleged criminal actions in the lead-up to and after the contact tracing interview.

Normally the personal information of those who contract Covid-19 and speak to contact tracers is withheld for their privacy, but the South Australian authorities disclosed the man’s age, gender, nationality and visa status in press conferences.

The man’s lawyer, Scott Jelbert, principal at Camena, said his client was unaware of the extent of the public focus on his case due to having his devices taken from him by police as part of the investigation.

It is unclear whether he still has access to TV or radio in his room.

Jelbert said the man might release a statement on Tuesday.

South Australian police assistant commissioner Peter Harvey told reporters on Monday the man has been helping police with the investigation.

“I am pleased at this stage to say that from what I have seen, he has been cooperative and has been helpful,” he said.

Two people associated with the Woodville Pizza Bar, who are also in quarantine, have also been drawn into the investigation. Harvey would not say if they were the owners of the bar, but said they were related to the bar and were seeking legal advice before speaking to police.

“They are certainly working with solicitors. They are seeking legal advice and legal representation before we speak any further, which is their right, and that is appropriate,” he said.

Some of the 40-odd police involved in the investigation are poring over 400 hours of CCTV footage from the Peppers hotel from the time the returned traveller from the UK was put in hotel quarantine to determine how the outbreak might have started, and who might have been at the hotel. Harvey said he could not say whether anything would come of it.

“It may be nothing – that’s why we’re looking, that’s the whole purpose of an investigation.”

Harvey would not say what potential crimes, if any, SA police believe might have occurred.

“There’s a lot of emotion and a lot of desire for something to be done, but it will be done carefully, it will be done clinically,” he said. “And we’ll put our case forward – there may not be a case. Just the same, there may well be. That’s the point of the investigation.”

All the focus on the one man is causing concern among contact tracing experts, who argue it might hinder people coming forward for testing. They say the best way to get the most accurate information from people during contact tracing interviews is to ensure their privacy and protect them from punishment.

“Would the next person then come along and tell you everything because they don’t want to get fined? Or the next person not even get tested?” Prof Catherine Bennett, head of epidemiology at Deakin University, told Guardian Australia. “That’s the concern now.

“There’s got to be some middle ground where you spend more time with people, particularly if the story they tell doesn’t fit the standard sort of epidemiological picture of risk, like in Adelaide.

“Just to spend more time with them, not to catch them out but to really explore the story, and to help them understand why what they’re saying could have really serious implications.”

Victoria’s Department of Health and Human Services secretary, Prof Euan Wallace, told a parliamentary committee hearing on Monday that Victorian health officials had numerous examples of people telling contact tracers they had broken the rules but did not receive fines, in order to keep the community onboard with contact tracing efforts.

“There is a tension,” he said. “We look to South Australia over the last couple of days about where things might have been done differently … We can’t do this without the community coming onboard – they have to be open to us.”

Harvey said the investigation might be a “competing interest” with the interests of contact tracing.

“The very basis of successful contact tracing is that the community has confidence that they can make an approach, have conversations and not face any penalty or anything of that type, so it’s a delicate balance.”

Bennett said contact tracers in the state might have already had a view about the spread of the virus that made them not follow up more closely on how the man could have acquired Covid-19 just from a pizza box.

“They already had this suspicion that this virus was a bit behaving differently and then you had all this rapid transmission,” she said. “And it was almost like this was another piece of a puzzle that was taking them down a particular way of thinking.

“If it’s a thing presenting as a very normal outbreak with normal incubation periods and everyone was a close contact of another case, this would have stood out as being unusual.

“I think they were caught out in South Australia because they’d already had some things that were not beyond the realms of possibility or a bit unusual.”

South Australia reported one new case of Covid-19 overnight – a close contact associated with the Parafield cluster who had been isolating since early last week.





No.33 article:
Nicolas Sarkozy corruption trial: co-defendant wants Covid postponement

Former French president is accused of corruption and influence peddling 

Nicolas Sarkozy, the former French president, will make history on Monday afternoon when he goes on trial accused of corruption and influence peddling for allegedly trying to bribe a judge for information.

His appearance in court is likely to be brief; one of his co-defendants claims the coronavirus makes it too risky for him to appear and has asked judges to postpone the hearing again.

Sarkozy, 65, who has repeatedly denied the accusations, told French television he was ready for the courtroom battle.

“I am combative, I have no intention of being accused of things I haven’t done. I’m not corrupt and what has been inflicted on me is a scandal that will rest in the annals. The truth will out,” Sarkozy told BFMTV earlier this month.

The case is the first of several investigations against the rightwing politician who led France between 2007 and 2012 to come before judges after years of attempts to have the charges dropped or nullified.

In a case known as the “bugging affair”, the prosecution alleges Sarkozy and his lawyer, Thierry Herzog, attempted to bribe a senior magistrate, Gilbert Azibert, to hand over secret information from a separate investigation against the former French leader. In return, Sarkozy is accused of offering to help secure Azibert a cushy job on the Côte d’Azur.

The hearing, which has already been postponed once, is likely to be delayed again; Azibert, who is 74, has said he is too ill to travel from his home in Bordeaux and risk contracting Covid-19. The president of the court is expected to open and adjourn the hearing and order Azibert to undergo a medical examination.

Sarkozy has been targeted in an array of legal investigations – from allegations of receiving illicit campaign funding from the late Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi to receiving alleged kickbacks from arms sales to Pakistan.

French detectives began monitoring Sarkozy’s communications in September 2013 as part of an investigation into claims he had a received an undeclared and illegal €50m donation from Gaddafi to fund his successful 2007 presidential campaign.

What they heard from the recorded conversations, however, pointed investigators in an entirely new and unexpected direction. They revealed the former president and Herzog were “secretly” communicating using mobile telephones registered under false names. Sarkozy’s phone was attributed to a Paul Bismuth.

Additional wiretaps on these phones picked up conversations suggesting that Sarkozy had been in contact with Azibert, then a member of the Cour de Cassation – the highest court in France – via Herzog to request confidential information about a separate investigation into whether Sarkozy received donations from the ailing L’Oréal heiress, Liliane Bettencourt.

Investigators had seized Sarkozy’s diaries as part of the Bettencourt investigation, and the former president allegedly wanted Azibert to find out what they planned to do with them. In return, it is alleged he promised to put in a word to have Azibert appointed to a sinecure in Monaco.

The Bettencourt case was eventually dropped, but by then an investigation into corruption and influence-peddling relating to the wire-taps had been opened.

Sarkozy has always strenuously denied any wrongdoing in all past and present investigations. He has previously claimed the Bismuth accusations were “an insult to my intelligence”.

Herzog also argued that the bugging and recording of their phones broke client confidentiality rules, but his repeated attempts to have the evidence thrown out or the case dismissed failed.

The three defendants, Sarkozy, Herzog and Azibert, are accused of “corruption” and “influence peddling”. Herzog and Azibert are also charged with “violating professional secrets”. They all risk up to 10 years in prison and hefty fines if convicted.

In its requisition, the National Financial Prosecutor’s Office (PNF) accused Sarkozy of behaving like a “seasoned offender” and accused his lawyers of “paralysing” the investigation with numerous appeals.

Sarkozy’s supporters, including former justice minister Rachida Dati, have, in turn, accused the PNF, created under his successor, the Socialist François Hollande, of dispensing “political justice”.

However, Fabrice Arfi, a senior editor at the news website Mediapart, who has carried out several in-depth investigations into allegations of political corruption, told the Observer Sarkozy’s attempts to divert attention from himself and point the finger at the legal and political system were “pure populism”.

“This is an historic trial for justice in France as it is the first time a president will appear in court accused of corruption. It is absolutely crucial and probably the biggest test France’s anti-corruption judges have faced,” Arfi said.

“Sarkozy is on trial but, instead of responding to the accusations, what he has tried to do is point the finger at France’s justice system and put it on trial. Here we have a former president behaving like Berlusconi and Trump.”

Sarkozy is expected to appear in court next year in yet another case, the “Bygmalion affair”, in which he is accused of overspending on his 2012 re-election bid. No dates have been set for court hearings in other investigations linked to Sarkozy.







No.34 article:
Does it work, is it safe, and will it protect older people?

Interim results from phase 3 trials in Britain and Brazil found the vaccine to be 70.4% protective. More than 20,000 volunteers were involved in the trials and half of those were in the UK. Investigators recorded 30 cases of Covid-19 in people who had two doses of the vaccine and 101 in those who received a control jab. In those who received two full doses, the vaccine was 62% protective. But it appears to work better when given initially as a half-dose followed by a full dose, with protection then rising to 90%.

The safety analysis comes from a database of 24,000 volunteers who took part in the clinical trials in the UK, Brazil and South Africa, with follow-ups since April. No serious safety events related to the vaccine have been identified, the scientists say. That will be reassuring, since the trials were paused after one volunteer in the UK fell ill. Details have not yet been released of mild side-effects, such as a sore arm or fatigue, after the jab.

The elderly are most at risk from Covid, so scientists have been keen to see a good response in older trial volunteers. Many vaccines for other infections are less effective in the elderly because the immune system wanes with age, but data from Oxford suggest there has been a “similar” response in younger and older adults.

At the heart of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine is a virus that causes the common cold in chimpanzees. The chimp virus is modified so it cannot multiply and cause disease in the body. It is then loaded up with the gene for the coronavirus spike protein, the club-shaped part that dots the surface of the virus and is used to penetrate human cells.

When the vaccine is injected, the chimp virus delivers the coronavirus gene to human cells which start to churn out the spike protein. These are detected by the immune system which produces antibodies and other responses that can attack the real coronavirus should the person become infected in the future.

The Oxford vaccine, named ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, is based on a different technology to the two recent “mRNA” vaccines from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, both of which performed well against Covid. No mRNA vaccine has ever been approved by regulators, but the Oxford approach has been used in vaccines given safely to thousands of people of all ages for diseases ranging from TB and malaria to Mers (another coronavirus) and Ebola, for which it is now being used in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Oxford opted for the chimp virus because it has the potential to generate a strong immune response and, since it cannot grow in humans, it should be safe.

Two other frontrunner vaccines, from BioNTech (developed with Pfizer) and Moderna (developed with the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases), perform well, according to interim results from phase 3 human trials, achieving more than 90% efficacy. These are based on technology that is new to the vaccine field. Both use genetic material called mRNA, or messenger RNA, which tells human cells how to make coronavirus spike proteins. The vaccines use lipid nanoparticles to deliver the mRNA into muscle cells which manufacture the spike protein and prime the immune system, guarding against infection. In principle, mRNA vaccines may be faster to develop and easier to manufacture.

While BioNTech’s vaccine must be stored at -70C to -80C, making distribution a complex logistical challenge, Moderna’s vaccine can be stored in a fridge at 2C to 8C for a month. Oxford’s vaccine can also be stored in standard refrigerators, making distribution far easier. Other coronavirus vaccines are under development and use the virus itself in a weakened or inactive form. This is the same approach used in highly effective vaccines for polio and measles.

The Oxford vaccine is far cheaper than others that have shown efficacy. AstraZeneca aim to sell the Oxford vaccine for $3-4 per shot, compared with $20 for the Pfizer/BioNTech shot and $25 for Moderna’s.

AstraZeneca has drawn up agreements to make 2bn doses of its vaccine by next summer. Through Europe’s inclusive vaccines alliance, up to 400m doses of the Oxford vaccine will be supplied to European nations, starting in 2020. The UK already has 4m doses of Oxford vaccine with 96m to come. Further orders include 40m doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and 5m doses of the Moderna vaccine.

One big question surrounding all of the coronavirus vaccines is whether they prevent asymptomatic infections as well as illness caused by the virus. Reducing asymptomatic infections, when people can spread the virus without knowing they have it, could have a big impact on slowing the spread of the disease. The Oxford data found some evidence of reduced asymptomatic infections in those who received the half-dose followed by a full dose later.

No one knows for how long the Oxford vaccine, or any other coronavirus vaccine for that matter, provides protection. Some vaccines are effective for years, but for obvious reasons this will take longer to confirm.





No.35 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Rebel MPs may still vote against new tiers after asking for ‘full cost-benefit analysis’

A large number of Conservative MPs could still vote against a tiered system of coronavirus restrictions for England next week, a leading backbencher has warned, as Boris Johnson prepared to unveil the new post-lockdown regime for the country.

Steve Baker, the deputy chair of the Covid Recovery Group, which sent a letter on behalf of 70 Tory MPs warning the prime minister that any new measures must be justified, said he was “reassured” at news that shops, gyms and places of worship would remain open in all the new three tiers.

But as Matt Hancock, the health secretary, said the system, which will come into force from 2 December, will have to be more robust than the tiers in place before the lockdown, Baker said his group remained concerned.

“We’ll have to hear what the prime minister says before we decide how we’re voting,” he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Baker reiterated his group’s demand that the government produce a full cost-benefit analysis of the new tiers. He said: “Yes, and I think it’s a very modest and reasonable thing to ask for.” On Sunday, the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, said such an analysis was unlikely.

Baker said: “We do need to stand up for people, because we know that livelihoods matter, we know that there’s nothing quite like poverty for shortening your life and diminishing your life chances. So all of these things continue to matter.”

Johnson is due to outline plans for the new regional tiers to parliament on Monday afternoon, although details of which areas will go into which tiers will not be decided until Thursday. He is also expected to unveil outline proposals for a temporary UK-wide relaxation to allow mixing between households over Christmas.

Baker said he welcomed the Christmas plan, while saying any restrictions over the festive period were “a major infringement on the right to a family life”.

It is understood that all of the new tiers will allow non-essential shops, gyms and places of worship to remain open. Rules for pubs and restaurants will vary between tiers, but will be tougher overall than under the previous system, addressing a well-identified source of infection but dismaying the hospitality industry.

Hancock told BBC1’s Breakfast programme that the new regime would be tougher overall than the old tiers. He said: “The tiered system, while lighter than lockdown, will have to be stronger than the previous tiers that were in place.”

In particular, he said, the new top tier would be more robust. He said: “We saw that the previous tier 3 could essentially get the cases flat, but not bring them down, and we do need to bring them down.”

As part of the new system, the government has said it will expand a system of mass, instant coronavirus testing being trialled in Liverpool.

Among the plans is a scheme to stop people who have come into close contact with someone who has coronavirus from having to isolate for 14 days, if tests show they have not contracted it.

Contacts will have the chance to be tested every day for a week, and will not need to isolate during that period if the tests remain negative. This would be trialled in Liverpool, and potentially rolled out nationally from January.

Hancock said using mass testing to track down asymptomatic carriers of the virus could be hugely effective. He said: “The combination of the mass testing and the measures, in Liverpool, have brought the cases down really quite remarkably, much faster than I would have thought was possible.”

A study led by academics from the University of East Anglia has concluded that the previous tier 1 had “little impact” on the transmission of coronavirus locally.

The study, which has not yet undergone peer review, examined infection rates over 14 days in regions placed into the three tiers. It found that the top tier, which barred all household mixing, had the most impact, while the impact in tier 2 was mixed.

callout-coronavirus

Prof Paul Hunter, who led the study, said: “Our conclusion is that the problem with the tier system was not actually the tiers, but the inability of the government in England to allocate local authorities to their most appropriate tier quickly enough.”

On Sunday, a further 398 people died of coronavirus in the UK, according to the government’s daily figures, up from 168 the same day the previous week. A total of 18,662 people tested positive for the virus, down from 24,962.





No.36 article:
Healthcare workers urge Americans to &#x27;scale back&#x27; Thanksgiving gatherings

Doctors, nurses, hospital leaders and infectious disease experts fear large celebrations will cause an explosion of new Covid cases

Doctors, nurses, infectious disease experts and hospital leaders have united in warning Americans against traveling or gathering in large groups for Thanksgiving, a US holiday traditionally marked by bringing extended family and friends around a dinner table.

Experts and frontline workers are fearful such events will cause an explosion of new Covid-19 cases, which could overburden hospitals struggling to recruit nurses amid an “exponential” rise in cases.

“Looking at the landscape right now and the number of people who are still set on having larger, multi-household, in-person Thanksgiving dinners, one can only assume that the current trend of new Covid cases will continue to increase,” said Dr Iahn Gonsenhauser, chief quality and patient safety officer at Ohio State University’s Wexner Medical Center.

If people move forward with such Thanksgiving plans, Gonsenhauser anticipates it would extend the public health crisis “to the point of requiring strict lockdowns just in time for the Christmas holiday”. Several experts said they had canceled plans and limited their own celebrations strictly to members of their own household.

“In the strongest possible terms, we urge you to celebrate responsibly,” the American Hospital Association, American Medical Association and American Nurses Association said in an open letter to the American public. The letter urged Americans to have “scaled-back” celebrations, and to wear masks, wash hands and social distance.

“We must protect the doctors, nurses and other caregivers who have tirelessly battled this virus for months,” the letter said. “You can do your part to ensure they can continue to care for you and your loved ones.”

The letter echoed guidance from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which urged Americans not to travel over the holiday in its first public briefing since August. “We’re alarmed with the exponential increase in cases, hospitalizations, and deaths,” Dr Henry Walke, Covid-19 incident manager for the CDC said.

The period in the leads up to Thanksgiving has proved to be one of the most trying periods of the pandemic. More than 11.5 million Americans have been diagnosed with Covid-19, more than 250,000 have died, and more than 76,000 are hospitalized, according to the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus resource center and the Covid tracking project.

The warnings come as a minority of Americans still plan to gather large groups for the holiday according to surveys, amid a surge in cases that has gripped the upper midwest and spread out to much of the country.

A recent poll conducted by Wexner Medical Center found most Americans have adjusted holiday plans, but two in five still plan to attend gatherings of more than 10 people. One-third said they would not ask people to wear masks.

“Some people are still saying it’s fake news,” the nation’s top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci told Kaiser Health News. “That is a very difficult thing to get over: why people still insist that something that’s staring you right in the face is not real.”

Gatherings of just 10 people can be extremely risky, especially risky in hotspots of the country. In Ward, North Dakota, where Minot is the largest city and which is now experiencing a surge, there is a 76% chance someone who is Covid-19 positive would attend a gathering of 10 people, according to a real-time risk assessment tool developed by researchers at the Georgia Institute of Technology.

“Back when Covid was on the decline during the summer months, and we felt we were headed in the right direction, we made plans to drive to Colorado,” said Gonsenhauser. “We canceled those plans. We will be connecting with others via our phone, our tablet, or our laptop.”

Gary Young, an expert in health policy at Northeastern University, said hospitals are already facing staffing shortages and extreme financial pressures from the pandemic, evidenced by hospital closures and layoffs at a time of unprecedented demand.

“There are still many hospitals, particularly in rural areas, that are going to be overwhelmed,” said Young. “The preparation is not as robust as areas that really experienced a surge in the spring.”

“Right now, we’re seeing really all-time highs in terms of demand in intensive care units all across the country,” said Parth Bhakta, founder and CEO of NurseFly, an online jobs platform for traveling nurses. “It’s significantly higher than what we saw in the early days of the pandemic, when we saw a huge amount of need in the New York area.”

Covid-19 appears to be causing a kind of vicious circle of staff shortages. Increasing Covid-19 cases causes hospitals to reduce profitable services, such as elective (but medically necessary) surgeries. That causes a “financial jolt” to hospitals, according to Young. At the same time, many regular nurses and doctors – once applauded daily – have faced burn out, political attacks and the validity of their experiences questioned.

Some traveling nurse jobs are now paying three times the average weekly pay a year ago, with traveling ICU nurse positions paying $6,000 per week or more, according to NurseFly. Although average pay is far lower, $2,246 per week, it is still up 28.3% on average pay in 2019.

Alongside increased pay and staffing shortages, at least seven nursing strikes have occurred nationally just through September, according to Beckers Hospital Review. Many included demands for better personal protective equipment, which runs short as cases surge.

“We’ve seen so many of these people that are somehow trying to link asking to wear a mask to stripping of freedom,” said Gonsenhauser. “But this is a civic duty – it’s a patriot responsibility we’re being asked to take up – and I don’t remember that was the last time that was removing one’s freedom.”





No.37 article:
Christmas: scientists suggest outdoor festivities to keep safe from Covid

Independent Sage proposes community celebrations with food and drink in the street

Christmas could be turned into a communal outdoor celebration – with hot drinks and mince pies consumed in the street – scientists have suggested, in alternative plans drawn up for safer festivities.

In a set of proposals compiled by Independent Sage – a group formed in response to concerns about a lack of transparency in scientific advice given to government – they say the rules over the festive period will depend upon the rate and level of infections at the time.

“Yet irrespective of the question of whether indoor household mixing is possible or not, we must develop ways of celebrating that keep ourselves, our families and our community safer,” the team write in the document titled Safer Winter Celebrations and Festivities.

With indoor transmission known to be a key factor in the spread of the coronavirus, the scientists offer two main approaches to keeping Christmas safe – meeting up online or outdoors, and reducing risks for home gatherings.

The team say Christmas 2020 could focus on community celebrations – whether online or outdoors – something they say would help those who face having to spend the celebration alone, be they elderly people or millennials. They add that the government should work with local communities and companies to resource and support such endeavours.

Prof Susan Michie, a member of Independent Sage, said that, among the possibilities, people could meet up on kerbsides or in public places, bringing their own drinks and glasses – or cups of tea – as well as festive treats such as mince pies.

“The outside is so much safer than indoors,” she said, adding it is much easier to keep two metres apart when al fresco. “Another [idea] is just going for walks with people,” said Michie, noting other options would be to open up community centres for a safe, distanced community Christmas, or making more spaces pedestrianised over Christmas.

If households are allowed to mix indoors, the team say advice should be given on how to minimise risks, with a particular focus on social distancing, ventilation, and hygiene.

That approach also needs the support of central government and local authorities and community groups they say.

“Initiatives could include a fund to support adequate ventilation (akin to schemes to fund home insulation) and a pandemic fuel allowance (to allow people to open their windows and still keep warm),” the team write, adding that a public information scheme would also be needed on how to make homes safe.

Prof Stephen Reicher, another member of Independent Sage, said it would be rash to give guarantees about what will be possible at Christmas.

“If we are in a position where the infections are high, where the NHS is in danger of being overwhelmed, then to do things that would increase the level of infections still further is a huge problem,” he said.

Reicher added it is important to realise that Christmas might be different this year.

“What does loving your parents mean in a time of pandemic? Well it means not hugging them rather than hugging them, because you don’t want to transmit the infection,” he said. 

The proposals come as a growing number of scientists have spoken out about the issue of restrictions during the Christmas period.

Some have warned that, even with extra precautions, infections could rise come January. A “bump” in infections, and later hospitalisations, can be seen in recent data for England, which some experts have suggested could be down to a surge in socialising after plans for a national lockdown were leaked on 30 October.

Prof Paul Hunter of the University of East Anglia said that judging restrictions over Christmas was a difficult balancing act.

“Any relaxation over Christmas will lead to some increases in cases and therefore fatalities,” he said. 

But he added that some have raised concerns that if restrictions are not relaxed over Christmas, people might ignore the rules anyway – which might also undermine their compliance with future restrictions – while being able to meet up with others for a few days might boost people’s mental health.





No.38 article:
While the premier blames the ‘selfish actions of an individual’, others say it shows up ‘systemic issues with the way we work’

When Steven Marshall fronted a press conference on Friday to give an update on day two of the state’s hard lockdown, his tone was grim. Someone had lied to a contact tracer, he said, which meant the state’s strict lockdown had been unnecessary.

“To say I am fuming about the actions of this individual is an absolute understatement,” the South Australian premier said. “The selfish actions of this individual have put our whole state in a very difficult situation. His actions have affected businesses, individuals, family groups and is completely and utterly unacceptable.”

In Marshall’s eyes the facts were simple: a security guard at Adelaide’s Peppers medi-hotel was infected with Covid-19. They also worked at the Woodville Pizza Bar in the city.

A second worker at another medi-hotel – The Stamford – had also become infected. Marshall said that worker “deliberately” lied, telling contract tracers he had only ordered from the restaurant, when he had actually been working there. This alleged lie led authorities to believe the cluster was much more widespread and more infectious than it really was, leading them to impose the wide-scale lockdown.

Not content with calling out the alleged liar Marshall explained that under the South Australian emergency act “there is no penalty associated with telling lies”.

He added: “It is a male and I can’t go into the specific details of the reasons for their lying but needless to say, the fact we weren’t provided accurate, truthful information has instigated a course of events that, based on the information we were provided, was the right course of action, and we are moving swiftly now to change that, based on what we know now,” he said.

Almost instantly an online mob formed with users taking to the Woodville Pizza restaurants Facebook page to announce a boycott. Reporters rushed to the Woodville pizza bar store front in Woodville, a post-industrial migrant neighbourhood in Adelaide’s west to set up for their live crosses.

Before long a police car soon arrived to keep a watch over the shopfront.

In some ways it was a convenient out for the state premier and health authorities who were feeling the heat over a decision to outsource security work in the state’s quarantine hotels. Low pay and a failure to regularly test workers had put them at risk and caused what many thought was a second wave.

Ryan Batchelor, executive director of the McKell Institute in Victoria said the framing of the announcement worked to direct blame on an individual worker when there were real systematic issues that needed to be addressed.

“It seemed like the authorities were saying: largely this is the fault of the person who lied to us,” Batchelor said. “The danger here is that this is portrayed as the actions of one person when it actually points to some more systemic issues with the way we work.

“The fact remains that this kind of thing could happen tomorrow, or next week, or in the future as long as we have workers who are engaged on contracts, as casuals, with no securities who are being put on the frontline of a global health pandemic.”

Last week – right before the lockdown, the McKell Institute published research that found 2.1 million Australians are working multiple jobs – including 100,000 South Australians.

Many of those are precariously employed migrants. Abbey Kendall, director of the Working Women’s Centre, said the situation showed the extent to which insecure work is the “achilles heel” of the pandemic.

“You might lie to a government or an institution because you are fearful in some way,” Kendall said. 

“The manhunt for this worker should be avoided. This is a time to reimagine the way we work, we know we can stop, pause and then start again very quickly. We should take that thinking and that critical thinking back into our workplaces and our community and figure out how we’re going to do this better.”

Late on Friday, Marshall promised to “throw the book” at the worker and announced a police taskforce would be set up “to look at all and every aspect of the evidence that was provided and the consequences that have ensued from there”.

University of Melbourne epidemiologist Prof Tony Blakely helped co-author modelling that proved an elimination strategy was possible and ultimately informed the direction of Victoria’s lockdown.

“Here in the southern hemisphere we’ve learned that unlike the northern hemisphere, that only uses lockdowns when things are out of control, we can use lockdowns to contain the virus and achieve elimination,” Blakely said.

“The decision by the South Australian chief public health officer was justified at the time. The fact that information now appears unreliable is unfortunate, but it is fortunate to have it go this way and lockdown and then have the numbers explode on you. In New South Wales, they’ve just gotten lucky.”

“There is a real issue here about how one ensures open and honest communication in the future. The question from me is does somebody as powerful as the premier standing up and attacking this person when they’re in a disempowered position help? Is that fair? Will that damage the chance for people in the future speaking the truth? Probably will.”

Though Blakely said it was better to be safe than sorry, he added that with new legitimate new cases having been discovered in South Australia, the virus was still out in the wild and so caution needed to be taken.

“You’re not going back to the way South Australia was before it blew up,” Blakely said. “You come out of hard lockdown, but you don’t go out to pre-lockdown times.”

“If there’s just one case out there, it can grow.”

This story was amended on 23 November 2020 to remove the description “young” from the headline. After it was published, South Australian authorities gave his age as 36. 







No.39 article:
Monday briefing: PM bets on Christmas bonus

Johnson hopes to defuse Tory rebellion with rebooted Covid strategy … Sunak warned about pay freeze ... Lawyer who went too far even for Trump

by  Martin Farrer

Morning everyone. My name is Martin Farrer and here are the top stories you need to start your week.

Boris Johnson will today lay out plans to contain the coronavirus pandemic after the lockdown in England ends next month, along with proposals for a temporary UK-wide relaxation to allow mixing between households over Christmas. A tougher three-tiered set of restrictions to target the worst-infected areas, and a programme of rapid, mass testing, are expected to be at the heart of the plans for England as the prime minister attempts to reset his government’s response to the crisis and head off an internal rebellion among Conservative MPs. One widely expected concession to critics within his own party will allow people who have come into close contact with someone who has coronavirus to skip the current mandatory 14-day self-isolation, and instead submit to be tested every day for a week. The reconfigured tiers will allow non-essential shops and gyms to remain open, but pubs could face more stringent measures.

Johnson, who is still self-isolating in Downing Street, could be helped if a vaccine is ready by the end of the year. The Pfizer/BioNTech treatment could be given regulatory approval as early as this week. Germany and the US could also start administering the vaccine in December as the G20 leaders have pledged to distribute treatments fairly around the world. The US outbreak is continuing to worsen with roughly one person dying every minute, and concern that millions of Americans will ignore warnings and travel to see family during this week’s Thanksgiving holiday. You can catch up with all the overnight developments in the pandemic at our rolling coverage here.

Pay warning – Rishi Sunak says his plans to freeze public sector pay do not represent a return to austerity as he prepares to announce more money for health, education and the police on Wednesday. Trade union leaders have written to the chancellor warning that pay controls will damage the economy, hurt frontline workers and cause a staffing crisis. The letter, seen by the Guardian, says more pay for firefighters, teaching assistants and care workers is a “matter of justice” after they endured the frontline danger of the Covid-19 outbreak. But Sunak is expected to unveil an additional £151m to tackle rough sleeping and prevent homelessness, an extra £3bn for the NHS to tackle a backlog in operations, fund 50,000 more nurses and 50m additional GP appointments, and announce plans for a new national infrastructure bank and a northern campus for the Treasury.

‘National embarrassment’ – Donald Trump has come under renewed pressure from Republicans to drop his legal attempts to overturn the outcome of the presidential election. Chris Christie, the former governor of New Jersey and a staunch Trump ally, said the campaign in the courts was a “national embarrassment”, while the former national security chief, John Bolton, said the outgoing president was the political equivalent of a street rioter. As Trump played golf for the second time at the weekend despite the country’s out-of-control coronavirus pandemic, the actual legal efforts ran into more trouble as a Republican judge in Pennsylvania dismissed one case and called it a “Frankenstein’s monster”. In addition, the Trump team has distanced itself from Sidney Powell, a prominent lawyer who has spoken out for the president with theories about alleged electoral fraud that were extreme even by the campaign’s wild standards. Joe Biden, the president-elect, is expected to name the first members of his new cabinet tomorrow, with career diplomat Antony Blinken tipped to be secretary of state.

Hong Kong guilty pleas – Three leading Hong Kong activists have been remanded in custody after pleading guilty to charges relating to protests outside a police station last year. The trial of Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow, and Ivan Lam was scheduled to begin on Monday, but they now face five years in jail following a decison to plead guilty on advice from their lawyers. Before leaving court, Wong shouted: “Everyone hang in there, add oil,” using a common protest cry.

Ice bucket activist dies – Patrick Quinn, the American man whose struggle with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis helped power the spectacularly successful Ice Bucket Challenge fundraising campaign, has died aged 37. The New Yorker was diagnosed with ALS, or Lou Gehrig’s disease as it also known, in 2013 but went on to raise $220m by encouraging people to film themselves having ice cold water poured over their heads.

Banksy mystery – A bicycle with a missing wheel that was part of a Banksy mural in Nottingham has disappeared. The artwork features a girl appearing to hula hoop with a tyre from the bike, which was chained symbolically to a pole in front of the mural. But the bicycle disappeared this weekend from its spot in Lenton, frustrating Banksy fans travelling to see the piece.

Gary Younge talks to Anushka Asthana about the history of US voting rights and what the changing demographics of the country mean for Republicans with white voters set to be the minority by 2045.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/20-70990-20201123_TIF_GaryY.mp3 

Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen, king of the TV home makeover, is back with a new series of Changing Rooms. He tells Chris Godfrey about how his extended family dressed up for lockdown, the tragedy of his father’s early death, his TV career (“I’ve been trying to get sacked for years”), and how he wants to “make Britain bright again”.

Jürgen Klopp was full of praise for his Liverpool side as they set a record of 64 league games unbeaten at Anfield with a 3-0 win over Leicester, even though they were missing most of their regular defence. Nicolas Pépé was sent off for a head-butt as Arsenal held Leeds to a 0-0 draw at Elland Road, while Sébastien Haller’s second-half goal was enough to take West Ham into the top half of the table but the result leaves Sheffield United bottom with only one point. Eddie Jones has revealed how Liverpool are having a key influence on his England team, explaining how a meeting with the Premier League champions played a role in Jonny May’s wonder try against Ireland. Scotland’s five-match winning run was brought to a halt as France turned on the power in the second half to earn a first win at Murrayfield in five attempts since 2014. Daniil Medvedev is the king of tennis until someone proves otherwise, after the Russian beat Dominic Thiem to win the ATP Tour Finals trophy, declaring it “one of my best victories”. The former Formula One world champion Damon Hill believes a knighthood is an absolutely deserved honour for Lewis Hamilton. The Football Association of Ireland has concluded its investigation into the video message shown to the Republic of Ireland squad before last week’s friendly against England and now “considers the matter closed”. And arsonists have burned down the third-last fence at Kempton Park leaving ground staff at the Surrey track to rebuild it for the King George VI Chase on Boxing Day.

Rishi Sunak’s plans for the economy come as an analysis of official figures suggests that the number of unemployed people aged over 50 in the UK has increased by a third in the past year. There are 91,000 more unemployed older people than there were 12 months ago, the biggest percentage increase of all age groups, the research claims. The FTSE100 looks like it’s going to open about 0.3% to the good, while the pound is up to $1.33 and €1.122.

Hopes that Christmas may not be cancelled any more takes the lead on many front pages. “Xmas gets go ahead”, says the Mirror, while the Express goes for the more heroic: “It’s official: Christmas is saved!” The Times says “PM to ease lockdown with Christmas shopping spree”, the i has “Families can meet up for Christmas”, the Guardian says “PM promises mass testing to head off Tory revolt” and the Telegraph goes with “Isolation scrapped for contacts of Covid cases”. In Scotland, the Press and Journal says “Governments agree plans to save Christmas” but the Herald is not so sure, reporting that the reported deal between Westminster and the devolved governments is not nailed on: “Christmas hopes for millions are thrown into confusion”.

The FT focuses on the chancellor’s latest plans for the economy – “Sunak funds schools and police in last hurrah before taxes rise” – the Mail claims to have exposed excessive public sector spending – “Waste that’ll make you weep” – and the Sun has the latest on I’m a Celebrity contestant Jacqueline Jossa: “I’ve had therapy to save my marriage”.

• This briefing was amended on 23 November 2020 to clarify that references to the lockdown, tier system and testing regime in the top item are specific to England only.

The Guardian morning briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com






