No.1 article:
In Hunt for Virus Source, W.H.O. Let China Take Charge

GENEVA — On a cold weekend in mid-February, when the world still harbored false hope that the new coronavirus could be contained, a World Health Organization team arrived in Beijing to study the outbreak and investigate a critical question: How did the virus jump from animals to humans?

At that point, there were only three confirmed deaths from Covid-19 outside China and scientists hoped that finding an animal source for the coronavirus would unlock clues about how to stop it, treat it and prevent similar outbreaks.

“If we don’t know the source then we’re equally vulnerable in the future to a similar outbreak,” Michael Ryan, the World Health Organization’s emergency director, had said that week in Geneva. “Understanding that source is a very important next step.”

What the team members did not know was that they would not be allowed to investigate the source at all. Despite Dr. Ryan’s pronouncements, and over the advice of its emergency committee, the organization’s leadership had quietly negotiated terms that sidelined its own experts. They would not question China’s initial response or even visit the live-animal market in the city of Wuhan where the outbreak seemed to have originated.

Nine months and more than 1.1 million deaths later, there is still no transparent, independent investigation into the source of the virus. Notoriously allergic to outside scrutiny, China has impeded the effort, while leaders of the World Health Organization, if privately frustrated, have largely ceded control, even as the Trump administration has fumed.

From the earliest days of the outbreak, the World Health Organization — the only public health body with a global remit — has been both indispensable and impotent. The Geneva-based agency has delivered key information about testing, treatment and vaccine science. When the Trump administration decided to develop its own test kits, rather than rely on the W.H.O. blueprint, the botched result led to delays.

At the same time, the health organization pushed misleading and contradictory information about the risk of spread from symptomless carriers. Its experts were slow to accept that the virus could be airborne. Top health officials encouraged travel as usual, advice that was based on politics and economics, not science.

The W.H.O.’s staunchest defenders note that, by the nature of its constitution, it is beholden to the countries that finance it. And it is hardly the only international body bending to China’s might. But even many of its supporters have been frustrated by the organization’s secrecy, its public praise for China and its quiet concessions. Those decisions have indirectly helped Beijing to whitewash its early failures in handling the outbreak.

Now, as a new Covid-19 wave engulfs Europe and the United States, the organization is in the middle of a geopolitical standoff.

China’s authoritarian leaders want to constrain the organization; President Trump, who formally withdrew the United States from the body in July, now seems intent on destroying it; and European leaders are scrambling to reform and empower it.

The search for the virus’s origins is a study in the compromises the W.H.O. has made.

On the surface, an investigation into the virus’s origin is progressing. Beijing recently approved a list of outside investigators. The health organization has agreed that key parts of the inquiry — about the first patients in China and the market’s role in the outbreak — will be led by Chinese scientists, according to documents obtained by The New York Times. The documents, which have never been made public, show that W.H.O. experts will review and “augment, rather than duplicate,” studies undertaken by China.

Even as it has heaped praise on the Chinese government, the organization has refused to disclose details of its negotiations with Beijing and hasn’t shared documents with member states outlining the terms of its investigations.

“The W.H.O. prioritizes access to the country,” said Gian Luca Burci, a former legal counsel for the agency. “But if you do that to the bitter end, you lose soft power.”

The question of the virus’s origin remains a critical mystery that, if solved, could help prevent another pandemic and help scientists create vaccines and treatments. When the first SARS outbreak began spreading in China in late 2002, officials hid the epidemic for months. But when they finally acknowledged it, they soon allowed in international teams to investigate the animal source.

This time, the hunt for a source has been shrouded in secrecy.

Internal documents and interviews with more than 50 public-health officials, scientists and diplomats provide an inside look at how a disempowered World Health Organization, eager to win access and cooperation from China, has struggled to achieve either. Its solicitous approach has given space for Mr. Trump and his allies to push speculation and unfounded conspiracy theories, and deflect blame for their own mistakes.

The prospect of an apolitical inquiry into the virus’s origins is dwindling. China has extracted concessions from the health organization that have helped the country delay important research and spared its government a potentially embarrassing review of its early response to the outbreak.

“Unfortunately, this has become a political investigation,” said Wang Linfa, an Australian virologist in Singapore who helped identify bats as the hosts of the first SARS coronavirus. “Whatever they do is symbolic.”

The organization said it was committed to a full-scale investigation irrespective of political distractions.

“Divisions between and within countries have provided fertile ground for this fast-moving virus to grow and gain the upper hand,” the W.H.O.’s director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said in a statement to The Times. He said political attacks had undermined the world’s response. “Leadership in a crisis such as this requires listening, understanding, trust and moving forward together.”

The question of where Covid-19 began is especially intriguing because the initial theory, centered on illegal wildlife sales at the Wuhan market, is now in doubt.

There is powerful evidence that the new coronavirus passed naturally from an animal into humans. Scientists have found a virus in bats that is a close relative, and they suspect that it may have infected another animal species before it reached people.

But though they agree that many cases were linked to the market in Wuhan, many scientists no longer believe it is where the outbreak began.

For now, however, it’s still where the trail goes cold.

On the night of Dec. 30, according to local reports, workers in protective gear began scrubbing the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan, a warren of vendors selling produce, meats and wild animals. They scoured the market, going stall to stall, and spraying disinfectant to stop an outbreak that officials believed originated there.

A day or so later, another team arrived from China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention. According to one official account, the experts took samples both from products sold at the market and the environment.

But three weeks later, George F. Gao, the chief scientist at China’s C.D.C., indicated to a reporter that the market had been closed before his team could conduct a thorough search for the animal source.

This is a key moment. The discrepancy in the accounts leaves open two possibilities. If researchers tested samples from live animals, then they may be concealing potentially important clues about the origins of the virus.

But if they arrived after the market had been closed and disinfected, they may only have taken samples from places like door handles, counters and sewage runoff. Many outside experts consider this the most likely scenario. They said it was understandable that local officials, focused on preventing human illness, would rush to clean the market rather than pause to preserve evidence.

Yet that would mean that Chinese officials probably missed a chance to confirm where the outbreak did, or did not, originate.

The W.H.O. has repeatedly said that investigations are underway but has done little to clarify the uncertainty. Chinese health and diplomatic officials did not respond to repeated interview requests and have been publicly silent on what happened.

“This is part of the Chinese psyche — to demonstrate to the world that they do the very best science,” said Peter Daszak, a disease ecologist and president of EcoHealth Alliance in New York. “But in this case, it didn’t work. And I think that is the reason why we don’t know much more.”

Identifying the source of a virus is not an armchair exercise. After the 2012 outbreak of the coronavirus MERS, scientists found evidence that it was carried by camels. But it took researchers like Ghazi Kayali, who drew blood samples from Egyptian slaughterhouses, to confirm that. Now he and other researchers are eagerly awaiting details on China’s early tests.

“What did they actually find?” Dr. Kayali said. “Was it a live virus, or just fragments of RNA? Did they sample animals that were present there?”

The closest the Chinese government has come to publishing findings was a Jan. 22 news release, which declared that scientists had found the coronavirus in 15 samples from the market. But it is unclear whether that virus was shed by humans or animals. Chinese scientists published the genetic sequence from some samples, but the information provided no clues to the virus’s origins.

The W.H.O. may be in a position to answer some of these questions. In mid-January, China’s National Health Commission briefed the organization’s local office on its market investigation, according to an official with direct knowledge of the briefing.

Chinese officials said in January that the outbreak began at the market. Dr. Gao, at the Chinese C.D.C., blamed illegal wildlife sales.

In private conversations, he shared a more specific hypothesis. W. Ian Lipkin, a Columbia University virologist, recalled how, over dinner in Beijing in early February, Dr. Gao pulled out his phone and showed him pictures of dead rodents found at the market.

“George Gao was convinced we were going to implicate a cane rat,” Dr. Lipkin said.

Yet, even then, Dr. Gao was seeing evidence that undermined his theory.

In late January, Dr. Gao co-wrote one of the earliest epidemiological studies about the virus. The study highlights the market’s links to the outbreak. But a close look at the data reveals something significant: Four of the first five coronavirus patients had no clear links to the market.

They had apparently been infected elsewhere.

In late January, Dr. Tedros met with China’s leader, Xi Jinping, in Beijing. The outbreak was gathering speed, if still largely confined to China, as the two men sat in front of a bucolic mural in the Great Hall of the People and carved out an agreement.

Dr. Tedros had rushed to Beijing to lobby Mr. Xi to allow in a large team of international experts. A small W.H.O. team had traveled to Wuhan a week before but had not gone to the market or to the largest hospital for infectious diseases.

Mr. Xi did not welcome the suggestion that China needed help. But he agreed to let a W.H.O. mission evaluate the situation “objectively, fairly, calmly and rationally.”

“The epidemic is the devil, and we cannot let the devil hide,” Mr. Xi said, according to local media reports.

The agreement was critical for Dr. Tedros, who the previous week had decided against declaring an international emergency after convening a committee to advise him.

What was not publicly known, though, was that the committee’s Jan. 23 decision followed intense lobbying, notably by China, according to diplomats and health officials. Committee members are international experts largely insulated from influence. But in Geneva, China’s ambassador made it clear that his country would view an emergency declaration as a vote of no confidence.

China also presented data to the committee, portraying a situation under relative control.

Half the committee said it was too early to declare an emergency. The outcome surprised many countries, as did Dr. Tedros when he publicly praised both Mr. Xi and China’s pneumonia surveillance system.

“It was that system that caught this event,” he said during a news conference.

That was wrong. China’s surveillance system had failed to spot the outbreak, a failure that experts now say allowed its spread to accelerate. Asked to explain the discrepancy, the W.H.O. referred questions to China.

Praising China, though, has been Dr. Tedros’s trademark refrain.

Dr. Tedros is a politically minded epidemiologist who has served as health minister and foreign minister of Ethiopia. He is affable and calls leaders and diplomats “my brother.” Critics and supporters agree that he dislikes criticizing countries publicly.

His supporters say soft diplomacy is necessary for any leader of the W.H.O., a badly underfunded United Nations agency founded after World War II that relies on donations for about 80 percent of its budget.

When Dr. Tedros took over in 2017, the organization was undergoing an overhaul after criticism for its earlier botched response to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

But the agency still has no guaranteed budget and no authority to make demands or enforce international regulations. For the sake of public health, it often chooses to work with countries even after other U.N. agencies have placed sanctions on them.

When SARS emerged in late 2002, China hid the outbreak for months and ignored calls from Gro Harlem Brundtland, who was then leading the W.H.O. Only when she publicly shamed the country did China cooperate.

This time, things seemed to start off better. Chinese leaders communicated regularly with Dr. Tedros. Beijing had also shared the genomic sequence of the virus with W.H.O. relatively quickly, although only after Chinese scientists beat it to the task. Mr. Xi’s decision to allow a W.H.O. mission seemed to vindicate Dr. Tedros’s approach.

“I will praise China again and again because its actions actually helped in reducing the spread of coronavirus to other countries,” Dr. Tedros said after he left Beijing. “We should tell the truth.”

Back in Geneva, the American ambassador, Andrew Bremberg, urged Dr. Tedros to dial back praise of China.

“You’re risking your personal and organizational reputation,” he told Dr. Tedros, according to several Western diplomats briefed on that conversation.

In the end, Dr. Tedros declared an emergency on Jan. 30, on the advice of nearly every member of the committee, save for the Chinese delegate. The committee also advised that the upcoming W.H.O. mission to China should “review and support efforts to investigate the animal source.”

About a week later, in early February, two top experts from the organization went to Beijing to negotiate the mission’s agenda. That same week, the world’s leading health experts ranked finding the animal host as one of the top tasks.

Yet, even before the full team gathered in Beijing on Feb. 16, the World Health Organization had ceded ground, according to two people who were on the mission, diplomats and others. It agreed not to examine China’s early response or begin investigating the animal source, they said. It could not even secure a visit to Wuhan.

“We weren’t there to look at the animal origins,” said Dale Fisher, a National University of Singapore medical professor who took part in the mission.

In response to questions, the W.H.O. said that it had focused on “understanding the outbreak in China in order to help all countries to prepare and protect populations.”

Once in China, team members agreed the mission would not be credible unless they went to Wuhan, said H. Clifford Lane, a clinical director at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

Wuhan was sealed, so six members — three Chinese and three international experts — took a special train to the city. They stayed for about a day and visited two hospitals. They did not go to the market.

When the team gathered to write its report, the 25 members parsed every word for nearly three days.

“They would get stuck on a word,” Dr. Fisher said about his Chinese colleagues. 

The mission produced valuable information on the disease, its transmission, and China’s successful, if draconian, response. Its report also credited Xi Jinping, whom it said “personally directed and deployed the prevention and control work” — a statement not corroborated by early reports on the outbreak.

On the origins of the virus, the experts mostly shifted the onus to China, asking the government to prioritize a “rigorous investigation.” But they also assured people that numerous investigations were underway.

“It was an absolute whitewash,” said Lawrence O. Gostin, a professor of global health law at Georgetown University. “But the answer was, that was the best they could negotiate with Xi Jinping.”

In Washington, the American health secretary, Alex M. Azar II, gathered advisers inside a conference room of the Department of Health and Human Services to hear from two government scientists who had participated in the W.H.O. mission to China.

The scientists, still in quarantine, described by videoconference the seemingly unimaginable lockdown that China had imposed. When questions turned to the origins of the virus, however, answers stopped.

“You’d have to look at the terms of reference,” one of the scientists replied, a senior American health official recalled. The “terms of reference” was a document spelling out the mission’s rules. The Americans had never seen it.

The health organization’s public statements suggested that the animal-source investigation was well underway.

If that was true, the Americans realized that they were on the outside, blocked from the investigation by China.

Dr. Tedros was already a lightning rod inside the Trump administration — even with some career health officials — because of his unstinting praise of China. What his supporters saw as diplomacy, the Americans viewed as a refusal to use his organization’s moral authority to demand transparency.

And he did not always deliver. In January, Dr. Tedros had announced that China had agreed to share biological samples. Nothing ever came of it.

Then the thesis about the origin of the outbreak suddenly pivoted.

Dr. Gao, the director of China’s C.D.C., told the journal Science in March that the virus may not have originated at the market. Maybe, he said, it “could be a place where the virus was amplified,” meaning it began elsewhere but spread wildly there.

Then Dr. Gao told a local TV station that animal samples from the market did not contain the virus. That indicated at least that samples had been taken from animals. Yet the details remained concealed.

“To the best of our knowledge, no information has been shared with H.H.S., nor published in peer-reviewed journals,” the U.S. agency said in a statement to the Times.

In the United States, where the pandemic was starting to take root, Mr. Trump and his allies began to talk about the “China virus.”

Rumors and conspiracy theories, particularly among far-right and anti-China news sources, pushed the idea that Covid-19 had been manufactured in a Chinese laboratory. Scientists and intelligence officials say there is no evidence for such a theory, but some of Mr. Trump’s closest allies gave it credence.

On April 7, Mr. Trump accused the World Health Organization of being too close to China.

“They seem to be very China centric. That’s a nice way of saying it,” he told reporters.

In May, under sharp criticism for his administration’s response to the outbreak, Mr. Trump announced the United States would soon withdraw from the international organization. Doing so isolated him from allies who shared some of his frustrations but wanted to strengthen, not abandon, the W.H.O.

Highlighting just how deeply the anti-Chinese conspiracy theory had seeped into government policy, the National Institutes of Health said they would not fund a project by EcoHealth Alliance, a nonprofit that studies emerging diseases, unless it agreed to investigate online conspiracy claims and ferry viral samples out of China, according to a letter seen by The Times.

The American withdrawal from the W.H.O., and the world’s failure to stop the pandemic, have jump-started negotiations to overhaul the organization. The European Union and other countries are seeking to give it more money and authority to hold countries accountable.

The Trump administration has continued to try to guide reform talks after withdrawing from the organization — much to the frustration of allies. The United States has privately endorsed giving the W.H.O. the authority to demand access to countries, akin to the power that nuclear inspectors have, according to diplomatic documents.

As the virus has spread unabated across the United States, Mr. Trump has continued to lash out at the W.H.O. and China to deflect criticism of his own missteps.

If Mr. Trump thought Dr. Tedros would buckle, he was mistaken. Publicly, Dr. Tedros has stuck to his message of solidarity. “Governments should focus on tackling the virus and avoid politicization,” he said last Friday.

Privately, Dr. Tedros told colleagues and others that he felt stuck between China and the United States. He compared them to two playground bullies.

The World Health Organization found new support in May for its stalled effort to investigate the virus’s origins. A resolution, sponsored by more than 140 countries, included a clause directing the agency to search for the animal source.

By the summer, even the W.H.O. was frustrated. Two experts who went to China in July to define the terms of the investigation spent two weeks in quarantine. They interviewed experts by phone but did not go to Wuhan.

Chinese officials then said that the organization should start investigating in Europe, pointing to reports that the virus had been discovered in sewage systems there last year.

In a letter to Chinese officials described to The Times, the health organization expressed frustration at China’s delays and insisted that the investigation begin in Wuhan, if only because the first infections were found there.

None of these frustrations spilled into public. The organization described only progress. Yet it repeatedly declined requests by multiple governments to disclose the investigation  terms it had negotiated with China. On Friday, the organization told the Times that it would soon make the documents public.

An executive summary of the documents, obtained by The Times, shows that the health organization’s virus origin studies will unfold in two phases. One will look for the first patients by reviewing hospital records and interviewing people who were treated for the virus in December. The team will also investigate what wildlife was sold at the Wuhan market and follow the supply chain, according to the summary.

The W.H.O. has agreed this phase will be led by Chinese scientists, with outsiders reviewing their work remotely.

In the second phase, international experts will work with Chinese colleagues to find the virus among animal hosts and a possible intermediate host.

No date has been set for a visit, though diplomats say China and the health organization appear eager to pause until after the American election. Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee, has said he will keep the U.S. in the organization if he wins.

The organization solicited experts for the mission and the United States recommended three government scientists. None made the team, a senior American official said. But the W.H.O. has not made the list public. It said on Monday morning that an independent American scientist was on the list.

On Friday, the team finally held its first virtual meeting.

“It is difficult to do this work in a politically intoxicated environment,” Dr. Ryan, the organization’s emergency director, said at a news conference later that day.

“It is hard for scientists to do what they have to do and want to do in situations like this,” he said.





No.2 article:
As Voting Nears End, Battle Intensifies Over Which Ballots Will Count

President Trump and his allies say they intend an aggressive challenge to how the votes are counted in key states, and Democrats are mobilizing to meet it.

[President-elect Joe Biden’s victory prompts spontaneous celebrations.]

With the election coming to a close, the Trump and Biden campaigns, voting rights organizations and conservative groups are raising money and dispatching armies of lawyers for what could become a state-by-state, county-by-county legal battle over which ballots will ultimately be counted.

The deployments — involving hundreds of lawyers on both sides — go well beyond what has become normal since the disputed outcome in 2000, and are the result of the open efforts of President Trump and the Republicans to disqualify votes on technicalities and baseless charges of fraud at the end of a campaign in which the voting system has been severely tested by the coronavirus pandemic.

In the most aggressive moves to knock out registered votes in modern memory, Republicans have already sought to nullify ballots before they are counted in several states that could tip the balance of the Electoral College.

In an early test of one effort, a federal judge in Texas on Monday ruled against local Republicans who wanted to compel state officials to throw out more than 127,000 ballots cast at newly created drive-through polling places in the Houston area. The federal court ruling, which Republicans said they would appeal, came after a state court also ruled against them.

In key counties in Nevada, Michigan and Pennsylvania, Republicans are seeking, with mixed results so far, to force election board offices to give their election observers more open access so they can more effectively challenge absentee ballots as they are processed, a tactic Republicans in North Carolina are seeking to adopt statewide.

And everywhere, in a year that has seen record levels of early voting and a huge surge in use of voting by mail, Republicans are gearing up to challenge ballots with missing signatures or unclear postmarks.

In his last days of campaigning, Mr. Trump has essentially admitted that he does not expect to win without going to court. “As soon as that election is over,” he told reporters over the weekend, “we’re going in with our lawyers.”

Trailing consistently in the polls, Mr. Trump in that moment said out loud what other Republicans have preferred to say quietly, which is that his best chance of holding onto power at this point may rest in a scorched-earth campaign to disqualify as many votes as possible for his Democratic opponent, Joseph R. Biden Jr.

If there is a clear-cut outcome on Tuesday night that could not plausibly be challenged via legal action, all of the planning on both sides could become moot. But if there is no decisive result, the following days would likely see an intensifying multifront battle fought in a variety of states.

After months of claiming that any election outcome other than a victory for him would have to have been “rigged,” the president used his final days on the campaign trail to cast doubt on the very process of tabulating the count, suggesting without any evidence that any votes counted after Tuesday, no matter how legal, must be suspect.

Both sides expect Mr. Trump and his allies to try again to disqualify late-arriving ballots in the emerging center of the legal fight, Pennsylvania, after the state’s high court rejected a previous attempt and the Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal.

The scale of the Republican effort is beyond any that longtime civil rights lawyers said they could recall, and they, along with lawyers for the Democrats, said they were ready to meet Mr. Trump’s lawyers in court.

“This is the most blatant, open attempt at mass disenfranchisement of voters that I’ve ever witnessed,” said Dale Ho, the director of the Voting Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties Union, which has litigated several major cases this year.

Tom Perez, the chairman of the Democratic Party, said Democrats were keeping careful track of all ballots that were being rejected in key swing states, under a strategy to get as many as possible fixed and reinstated now and seeking to force the reinstatement of the rest in postelection litigation if the closeness of the Electoral College count requires it.

Democratic Party lawyers, buoyed by the ruling in Texas and hopeful that even ideologically conservative judges would deny the Republicans’ more brazen moves, were also preparing to monitor polling locations to be on the lookout for premature closings, long lines and unruly, pro-Trump election observers.

Mr. Trump comes to the fight having shown a willingness to use the levers of power to further his personal political interests in ways few other presidents have.

A wild card for both sides is the posture the Justice Department will take in voting disputes under Attorney General William P. Barr. On Monday, the department announced it was sending civil rights division personnel to monitor voting at precincts across the country, including in key areas like Philadelphia, Miami, Detroit and Houston. That is standard operating procedure, but both sides were girding for possible breaks from protocol given Mr. Barr’s own statements about potential for fraud, which have echoed Mr. Trump’s.

The Republican efforts moved to an even more aggressive footing on Sunday, after Mr. Trump made clear his intention to challenge an unfavorable outcome through a focus in particular on the mail-in vote, which both sides expect will favor Mr. Biden.

“I think it’s terrible that we can’t know the results of an election the night of the election,” Mr. Trump told reporters ahead of a rally on Sunday night in North Carolina before saying he intended to send in his lawyers.

On Monday night, in an extraordinary moment that encapsulated the tenor of his presidency, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that the Supreme Court’s Pennsylvania decision would “allow rampant and unchecked cheating” and “undermine our entire systems of laws” and “induce violence in the streets,” drawing a warning on the platform that it was misleading.

The president has no legal authority to stop the count on Tuesday night, and even in normal election years, states often take days or even weeks before completing their tallies and certifying the outcome.

“If a jurisdiction doesn’t get done counting its ballots on election night because of the volume, broken machines or any other reason, there’s zero grounds for stopping it under any state’s laws,” said Benjamin L. Ginsberg, one of the nation’s leading elections lawyers, who served as counsel to multiple Republican presidential candidates. “You’re just going to disenfranchise people for his sport?”

Many states require ballots to arrive by Election Day to be counted, but several of them have sought to allow to be counted ballots that are postmarked on or before Election Day but arrive within a set number of days afterward. (In Pennsylvania it is three.)

In an interview, Justin Riemer, the chief counsel for the Republican National Committee, indicated that much of the legal wrangling in the days to come would be over such late-arriving ballots, and he disputed Democratic charges that Republicans were solely seeking to knock out valid Democratic votes.

“Our position is that all lawfully cast ballots should be counted,” he said. “If the ballot doesn’t meet the deadline, then I guess if one considers that to be a technicality, so be it, but those ballots shouldn’t be counted.”

He said the party’s efforts this year were about ensuring the election was conducted by the letter of the law. “We are protecting the existing safeguards that are in place and making sure the law is enforced and ensuring in the process that everyone can have confidence in the results,” he said.

Mr. Trump has spent the past few years appointing conservative judges, an effort that has affected the balance on several appellate panels that will be critical in swing-state voting fights while giving the Supreme Court a new, 6-to-3 conservative tilt.

And he has another wild card in Mr. Barr.

This summer, Mr. Barr made a string of exaggerated claims about the problems with mail-in voting and opened the door to sending in federal authorities to stop voter fraud threats.

Behind closed doors, the attorney general briefed Mr. Trump on incremental developments in minor voter fraud investigations. The president, the White House and his campaign then promoted the cases as evidence that mail-in voting was highly problematic.

In the past couple of weeks, however, Mr. Barr and the Justice Department have gone quiet, leading to a new pressure campaign from conservative groups to aid Mr. Trump’s efforts to stop the counting of any mail-in ballots that arrive after Election Day.

“D.O.J. should be prepared to go to court on this — it’s Election Day, not election week or month,” said Tom Fitton, the head of the conservative group Judicial Watch.

Mr. Fitton, who said his group had more lawyers and investigators dedicated to scrutinizing this election than any other, said that Mr. Barr needed to be prepared to use his legal power — including the F.B.I. — to ensure that states were keeping ballots that came in before Election Day separate from those that came in after.

Both sides agreed that some of the most important postelection legal wrangling would most likely take place in Pennsylvania, where uncertainty surrounds the state’s plan to count ballots that are postmarked by Election Day but arrive in the three following days. The United States Supreme Court last week allowed Pennsylvania to keep that plan intact, though some of the justices opened the door to considering the issue again if necessary, and Republicans have indicated they might go back to the court.

That situation has led Josh Shapiro, Pennsylvania’s attorney general and a Democrat, to issue guidance that election officials should segregate any ballots that arrive after 8 p.m. Tuesday.

“We made a careful decision to segregate those ballots in part to stave off possible future legal challenges from Donald Trump and his enablers,” Mr. Shapiro said.

Some lawyers also believe there is the potential that unclear postmarks will be to 2020 what “dimpled chads” were to the 2000 recount in Florida. (The term denoted unclear preferences on the state’s punch-card ballots.)

“I see that being the main area where there could be some disputes between the two sides,” said Mr. Riemer, the Republican Party lawyer. “There is some ambiguity particularly in Pennsylvania in regard to how you treat a ballot that arrives after Election Day but does not have an indication that it is postmarked by Election Day.”

Mr. Shapiro said his team had been preparing for different levels of challenges from Trump-aligned lawyers and groups.

“They’ll be fanned out across Pennsylvania, on Election Day, and prepared for whatever challenges to possibly come beginning at 8:01 when the polls close,” he said.

The Trump campaign and Republicans have also been seeking greater access to the election boards counting ballots, as they did in Clark County, Nev., in a lawsuit that would have slowed counting there. Democrats equated that suit with harassment.

On Monday, a Nevada judge, James E. Wilson Jr., sided with the Democrats.

“There is no evidence that any vote that should lawfully be counted has or will not be counted,” Judge Wilson wrote. “There is no evidence that any vote that should lawfully not be counted has been or will be counted.”

With hours to go before Election Day, Republicans said they were considering an appeal.





No.3 article:
Win or Lose, Trump and Biden’s Parties Will Plunge Into Uncertainty

No matter who wins, Democrats will be split between younger progressives and a moderate old guard. And a Republican Party redefined in President Trump’s image will start weighing where it goes next.

[Joe Biden has won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. Read our story]

PLANO, Texas — Facing the toughest race of his Senate career, John Cornyn warned a small crowd of supporters from the second floor of his campaign bus last week that his party’s long-held dominance in this historically ruby-red state was at risk.

But while the three-term Texas senator demonized Democrats at length, he didn’t spend much time talking up the obvious alternative: President Trump, the leader of his party, the man at the top of his ticket on Tuesday.

Asked whether Mr. Trump, the man who redefined Republicanism, was an asset to Mr. Cornyn’s re-election effort, the senator was suddenly short on words.

“Absolutely,” he said, stone-faced.

Mr. Cornyn’s gentle distancing from Mr. Trump foreshadows a far less genteel battle to come. This year’s election seems likely to plunge both Republicans and Democrats into a period of disarray no matter who wins the White House. With moderates and progressives poised to battle each other on the left, and an array of forces looking to chart a post-Trump future on the right (be it in 2021 or in four years), both parties appear destined for an ideological wilderness in the months ahead as each tries to sort out its identities and priorities.

The questions facing partisans on both sides are sweeping, and remain largely unresolved despite more than a year of a tumultuous presidential campaign. After Democrats cast their eyes backward several generations for a more moderate nominee, does a rising liberal wing represent their future? And what becomes of a Republican Party that has been redefined by the president’s populist approach, and politicians like Mr. Cornyn who have been in the long shadow of Mr. Trump for four years?

Traditionally, presidential elections provide clarity on how a party sees its political future. When Barack Obama won the White House in 2008, he reinvigorated a progressive public image of his increasingly diverse party. Eight years earlier, George W. Bush remade Republicanism with a message of “compassionate conservatism.”

Today, with both presidential candidates content to make the race a referendum on Mr. Trump, questions about him have overshadowed the debates raging within both parties over how to govern a country in the midst of a national crisis.

“Both sides have been content to make this election about a personality,” said Brad Todd, a Republican strategist and an author of a book about the conservative populist coalition that fueled Mr. Trump’s victory in 2016. “Therefore, we’ve not had a lot of light shown on the ideological realignment that’s occurred in the country.”

The jockeying has already begun. If Mr. Biden wins, progressive Democrats are preparing to break their election-season truce, laying plans to push for liberals in key government posts, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts as Treasury secretary. If Mr. Biden loses, progressives will argue that he failed to embrace a liberal enough platform.

Ambitious Republicans, like the former United Nations ambassador Nikki R. Haley, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, have begun appearing in Iowa, stops that they say are on behalf of their party’s embattled Senate candidate there but that have distinctly 2024 overtones.

“The party is headed toward a reckoning, whatever happens in November, because you still have large segments of the party establishment that are not at all reconciled with the president’s victory in 2016,” said Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri, who is frequently mentioned as a possible 2024 contender. “These people are still very powerful in the Republican Party, and I think we’ll have a real fight for the future.”

The emerging dynamics are particularly stark across in Texas and other states in the Sun Belt, a fast-growing region that embodies the demographic trends that will eventually reshape the nation.

For Republicans like Mr. Cornyn, the battle lines are already being drawn. Four years ago, Mr. Trump mounted a hostile takeover of the Republican Party, winning the support of the party’s base with a message that shredded mainstream conservative ideology on issues like fiscal responsibility, foreign policy and trade.

A contingent of the party’s old guard is eager to cast the president as an aberration, a detour into nationalism, populism and conspiracy theories with no serious policy underpinning.

Former Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said that he expected Mr. Trump to lose and that he hoped the defeat would refocus the party from “anger and resentment” to developing an inclusive message that could win in an increasingly diverse country.

“Nothing focuses the mind like a big election loss,” said Mr. Flake, who was one of many Republicans to retire in 2018 and who has endorsed Mr. Biden for president. “The bigger the better when it comes to the president.”

He added, “Trumpism is a demographic cul-de-sac.”

Mr. Flake would like the party to resurrect its 2012 “autopsy,” an assessment commissioned by the Republican National Committee to explore why the party had lost its bid for the White House that year. The report urged the party to better embrace voters of color and women.

A co-chair of the project, Ari Fleischer, said there was no returning to the days of that message. Mr. Trump, he said, had accomplished the goal of the report, expanding the party — just in a different way.

Rather than engage women or voters of color, the president expanded Republican margins with white, working-class voters, said Mr. Fleischer, a former press secretary for Mr. Bush who has come to embrace Mr. Trump after leaving his ballot blank in 2016.

Sara Fagen, who was the White House political director for Mr. Bush, agreed: “Trumpism is cemented in,” she said. “The base of the party has changed; their priorities are different than where the Romneys and Bushes would have taken the country.”

Mr. Hawley argued that Republicans should embrace the populist energy of their voters by pursuing the breakup of big technology companies, voicing skepticism of free trade and making colleges more accountable for their high tuition costs.

“If the party is going to have a future, it’s got to become the party of working people,” he said.

Texas may provide a preview of these debates. As Democrats continue to make gains in the state and as the coronavirus rages there, moderate Republicans have tried to steer the state closer to the center while conservatives have tried to push Texas further right.

Hard-line Republican legislators, lawyers and activists have sued Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican, formally censured him and protested mandates like a statewide mask order. Over the summer, the party elected a new chairman, Allen B. West, a former Florida congressman and firebrand conservative.

“The governor has continued to issue executive orders that are anything but conservative,” said Jared Woodfill, a conservative activist and Houston lawyer who has sued Mr. Abbott. “His base has left him completely.”

Democrats face their own divides over whether to use the moment of national crisis to push for far-reaching structural changes on issues like health care, economic inequality and climate change.

Like Republicans in 2012, Democrats assembled their own task force to try to unify their party after the crowded party primary this year. The group came up with recommendations that were largely broader than what Mr. Biden championed in his primary bid but that stopped short of embracing key progressive policies like “Medicare for all,” the Green New Deal and a fracking ban.

Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, a co-chair of the House Progressive Caucus and an ally of Senator Bernie Sanders, said those plans were the “floor, not the ceiling” of what the liberal wing of the party plans to demand should Mr. Biden win. A White House victory, she argued, would give Mr. Biden a mandate to push for more sweeping overhauls.

In Texas, a rising number of young, liberal politicians believe they can finally turn the conservative state blue by embracing a progressive platform.

Two years ago, Julie Oliver lost a House race in Texas’ 25th Congressional District, based in suburban Austin, by nine percentage points — a far closer margin than the 20 points that Representative Roger Williams, a Republican, won by in 2016. This year, the race may be even tighter.

“The things we are talking about two years ago that seemed radical don’t seem so radical today,” said Ms. Oliver, who was endorsed by Mr. Biden last month. “Universal health care doesn’t seem radical. Universal basic income doesn’t seem so radical. These are popular ideas.”

Others in the state worry that their colleagues are forgetting the lessons of recent history. In 2008, Democrats won control of Congress and the White House. But after passing the Affordable Care Act and pushing a climate bill through the House, they lost seats during the midterm elections and their majority in the House.

“We got to remember, midterms are coming,” said Representative Henry Cuellar, a moderate Democrat from South Texas. “If liberals had a mandate, then Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren would have won the primary. The mandate of the American public was to have somebody more to the center.”

Yet in an increasingly polarized country, that center may be shifting.

As he waited for Mr. Cornyn to address the crowd in Plano, Mark Wurst said he had come to embrace the Trump brand of conservatism.

A lifelong Republican, Mr. Wurst, 74, volunteered at the George W. Bush Presidential Library for years. He was skeptical of Mr. Trump initially but was impressed with his actions on immigration and trade — policies that diverged drastically from Mr. Bush’s approach.

“I didn’t know at the time how much I really disagreed with Bush on some things,” Mr. Wurst said. “Look at what Mr. Trump has gotten done. I don’t like his tone, but sometimes you have to look at results.”





No.4 article:
Undeterred by Pandemic, Americans Prepare to Deliver Verdict on Trump

President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. barnstormed through battleground states, concluding an extraordinary campaign conducted amid a health crisis and deep economic anxiety.

[These are the key states President-elect Joe Biden won.]

NEW HOPE, Pa. — Voters on both sides of the nation’s widening political divide prepared on Monday to render a verdict on President Trump’s four tumultuous years in the White House and, in particular, his management of the coronavirus pandemic that has upended American life for the past eight months.

As Mr. Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. raced across the most important battleground states in a frenzied final push for votes, the 2020 election was unfolding in a country with urgent problems: an uncontrolled public health crisis, a battered economy, deep ideological divisions, a national reckoning on race and uncertainty about whether the outcome of the vote will be disputed.

Undeterred by the pandemic, Americans have already displayed an uncommon determination to have their voices and votes heard this year. Nearly 100 million cast their ballots in advance of Election Day, shattering records as they endured long lines at early voting sites or sent in their ballots by mail.

Much of the country felt on edge, as if the often-predicted “most important election of a lifetime” had finally arrived. Ahead of the polls opening on Tuesday, businesses in cities from Denver to Detroit to Washington, D.C., were boarding up their windows with plywood as they readied for the possibility of civil unrest. Some governors were readying the National Guard.

“Everyone is starting to panic,” Fernando Casas, a construction worker, said as he pounded nails into a plywood frame at a storefront in a trendy shopping district near Los Angeles.

Election administrators braced themselves to pull off the twin challenges of holding an election during a pandemic and fending off efforts by a president who is trailing in the polls to undermine trust in the vote-counting process.

“Please be patient,” Jim Kenney, the mayor of Philadelphia — the biggest city in one of the most important swing states — urged, predicting long lines on Tuesday. Both the Trump and Biden campaigns were readying armies of lawyers for a potentially prolonged fight.

Still, the unchecked spread of Covid-19 shadowed the election, and on Monday, a report from the coordinator of the White House virus task force contradicted the president’s repeated claims on the campaign trail that the United States was on the way to defeating the virus.

The report, by Dr. Deborah Birx, warned against the type of rallies that Mr. Trump had been holding. It also predicted that the United States would see days when the number of new cases exceeded 100,000, according to a White House official who has reviewed the report, which was first reported by The Washington Post.

Voters were racked with nervous energy. Katie Whelan, a high school history teacher from New Jersey, crossed the Pennsylvania border to knock on doors over the weekend for Mr. Biden in the key battleground. The previous night, she said, she had awakened from a panic dream involving Hillary Clinton and the dread of falling just short at the ballot box. “She was like, ‘Honey, I’ve been there,’” Ms. Whelan recalled Mrs. Clinton telling her in the dream.

Adding to her anxiety, Ms. Whelan could not tell if the nightmare was set in 2016 or 2020. “I stood over the sink and drank three pints of water,” Ms. Whelan said. “And I said to myself, ‘I better get canvassing.’”

For Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden, their final events on the last full day of 2020 campaigning offered as stark a display of their differences as anything they said.

Seeking to project a sense of normalcy even as infection caseloads surge, Mr. Trump flouted public health guidelines with a slate of large rallies in North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, and even made a winking nod to firing the country’s top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, should he win another term, in a Florida rally that lasted past midnight on Sunday.

In Ohio and Pennsylvania, Mr. Biden argued there could be no return to routine until the virus was under control and his itinerary of socially distanced, drive-in rallies — “Honk if you agree with me!” he shouted in Cleveland — served a visual expression of his sober approach. Mr. Biden, the former vice president, cast race as a referendum on Mr. Trump’s stewardship of a pandemic that has infected more than nine million people in the United States and cost more than 230,000 lives.

“The first step to beating the virus is beating Donald Trump,” Mr. Biden declared, adding, “The power to change the country is in your hands.”

In his own meandering and grievance-filled appearances, in which he lashed out against Nancy Pelosi, Adam Schiff, Hillary Clinton and the news media, Mr. Trump framed his re-election as an economic imperative to avoid “a deadly Biden lockdown” of the economy’s fragile recovery.

“This is not the crowd of a second-place finisher,” Mr. Trump said in Scranton, Pa., where Mr. Biden will also appear on Election Day, in a sign of Pennsylvania’s potential to tip the election.

Mr. Trump has signaled he may try to declare victory prematurely if the early tabulations favor him, and the Biden campaign held an unusual public briefing on the eve of the election to set expectations. At issue is not just the tallying of the vote but how fast certain states can count. Some key battlegrounds, such as Pennsylvania, are expected to take days while others, like Florida and North Carolina, will likely process most votes within hours.

“Under no scenario will Donald Trump be declared a victor on election night,” Jen O’Malley Dillon, Mr. Biden’s campaign manager, bluntly declared.

As polling places were set to open on Election Day, Mr. Trump’s road back to the White House was plainly narrower than Mr. Biden’s pathway. Polls show Mr. Trump trailing nationally and in most of the key battlegrounds needed to reach the 270 electoral votes required to win the presidency.

Mr. Trump has been forced to defend not just the three Northern industrial states — the former “blue wall” of Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan — that he flipped in a surprise victory four years ago but also an array of diversifying states across the Sun Belt and the South, including Florida, Arizona, North Carolina, Georgia and even Texas.

Those latter five states combine for 109 Electoral College votes, nearly all of which analysts believe Mr. Trump must win.

On Monday, Mr. Biden dispatched his most potent surrogate, former President Barack Obama, to two of those states: Florida and Georgia. The former president campaigned for Mr. Biden and two Senate Democratic challengers in Georgia, then stumped for Mr. Biden in Florida. Democratic Party strategists are hoping to win the three Senate seats they need to wrest back control of that chamber, along with the White House, and enact a progressive agenda in 2021.

The widening map had some Democrats coveting not only victory on Tuesday but also a landslide repudiation of Mr. Trump and his brand of Republicanism, including aspirations of flipping Texas for the first time since 1976. 

That Mr. Biden himself began his final full day on the road in Ohio — a state Mr. Trump carried by eight percentage points — appeared a sign his campaign hoped to run up the score. Ohio was not among the dozen closest states in 2016.

But voters in both parties are mistrustful of the polls. Mr. Trump has actively questioned them on a near daily basis. And many Democrats are still scarred by the shock of 2016.

Outside the Polk County Auditor’s office in Des Moines, the line to vote early stretched around the block. For 18-year-old Mikayla Simpson, who stood in line wearing earbuds and a tan camouflage Trump 2020 baseball cap, the wait to cast her first vote for Mr. Trump was well worth it.

“I’d stand here all day if I had to,” she said.

Turnout on Tuesday will be critical even with the record early voting.

Mr. Trump, who for months has sown mistrust in mail-in ballots, is especially in need of a huge in-person showing, banking that the Republican Party’s early investment in door-knocking will pay off.

Mr. Trump’s chances are mostly pinned on luring white working class voters to the polls — many of whom have flocked to his rallies despite the health risks. Seeking to recapture the energy of his surprise 2016 win, Mr. Trump’s final stop is expected to be in Grand Rapids, Mich., the same city he finished his 2016 schedule.

The Democratic ticket ended the day in Pennsylvania’s two biggest media markets alongside pop stars at rallies in stadium parking lots, with Ms. Harris in Philadelphia with John Legend and Mr. Biden in Pittsburgh with Lady Gaga. Lady Gaga also performed at Mrs. Clinton’s final 2016 rally, then in North Carolina.

“Vote like this country depends on it because it does,” she said Monday.

In the final stretch, both parties were zeroing in on key demographics. Mr. Biden spoke with the African-American community in Pittsburgh while his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris of California, headlined a Latino get-out-the-vote effort in Bethlehem. Mr. Obama campaigned in Miami-Dade County, Florida’s most populous which is a majority Latino and Black.

Mr. Trump continued to obsess aloud about how white suburban women had flocked toward the Democratic Party during his presidency, helping to deliver Democrats the House in 2018 and possibly the White House in 2020.

“I say to the women of the suburbs: love me women of the suburbs,” Mr. Trump said.

For Mr. Tump, the race’s waning days have been a characteristically chaotic closing stretch. He has threatened to send in lawyers to stop vote counting, cheered on supporters who surrounded a Biden bus on a Texas highway and baselessly accused doctors of exaggerating how many people had died from the virus so that they could make more money.

In Fayetteville, N.C., on Monday, Mr. Trump condemned the Supreme Court decision that will allow ballots to be counted in Pennsylvania after Election Day. “Do you know what can happen during that long period of time?” Mr. Trump said without evidence. “Cheating.”

Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump’s closing messages captured their divergent approaches to electoral politics.

“There will be no red states and blue states, just the United States,” Mr. Biden said of his potential presidency. 

Mr. Trump had a very different pitch. “You have the power to vote, so go out and vote,” he said. “Unless you’re going to vote for somebody other than me, in which case, sit it out.”





No.5 article:
The Quiet Architect of Biden’s Plan to Rescue the Economy

Ben Harris is not a household name, even in economics. But he helped develop a package of tax and spending increases that has not spooked Wall Street.

WASHINGTON — In recent months Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s campaign developed a virtual road show to reassure executives, investment fund managers and financiers who were nervous that the Democratic candidate’s plans to increase taxes could hurt the American economic recovery.

Penny Pritzker, the billionaire commerce secretary under President Barack Obama, would lead off with an overview of Mr. Biden’s plans. But the worried capitalists always wanted details, and for that, Ms. Pritzker would turn over the video calls to the little-known fulcrum of the Biden campaigns economic policymaking: a 43-year-old tax and budget specialist named Ben Harris.

Mr. Biden has a sprawling and secretive orbit of economists offering him policy advice as he seeks to pacify an insurgent liberal wing of economic thinkers within the Democratic Party and the business leaders who still feel mistreated by the Obama-Biden administration. Mr. Harris, an economist who is relatively anonymous even to other economists, has taken a starring role in both efforts.

A former chief economist for Mr. Biden in the White House, Mr. Harris helped fashion a campaign agenda from the work of a small inner circle and hundreds of outside economists and sell it to the donors, executives, labor unions and activists whom Mr. Biden needs behind him to win the election. He has two other jobs but works up to 50 hours a week for Mr. Biden, unpaid.

In his efforts, people in and outside of the campaign say, Mr. Harris has become a sort of policy avatar for Mr. Biden, molding new ideas into the candidate&#x27;s longstanding brand of middle-class economics and changing his sales pitch to meet his audience. Before Mr. Biden even announced his campaign, Mr. Harris was attending senior staff meetings at the vice president’s home to help develop an economic platform.

The economy will present an immediate challenge for whoever wins the presidency. The nation is rebounding from its pandemic recession, but economic indicators show that the improvement has slowed or stopped in key areas. Economists are pushing Mr. Biden to quickly rally support for the type of trillion-dollar economic stimulus plan that Congress and the White House have yet to agree on, while also pressing him to bring about the kind of economic equality that Democrats say will require a big rethinking about tax and spending policies.

Mr. Harris has helped wrap Mr. Biden’s unabashedly liberal agenda in a blanket of technocracy, assembling more than 500 detailed recommendations. In discussions with supporters and skeptics across a wide spectrum of ideology and backgrounds, Mr. Harris has helped burnish the perception that Mr. Biden is responsive to others’ concerns about his plans.

“There are things in which we are not ideologically aligned, but he has the right values,” said Darrick Hamilton, an economist who has studied racial disparities extensively. He served with Mr. Harris on a committee that brought additional liberal ideas to Mr. Biden’s platform. “Ben is persuaded by evidence. He can hear and listen.”

The economic agenda Mr. Harris helped craft includes income and investment tax increases on top earners, higher taxes for corporations and a variety of spending increases in areas like clean energy, infrastructure and higher education. While those plans remain far less aggressive than the tax-and-spending ideas of Mr. Biden’s more liberal primary campaign rivals, he has managed to avoid sharp criticism from the left-leaning economists who have pushed for historically large tax increases on corporations and the rich.

The strategy also appears to have helped Mr. Biden with a broader audience. While Mr. Biden has proposed the largest package of tax increases, in dollar terms, of any Democratic nominee, he has raked in donations from Wall Street, and some investment firm analysts project a Biden presidency driving stock markets higher, in part because of his desire to pass a large economic stimulus bill.

Mr. Harris, in conversations with business leaders, explains the details of Mr. Biden’s proposals to make the case that the candidate would help corporate America by making the economy more productive.

“Ben will go way deep in the weeds, and he has enormous patience for every question,” Ms. Pritzker said, adding that approach gets results. “The American business executive is willing to accept higher taxes, if they will fund a plan that will work and not just expand government for government’s sake. They need to know that the programs and ideas are going to work.”

President Trump and his aides have argued the opposite — that Mr. Biden’s plan would crush American companies and the economy. In a recent television ad, the Trump campaign warns that Mr. Biden’s plan would leave “an economy in ruins.”

Mr. Harris has built his career in Washington, and in economics, around the mechanics of building policies that are data-driven and politically feasible. And he has developed a deep understanding of how Mr. Biden thinks about the economy.

Austan Goolsbee, the former chairman of Mr. Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers, who is advising Mr. Biden from the outside, calls Mr. Harris “the Biden for econ Ph.D.s.” Another longtime Biden adviser, Jared Bernstein, said Mr. Harris “knows the current platform and agenda almost better than anyone except Biden himself.”

“When I and others assert something” in campaign policy debates, Mr. Bernstein said, “we often finish the sentence with ‘but we better ask Ben.’” 

While Mr. Harris has appeared frequently as a campaign surrogate — on television and in online get-out-the-vote rallies, fund-raisers, and calls with executives and labor leaders — the Biden campaign has revealed little about his role in crafting policy.

Campaign officials declined multiple requests to make Mr. Harris available for an interview with The New York Times. They would not provide an explanation for the decision, or explain why Mr. Harris has been allowed to talk about narrow policy issues during the campaign, but not his broader role.

That move is in keeping with the veil of secrecy Biden officials have attempted to keep over the campaign’s policy deliberations, including strict instructions for most outside advisers to conceal their involvement with the campaign from reporters.

Mr. Harris grew up on Bainbridge Island, Wash., a ferry ride away from Seattle, the son of divorced parents. He lived primarily with his single mother. Friends describe Mr. Harris’s childhood as middle class. The heat in his house came from a wood-burning stove. After college at Tufts University, he earned a Fulbright scholarship to Namibia.

He then rose through Washington’s think tank world, learning budget policy and economic modeling while at the Brookings Institution under the tutelage of William Gale, a renowned tax and budget modeling expert. Mr. Harris continued his economics studies and earned a doctorate from George Washington University in 2011. Mr. Gale recommended him around town. “He might be simultaneously the youngest person in the room and the adult in the room,” Mr. Gale said.

Ms. Pritzker hired Mr. Harris to advise her in 2009 in her role as a member of the President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board, set up by Mr. Obama. Mr. Goolsbee brought him to the White House — “a gamble” that he said paid off as Mr. Harris proved adept at synthesizing economic research and translating it quickly to policy proposals.

Mr. Harris is now the campaign’s senior economic adviser, a job that he balances with a teaching position at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and a role as the chief economist for Results for America, a nonprofit group that pushes for evidence-based policymaking.

Mr. Bernstein said Mr. Harris had brought to Mr. Biden the idea of eliminating a preferential tax treatment enjoyed by heirs, which allows the wealthy to reduce their children’s tax bills when passing assets to them at death. It is not as politically sexy as a wealth tax, but it is one of several provisions in Mr. Biden’s plans that score well in independent budget analyses.

Rich Prisinzano of the Penn Wharton Budget Model at the University of Pennsylvania said Mr. Harris’s experience with budget models appears to have helped him develop tax plans that would raise revenue at less economic cost than the wealth taxes proposed by Mr. Biden’s former Democratic rivals, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. “They tax the same people and the same income as Warren and Sanders, they just do it through the existing tax code,” Mr. Prisinzano said.

If Mr. Biden wins and brings Mr. Harris to the White House, those skills could help the administration craft policies that score well with congressional budget modelers, whose judgments often shape what can pass the House and Senate. Mr. Biden would also be bringing a centrist, white man — one who worries, long term, about the buildup of the federal budget deficit. Progressives, like Mr. Hamilton, fear that such worries could constrain the Biden agenda as it moves from stimulus to bigger-picture economic policy.

Mr. Harris has spoken publicly about high deficits posing long-term risks to growth. But his most recent academic work is on a topic where he finds more agreement with the left wing of his party: He is co-editing a book on inequality in labor markets, filled with chapters on how rising corporate power has hurt workers’ wages. It might also be a blueprint for Mr. Biden’s thinking on the issue.





No.6 article:
From Fashion to a Fantasia in Stone

Priscilla Rattazzi sealed her reputation as a fashion photographer in the 1980s. By the end of that decade, Ms. Rattazzi, a Roman living in New York, had turned from fashion to portraiture, capturing the likenesses of Diana Vreeland, Loulou de la Falaise, Gianni Agnelli (her uncle), and other contemporaries with an unexpected combination of astringency and warmth.

 The seemingly incompatible mix is part of what distinguishes “Hoodooland,” Ms. Rattazzi’s exhibition at the Staley-Wise Gallery in SoHo through Nov. 14. The show’s title is a reference to Hoodoos, the majestically powerful rock sculptures formed across millenniums in the region of Lake Powell and the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in southern Utah.

 In her improbably portrait-like photographs, Ms. Rattazzi brings to life the area’s mushroom-capped towers of sandstone, basalt and lime, imbuing them with an eerie humanity. Her work is a simultaneous homage to a magical landscape and an impassioned retort to President Donald J. Trump’s 2017 order to reduce the area’s protected lands by nearly half (47 percent).

 Here she discusses what moved her to fix her lens on the region. These are excerpts from the conversation.

  To what degree is this show a political statement?

 I really worked hard to have it run before the election because I thought it could get some traction. While I was shooting the project, Trump cut the monument in half. I’m an environmentalist and I really care about the land and the beauty of the land. I worry that I could come back next year and there would be oil rigs.   

 Did you feel an intimate connection with some of these rocks?

 I still see them as almost human. One of these towers seems to have breasts; others in the back of the room are somehow phallic. My guide Yermo, who knows the place so well, liked to point out that one of them looks like an angry middle finger.  

 Another looked as if it had no gender. Part human, part alien, it reminded me of the bar scene in the first “Star Wars” movie. I just had this fantasy of an army of magical creatures.

 Some of these columns are called ghosts. They appear faint because they are sandstone, which gets eroded more easily in a flash flood.

You seem to have captured their markings with an artist’s brush.

 This is my first big digital show. I realized these textures called for more sharpness, and that they register better with a digital camera. Without one, I would have felt behind the curve.  

You made your reputation as a fashion photographer. What prompted you leave fashion behind?

I stopped because I became a mother. When my son was just a year old, an assignment came up for a major magazine. I felt such stress; I realized that I wasn’t going to be able to do it all. I decided then to work on photography books as a way of controlling my time.

 Does your past work in fashion and portraiture still color your imagination?

It does. One of these monuments looks to me like a female torso. She is “wearing” a beautiful hat. Another one has on what looks like a cape. To my mind, these rocks are very stylish.

 They appear to strike poses against an unforgiving backdrop. Yet, in the midst of this pandemic, that backdrop seems especially attractive. Do you see it as a getaway?

 If you come from New York, where I have been living since 1974, you can really appreciate all this emptiness and flatness, the idea that you could drive for hours and not see a soul. It makes for a perfect kind of social distancing. To go out and experience this vastness was really special for me.

 

 

But the landscape can be intimidating. Is that also a draw?

 Scariness is part of the thrill. People say the place is almost menacing. At the same time, it is incredibly photogenic. The area is otherworldly.  As I put up my camera, it wasn’t hard to capture that. You lose yourself. But you definitely don’t want to be there on your own.

 Did this project pose special challenges for you?

One day right after lunch the sky became very black. I told Yermo, “Maybe we should go back to the car or find shelter in a cave.” But we didn’t; we just kept walking. And then it started pouring rain. The storm engulfed us. Lightning bolts were coming down to the left and to the right, some of them not more than 50 yards away.

At the end I put my hands up. I told myself, I’m just going to keep going. We Italians believe that when your time is up your time is up.

 

 

 

 

 





No.7 article:
Georgia Is a Political Battleground. The Falcons Want More Voters.

Amid a player push for social justice initiatives in the N.F.L., members of the Atlanta Falcons are working with local high school students to support voter participation on Election Day.

One day after a practice in early September, Isaiah Waller and his football teammates at Atlanta’s Booker T. Washington High School were told by their coach, Derrick Avery, to join a video conference call. When they logged on later that night, up popped the faces of three Atlanta Falcons players — Ricardo Allen, Alex Mack and Steven Means.

Stunned to see players from their hometown N.F.L. team, the 30 or so teenagers were even more surprised by what they were there to tell them: Nothing about the x’s and o’s of the game, but to work at the polls on Election Day.

So on Tuesday, Waller and about 10 of his teammates, as well as players from high schools in the coastal city of Savannah and Gwinnett County outside Atlanta, will be spending all day at Georgia polling centers as election workers, a small victory for the Falcons who have redoubled their community activism efforts amid a summer and fall of social unrest.

“It’s something I never really paid attention to because I didn’t have a vote, but now that I’m getting older, I’m starting to get more involved,” said Waller, 17, who will work Tuesday in Fulton County, which is home to Atlanta and, with over 1 million people, is the state’s most-populous county. “Seeing the players on TV, I idolize them, and one day I want to be like them. It shows that they care about issues that we care about.”

The N.F.L. has historically shied away from allowing politically related messaging to appear alongside its branding, even as some team owners have overtly supported candidates and causes on their own. Before 2020, it would have been unthinkable for an N.F.L. team to wade into politics by stenciling a message like “End Racism” onto the end zone. But in a year when some of its best-known players have pushed the league to support a more progressive stance regarding social justice initiatives and player activism for racial equality, the league has allowed for more direct messaging supporting voter turnout, a major departure from past election years.

More than a dozen franchises will close their stadiums and facilities to football activities and allow them to be used as election centers or polling stations, joining 23 N.B.A. teams. But few teams have been as aggressive in their community outreach as the Falcons, whose social justice committee made voting participation a priority as it searched for a response to racial upheaval in America this year, a journey The New York Times is following this season.

Allen, Mack, Means and other players on the 12-member social justice committee have spoken to half a dozen high school football teams this fall on calls with about 20 players at a time. After the players got the students motivated to help, Falcons team officials helped connect the high-schoolers with local officials to set up their volunteer work for Election Day.

The stakes are high in Georgia. In addition to the 2020 presidential election, there are two contentious Senate races in the state this year and, after 20 years of reliably Republican support, Georgia is a battleground state that Democrats are trying to flip. It is also a state where racial inequality and voter suppression have been prominent issues in past elections, offering a real-life civics lesson for high school students on the connection between elections and social change.

Joshua Peterson, 16, is one of two players to register to work at the polls from the Groves High School football team in Savannah. He and his teammates participate in other volunteer programs, like delivering donated mattresses to families in need. But working at the polls is a bigger responsibility, Peterson said. “It’s important for us to give back to the community, and ownership of your life and destiny.”

Youth participation would help to offset the droves of older poll workers who are sitting out this election season because of the pandemic. The N.F.L.’s coronavirus protocols — heightened after outbreaks around the league — have severely limited players from traveling beyond their homes and the team facility. So while the Falcons players have spent months emphasizing their message to the students on virtual conference calls, they won’t be able to show up in person to support the teenagers who participate.

Persuading even a few young people to take action has added some significance to a Falcons season that has largely gone the wrong way on the field. Atlanta has a 2-6 record and sits in last place in its division. The team fired its head coach, Dan Quinn, and its general manager, Thomas Dimitroff, in mid-October.

Before the season started, players on the team’s three-year-old social justice committee searched for more impactful methods of grass-roots activism after team-wide conference calls and meetings with local leaders following George Floyd’s killing at the hands of Minneapolis police in May. The committee decided that one area where it could make a bigger impact on voter engagement was speaking directly with high school football players, whom they figured would share a connection over being athletes.

Their calls, which usually lasted about 45 minutes and took place after practices, started with Falcons players riffing on what they know of the legislative process, then taking questions from the students, who asked about activism as well as football concerns, like how the players cope with so much losing.

On one such call, Allen, who is Black, recounted being pulled over by the police and being afraid that he was being racially profiled for driving an expensive car. If the students want to change policing methods, Allen said, they should get involved in their communities. King Walker, a linebacker at Washington High School, said he was surprised that Falcons players were confronted by the same issues he faced. Walker said his mother often reminds him to drive carefully to avoid being stopped by police and not to wear a hoodie when he jogs in his neighborhood not far from the Falcons’ home stadium.

“It left me with a really strong feeling because hearing from people that are kind of famous,” Walker said. “It was surprising because you think once you get to a certain status in life, you see the rules still apply, the same things that happen to ordinary people.”

Many of the Falcons players have gone beyond the conference calls with local students to promote voter participation, in both subtle and more explicit ways. During pregame warm-ups players wear T-shirts with “Vote” written across their chests in block letters. Some have used their own social media accounts to send get-out-the-vote messages or to support the team’s Rise Up &amp; Vote initiative.

But their connection to the high school football players may have a more lasting impact, according to Nse Ufot, chief executive of the New Georgia Project, a nonpartisan group that helps register Georgians, particularly in communities of color. She said celebrities can persuade people to participate if they echo messages already being sent by trusted friends, family members or coaches.

“Micro influencers are more powerful than the super-famous people,” she said. But “as a part of the larger push to promote voting, they are super effective in reinforcing messages.”

The football players from Washington High School who work at the polls this year may become more engaged in future years, she said.

Like his teammates, Sir Amos was not involved in politics before the call with the Falcons. But he said that working on Election Day may be the most valuable lesson he has ever learned from football.

“Right now, I’m not into politics, but as I get older I know it will be,” he said. Their talk “gave me insight on where I want to be in my life, and if they can do it, then I can, too.”





No.8 article:
The Best Half-Hour of Comedy in 2020 Is About … Scaffolding?

That’s right. Friday’s episode of “How To With John Wilson” on HBO managed to make a mundane subject poignant, hilarious and topical all at once.

On Friday, a show with the blandest title on television (“How To With John Wilson”) dedicated an episode to the most boring subject imaginable (scaffolding) and produced the most fascinating comedy I have seen in years.

This startlingly original new series, airing Friday nights on HBO, has no stars or any kind of traditional story, and its main character, John Wilson, who co-writes, directs and narrates, stays offscreen. That it manages to be a poignant, hilarious and topical self-portrait is a small miracle.

Like the best art, “How To With John Wilson” defies categorization, but as a critic, I can’t resist. It joins a growing genre of documentary comedy, which uses tools of journalism (like interviews with real people) for comic ends. The most famous examples, like the work of Sacha Baron Cohen, have a streak of cruelty that is absent here. Wilson’s sensibility is more humane than harsh, poetic than prankish.

On the surface, he’s spoofing practical guides (“How to cook the perfect risotto” is the title of one episode), but that’s merely a framework for a multitude of digressions anchored in scenes of New York street life. His work resembles the remote segments produced by Merrill Markoe in the early years of “Late Night With David Letterman” and even more, the tender and wandering narratives of “Nathan for You,” whose star, Nathan Fielder, is a producer of Wilson’s show.

The show is far more abstract than either of those forerunners; it’s rooted in deep dives into idiosyncratic themes. Friday’s episode examined the wood and metal structures erected throughout the city to protect people from getting hit on the head. Scaffolding seems like a mundane subject, but through close attention, Wilson proves otherwise, finding it to be a source of safety and danger, a blight and a work of art, a big business, a cinematic cliché and a symbol of paralysis. What really fascinates him about scaffolding, and the core preoccupation of the show, is how easily something short-term becomes permanent.

In a pocket history, Wilson explains how the death of one New Yorker in 1979 spawned an $8 billion a year industry that has built hundreds of miles of structures. Scaffolding workers, he argues, “do more to alter the landscape of New York than any other group.” He makes the point in myriad images, including a funny series of juxtapositions of famous buildings in movies versus real-world versions blanketed in metal rods and green wood that calls to mind the 2003 documentary essay “L.A. Plays Itself.” Wilson’s montages do what great chroniclers of the city accomplish: Make you see the familiar anew.

The comedy is desert-dry old school wit. His deadpan narration spoofs the voice of God of many documentaries, often mumbling, shifting gears, tripping over itself. His voice is gentle, even uncertain, as if he’s thinking aloud. He delights in mismatches: when he says “beloved businesses,” he shows a Chase bank. Some of the jokes are so oblique they’re easy to miss. When he’s denied entry to a scaffolding convention, Wilson says wryly: “I was crushed.”

There’s also humor out of magical realism. Wilson has a knack for finding bizarre and resonant moments in the everyday: An air-conditioner dangling from a window is as terrifying as a horror movie. A woman on a park bench calmly covered in birds is a still image from a child’s dream. An overweight man suddenly kicking the air flashes the grace of Bruce Lee.

These stunning shots, each packing a feature film of mystery into a few seconds, come and go with dizzying speed, and are presented almost offhandedly, his camerawork aiming for a vérité vibe. Early on, Wilson asks a stranger if he has strong thoughts on scaffolding and the response is a baffled no. Then the camera stays on him for an additional beat, adding a pointed awkwardness and poking fun at this entire enterprise.

At the core of the episode is an extremely relevant question for a moment when people are debating whether to take the train home for the holidays: What price safety? Everyone in New York is going to die, Wilson tells us at the start of the show, and there are times when he seems to be arguing that what began as a noble interest in avoiding injury is now driven primarily by business interests. Scaffolding obscures views, clutters streets and can even, when it breaks, kill. “You can waste your life playing it safe,” he says, “and the real danger is never what you expect it to be.”

But this is no polemic against safety measures. You can also find arguments for the beauty and necessity of scaffolding and hear from pedestrians sentimental about it. One has a B.D.S.M. story about it told with a matter-of-factness that feels quintessentially New York. There’s a healthy realism from a blind man who says scaffolding makes it more difficult to get around the city. “You work with what you got,” he adds, holding a stick to feel his way around.

Wilson is an entertainer and he isn’t trying to persuade. And while he makes it seem like he is just a lucky and persistent voyeur, an aimless wanderer who stumbles into these crazy stories and beautiful images, that is the real prank. Look closer and there is purpose in every shot. The home-movie aesthetic hides the instincts of a Hollywood showman.

The first thing Wilson shows us is a jarring image of a wire toppling over a Mercedes-Benz on the streets of New York and the final shot is of a skyscraper being blown up. That makes it sound like an action movie, but it’s more of an inaction movie, a meditation on the allure and perils of not changing.

By staying off camera, John Wilson makes the city seem like the focus, but the more you watch, the more prominent his voice becomes. He’s an unlikely romantic, one who sees excitement in tedium, beauty in trash and possibility everywhere. The show is more personal than political. Wilson emerges as an obsessive loner looking to make a connection. This becomes most evident in the sixth and final episode, when the crowded city streets transform as Covid-19 invades the picture and he becomes concerned about the health of his elderly landlord downstairs. We also see glimpses of his romantic life, but in Friday’s episode, scaffolding is a metaphor for his own lack of commitment in his work life.

In one tangent, he explains how to survive in the city, he made money filming infomercials for products like Roast-Beef-atopia. He said he knew he was “helping to create some of the most grotesque content on the planet,” but justified it by saying it was only for a short time. Then he did it for five years.

Money jobs can operate like a kind of scaffolding, providing brief support, but stick with them long enough and they can become central to what you do and who you are. Life is funny like that, especially these days when security of any kind seems elusive and nothing is guaranteed. Toying with these darker currents, John Wilson seems melancholy but not despairing. He even finds hope in strange places, and an unexpected reminder: We are all ultimately temporary.





No.9 article:
Corrections: Nov. 3, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Tuesday, Nov. 3, 2020.

An article on Saturday about the expulsion of non-Mexican children to Mexico by the United States, using information provided by the Women’s Refugee Commission, referred incorrectly to the number of children expelled in the past eight months who were not accompanied by a parent or other adult. The Mexican government has not specified the number of unaccompanied children; it is unknown if the number exceeded 200.

An article on Saturday about women who protested Poland’s abortion ban misspelled the name of a newspaper. It is Gazeta Wyborcza, not Gazeta Wyborca.

An article on Sunday about the impact of race on the 2020 election in Georgia misstated the year that Joe Biden dropped out of the presidential race. It was 2008, not 2007.

An article on Monday about the intimidating tactics used by President Trump’s supporters misstated the day that an incident involving Trump supporters and a bus for Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s campaign occurred. It was Friday, not Saturday.

An article on Saturday about the approval of Steven Cohen as owner of the Mets referred incorrectly to the relationship of the singer and actor Jennifer Lopez and the former baseball star Alex Rodriguez. They are engaged; they are not married.

An article on Oct. 27 about malaria misstated the origin of “sticky” proteins in red blood cells infected with malaria. They are generated by the malaria parasite, not by the cells. The article also misspelled the given name of a researcher. It is Silvia Portugal, not Sylvia Portugal.

An obituary on Tuesday about the biblical scholar Virginia Ramey Mollenkott referred incorrectly to her marriage to J. Suzannah Tilton. They married shortly after the United States Supreme Court overturned a law that denied federal benefits to same-sex couples, but before the court ruled that the Constitution guarantees a right to same-sex marriage.

An obituary on Thursday about the restaurateur Cecilia Chiang referred incorrectly to the six-part PBS series “The Kitchen Wisdom of Cecilia Chiang.” It was broadcast nationally in 2016, not just by the San Diego station KPBS.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.10 article:
As Election Day Arrives, Trump Shifts Between Combativeness and Grievance

The president is sounding notes of bravado and exasperation at the end of a divisive campaign. But he may have severed himself from the political realities of a country in crisis.

President Trump arrives at Election Day on Tuesday toggling between confidence and exasperation, bravado and grievance, and marinating in frustration that he is trailing Joseph R. Biden Jr., whom he considers an unworthy opponent.

“Man, it’s going to be embarrassing if I lose to this guy,” Mr. Trump has told advisers, a lament he has aired publicly as well. But in the off-camera version, Mr. Trump frequently exclaims, “This guy!” in reference to Mr. Biden, with a salty adjective separating the words.

Trailing in most polls, Mr. Trump has careened through a marathon series of rallies in the last week, trying to tear down Mr. Biden and energize his supporters, but also fixated on crowd size and targeting perceived enemies like the news media and Dr. Anthony Fauci, the federal government’s infectious disease expert whom he suggested on Sunday he might try to dismiss after the election.

At every turn, the president has railed that the voting system is rigged against him and has threatened to sue when the election is over, in an obvious bid to undermine an electoral process strained by the coronavirus pandemic. It is not clear, however, precisely what legal instruments Mr. Trump believes he has at his disposal.

The president, his associates say, has drawn encouragement from his larger audiences and from a stream of relatively upbeat polling information that advisers have curated for him, typically filtering out the bleakest numbers.

On a trip to Florida last week, several aides told the president that winning the Electoral College was a certainty, a prognosis not supported by Republican or Democratic polling, according to people familiar with the conversation. And Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, has responded with chipper enthusiasm when Mr. Trump has raised the idea of making a late bid for solidly Democratic states like New Mexico, an option other aides have told the president is flatly unrealistic.

His mad dash to the finish is a distillation of his four tumultuous years in office, a mix of resentment, combativeness and a penchant for viewing events through a prism all his own — and perhaps the hope that everything will work out for him in the end, the way it did four years ago when he surprised himself, his advisers and the world by winning the White House.

But by enclosing himself in the thin bubble of his own worldview, Mr. Trump may have further severed himself from the political realities of a country in crisis. And that, in turn, has helped enable Mr. Trump to wage a campaign offering no central message, no clear agenda for a second term and no answer to the woes of the pandemic.

Most people in the president’s inner circle share his optimism about the outcome of the race, even as they fight exhaustion and the president’s whipsawing moods, interviews with more than a dozen aides and allies showed. But some advisers acknowledge that it would require several factors to fall into place. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive internal deliberations.

Republican lawmakers have offered less rosy assessments of his prospects, and in private some Trump advisers do not argue the point. One high-ranking Republican member of Congress vented to Mr. Meadows last month that if Mr. Trump “is trying to lose the election I can’t think of anything I’d tell him to do differently,” the lawmaker recalled, noting that the aide only nodded his head in acknowledgment. “They just think they can’t do anything about it.”

Beyond the capital, though, some Republicans insist that Mr. Trump can again defy the odds, and that a devoted base will fuel a traditional G.O.P. surge in Election Day voters.

Joe Gruters, the chairman of the Republican Party of Florida who appeared with Mr. Trump in Tampa last week, described the president as “a lock” in the state.

“You can take it to the bank and cash the check,” Mr. Gruters said, adding of the Democrats: “We’re crushing them on the ground. That’s what’s going to make the difference.”

Seldom far from Mr. Trump’s thoughts, however, is the possibility of defeat — and the potential consequences of being ejected from the White House.

In unguarded moments, Mr. Trump has for weeks told advisers that he expects to face intensifying scrutiny from prosecutors if he loses. He is concerned not only about existing investigations in New York, but the potential for new federal probes as well, according to people who have spoken with him.

While Mr. Trump has not aired those worries in the open, he has railed against the democratic process, raising baseless doubts about the integrity of the vote.

He has also mused about prematurely declaring victory Tuesday night, but if there’s any organized plan to do so his top lieutenants are not conveying it to their allies. One congressional strategist said that he spoke to Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law, on Sunday and that Mr. Kushner not only didn’t ask for buy-in from Capitol Hill Republicans for such a plan but also didn’t mention the prospect at all.

Mr. Trump’s advisers do continue to believe he has a realistic chance of besting Mr. Biden, but they concede it would take a last-minute breakthrough in one of the Great Lakes states where he is currently trailing. Some Republicans, however, are already bracing for losses or close calls in a series of Sun Belt states — and expressing alarm that Mr. Trump may have turned some of them prematurely blue in the same fashion that Barack Obama’s 2008 landslide made Virginia and Colorado Democratic bulwarks.

“Arizona and Georgia are a big deal,” said Nick Everhart, a Republican strategist. “That’s a shift people thought would come but once they’re gone they’re hard to reel back.”

The president himself has done little to strengthen his chances in the final days of the race. On Friday, Mr. Trump used a rally in Michigan to float a baseless theory that doctors are classifying patients’ deaths as related to the coronavirus in order to make more money, drawing fierce condemnation from medical groups, as well as Mr. Biden and Mr. Obama.

And on Saturday, in Pennsylvania at the site where George Washington mapped out his Delaware crossing during the Revolution, aides wrote out a sober speech for the president to deliver. Midway through, he seemed to get bored and began to riff about the size of Mr. Biden’s sunglasses.

He has frequently used his speeches to deliver long diatribes against Mr. Biden and his son, Hunter Biden, even though some Trump advisers believe the whole subject is a sideshow in the midst of a public-health disaster. But Trump associates say he simply enjoys attacking the Biden family.

Senator Kevin Cramer, Republican from North Dakota, said that he believed Mr. Trump did not let the possibility of losing interfere with his approach.

“He certainly isn’t going to buy into anybody’s argument that it’s all over or that he’s lost,” Mr. Cramer said.

What confounds some Republicans is how little Mr. Trump is discussing last month’s confirmation of Justice Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court; some G.O.P. senators have made that achievement a centerpiece of their campaigns.

Campaigning in Kentucky this weekend in pursuit of his seventh term, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, repeatedly trumpeted Justice Barrett and the other two Trump-nominated judges on the high court while not mentioning Mr. Biden’s name once.

Though Mr. Trump has reconstituted parts of his 2016 inner circle in the waning days of the race, the operation lacks a figure who is both willing and able to force the president to stick to a script. Four years ago, Mr. Trump viewed the campaign’s top official, Stephen K. Bannon, as something of a peer— one who was able to focus the candidate. These days, Mr. Trump often rages to associates and aides that he believes they are failing him.

There was a fleeting effort to bring in a new voice as recently as three weeks before the election: Some Trump advisers floated the idea of recruiting Karl Rove, the former George W. Bush adviser, who has been involved in a super PAC supporting Mr. Trump, or someone like him.But by the time that idea was discussed the election was already less than a month away. Some Republicans appear to be looking past the end of the Trump era, whether that comes on Tuesday night or in another few years.

Several ambitious young Republicans have recently made visits to the early primary states of Iowa and New Hampshire, including Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Gov. Kristi Noem of South Dakota. Ms. Noem also quietly visited Mr. Trump at Mar-a-Lago, which may become another stop on the G.O.P. primary circuit should Mr. Trump lose. Another, Senator Rick Scott of Florida, is maneuvering to take over the National Republican Senatorial Committee, an effort seen by other Republicans as a step toward running for president.

There is even quiet lobbying underway for the chairmanship of the Republican National Committee, a body helmed for four years by Ronna McDaniel.

Several Trump loyalists are seen as potential successors in that job, including David Bossie, who is an R.N.C. member from Maryland, as well as the Ohio Republican Party chairwoman, Jane Timken, whom the president effectively installed in her post. Mr. Trump’s son Donald Trump Jr. and his girlfriend, the conservative pundit Kimberly Guilfoyle, have both been discussed as possible chair, though their aides said they are not interested in the job.

Mr. Gruters said he was not aware of any efforts by the president’s son to pursue the R.N.C. job, and praised Ms. McDaniel. But Mr. Gruters said a Trump scion could ascend to the job if she were to step down.

“Ronna has really done well and she certainly deserves the nod if she decides to continue on,” Mr. Gruters said. “Don Jr. obviously would be credible for anything he wanted to go after. He has a solid command of the base. He has the ability to raise a lot of money and would be another superstar for the party.”





No.11 article:
‘It’s Just Crazy’ in Pennsylvania: Mail Voting and the Anxiety That Followed

A county northeast of Pittsburgh is a microcosm of the high tension, confusion and deep uncertainty that have accompanied the expansion of mail-in voting.

KITTANNING, Pa. — “Hello, Elections.”

“Hello, Elections.”

“Hello, Elections.”

The rapid-fire calls were pouring in to Marybeth Kuznik, the one-woman Elections Department of Armstrong County, a few days before Election Day. “This is crazy,” she told an anxious caller. “Crazy, crazy, crazy. It’s a good thing because everybody should vote,” she added, “but it’s just crazy.”

Armstrong County, northeast of Pittsburgh, is one of Pennsylvania’s smaller counties with 44,829 registered voters. But it is a microcosm of the high tension, confusion and deep uncertainty that have accompanied the broad expansion of mail-in voting this year, during an election of passionate intensity.

With all Pennsylvania voters eligible for the first time to vote by mail, more than three million ballots were requested statewide — nearly half the total turnout from 2016. One in five voters in Armstrong County requested a mail-in ballot.

A complicated two-envelope ballot, uncertainty over the reliability of the Postal Service and a glitchy online system for tracking returned votes have caused Ms. Kuznik to be bombarded by callers. And, though to a lesser extent, she has also been visited by a stream of walk-ins at her small second-floor office in the county administration building, where an American flag was stuck into a dying plant above her desk.

“All righty, let’s look you up, see what’s going on,” she told voters who called seeking assistance.

“Gotcha,” she said whenever she found a voter’s name in her Dell computer.

The state-run portal intended to track mail ballots was unreliable, Ms. Kuznik said. By using a database available only to election officials, she was able to reassure voters about the status of a ballot — in nearly all cases, it had been received.

Many callers were alarmed that they had not received a ballot. For some, it was because they had not checked a box on their application for a mail ballot for the primary, asking to receive a general-election mail ballot. “There was a little wee tiny box on there to check,” she told one voter. “Don’t worry about it. Just go and vote.”

She told an upset caller that his ballot had been mailed on Oct. 16, two weeks earlier. “It’s kind of a long time if you haven’t gotten it,” she said. The voter could either visit Ms. Kuznik’s office to have the original ballot canceled and a replacement issued, or vote using a provisional ballot in person on Tuesday.

When the caller complained of not being able to get through to her earlier by phone, Ms. Kuznik said: “Yeah, I apologize, it’s been very, very busy here. But we will get you a ballot. We want you to vote.”

She then helped Beverly Nason, 84, who was waiting behind a swinging half-door and said her 87-year-old husband, William, had not received his ballot.

“Hold on for a minute,” Ms. Kuznik told a phone caller while helping Ms. Nason. “I’m right in the middle of processing a voter, and I will look up and see what’s going on with that.”

As she readied a new ballot to be printed for Mr. Nason, she talked back to a pop-up on her computer: “No, Adobe, I do not want to give a review of this software. No.”

Amanda Wallace, a child-care worker, appeared and asked where to drop off her completed ballot. “Well, that isn’t the whole thing,” Ms. Kuznik told her, explaining that Ms. Wallace, 48, had the inner “secrecy” envelope with her ballot inside but hadn’t brought the outer envelope that she was required to sign. The outer envelope includes a bar code to stop anyone from trying to vote more than once. “You absolutely have to have it in that, or it will not count,” Ms. Kuznik told her.

Sharon Kerr was upset that no ballot had been delivered to her home. It turned out she had entered a post office box for an address. “I can’t fix this today,” Ms. Kuznik told her, “but for right now, I’ll cancel that ballot that was sent out and I’ll get you another one.”

“God bless you, honey,” Ms. Kerr said. “I was worried that mine wouldn’t be counted, and we’ve got to do something. I’m very, very upset with what we have. We need changes.”

Ms. Kuznik, whose job is nonpartisan, did not respond to that, nor to any other comments about candidates. President Trump carried Armstrong County, whose population is almost entirely white and working class, by a margin of more than 16,000 in 2016. Kittanning, the county seat on the Allegheny River, has a population of 4,000. The largest employers are a hospital, government and Walmart.

Many election analysts believe Pennsylvania is the knife’s edge on which the race is balanced, the closest of the three “blue wall” states where Joseph R. Biden Jr., if he sweeps them, has his most likely path to the White House. A New York Times/Siena College poll of Pennsylvania on Sunday showed Mr. Biden with a lead of six percentage points, and a margin of error of 2.4 points.

With more Republicans expected to vote on Election Day and Democrats favoring mail ballots in Pennsylvania, when to count and report results have become partisan flash points. Mr. Trump has demanded, without a basis in law, that the vote leader on election night be named the winner. Democrats are braced for early returns from in-person voters to show a significant Trump lead, with the tide shifting bluer as mail ballots are reported.

Though counties have hired extra workers and in some cases bought machines to rapidly slit envelopes and extract ballots — which they cannot begin to do before 7 a.m. on Nov. 3 — there are wide differences among counties, with some not expecting full results for days.

“No way,” was how Ms. Kuznik responded when asked whether Armstrong County would have all of its votes counted in the hours after polls close at 8 p.m. “We’ll go as quickly as we can, but we’re not going to rush it,” she said. “It’s not the Super Bowl. Nobody’s going to hoist a trophy on election night.”

The state’s largest cities, Pittsburgh and Philadelphia, are aiming to report results of mail-in ballots on Tuesday night, according to an aide to a top Democratic official briefed on statewide preparations. But many second-tier counties, including in the Philadelphia suburbs, will be slower. “Erie, Berks, Bucks, Delaware and Lackawanna are real problems,” the aide said. “Their reporting of mail-in votes could go into Wednesday, which will create a lot of election night anxiety.”

Erie County, a swing county that Mr. Trump won in 2016, is expecting about 50,000 mail ballots. Election Day results will be reported first, then starting at 11 p.m., the results from about 10,000 mail ballots will be released, said Carl Anderson III, chair of the Erie County Election Board.

“They’ll still be separating envelopes and ballots on Wednesday, probably Thursday,” he said.

He did not rule out the following Monday for a count of all ballots, including those received in the three days after Election Day that are postmarked by Nov. 3. The secretary of state has ordered counties to segregate ballots received in that window because of potential litigation that has already reached the U.S. Supreme Court.

In Armstrong County, the plan is to open mail ballots and flatten them out in a workroom behind Ms. Kuznik’s office. Workers escorted by sheriff’s deputies will carry the ballots to the public works garage, where the county keeps its scanners.

Ms. Kuznik, who with her mother, Merle Smith Kuznik, had an earlier career running a children’s theater, was named elections director in September.

On Friday, she was preparing to send each polling place a red, white or blue replica of the Liberty Bell, to be rung when someone checked in who was voting for the first time. It was a tradition started by her mother, a longtime judge of elections in a nearby county until her death at 93.

One of Ms. Kuznik’s callers, a woman named Rosanna, was worried that she had not received a ballot.

“Well, Rosanna, what I’m seeing, according to the records here, unfortunately you haven’t voted since 2012,” Ms. Kuznik told her. She explained that her voter registration had been canceled after she missed two federal elections and did not respond to a postcard sent to her.

The voter registration deadline had passed. “After the election, promise me you will call me and we’ll get you a new registration,” Ms. Kuznik said.

Rosanna, who said she had recently retired at 90 from Walmart, began to tell her life’s story.

“Aww,” Ms. Kuznik said at one point.

“Well,” she said at another.

“I don’t want to be mean,” she said finally, “but I have a bunch of people here waiting to get help, so you know maybe, like, why don’t you call me up in January and we’ll have a good long talk?”





No.12 article:
The Sixers Need to Be Patient. For Real, This Time.

The Philadelphia 76ers have hired Daryl Morey, who inspired the analytics movement that gave rise to the Process. But the team needs a new strategy now.

The Philadelphia 76ers and Daryl Morey seem like an ideal match.

For the Sixers, who introduced Morey on Monday as president of basketball operations, he is an executive who gives their front office instant credibility. And for Morey, the job is a chance to transform a franchise with marquee players into a championship contender.

But transformations require institutional buy-in from all corners of a franchise. Morey’s track record as an analytics-driven tinkerer willing to blow up “good” in order to be “great” may not jibe with other parts of the organization — the ones that judge or are judged on straight wins and losses, or that need wins to make money. And Philadelphia has been here before: Sam Hinkie, a Morey acolyte, took the reins of the Sixers in 2013 for an ill-fated partnership. Yet, with Morey, this can and should work. He will give the franchise much needed stability and direction. But it will require something owners always say they have but often don’t: patience.

The Morey pursuit began in earnest two years ago, when Philadelphia made a push for him to replace the ousted Bryan Colangelo but was rebuffed. Morey, who helped usher in the analytics movement in the N.B.A., finally made his way to Philadelphia after unexpectedly announcing his intent last month to resign from the Rockets in Houston, where he had been general manager since 2007.

But just adding a big name to the front office won’t magically fix the Sixers, who were swept in the first round of the playoffs by the Boston Celtics despite preseason championship aspirations. Afterward, the Sixers’ general manager, Elton Brand, announced that changes needed to be made “top to bottom” — including in the front office.

Morey is one of those changes. The Sixers also announced Monday that Brand had signed a multiyear contract extension, but he will most likely answer to Morey, and it is unclear how that dynamic will shake out. In August, Brand said “collaboration days didn’t work too well” with the front office last season.

Philadelphia, under Brand’s leadership, doubled down on going big in the frontcourt — with Joel Embiid, a franchise cornerstone, and Al Horford — while the rest of the league trended toward a smaller and faster style of basketball supported by analytics. No team embraced the concept more than Morey’s Rockets, who traded a productive center in Clint Capela in February to play a smaller lineup. While the Rockets often relied on 3-pointers for their offense, Philadelphia’s other franchise player, Ben Simmons, has shot just 24 of them in three seasons.

“The best way to win in the N.B.A. is to take your talent and figure out how to utilize them best,” Morey said at a news conference on Monday. “It’s not to take your talent and hammer it into a particular system.”

One insight into Morey’s style of thinking comes from before his time in Houston, when he was an executive with the Celtics. In the 2003-4 season, the Celtics were 36-46, made the playoffs as an eighth seed and were swept in the first round.

On whether the Celtics should have tanked, Morey told ESPN last year: “We should have. We didn’t. We were trying to win every game. But that would have been a year to not be in the eighth seed.”

That’s Morey, at least partly. He would rather start from scratch than languish in mediocrity. (He has also since spoken out against tanking, saying it is bad for the N.B.A.)

There is an open question as to how radical the team’s ownership group will allow Morey to be. He made 77 trades in his 13 years in Houston, and his influence has made an impression in Philadelphia. In 2013, the Sixers hired Hinkie as team president and general manager, commencing an era known to Sixers fans as the Process. Hinkie based roster decisions on analytics and eschewed short-term gains for bigger, future ones. (Or, in N.B.A. terms: The Sixers tanked.) He honed that approach working alongside Morey in Houston from 2005 to 2013.

Hinkie focused on accumulating higher draft picks and tradable contracts rather than wins. While Hinkie’s supporters argue that the Process was successful because it netted the Sixers Embiid and set up the pick to draft Simmons, his detractors said his strategy was detrimental to the league. In 2016, Hinkie resigned. When he was in charge, the Sixers were among the worst teams in the N.B.A. Two years later, Embiid and Simmons led the Sixers on a surprising run to the second round of the playoffs, which only further entrenched Hinkie as a cult hero among Sixers fans.

On a recent podcast with ESPN, Hinkie spoke glowingly of his friend Morey’s willingness to make unpopular moves.

“That kind of being willing to do the hard right thing, I think, is the kind of thing Daryl will help with a bunch,” Hinkie said. “He’s proven with patient ownership that he can be successful.”

Under Morey, the Rockets never had a losing season. He often opted to rapidly retool rather than wholly rebuild, such as by swapping Chris Paul for Russell Westbrook — “often” being the operative word. Morey kept the team competitive, seamlessly transitioning from the era of Yao Ming and Tracy McGrady to one led by James Harden. To acquire Harden, though, Morey overhauled the roster, trading away several productive veterans and letting others leave in free agency.

The Rockets made the playoffs 10 times during Morey’s tenure, including two trips to the Western Conference finals. But Houston never made the N.B.A. finals with Morey, and critics have questioned whether his approach can build a champion, given that other teams rebuilt themselves and won rings in less time.

So there may come a time when Morey looks at Philadelphia’s dire salary cap situation and inconsistent superstar production and determines that retooling won’t be good enough, as he did before maneuvering to get Harden. The Sixers have no cap space, and two players, Horford and Tobias Harris, are signed to expensive, long-term deals that do not seem justified by their production last season.

“Our championship team probably isn’t going to have the same exact players that we have right now,” Morey said Monday. “Do I think that the players we have right now are very good and we can build around and continue to grow from there? I do believe that, absolutely.”

Morey is the kind of executive willing to pull the trigger on deals that would make his competitors squeamish. He is open to grand experiments, provided there is a statistical justification. Owners with egos and billions at stake might not take kindly if the results aren’t there right away.

Morey is likely aware of that. Take, for example, when he shared a tongue-in-cheek image of Hinkie on Twitter in May: His caption read, “He never got a chance to build.”





No.13 article:
A Golden Team, a Terrible Title and a Show That Vanished

Would you like to see a new musical from the people who brought you “West Side Story”? For better or worse, you probably never will.

How do you top “West Side Story”?

If you’re Leonard Bernstein, Stephen Sondheim and Jerome Robbins, the answer is: You don’t.

Well, you try. Ten years after the composer, the lyricist and the director-choreographer of that show (along with its book writer, Arthur Laurents) changed the musical theater with their contemporary take on “Romeo and Juliet,” they rejoined forces to develop another project.

The idea was Robbins’s. He thought that one of Bertolt Brecht’s Lehrstücke, or teaching plays, could make a good musical, being short and pointed and fable-like. In 1967, he asked Sondheim to read “The Measures Taken,” the first in a collection of four translations, for possible adaptation. When Sondheim balked, finding the material too inert, Robbins told him to read the next play in the book.

That one, “The Exception and the Rule,” is about a rapacious oil merchant (read: capitalism) who races another merchant across a desert to win a lucrative deal. Accompanying him are a guide and a porter; when the three get lost, and the porter (read: exploited labor) tries to help the merchant, the merchant misunderstands the gesture and shoots him. Naturally, being of the ruling class, he is acquitted: Self-defense, the judge decides, applies even if the threat is imaginary.

Sondheim, eager to work with Robbins, whom he called “the only genius I had ever associated with,” thought this story might work, even though he found most of Brecht, and especially the teaching plays, “insufferably simplistic.” In his book “Look, I Made a Hat,” he wrote that there was “too much Lehr in each stück” — too much teaching in each play — “to hold my attention.”

Indeed, his attention waned after “taking a stab” at two songs. Giving up, he suggested that Robbins get Bernstein to write both music and lyrics. But Robbins instead asked Jerry Leiber, the word half of the pop songwriting team of Leiber and Stoller, to work with the maestro. Though the odd couple did complete some numbers, the show stalled out. Most do, usually for their own good.

But “The Exception and the Rule,” as it was then called, had a gleam of possibility that kept it from dying completely. Perhaps it would be an exception itself, as “West Side Story,” which almost fell through several times, was in its day.

What looked like the key arrived when the playwright John Guare, then known for surreal way-off-Broadway comedies, joined up with a great idea for the adaptation.

The story would now take place in a television studio where the Brecht play is being readied for broadcast. The tension between the star actor playing the merchant (who was to be white) and the supporting actors playing the guide and porter (who were to be Black) would parallel the class paranoia of the inner scenes, while adding an element of racial paranoia to the mix. Sondheim, noting that the Brecht would be chopped up by scenes set in the present, “and thus not be so relentlessly Brechtian,” rejoined the team.

By April 1968, a New York Times theater column trumpeted a January 1969 opening for the new musical. Later that year, the producers announced that the Broadway star Zero Mostel would play the lead. It seemed a mere glitch in its inevitable success when, in October, the show, budgeted at $600,000 and now bearing Bernstein’s awful Spooneristic title “A Pray by Blecht,” was postponed until the following fall.

And then: nothing.

It was so dead that Bernstein, nine years later, describing it as “a big wonderful show that could have been,” got its title wrong. He called it “The Measures Taken.”

What happened? According to “Look, I Made a Hat,” in which Sondheim relates “almost all” of the tale, the golden collaboration was “no fun at all”; he stepped away again after he and Bernstein, who treated him as if he were “still an apprentice” from “West Side Story” days, wrote eight songs. Robbins quit soon thereafter: In the middle of auditions, he excused himself to Guare and Bernstein, left the theater and took off in a cab to Kennedy Airport.

Perhaps it is better that some shows should die so that others might live. After “A Pray by Blecht” collapsed, Sondheim went on almost immediately to write “Company,” “Follies” and “A Little Night Music.” Guare’s 1971 play “The House of Blue Leaves” jump-started his career. Bernstein and Robbins would each return to Broadway, albeit with mixed success, while continuing to excel in classical music and ballet.

Yet it was Robbins, the runaway, who couldn’t let the idea die. In the spring of 1987, at Lincoln Center Theater, he directed a multiweek workshop of a new version of the show called “The Race to Urga.” Sondheim attended only two rehearsals, which (he recalled in an email) were inchoate and disorganized.

“I couldn’t tell anything about it,” he wrote, “except that it seemed (as I’d always thought it was) self-consciously Important instead of spontaneous and exuberant, which is the chief saving grace of any Brecht play (and was Brecht’s intention).”

Guare, who provided the necessary new lyrics, recently declined to comment on the experience, having “closed the door” on it ages ago.

One person was happy to comment, though: Zero Mostel’s son Josh. In the 1987 workshop, he was cast (after Kevin Kline apparently withdrew) in the role originally intended for his father.

By the time the show was performed for invited audiences in May of that year, he recalled, Robbins had given up on the white vs. Black theme; Joe Grifasi played the guide and Thomas Ikeda the porter, still unfortunately referred to as the “coolie.” But Brecht’s warning about the dangers of unlimited power remained — and not just in the coda, during which planted actors rose from the audience to sing about revolution. Robbins himself was a warning about unlimited power.

“Working with Jerry was torture,” Mostel said. “Thomas Ikeda literally passed out in my arms in rehearsal, from exhaustion. At our last show, Bernstein fell down the stairs trying to get out of there. Jerry was nasty even to Guare, a very sweet guy. He was so controlling and paranoid he wouldn’t tell us what time the performances were until right before they started.

“But I have to say the songs were brilliant. And the book was one of the best of any musical I’d been in. Some friends brought a 6-year-old to the show, and he said, ‘Is that all?’ — which is a pretty good review. It should have moved forward, and the reason it didn’t is that no one could stand Jerry.”

That’s a shame; a musical exploring the prerogatives of class (and the power imbalances inherent in the theater) would be exceedingly timely now. At one point, Sondheim has a police officer sing proudly of his beat, “Thirty natives and all so quiet,” to which his partner replies, “Thirty-seven before the riot.”

That’s a lyric that needs no alteration to work as satire, or tragedy — or at any rate a stageworthy bit of Lehr — in 2020.

Next in Unopened: The Bob Dylan musical that tried to find a way — way before “Girl From the North Country.”





No.14 article:
How the Space Station Became a Base to Launch Humanity’s Future

For the International Space Station, Leroy Chiao was, in a sense, there before the beginning.

In October 2000, he was one of seven astronauts on the space shuttle Discovery, which brought pieces of the nascent space station to orbit. Construction had begun a couple of years earlier. But no one was living there yet.

Much of the work on Dr. Chiao’s flight was done outside the space station, during spacewalks. But the astronauts also got to go inside briefly.

“It had that new-car smell,” Dr. Chiao recalled.

It was a runt of a space station then. The habitable portion consisted of just three modules, not the 16 orbiting today. But it was ready for people to move in.

Discovery undocked on Oct. 20 and returned to Earth. Eleven days later, three astronauts — William Shepherd of NASA and two Russians, Sergei Krikalev and Yuri Gidzenko — blasted off in a Russian Soyuz rocket from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.

On Nov. 2, 2000, they docked at the space station and began their four-and-a-half-month stay in orbit.

Humans have been living off the planet ever since.

Monday is the 20th anniversary of continuous occupation of the International Space Station. The project was pitched as post-Cold War space cooperation between the United States and Russia, although for many its cost — well above $100 billion — made it a poster child of inefficient government megaprojects.

In the past decade, however, the station has, somewhat unexpectedly, turned into the linchpin for spurring capitalism in space, potentially leading to new industries and the possibility that more people will head to orbit.

Research conducted on the space station has yet to discover a cure for cancer or osteoporosis. And it has not generated a technological breakthrough that would transform life on Earth. But it has given NASA and other space agencies the knowledge and experience of how to build complex machinery in space, and insight into how microgravity affects the human body.

“The whole thing is an experiment of, Can humans live in space for long periods of time, operate in this challenging environment, and do it safely, do it successfully?” said Scott Kelly, one of the space station’s most prominent residents, who spent nearly a year in orbit, beginning in March 2015. “If that’s one of your main objectives of the program, I think it has been a great success.”

An orbiting space station has long been seen as a steppingstone to the rest of the solar system. In the afterglow of the Apollo 11 moon landing in 1969, a task force led by Vice President Spiro T. Agnew recommended ambitious follow-up space goals like a reusable space shuttle and a space station with the aim of sending astronauts to Mars as soon as the 1980s.

President Richard Nixon, trying to rein in the federal budget, gave NASA the go-ahead only for the shuttle.

The upper stage of one of the Saturn 5 rockets from one canceled moon mission was turned into Skylab, a space station for three NASA missions in 1973 and 1974. But it had crashed back to Earth by the time the space shuttles began flying in 1981.

In 1984, President Ronald Reagan announced plans to build a space station he later christened Freedom. But after years of designs and redesigns, no piece of Freedom was ever built. In June 1993, the House of Representatives narrowly voted to keep it going.

That year, the Clinton administration was in the process of transforming Freedom into the International Space Station. And in September 1993, Russia, which had decades of experience operating the Salyut and Mir outposts in orbit, signed on as a partner. The member nations of the European Space Agency as well as Canada and Japan also took part.

“The International Space Station came out of the ashes of the Cold War,” said Jeffrey Manber, chief executive of Nanoracks, a company that has found a profitable business taking commercial payloads to the space station.

The project also created work for Russian aerospace engineers who might otherwise have offered their expertise in building ballistic missiles to countries like Iran or North Korea.

“There was a very strong reason to build a Taj Mahal in space made up of most of the space-faring industrial nations of that time,” Mr. Manber said.

The first module, Zarya, built by Russia but financed by NASA, launched in November 1998. A couple of weeks later, the space shuttle Endeavour brought up Unity, the first American-built piece, which connects the Russian- and NASA-led segments. A Russian module, Zvezda, launched in July 2000.

Those were the ones that were there when Mr. Shepherd, Mr. Krikalev and Mr. Gidzenko set up home. “Through the whole flight, there wasn’t really a typical day,” Mr. Shepherd said.

The 20-year streak of humans in space did not begin grandly.

“The initial two or three weeks was fairly cramped, because the station had to be kind of opened up gradually,” said Mr. Shepherd, a former member of the Navy SEALs who served as the commander of the first crew. “We could not turn everything on and go everywhere in the station initially.”

They set up systems such as scrubbers to keep carbon dioxide levels from building up, stowed cargo, attached components brought up by space shuttles, fixed things that broke and even ran a few experiments.

Unlike today, communications between the station and the two control centers, in Houston and Moscow, were spotty. The astronauts were out of contact with the rest of humanity on the ground sometimes for hours at a time.

“In some situations it’s even more convenient that way,” Mr. Krikalev said on Thursday at a news conference in Moscow commemorating the anniversary. “If crew members constantly stayed on call, they’d have no time to do their jobs.”

By the time the three astronauts returned to Earth in March 2001, Mr. Shepherd said, “the conditions on the space station, I thought, were actually pretty good — we were comfortable.”

It was another decade before construction on the International Space Station was considered complete, with a lull of more than two years when the space shuttles were grounded after the loss of Columbia in 2003.

“All the terrible catastrophes for the shuttle meant that all of us, Americans and Russians, we had a long period of just maintaining the station,” said Pavel Vinogradov, a Russian astronaut who reached the station in 2006 when it was operating with a skeleton crew of two in what he called “survival mode.”

But when the shuttles were cleared to fly again, progress on construction resumed.

“I would tell you, looking back on it, it went way, way better than we could have ever hoped,” said Michael T. Suffredini, who served as NASA’s space station program manager for a decade, from 2005 to 2015.

Imagine building large pieces of machinery that have to interlock precisely but not having any chance to check that they do indeed fit before they are launched to orbit.

The modules of the space station, each about the size of a school bus and built in factories thousands of miles apart, came together seamlessly. “That’s an amazing feat,” Mr. Suffredini said. “This is by far the largest, most complicated spacecraft ever flown.”

That does not mean everything always went smoothly. Computers crashed, cooling systems failed, leaks popped up and the toilet broke.

In 2007, a particularly dire mishap almost crippled the station.

As astronauts were trying to unfurl a 112-foot solar array, it ripped. “That was pretty exciting because we didn’t have a replacement for it,” Mr. Suffredini said.

One solution would have been to jettison the damaged panel. But without any spares available, the station would be power-starved for years.

Engineers improvised a solution that repaired the tear and allowed the panel to be fully extended. Using materials on the station, astronauts made what were nicknamed “cuff links” — lengths of wires with connecting tabs at both ends. They were installed during a spacewalk by a NASA astronaut, Scott Parazynski, that lasted more than seven hours.

Peggy Whitson’s three trips to the space station pushed her to the record for the most cumulative time in space by an American: 665 days. Across that time, she experienced the station’s evolution from a construction site to a premier orbiting laboratory where astronauts could spend more time tending to experiments.

For her first trip, in 2002, she was a flight engineer, using the station’s robotic arm to put pieces of the station in place. On her second mission, starting in 2007, she was the first woman to serve as commander. In those years, the astronauts spent most of their days as construction and maintenance workers to keep the place running.

By her third trip, which began four years ago, the size of the crew had expanded to six, and Dr. Whitson, a biochemist by training, was finally able to spend much of her time as a scientist.

“I’ve done everything from soybeans to superconductor crystals, but on this last mission, I got to do a lot of stem cell and cancer studies and bone studies,” Dr. Whitson said. “The quality and quantity of science that we were doing has really been enhanced.”

The station is to remain in orbit until at least 2024, and Mr. Suffredini is now looking to apply what has been learned to commercial space stations. He is president and chief executive of Axiom Space, a Houston company that NASA selected in January to build a commercial module to add to the International Space Station.

When the current space station is retired, the Axiom module would become the core of an Axiom space station. “Our whole company is founded on that premise that we can do it a lot less expensively,” Mr. Suffredini said.

Nanoracks, Mr. Manber’s company, is also developing a concept for a commercial outpost that would operate robotically most of the time and thus more cheaply. It would also enable experiments and manufacturing in space that would be too dangerous if there were people around. Astronauts could periodically visit.

Mr. Suffredini said the current trajectory of life in orbit followed the path of previous exploration of new territories. “In any government exploration in the history of mankind, you send out a few people that are government funded to go do a relatively risky thing, just to see what’s there,” he said.

If there’s anything of value, the pioneers follow and eventually the settlers. “In order to establish low-Earth orbit,” Mr. Suffredini said, “we need to get to the pioneering stage, which is what we’re really doing.”





No.15 article:
You’re Not Just Voting for President. You’re Voting to Start Over.

The American experiment has taken a beating, but there’s a chance to renew our democracy.

As Americans go to the polls on Tuesday, the last day of voting in the 2020 election, the health of American democracy hangs in the balance. But in this hour of crisis, the strength of democracy also is on display. As Martin Luther King Jr. said in his final speech, “Only when it is dark enough can you see the stars.”

Even as Republican officials work frantically to discourage voting, and to prevent ballots from being counted, officials in many states have made it easier to vote than ever before. California, Nevada, New Jersey and Vermont, along with Washington, D.C., sent mail-in ballots to all voters, joining five other states that already did so. New York, New Hampshire and Virginia, among other states, eased the rules for voting by absentee ballot. In Harris County, Texas — a jurisdiction with a larger population than 26 states — some early voting sites stayed open all night.

Even as President Trump has celebrated acts of violence against people who do not support his re-election, Americans in the millions have taken advantage of these new opportunities to vote. More than 97 million people have already cast ballots nationwide. In Texas and Hawaii, the number of votes cast before Election Day has surpassed the total vote in the 2016 election.

Even as the coronavirus pandemic rages, millions more Americans plan to put on masks on Tuesday and vote in person. Some will wait for hours in long lines — a heroic response to a disgraceful reality — to exercise their right to pick the people who will serve them in Washington and in state and local government.

In the accumulation of these individual acts, our representative democracy is renewed.

State election officials have an obligation to ensure that all of these votes are counted. That process will not end on Tuesday. Some states may report results quickly; others expect it will take days to make the count.

Mr. Trump, and other Republican officials, can help by setting aside plans to interfere. One attempt at sabotage suffered a setback on Monday when a federal judge rejected an effort by Texas Republicans to toss more than 127,000 ballots from drive-through polling stations in Harris County, which includes Houston. Ben Ginsberg, a longtime lawyer for the Republican Party in voting cases, including in Florida in 2000, broke ranks in that case. “Not so long ago, it was a core tenet of the Republican Party that the vote of every qualified voter should be counted, even if, at times, it did not work in the party’s favor,” Mr. Ginsberg wrote. That should be a core tenet for both parties in the coming days.

The courts, which will inevitably be called upon by both parties, have a paramount duty to maximize the opportunity to vote and ensure that ballots are counted.

Candidates also have an obligation to wait for the votes to be counted. Mr. Trump has suggested he is ready to claim victory before states finish their counting. Such premature claims, sometimes excused as gamesmanship, would be particularly irresponsible in the present climate. Should a candidate make such a claim, however, it’s also worth noting that there’s no special magic in saying the words. Mr. Trump cannot obtain a second term by declaring himself the winner.

Once the results are in? Once the nation has picked a president, 35 senators and 435 representatives, not to mention state and local officials and the results of referendums? The election is just a beginning.

The winning candidate and his supporters will celebrate, but the importance of an election is easily overstated. What is won is not the right to carry out a particular set of campaign promises, but only the chance to govern.

Voters have made their own compromises in selecting candidates who embody some but not all of their priorities, some but not all of their values. Once those choices are made, the men and women they have selected must go to work and forge their own compromises.

This nation was struggling to address a range of long-term problems before Mr. Trump’s victory in 2016. Over the past four years, those challenges have only increased, in part because Mr. Trump has failed to understand the work of a president. He has sought to rule by fiat, to besiege his opponents and demand that they surrender. Time and again, he has decided that no loaf is better than half a loaf.

Now America gets its quadrennial chance to start over again.

The immediate challenge is to hold a free and fair election, to demonstrate to ourselves more than anyone else that this nation remains committed to representative democracy and to the rule of law. But the vote itself is just a means to an end. Once the ballots are counted, those who win must prove they can govern.





No.16 article:
Elvia Ramirez Dies at 17; Youngest Covid-19 Victim in North Dakota

Her mother watched her heartbreaking decline over three swift weeks, starting in mid-September, when Elvia began experiencing headaches.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

When she died of Covid-19 on Oct. 6, Elvia Ramirez was only 17 and had started her senior year at Parshall High School on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in North Dakota. She had intended to marry her long-term boyfriend and had hopes of attending college. She had promised to take some of her younger siblings to Disneyland one day.

Instead, she became the youngest person in the state to die of the virus, which has hit Native American populations particularly hard.

According to her mother, Susan Three Irons, Elvia started to experience headaches in mid-September and stayed home from school. Her boyfriend had the same symptom, so Ms. Three Irons suggested that they go to a drive-through clinic in Parshall. Both tested positive for Covid, and soon Elvia had a fever. (Her boyfriend recovered.)

On Sept. 22, when her daughter began to have difficulty breathing, Ms. Three Irons called an ambulance. Elvia was taken to a hospital in nearby Minot, but the facility was ill-equipped to handle serious Covid cases.

The hospital was so short-staffed that Ms. Three Irons had to take on much of her daughter’s care. But the hospital eventually insisted that she could no longer be in the room. She called Elvia on the phone. “I told her I loved her,” Ms. Three Irons said in an interview, “and she told me she was scared.”

As her daughter’s condition worsened, Ms. Three Irons arranged to have Elvia airlifted to Sanford Children’s Hospital in Fargo, 270 miles away. By the time Elvia arrived, her condition had deteriorated further, and her breathing grew more labored. She was placed on a ventilator and never regained consciousness.

Ms. Three Irons began to experience symptoms herself and tested positive for the virus. She was admitted to the Covid wing of another Fargo hospital. On Oct. 6, Elvia’s nurse arranged a video call so that Ms. Three Irons could see her daughter. At some point during the call, the camera was turned toward the floor, and because there was no audio, Ms. Three Irons didn’t know that her daughter had gone into cardiac arrest and that the doctors were performing CPR to try to save her. After she died, the doctor held the phone to Elvia’s ear so her mother, weeping, could say goodbye.

Elvia Rose Ramirez was born on Feb. 3, 2003, in Grand Forks, N.D., the third of nine children. Her family was part of the Mandan, Hidatsa, Arikara Nation. Her father, Elias Ramirez, grew up as a member of the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community in Phoenix; Elvia, who was extremely proud of her heritage, became a member of that tribe. She struggled with asthma and high blood pressure but was a vivacious, active teenager who loved drawing anime characters and had dreams of becoming an artist and a “cat mom.”

Always a curious, empathetic child, she helped raise her younger siblings, her mother said.

“She always thought of everybody else first,” Ms. Three Irons said. “She was always there to cheer up her friends and volunteer to help out when people needed her.”





No.17 article:
In a Swing County in a Swing State, the Verdict Is In: It’s Going to Be Close

Pinellas County, Fla., has it all: Jeep clubs for Biden, Trump fans who think Fox News is too mainstream — and the potential to decide the race.

[Follow our live Trump vs Biden 2020 election updates and analysis.]

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Dan Parri, a lawyer in the city of Clearwater, loved driving around town with the Pinellas County Jeep Club — until some members started festooning their vehicles with Trump 2020 campaign flags.

So Mr. Parri spoke up, then kept speaking. The Confederate flag also bothered him, he told his fellow Jeep enthusiasts, as did the systemic racism that brought about the killing of George Floyd.

And when his words were met with resistance, he founded what he calls a “progressive Jeep club.”

“We have about 70 members,” he said, standing proudly next to his Jeep, which he has named Prometheus and decorated with red, white and blue balloons; an American flag; a Black Lives Matter flag; another flag with an L.G.B.T. rainbow he found on Amazon; and lots of Biden-Harris campaign paraphernalia.

In any other year, one might chalk up Mr. Parri’s new club as just another curiosity in Pinellas County, Fla., population 974,996.

But in 2020, in the swing state that crowned past presidents by small margins, much in this country is riding on the all-important question of who flies what flag on which Jeep.

As returns stream in across the state on Tuesday night, more than a few eyes will be glued to this stretch of the central Gulf Coast, which includes liberal St. Petersburg and conservative Clearwater, the vacation hub and base of the Church of Scientology.

The population of Pinellas County, about three-quarters of which is white, includes a good number of older retirees and suburban women, two groups shown by polling to significantly favor Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic presidential nominee. Yet the county’s voting preferences this year are much harder to discern: Among registered voters, about 256,000 are registered as Democrats and about 252,000 as Republicans.

That leaves Pinellas as a swing county in a swing state.

“In Florida, we’re another melting pot and everyone brings their values of what they have with them — right, wrong or indifferent,” said Shawn Berger, 48, who lives in Dunedin, at the county’s north end, and works in information technology.

After Barack Obama won Pinellas County by hefty margins in 2008 and 2012, Donald J. Trump narrowly triumphed here by roughly 6,000 votes, out of about half a million cast. Hillary Clinton visited Florida more than any other battleground in the final month of the 2016 presidential campaign, spending heavily on ads throughout the state. But postelection observers said her appeals to middle-class voters in Pinellas County didn’t resonate as well as Mr. Obama’s had.

These days, with most polls indicating that it’s anyone’s guess who will carry Florida, Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden have been barnstorming the area once more in the final stretch.

Both men held rallies in nearby Tampa on Thursday that underlined the polar-opposite realities each candidate now inhabits: Mr. Biden’s gathering was socially distanced and focused on the death toll from the coronavirus, while Mr. Trump’s took no such precautions and repeated unsubstantiated claims about the business dealings of Mr. Biden’s son Hunter in Ukraine.

Mr. Berger attended Mr. Trump’s rally, arriving in Tampa at 11:30 p.m. the night before with a group of friends to ensure they would be among the first to enter the stadium to see the president.

Mr. Berger, a conservative who said he had blocked Fox News on social media for being “too mainstream,” said he enjoyed the crowd’s excitement and the president’s speech. He even had his young daughter take a day off school to attend the rally with him because, he said, he “felt that it would be a good learning experience, so she could learn about some history and politics firsthand.”

“Is he crass? Does he have a locker-room mentality?” Mr. Berger asked, referring to the president. “Yeah, sure, but I’m not hiring him to be nice.”

Travel south from Mr. Berger’s home in Dunedin and the political landscape changes. St. Petersburg — once overshadowed by Clearwater’s beach-retirement hub — has been transformed by recent years that have brought a mix of gentrification and progressive politics. The Trump flags mostly vanish, replaced by gay pride banners and organic food markets.

A short drive away at the Tropicana Stadium, Terri Lipsey Scott, the director of the city’s Dr. Carter G. Woodson African American Museum, gave a speech at a drive-in, get-out-the-vote rally in honor of Representative John Lewis, the Georgia Democrat and voting rights champion who died over the summer.

At the rally, speakers mainly focused on what they said were efforts to block voters from casting ballots this year — and how to combat them. Those efforts included one by Florida Republicans, who sidestepped a statewide referendum to extend the franchise to former felons by requiring them to pay court fees. One in five Black Floridians is thought to have a felony conviction and could be unable to vote because of it.

Ms. Scott ended her speech by calling on attendees, parked and listening from their cars, to drive in a convoy through town in support of Biden — as Trump supporters had done for their candidate in recent days.

“I got a call from the local police saying if we block traffic then we’ll get ticketed,” she said. “I’m not encouraging anyone to break the law, but today is a day for some ‘good trouble,’” she added, using one of Mr. Lewis’s signature phrases from his civil rights struggles.

Across town in an early-voting line, Albert Hill, 22, seemed less caught up in the politics of the year than the anxiety of being a recent college graduate in a grim job market. Mr. Hill, who had briefly worked for a clothing company after earning a degree in fashion marketing in May, was without a job after the pandemic shut down much of the county’s economy.

“It’s the next four years that I’ll have to think about most, who is elected and what jobs are in place,” he said.

Mr. Hill was voting for Mr. Biden.

Down the street stood Billy Overcast — “spelled like the weather,” said Mr. Overcast, pointing up, however, to a typically clear day with one hand, a “Trump 2020” flag in the other.

He said he understood Mr. Hill’s concerns, as a young person facing economic uncertainty. Mr. Overcast found out that one of his adult children would vote for Mr. Biden recently.

Mr. Overcast said that in his view he had raised all of his children as conservatives politically and culturally, even teaching one to shoot with a 22-caliber squirrel gun that had been given to him when he was younger. It hadn’t really worked, he said.

A neighbor riding a bicycle nearby took off his headphones and shouted that Mr. Trump was a dictator.

Mr. Overcast sighed. He said that living in the same county as the Church of Scientology’s headquarters had taught him how to tolerate almost any point of view, even that of the neighbor, who he suspected had stolen the Trump sign from his lawn.

Mr. Overcast said his home security system had filmed the culprit making off with it. But rather than confront the neighbor, Mr. Overcast just bought another sign.

“But with this one I tied 90 pounds of fishing line on it and tied it to a tree in my yard,” he said.





No.18 article:
What to Expect From Facebook, Twitter and YouTube on Election Day

The sites are key conduits for communication and information. Here’s how they plan to handle the challenges facing them before, on and after Tuesday.

[Follow our live Trump vs Biden 2020 election updates and analysis.]

SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook, YouTube and Twitter were misused by Russians to inflame American voters with divisive messages before the 2016 presidential election. The companies have spent the past four years trying to ensure that this November isn’t a repeat.

They have spent billions of dollars improving their sites’ security, policies and processes. In recent months, with fears rising that violence may break out after the election, the companies have taken numerous steps to clamp down on falsehoods and highlight accurate and verified information.

We asked Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to walk us through what they were, are and will be doing before, on and after Tuesday. Here’s a guide.

Since 2016, Facebook has poured billions of dollars into beefing up its security operations to fight misinformation and other harmful content. It now has more than 35,000 people working on this, the company said.

One team, led by a former National Security Council operative, has searched for “coordinated inauthentic behavior” by accounts that work in concert to spread false information. That team, which delivers regular reports, will be on high alert on Tuesday. Facebook has also worked with government agencies and other tech companies to spot foreign interference.

To demystify its political advertising, Facebook created an ad library so people can see what political ads are being bought and by whom, as well as how much those entities are spending. The company also introduced more steps for people who buy those ads, including a requirement that they live in the United States. To prevent candidates from spreading bad information, Facebook stopped accepting new political ads on Oct. 20.

At the same time, it has tried highlighting accurate information. In June, it rolled out a voter information hub with data on when, how and where to register to vote, and it is promoting the feature atop News Feeds through Tuesday. It also said it would act swiftly against posts that tried to dissuade people from voting, had limited forwarding of messages on its WhatsApp messaging service and had begun working with Reuters on how to handle verified election results.

Facebook has made changes up till the last minute. Last week, it said it had turned off political and social group recommendations and temporarily removed a feature in Instagram’s hashtag pages to slow the spread of misinformation.

On Tuesday, an operations center with dozens of employees — what Facebook calls a “war room” — will work to identify efforts to destabilize the election. The team, which will work virtually because of the coronavirus pandemic, has already been in action and is operating smoothly, Facebook said.

Facebook’s app will also look different on Tuesday. To prevent candidates from prematurely and inaccurately declaring victory, the company plans to add a notification at the top of News Feeds letting people know that no winner has been chosen until election results are verified by news outlets like Reuters and The Associated Press.

Facebook also plans to deploy, if needed, special tools that it has used in “at-risk countries” like Myanmar, where election-related violence was a possibility. The tools, which Facebook has not described publicly, are designed to slow the spread of inflammatory posts.

After the polls close, Facebook plans to suspend all political ads from circulating on the social network and its photo-sharing site, Instagram, to reduce misinformation about the election’s outcome. Facebook has told advertisers that they can expect the ban to last for a week, though the timeline isn’t set in stone and the company has publicly been noncommittal about the duration.

“We’ve spent years working to make elections safer and more secure on our platform,” said Kevin McAlister, a Facebook spokesman. “We’ve applied lessons from previous elections, built new teams with experience across different areas and created new products and policies to prepare for various scenarios before, during and after Election Day.”

Twitter has also worked to combat misinformation since 2016, in some cases going far further than Facebook. Last year, for instance, it banned political advertising entirely, saying the reach of political messages “should be earned, not bought.”

At the same time, Twitter started labeling tweets by politicians if they spread inaccurate information or glorify violence. In May, it added several fact-checking labels to President Trump’s tweets about Black Lives Matter protests and mail-in voting, and restricted people’s ability to share those posts.

In October, Twitter began experimenting with additional techniques to slow the spread of misinformation. The company added context to trending topics and limited users’ ability to quickly retweet content. The changes are temporary, though Twitter has not said when they will end.

The company also used push notifications and banners in its app to warn people about common misinformation themes, including falsehoods about the reliability of mail-in ballots. And it expanded its partnerships with law enforcement agencies and secretaries of state so they can report misinformation directly to Twitter.

In September, Twitter added an Election Hub that users can use to look for curated information about polling, voting and candidates. The company has said it will remove tweets that call for interference with voters and polling places or intimidate people to dissuade them from voting.

“The whole company has really been mobilized to help us prepare for and respond to the types of threats that potentially come up in an election,” said Yoel Roth, Twitter’s head of site integrity.

On Tuesday, Twitter’s strategy is twofold: Root out false claims and networks of bots that spread such information by using both algorithms and human analysts, while another team highlights reliable information in the Explore and Trends sections of its service.

Twitter plans to add labels to tweets from candidates who claim victory before the election is called by authoritative sources. At least two news outlets will need to independently project the results before a candidate can use Twitter to celebrate his or her win, the company said.

People looking for updates on Tuesday will be able to find them in the Election Hub, Twitter said.

Twitter will eventually allow people to retweet again without prompting them to add their own context. But many of the changes for the election — like the ban on political ads and the fact-checking labels — are permanent.

For Google’s YouTube, it wasn’t the 2016 election that sounded a wake-up call about the toxic content spreading across its website. That moment came in 2017 when a group of men drove a van into pedestrians on London Bridge after being inspired by YouTube videos of inflammatory sermons from an Islamic cleric.

Since then, YouTube has engaged in an often confusing journey to police its site. It has overhauled its policies to target misinformation, while tweaking its algorithms to slow the spread of what it deems borderline content — videos that do not blatantly violate its rules but butt up against them.

It has brought in thousands of human reviewers to examine videos to help improve the performance of its algorithms. It has also created a so-called intelligence desk of former analysts from government intelligence agencies to monitor the actions of foreign state actors and trends on the internet.

Neal Mohan, YouTube’s chief product officer, said that he held several meetings a week with staff to discuss the election, but that there was no last-minute effort to rewrite policies or come up with new approaches.

“Of course, we’re taking the elections incredibly seriously,” he said in an interview. “The foundational work that will play a really major role for all of this began three years ago when we really began the work in earnest in terms of our responsibility as a global platform.”

Before Tuesday, YouTube’s home page will also feature links to information about how and where to vote.

On Tuesday, Mr. Mohan plans to check in regularly with his teams to keep an eye on anything unusual, he said. There will be no “war room,” and he expects that most decisions to keep or remove videos will be clear and that the usual processes for making those decisions will be sufficient.

If a more nuanced decision is required around the election, Mr. Mohan said, it will escalate to senior people at YouTube, and the call will be made as a group.

YouTube said it would be especially sensitive about videos that aimed to challenge the election’s integrity. YouTube does not allow videos that mislead voters about how to vote or the eligibility of a candidate, or that incite people to interfere with the voting process. The company said it would take down such videos quickly, even if one of the speakers was a presidential candidate.

As the polls close, YouTube will feature a playlist of live election results coverage from what it deems authoritative news sources. While YouTube would not provide a full list of the sources, the company said it expected the coverage to include news videos from the major broadcast networks, as well as CNN and Fox News.

Starting on Tuesday and continuing as needed, YouTube will display a fact-check information panel above election-related search results and below videos discussing the results, the company said. The information panel will feature a warning that results may not be final and provide a link to real-time results on Google with data from The A.P.

Google has said it will halt election advertising after the polls officially close. The policy, which extends to YouTube, will temporarily block any ads that refer to the 2020 election, its candidates or its outcome. It is not clear how long the ban will last.





No.19 article:
A Rapid Virus Test Falters in People Without Symptoms, Study Finds

A head-to-head comparison of lab and rapid coronavirus tests drew mixed reactions from experts, who raised concerns about accuracy.

As the number of coronavirus cases in the United States exceeds 9.2 million, experts continue to call for an enormous scale-up of testing among both the healthy and the sick — a necessary measure, they have said, to curb the spread of an infection that can move swiftly and silently through the population.

One strategy has involved the widespread use of rapid tests, which forgo sophisticated equipment and can return results in minutes. Purchased in bulk by the federal government and shipped nationwide, millions of these products have already found their way into clinics, nursing homes, schools, athletic teams’ facilities and more, buoying hopes that the tests might hasten a return to normalcy.

But a new study casts doubt on whether rapid tests perform as promised under real-world conditions, especially when used in people without symptoms.

In a head-to-head comparison, researchers at the University of Arizona found that, in symptomatic people, a rapid test made by Quidel could detect more than 80 percent of coronavirus infections found by a slower, lab-based P.C.R. test. But when the rapid test was used instead to randomly screen students and staff members who did not feel sick, it detected only 32 percent of the positive cases identified by the P.C.R. test.

Quidel’s tests are authorized for use only in people with symptoms, but their use in those who are asymptomatic has been strongly encouraged by the federal government. In September, the White House announced detailed plans to purchase and distribute 150 million rapid antigen tests manufactured by another company, Abbott.

“This is really valuable data that has been hard to come by,” said Dr. Benjamin Mazer, a pathologist at Johns Hopkins University who was not involved in the study. “But 32 percent is a very low sensitivity. I’m surprised by how low that is.”

The university’s data, which have not yet been published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, were evaluated by Dr. Mazer and several other outside experts at the request of The New York Times. Rapid coronavirus tests like Quidel’s, they said, should be rolled out with the utmost care — and come with clear-cut explanations about how the results should be interpreted.

Much of coronavirus testing has so far relied heavily on a laboratory technique called polymerase chain reaction, or P.C.R., which can amplify very small amounts of genetic material from the virus, and which is sensitive enough to detect the pathogen even when it is scarce. But these tests are slow and expensive, sometimes taking days to return results. At the University of Arizona, which hosts nearly 50,000 students and staff in a typical year, there are enough laboratory resources to run only about 1,500 P.C.R. tests each week, said David Harris, a stem cell researcher and an author on the study.

Quidel’s test, called the Sofia, looks for bits of coronavirus proteins, or antigens, instead of genetic material. It is less accurate than P.C.R.-based tests. But it takes only 15 to 30 minutes to run, using a toaster-size instrument, and costs about $23, compared with $50 or more for a typical P.C.R. test.

Since the spring, the university has purchased and administered more than 40,000 Sofia tests, Dr. Harris said, and now has enough Quidel devices and personnel to process approximately 2,000 rapid tests each day.

Dr. Harris and his colleagues evaluated nearly 2,500 people from June to August. Among 885 people who had experienced Covid-19-like symptoms or had recently been exposed to the coronavirus, 305 tested positive by P.C.R. — 54 of whom were missed by the antigen test, or 18 percent.

That number might have been lower if the test group had included only people with symptoms, Doug Bryant, Quidel’s president and chief executive, said in an interview. The Sofia’s instruction manual claims that the product can detect 96.7 of the infections that P.C.R. tests can when used on people in the first five days of their illness. (Dr. Harris said that he did not know what proportion of the people in the group of 885 were symptomatic.)

The researchers also screened for the virus in another 1,551 randomly selected people who had no symptoms. Nineteen of them tested positive by P.C.R.; of those who did, only six were caught by the Sofia.

“The data for the symptomatic group is decent,” said Jennifer Dien Bard, the director of the clinical microbiology and virology laboratory at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, who was not involved in the study. “But to get less than 50 percent in the asymptomatic group? That’s worse than flipping a coin.”

Among people without symptoms, the Sofia also produced more false positives than P.C.R.-confirmed positives, mistakenly identifying seven participants as infected when they were not actually carrying the coronavirus.

When asked about the Sofia’s poorer performance in asymptomatic people, Dr. Harris said, “I think everybody expected that.”

But he and his colleagues argued in their manuscript that some of the asymptomatic people who tested positive with P.C.R., but negative with the rapid test, might have been missed for good reason: They were carrying too little of the coronavirus to spread it to others.

Some P.C.R.-based tests can be configured to produce a number called the cycle threshold, or C.T., which increases as the amount of virus in the body decreases.

Of the 13 asymptomatic people who were not identified by the Sofia test, 12 had C.T. values in the 30s.

“At these high values, we don’t even know if a P.C.R. test is ‘correct,’” said Werner Kroll, senior vice president of research and development at Quidel. As with any diagnostic tool, false positives can appear in P.C.R.-based tests. These tests can also pick up on harmless genetic fragments of the coronavirus that linger in the body for weeks after people have recovered.

The researchers were also unable to grow the coronavirus out of samples from volunteers whose P.C.R. tests had C.T. values above 27. “If I don’t have live virus, I am not infectious at all,” Dr. Harris said.

When Dr. Harris and his colleagues discarded all P.C.R. positives with C.T. values above 30 from their data set, the rapid test detected more than 85 percent of the coronavirus infections detected by the lab test, regardless of whether people were symptomatic.

Mr. Bryant, of Quidel, who received an early copy of the University of Arizona study, praised the results as “very, very good,” citing the Sofia’s ability to root out “people who are infectious.”

Quidel, which is running several studies of its own, does not yet have definitive results that show the Sofia works in people without Covid-19 symptoms. But “based on the data so far, it seems to be applicable to that population,” Mr. Bryant said of his company’s results.

Other experts advised caution.

Although C.T. values do tend to increase as virus levels diminish, exceptions to this trend exist — and there is no universal “magic-number cutoff” for infectiousness, Dr. Dien Bard said.

Failing to grow the coronavirus out of a person’s sample also does not guarantee that individual is not contagious to others, said Omai Garner, the associate director of clinical microbiology in the UCLA Health System, who was not involved in the study.

Several experts noted that the University of Arizona study did not track transmission among its participants, making it impossible to draw conclusions about how, and from whom, the virus spread.

Dr. Harris said that some of the concerns about the Sofia’s accuracy could be overcome with repeat testing. Screened frequently enough with a rapid test, infected people missed by one Sofia would probably be detected with the next, especially if the levels of virus in their bodies were rising, Dr. Harris said. He and his colleagues are now gathering data on University of Arizona athletes, who are tested daily, to investigate this possibility. Quidel has also partnered with the Pac-12 and Big Ten Conferences to conduct daily tests.

People with symptoms or known exposures to the coronavirus should still get the most precise and reliable tests available — those that use P.C.R., said Susan Butler-Wu, a clinical microbiologist at the University of Southern California who was not involved in the study. More data, she added, would be needed to figure out how rapid tests fit into the larger diagnostic landscape.

Still, with tens of thousands of completed coronavirus tests under its belt and a relatively low number of cases, “it does look like the University of Arizona is doing something right,” said Linoj Samuel, a clinical microbiologist at Henry Ford Health System in Detroit.

“You have to accept that you will miss some people,” Dr. Samuel said. But in a low-risk population of mostly younger students, “if that’s the price you pay for having testing versus no testing at all, that might be OK,” he added, especially if P.C.R. is available to verify positive results.

Dr. Harris said he remained confident in the ability of rapid tests to keep the student body safe. “Until someone can figure out a better way to do it with a rapid turnaround,” he said, “this seems to be the best way to go.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.20 article:
Living in Noisy Neighborhoods May Raise Your Dementia Risk

As community noise levels increased, so did the risk of Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia.

Long-term exposure to noise may be linked to an increased risk for Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia.

Researchers did periodic interviews with 5,227 people 65 and older participating in a study on aging. They assessed them with standard tests of orientation, memory and language, and tracked average daytime noise levels in their neighborhoods for the five years preceding the cognitive assessments. About 11 percent had Alzheimer’s disease, and 30 percent had mild cognitive impairment, which often progresses to full-blown dementia.

Residential noise levels varied widely, from 51 to 78 decibels, or from the level of a relatively quiet suburban neighborhood to that of an urban setting near a busy highway. The study is in Alzheimer’s &amp; Dementia. 

After controlling for education, race, smoking, alcohol consumption, neighborhood air pollution levels and other factors, they found that each 10 decibel increase in community noise level was associated with a 36 percent higher likelihood of mild cognitive impairment, and a 29 percent increased risk for Alzheimer’s disease. The associations were strongest in poorer neighborhoods, which also had higher noise levels.

The reasons for the connection are unknown, but the lead author, Jennifer Weuve, an associate professor of epidemiology at Boston University, suggested that excessive noise can cause sleep deprivation, hearing loss, increased heart rate, constriction of the blood vessels and elevated blood pressure, all of which are associated with an increased risk for dementia.





No.21 article:
Sharon Hunt, Teacher for a Quarter-Century, Dies at 65

After a career in the classroom, she died before she could spend her first retirement check. Her battle with Covid-19 taught family and friends a lesson in fortitude.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

Sharon Hunt always knew she wanted to be a teacher, and once she graduated from high school, she was totally smitten with the idea after working as a substitute teacher in Georgia, where she was able to do so without a college degree.

Later, once her children were old enough that she didn’t need to care for them full-time, Ms. Hunt resumed her schooling. She earned two degrees in education — a bachelor’s at Northern Kentucky University in Highland Heights and a master’s at Wright State University in Ohio.

She taught elementary school for nearly 25 years, and since 1999 instructed fifth graders in the Reading Community School District northeast of Cincinnati. She retired when the school year ended earlier this year.

Ms. Hunt had undergone surgery for knee replacement a week before becoming ill with the coronavirus, which some believe she may have caught from a physical therapist who had later called in sick. Ms. Hunt was hooked up to a ventilator for two weeks, then was told she also had pneumonia.

She died on Sept. 25 in a hospital in Montgomery, Ohio, before she could spend her first retirement check. She was 65. Kristina Hunt, her daughter-in-law, said the cause was complications of Covid-19.

“You see it on TV, but until it actually happens to somebody you love, it’s not really a reality,” Kristina Hunt said in an interview with Fox19. “We’ve watched it destroy and turn our family upside down in a matter of days.”

While her mother-in-law was ailing, Kristina created a Facebook page called “Sharon Strong.”

“She fought the hardest fight we could’ve ever asked for,” she wrote on Facebook. “‘Sharon Strong’ is, and will always be, the perfect saying for our Sharon.”

Officials from the Reading Community School District echoed the family’s sentiments. In a statement they said, “Sharon was one of those teachers whose students came back to visit because they knew how much she cared and wanted to share with her in person what a difference she had made in their lives.”

Beth Wernery, the school board president, said: “If a child was hungry, she shared her lunch. If a student was having a bad day, she gave up her lunchtime to hang out with them.”

Sharon Faye Shilts was born on July 11, 1955, in Cincinnati to Clifford and Avolene (Lane) Shilts. Her father managed the local water utility. Her mother managed an ice-cream parlor company.

She married Edward Hunt in 1973, and they moved to Georgia, where he worked for Ford. They returned to Ohio several years later and lived in Milford.

Mr. Hunt had also recently retired and was looking forward to traveling with his wife. He is recovering from Covid-19 himself.

In addition to her husband, Ms. Hunt is survived by her mother; her sons, Jeremiah and Joseph; nine grandchildren; her sisters, Brenda Metcalf and Pauline Hiter; and her brother, Clifford Shilts III.

“For those of you who don’t think that the Covid is real,” Mr. Hunt told Fox19, “I was one of those people who did not believe it was real, but now that it has happened to this family, I know that it is real.”





No.22 article:
Finally, a Chance for Women to Defeat Trump

How four traumatic years turned Georgia into a swing state.

After Donald Trump was elected, the first time I felt any hope was at the Women’s March. The second was when I went to Georgia to cover the 2017 special election to fill the House seat vacated by Tom Price, who’d just become Trump’s secretary of health and human services.

Georgia’s Sixth Congressional District, an affluent area once represented by Newt Gingrich, was considered safely Republican, but Democrats saw a chance to use the special election to register their fury and disgust with the new president. They poured money and resources into the campaign of a first-time candidate, Jon Ossoff.

When I arrived in the district, though, it wasn’t Ossoff who caught my attention. It was the legions of women who’d never been particularly political before, but who were shocked into activism by Trump’s victory. Many of them had previously put their energy into PTAs and homeowners associations. They had a deep, granular knowledge of their community that couldn’t be bought, and they were using it to find every one of their neighbors who might be open to voting Democratic.

The story of that race, Ossoff told me then, was “about the women in this community, Democrats, independents and Republicans, who have picked this campaign up and carried it on their shoulders.”

Neither candidate ended up winning a majority, and the race went to a runoff, which Ossoff lost by almost four points. But I followed several of the women I met as they redoubled their efforts, and in the 2018 midterms, they helped flip the seat to a Democrat, Lucy McBath. The Cook Political Report now rates her seat as “likely Democratic.”

Similar shifts are happening all over America, as abhorrence toward Trump has sparked an explosion of organizing among women. However Tuesday turns out, this mobilization has rapidly altered Georgia’s politics, helping to turn a Republican redoubt into a competitive purple state.

As I write this, FiveThirtyEight’s polling average shows Biden slightly favored to win Georgia. Ossoff is now a Senate candidate, running about even with the incumbent Republican, David Perdue. That race is expected to go to a runoff, as is the one that the Rev. Raphael G. Warnock, a Democrat, is waging for the state’s other Senate seat. Georgia’s Seventh District, where Carolyn Bourdeaux is running again after a narrow loss in 2018, is now rated by Cook as “lean Democratic.”

“No matter what happens next week, Georgia has changed forever,” said Sarah Riggs Amico, who was Stacey Abrams’s running mate when Abrams ran for governor in 2018.

If Georgia does go blue, no one will deserve more credit than Abrams, who narrowly lost her race but came closer than any Democrat in years. Her New Georgia Project has reportedly registered around 450,000 people of color and young people, and she pressed the Biden campaign to take the state seriously, arguing that with the right investments, Georgia’s demographics made the state flippable.

Suburban women are only one part of the coalition that makes a Biden victory in Georgia conceivable. But they are probably the group whose politics have shifted the fastest.

“I can’t tell you the number of women I’ve met, traveling around the state of Georgia for about three years now, who maybe didn’t see themselves as particularly political before, maybe didn’t see themselves as partisan, maybe didn’t see themselves as Democrats, who are now straight-ticket Democratic voters,” said Amico, who recently founded a PAC supporting progressive women running in state and local Georgia races.

There are women like those Amico describes all over. I’ve met them in Arizona and in Pennsylvania, two states that might save this country this week. Their existence has kept me going during the last four years, especially in those low moments when rage gives way to grief. The revulsion women feel toward Trump has remade the landscape of American politics in ways that will outlast him.

Recently I’ve worried about what Covid might mean for all these newly minted activists. Many have children and have thus been conscripted into home-schooling. The meetings that were once so enlivening, that gave people whole new social worlds, are now on Zoom. But everyone I’ve talked to said engagement is as robust as ever.

I first met Katie Landsman, an Army veteran and mother of three, when she was volunteering for the Ossoff campaign in 2017. When I got back in touch with her recently, she was, somewhat to her surprise, serving as deputy campaign manager on a state House race.

“I never in a million years thought I would be this engrossed and involved in politics at 48 years old,” she said. No one Landsman knew had stepped back from politics, and new volunteers were surging in.

It may not be enough, but if Trump loses, it will be because of the women who wrung themselves out to defeat him. I asked Amico how she’s sleeping in these final days. “I’m not sleeping very much,” she said. “But when I sleep I sleep quite soundly.”





No.23 article:
The New Boss in the N.F.C. West Is Seattle

Atop the N.F.L.’s best division, the Seahawks are in Super Bowl form, and Russell Wilson may finally be getting an M.V.P. Award.

The scramble among the Kansas City Chiefs, the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Baltimore Ravens for supremacy of the American Football Conference has dominated the headlines as the N.F.L. reaches its halfway point, and for good reason: Combined, they are 19-3, with the Steelers the last remaining undefeated team.

The National Football Conference is a very different picture, with the N.F.C. East composed entirely of losing teams. Across the country, though, the N.F.C. West is the league’s most competitive division, and superiority there has been decisively seized by the Seattle Seahawks, led by quarterback Russell Wilson, who may finally be on track to win his first Most Valuable Player Award.

With a 37-27 victory over the San Francisco 49ers, the defending conference champions, on Sunday, the Seahawks improved to 6-1 for the second time in franchise history, and the first time since 2013, the season they won their only Super Bowl title. The Seahawks are atop the league’s toughest division and have established themselves as the class of the conference.

Despite making it to six Pro Bowls, steering the Seahawks to the postseason seven times in his nine-year career and never missing a game, Wilson has never been in the running for an M.V.P. Award.

This season may be different. His four touchdown passes on Sunday gave him 26 for the year, first in the league, ahead of Patrick Mahomes’s 21 and one short of Tom Brady’s record for most passing scores through seven games. Wilson leads the league in quarterback rating, is just behind Mahomes in the key adjusted yards per pass statistic and ranks in the top five in completion percentage and yards passing. His 71.5 percent completion rate and 307 yards passing per game are career highs.

“I just keep swinging,” Wilson said of his bounce-back performance against the 49ers.

Wilson has never had a single vote for the M.V.P. Award in his eight previous seasons. But his 26 touchdown passes are already more than the totals of 10 other quarterbacks who have been named M.V.P. since 1970.

Wilson has been nothing if not consistent. He is 92-42-1 as a starter, 32-8 in games after a loss. After their first loss of the season last week, in which Wilson threw three interceptions against the Arizona Cardinals, the Seahawks seemed eager to come out strong on Sunday. Wilson found his new favorite wide receiver, D.K. Metcalf, early and often.

On his first score, a 46-yard catch-and-run, Metcalf showed the speed and elusiveness that have made him one of the league’s best receivers. After catching the ball on the left side, he sliced across the field, raced past 49ers defenders, then sprinted down the right sideline and into the end zone.

Seahawks Coach Pete Carroll likes his toughness. “When he caught the ball on the crossing route, I was screaming they weren’t going to get him,” he said.

The slick score — Metcalf’s sixth of the year — also got rave reviews from LeBron James, who called the second-year receiver Baby Bron on Instagram. In a caption to a picture, James wrote, “We built different.”

Metcalf is indeed different from most receivers. At 6-foot-4, he is both tall and fast. Several 49ers defensive backs bounced off him on Sunday, and two defenders were draped over him in the end zone when he caught his second touchdown of the game.

As for the 49ers, maybe it is the Super Bowl hangover. Maybe the injuries, freakish or otherwise, have thrown them off track. Maybe their opponents have just gotten better at figuring them out. Whatever the reason, the team looks like a shell of the one that dominated the N.F.C. last year. The 49ers slipped to 4-4, good for only last place in the tough N.F.C. West.

The gap between the teams seems to grow by the week. Seattle has the top-ranked offense in the league, which has managed to offset a defense that is giving up the most yards per game in the N.F.L. Like last year, the 49ers still have a stingy defense. But injuries have hurt the offense, including ones to wide receiver Deebo Samuel and to running backs Raheem Mostert and Tevin Coleman, who left Sunday’s game with a knee injury.

The Seahawks shut down the 49ers’ run game on Sunday and knocked out quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo, who aggravated an ankle injury, and tight end George Kittle, who left with an injured foot. The 49ers managed just 116 yards in the first half and turned over the ball twice. Most of their points and yardage came in the fourth quarter when Garoppolo’s backup, Nick Mullens, took over with the Seahawks ahead by 23 points.

The 49ers continue an uneven season in which three of their four wins have come against the Giants, the Jets and the New England Patriots, who have combined for three wins this year. A rash of injuries has made it harder for the 49ers to compete against stronger teams. On defense, they are missing cornerback Richard Sherman, defensive linemen Nick Bosa, Dee Ford and Solomon Thomas, and safety Jaquiski Tartt, among others.

Coach Kyle Shanahan said injuries were no excuse. “I don’t think we played good as a group,” he said on Sunday. “We’ve missed players a number of times and that’s not a reason to go out there and not play well.”

With the N.F.L. adding one more playoff team in each conference this season, the 49ers are by no means out of the hunt for the postseason. But because they had such a successful season last year, their schedule is harder than in previous years. Their next four games are against the Green Bay Packers, the New Orleans Saints, the Los Angeles Rams and the Buffalo Bills, who are 21-9 collectively.

In what amounts to a silver lining in a difficult season, several 49ers said they were happy to be facing the Packers on Thursday instead of Sunday so they would not have time to dwell on their humbling loss to the Seahawks.

“There’s definitely still a lot of fight left in this team,” fullback Kyle Juszczyk said.





No.24 article:
Almost Like Clockwork, Talk of a Military Coup Follows Thai Protests

“I see a coup as not a bad thing,” said one prominent royalist who publicly called for a military intervention to quell antigovernment rallies in Bangkok and to protect the monarchy.

BANGKOK — There are certain constants in Thailand: the drenching monsoons, the grand openings of new shopping malls and the rumors that the Royal Thai Armed Forces are plotting another coup.

For weeks now, student-led protesters across Thailand have taken to the streets every few days, calling for a new constitution with authority over the monarchy, an end to the persecution of the political opposition and the resignation of Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the retired general who led the most recent military coup, in 2014.

Some earlier antigovernment movements in Thailand were silenced by gunfire, with dozens killed most recently in 2010. While the security forces have not cracked down violently on these peaceful rallies, it’s unclear how long such restraint will last. Nor is it certain how long the army is willing to stay in the barracks, plotting against Mr. Prayuth, who was once one of their own.

Whenever the generals launch a coup, the refrain is the same: Thailand needs a return to order, without messy rallies or dissenting voices.

“I see a coup as not a bad thing,” said Sondhi Limthongkul, a prominent royalist. As recently as last week, Mr. Sondhi publicly called for yet another military intervention to restore stability and protect the monarchy, urging the military to quickly hand over power after seizing it so the king could oversee the formation of a unity government.

For the protesters, the military’s enduring power in a country that markets itself as a modern democracy is as alarming as it is anachronistic.

The rallies have highlighted the military’s continuing grip on the country, its meddling in politics through coups, and the ways it has profited from a deeply unequal society, securing economic benefits via vast business holdings. Most of all, the young demonstrators chafe at how conscription and other martial traditions are being used to try to create an orderly, obedient populace that hews to the military’s command.

Mr. Prayuth, the prime minister, said on Friday that he could not determine whether “there will be a coup or there won’t be a coup.” But he added, “no one wants to do it, no one wants to stage one.”

Political analysts noted that coup denials have often grown louder as planning for them intensifies. Over the past nine decades, the Thai military has tried to oust elected governments about 30 times. At least a dozen of these putsches have been successful.

“The empire will strike back,” said Paul Chambers, author of the upcoming book “Camouflaged Khakistocracy: Civil-Military Relations in Thailand.” “The military, and all the vested interests that are being threatened by the student protesters, they aren’t going to allow the end of hegemonic military capitalism.”

The Thai military is the country’s largest landowner, apart from the forestry bureau’s national park holdings. It has created a sort of parallel state with its own internal security apparatus that has brought thousands of dissenters to its military bases for enforced “attitude adjustment” sessions. It appoints all 250 members of the Senate.

Military regimentation — uniforms, hierarchies and unquestioning discipline — has become a societal expectation, from schools to parts of the Civil Service. The military has also profited from defense budgets that have increased roughly 140 percent since 2006, the year of yet another coup.

The outsize influence of the Royal Thai Armed Forces stands in contrast to its diminished role on the battlefield. Despite a top brass that includes about 1,600 generals, the second highest in the world per capita, Thai soldiers have not fought in a major engagement on home turf since World War II. Thailand does not face serious external security threats, and a defense alliance with the United States ensures safekeeping by the world’s largest military.

The Thai military has instead fashioned itself as a guardian against internal discord, most of all threats to the nation’s other powerful institution: the monarchy. The last two coups, in 2014 and 2006, were justified as necessary to protect the palace, even though the royal family, one of the richest in the world, can count on a raft of laws designed to shield it from criticism.

For the first time since absolute monarchy was abolished in 1932, King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun is now facing sustained calls from protesters for his powers to be curbed. Since inheriting the throne in 2016, he has lived most of the time in Germany, with taxpayer money funding his lavish lifestyle. The king is now back in Thailand, attending public events in military uniform.

“The military is the only institution that can sustain the power of the king,” Mr. Chambers said. “And the monarchy gives legitimacy to the military and blesses each of the coups.”

This symbiotic relationship between the military and the monarch was underscored in September when Apirat Kongsompong, the commander in chief of the Royal Thai Army, retired from the military only to be immediately appointed vice chamberlain of the palace’s Royal Household Bureau.

“The royal institution, the military and people are inseparable,” Mr. Apirat said in a speech last year.

The current protest movement began earlier this year when students spoke out against regimented school rules, such as grooming regulations and expectations that they prostrate themselves before their superiors.

The demonstrations also encompassed urban, educated Thais who felt their political aspirations were thwarted when a new party called Future Forward was ordered to dissolve by the Constitutional Court in February, a decision rights groups said was politically motivated. Future Forward had campaigned on slashing the defense budget and ending military conscription. It finished third in the elections last year, a surprisingly strong showing for a neophyte political force.

“The real reason for conscription is that they need the personnel so they can control the society,” said Pongsakorn Rodchomphu, a leading member of the Progressive Movement, which replaced Future Forward after its dissolution. 

“We need to reform the military to be professional soldiers who don’t have time to do politics,” Mr. Pongsakorn, a retired lieutenant general, added. “This kind of atmosphere in Thailand, where we have to ask the commander in chief, not the politicians, for help, it’s not civilized, it’s not modern.”

The poor treatment of military recruits grabbed headlines in February when an army sergeant opened fire in Thailand, killing nearly 30 people. One of his victims was his commanding officer, whom the soldier had accused of cheating him through a property deal. After the mass shooting, tales poured forth of military superiors pressuring conscripts into shady business transactions or forcing them into deadly hazing rituals.

“My request is that recruits have dignity, to be treated as human beings, not as slaves,” Piyamit Klanarong, a political science student at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, said during a protest last month.

The issue of conscription has also underscored the income divide in Thailand, where rich young men can often buy their way out of the required two years of military service. Thailand has one of the largest wealth gaps among major economies.

As it fought insurgencies in the country’s poor north and Deep South, the army acquired lucrative development projects. It is heavily invested in banking and media. The military also runs hotels, housing developments and golf courses. Its management of sporting arenas was exposed earlier this year when a cluster of coronavirus cases came from a boxing event in Bangkok that took place in contravention of lockdown measures.

Military officers, both retired and active, are sprinkled on the boards of private companies and state-owned enterprises. The Air Force has a stake in the development of Thai airports. So does the Navy, which is building a new airport near Bangkok.

“How would Americans react if the U.S. Navy owned a new international airport in a Navy base with duty-free shops?” said Kanda Naknoi, a Thai-born economist at the University of Connecticut. Ms. Kanda’s research shows that the military’s financial holdings increase in the wake of coups.

In October, Gen. Narongpan Jittkaewtae took command as the new Army chief and addressed the coup rumors.

“The chance of making a coup is zero as long as there are no groups that create a situation or a violent conflict,” he said. He did not specify what would happen if such groups were thought to exist.





No.25 article:
Pregnant Women Face Increased Risks From Covid-19

If symptomatic, they were more likely to develop complications and die than nonpregnant women with symptoms.

U.S. health officials on Monday added pregnancy to the list of conditions that put people with Covid-19 at increased risk of developing severe illness, including a heightened risk of death.

While most pregnant women infected with the coronavirus have not become severely ill, the new caution is based on a large study that looked at tens of thousands of pregnant women who had Covid-19 symptoms.

The study found they were significantly more likely to require intensive care, to be connected to a specialized heart-lung bypass machine, and to require mechanical ventilation than nonpregnant women of the same age who had Covid symptoms. Most importantly, the pregnant women faced a 70 percent increased risk of death, when compared to nonpregnant women who were symptomatic.

The study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the largest such study so far, examined the outcomes of 409,462 symptomatic women ages 15 to 44 who tested positive for the coronavirus, 23,434 of whom were pregnant.

“We are now saying pregnant women are at increased risk for severe illness. Previously we said they ‘might be&#x27; at increased risk for severe illness,” said Sascha Ellington, a health scientist with the C.D.C., and one of the authors of the new study. 

Still, Dr. Ellington emphasized that the overall risk of both complications and death was low.

“The absolute risk of these severe outcomes is low among women 15 to 44, regardless of pregnancy status, but what we do see is an increased risk associated with pregnancy,” she said.

Dr. Denise Jamieson, chair of gynecology and obstetrics at Emory University School of Medicine, said the new data underscore the importance of pregnant women taking extra precautions to avoid exposure to the virus, including avoiding social gatherings and interactions with people — even members of their own households — who may have been exposed or become infected.

“This is new information that adds to the growing body of evidence, and really underscores the importance of pregnant women protecting themselves from Covid,” Dr. Jamieson said. “It’s important that they wear a mask, and avoid people who are not wearing a mask.”

But, she said, women should not skip prenatal care visits and must get the vaccines they need, like flu shots, and noted that the study indicates pregnant women should have access to a safe and effective Covid vaccine, once one is available.

An earlier study did not find a higher risk of death among pregnant Covid patients, but the pregnant patients in the new study were 1.7 times more likely to die than nonpregnant patients. That amounted to a death rate of 1.5 per 1,000 cases among the symptomatic pregnant women, compared with 1.2 per 1,000 cases of symptomatic women who were not pregnant.

Even after adjustments were made for differences in age, race, ethnicity and underlying health conditions like diabetes and lung disease, the pregnant women were three times more likely than nonpregnant women to be admitted to an intensive care unit and 2.9 times more likely to receive mechanical ventilation.

The study also highlighted racial and ethnic disparities. Nearly one- third of the pregnant women who had Covid were Hispanic. And while Black women represented 14 percent of the pregnant women included in the analysis, nine of 34 deaths were Black women.

Dr. Ellington emphasized the importance of taking precautions to avoid infection, saying pregnant women should limit interactions to avoid people who may have been exposed.

“Pregnant women should be counseled about the importance of seeking prompt medical care if they have symptoms,” the authors wrote.

A smaller study, also released Monday from the C.D.C., reported that women who tested positive for the coronavirus were at increased risk for delivering their babies prematurely, finding that 12.9 percent of live births among a sample of 3,912 women were preterm births, compared with 10.2 percent in the general population. The sample was not nationally representative, but the finding echoes earlier reports that warned of a higher risk for preterm deliveries.

Among 610 newborns who were tested for the coronavirus, 2.6 percent were positive, with most of the infections occurring among babies whose mothers had the infection within a week of delivery.

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.26 article:
Parents in N.Y.C. Public Schools Now Face This Agonizing Choice

Only one in four students have returned to classrooms. The remainder have two weeks left to decide if they’ll go back, too.

[Read more on NYC school closings due to Covid-19]

Over the next two weeks, over one million parents in New York City must make a wrenching decision: Should they send their children into classrooms this school year or keep them learning from home, likely until at least next fall?

Last week, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that parents would have until Nov. 15 to decide whether to enroll their children in hybrid learning, a mixture of in-person and remote instruction, for the remainder of the school year.

The city had originally promised parents they could opt into the hybrid program every few months. But the mayor changed the rules because about only a quarter of the district’s 1.1 million students have shown up for in-person classes since September, far fewer than predicted. That has made it difficult for the city to know how to allocate teachers, the mayor said.

Now, the many parents who have kept their children home, whether for safety, convenience or consistency, need to decide: Is hybrid learning working?

It is a question parents in many other places across the country and world are also facing, as more districts prepare to open for at least some mixture of in-person and remote classes. But the choice is particularly fraught in New York City, once a global epicenter of the virus and now one of the few large urban districts in the United States to offer any classroom instruction.

“Intuitively, parents understand that the best place for kids is in school,” said Eric Goldberg, an elected parent leader in Manhattan who has chosen hybrid for his own children. “But what is it about the New York City public school experience that is leading families to choose remote learning? When the in-school experience is so compromised and inferior, people think, ‘Why am I doing this?’”

Mr. Goldberg and other parents lamented that the city’s reopening plan focused almost exclusively on reconfiguring school buildings to open safely — which they agreed was the most important goal — but gave little thought to how children were actually going to learn.

As a result, although the city has seen very low virus transmission in its schools so far, many parents and educators have begun to raise urgent concerns about the quality of the hybrid program. In particular, they have questioned a slew of restrictions agreed to by City Hall and the teachers’ union, the United Federation of Teachers, over the summer that limited when and how educators can teach, and that created a major staffing shortage that is not entirely resolved.

That deal, which the city accepted as part of a frenzied effort to reopen schools, held that teachers could not be required to conduct both in-person and remote lessons on the same day — forcing the city to hire thousands of teachers to make up the difference.

The agreement was “probably the biggest screw up” in the city’s halting effort to reopen, said David Bloomfield, a professor of education at the City University of New York’s Graduate Center and Brooklyn College.

The same deal discouraged teachers from livestreaming their lessons in school buildings to children learning at home over concerns that it would strain teachers and be ineffective for students. But the practice is being used by some local private schools, as well as in many schools across the country.

In an interview, Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, brushed off questions about whether he would consider renegotiating that deal. Instead, he acknowledged that there were major problems with hybrid instruction, but blamed the city for not anticipating the staffing crunch and not developing a better instructional plan.

“They will say, ‘Oh, it’s the U.F.T.’s deal,’” Mr. Mulgrew said about the city. “They should be saying, ‘We’re incompetent, and we shouldn’t be in charge of this anymore.’”

Danielle Filson, a spokeswoman for the city’s Department of Education, defended the reopening effort, pointing out the difficulty of hiring so many new teachers in a short time.

“Nothing replaces an in-person education for our kids,” she said in a statement. “That’s why we moved heaven and earth to reopen buildings this fall, adding thousands of teachers, an unprecedented testing regime, resources for health and safety, and 350,000 internet-enabled iPads to ensure continuity in instruction.”

The city has spent about $50 million on 5,600 new full-time teachers and substitutes, and has moved an additional 2,000 department staff members with teaching licenses into schools. That is a significant sum for a city that is facing a catastrophic fiscal crisis caused by the pandemic. Last month, the city said it could not afford $900 million in back pay owed to teachers this year under their contract.

Paula White, the director of Educators for Excellence-New York, a teachers’ group that represents thousands of city educators, said the staffing deal was “a watershed moment. Its impact will be felt for some time.”

“Every new teacher represents a significant investment,” she added. “At a time when budgets are strapped more than ever before, every cost has to be weighed against the opportunity cost for other investments.”

But the city still needs to hire several thousand more educators to make hybrid learning work according to plan. As a result, the city abandoned a promise that children enrolled in the hybrid program would receive live teaching on the days they were at home.

The shortage has also meant that many high schools can open their doors only to students taking online classes, because principals did not have enough teachers to staff elective and high-level courses both remotely and in person.

Further complicating the scheduling jigsaw puzzle is that about 24 percent of city teachers have been granted medical accommodations to work from home through December.

Educators across the city say they have found it impossible to abide by the staffing agreement. So, they have created workarounds.

Verneda Johnson, a science teacher in Harlem, said her middle school’s principal and teachers decided to skirt the agreement by establishing that teachers should be able to hold in-person and remote classes on the same day.

“We thought, let’s make the schedule as needed, and if someone ends up with something they find untenable, we’ll fix that,” Ms. Johnson said. “But at the end of the day, you have to do what’s the best for school.”

The president of the city’s principals’ union, Mark Cannizzaro, said educators had “really, really tried to make lemonade out of lemons.” But, he added, “Long-term, I don’t think this is going to be sustainable.”

The long list of restrictions has made hybrid learning challenging for many families as well.

Jonathan Kingston, whose two sons are enrolled in the hybrid program at Public School 128 in Middle Village, Queens, is furious at the city and the teachers’ union for discouraging the livestreaming of lessons.

P.S. 128 has a staffing shortage, and livestreaming appears to be the only way for students in person and online to learn the same material at roughly the same pace. With little guidance from the city, the school was only able to set up livestreaming starting just two weeks ago.

The city “could have done this in July, August, even September, instead of throwing our teachers and principal into an unwinnable situation,” Mr. Kingston said.

Still, despite the logistical morass, Mr. Kingston and other parents said they would stay in the hybrid program, mostly because their children were so delighted to be back in the classroom.

“So far, we are very happy,” Elga Castro, whose daughter is a third grader at Dos Puentes Elementary School in Washington Heights. “Everything moves to the second place when compared to their happiness about going back to school.”

For all the problems with the hybrid program, educators and parents said remote learning was also far from ideal, though it had improved since the spring.

Some schools are reporting very large remote class sizes, another negative effect of the staffing crunch. Many schools also have not received enough laptops and tablets, and scores of students living in homeless shelters are struggling to log on for their online classes.

Despite such limitations, nearly half the district’s Black and Latino families decided to start the school year remote-only, along with over 60 percent of Asian-American families. White families have opted for remote learning at the lowest rate.

That racial dynamic could undermine the mayor’s assertion that he had a moral imperative to reopen schools for the least advantaged families.

If in the coming weeks only a small percentage of students restart in-person classes, the city has indicated it may increase the number of days that hybrid students can physically attend school, because some classrooms are only about half full.

But if students of color continue to stay away from school in large numbers, the many benefits of in-person schooling — from live instruction to mental health services to hot meals — may not reach many of the most vulnerable students.

That is more evidence that the reopening plan was not built around the needs of children who require more in-person classes, said Mark Treyger, chair of the City Council’s education committee.

Mr. Treyger has recommended that the city essentially start over and offer classroom instruction only to pre-K and elementary school students, children with disabilities and students living in homeless shelters.

“This model is not working,” he said. “I think the time for change was yesterday.”





No.27 article:
Edward Snowden, Expecting a Child, Will Seek Russian Citizenship

The former intelligence contractor, who became a fugitive after revealing mass U.S. surveillance, said he and his wife were taking the step to give the family more freedom crossing borders.

MOSCOW — Edward J. Snowden has said that he never quite feels at home in Moscow. He looks away from traffic while crossing the street to avoid the cameras that Russian drivers often affix to their windshields, he wrote in a memoir published last year. And when going outside, he noted, he changes his appearance, down to the rhythm and pace of his walk.

But on Monday he said he was applying for Russian citizenship.

Mr. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor whose disclosures of mass U.S. surveillance turned him into one of the highest-profile fugitives on the planet, said that he and his American wife were taking the step because they were expecting their first child. He described the move as a practical measure to give his family greater freedom crossing borders.

“After years of separation from our parents, my wife and I have no desire to be separated from our son,” Mr. Snowden wrote on Twitter. “That’s why, in this era of pandemics and closed borders, we’re applying for dual US-Russian citizenship.”

Russia has largely closed its borders since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, and many foreigners with Russian visas have been unable to enter the country. Mr. Snowden’s son is due in December, Mr. Snowden’s Russian lawyer, Anatoly Kucherena, told the news agency Interfax on Monday.

Mr. Snowden found himself stranded in Moscow in 2013 on a layover en route from Hong Kong to Ecuador. He had planned to seek asylum in the South American country, but the United States revoked his passport before he could make it there. After 40 days in the transit zone of Sheremetyevo International Airport, Mr. Snowden decided to stay in Russia, where he was granted asylum, and he has remained in Moscow ever since.

In 2013, he was charged with violating the Espionage Act, which carries a prison sentence. Sheltered from American prosecution in Russia, he has become both a living symbol of President Vladimir V. Putin’s relish in needling the United States and a hero to many who say he laid bare American intelligence agencies’ power to monitor people’s online activity around the world.

Mr. Snowden says that he has not cooperated with Russian intelligence services during his seven years in Moscow and that he hopes to someday return to the United States.

President Trump said in August that he would “take a very good look at” a pardon for Mr. Snowden, but no such move appears imminent. Last month, Mr. Snowden received permanent residency in Russia, and his wife, Lindsay Mills, revealed that she was pregnant.

“Lindsay and I will remain Americans, raising our son with all the values of the America we love — including the freedom to speak his mind,” Mr. Snowden wrote on Twitter. “And I look forward to the day I can return to the States, so the whole family can be reunited.”

Mr. Snowden and Ms. Mills will be able to remain American citizens thanks to a law that Russia’s Parliament passed in April allowing people to become Russian citizens without renouncing their foreign citizenship. The measure, aimed primarily at Russian speakers in the former Soviet Union, was part of an effort by Moscow to counter the effects of a shrinking population.

Mr. Snowden has said that he lives in a rented two-bedroom apartment in Moscow, while learning Russian, trying to avoid being recognized on the street and earning money from conference appearances. He told the German newspaper Die Zeit in September that Russia “would not be my first choice” of where to live if he had been asked to predict the future 10 years ago.

But the weather, at least, has offered unexpected advantages.

“I never liked the cold until I realized that a hat and scarf provide the world’s most convenient and inconspicuous anonymity,” Mr. Snowden wrote in his memoir, “Permanent Record.”





No.28 article:
Quotation of the Day: ‘It’s Just Crazy’

“This is crazy. Crazy, crazy, crazy. It’s a good thing because everybody should vote, but it’s just crazy.”

MARYBETH KUZNIK, the one-woman Elections Department of Armstrong County, Pa., as she fielded calls about how to fill out absentee ballots and whether mailed ballots had reached their destination.





No.29 article:
The War on Truth Reaches Its Climax

Trump is telling two big lies, and a third will come soon.

I began writing a column for The Times way back in 2000. My beat was supposed to be economics and business. But I couldn’t help noticing that one of that year’s contenders for the presidency was systematically making false claims about his policy proposals. George W. Bush kept insisting that his one-percent-friendly tax cuts were targeted on the middle class, and his plan to privatize Social Security just wished away the system’s obligations to older Americans.

At the time, however, my editors told me that it wasn’t acceptable to use the word “lie” when writing about presidential candidates.

By now, though, most informed observers have, I think, finally decided that it’s OK to report the fact that Donald Trump lies constantly.

Many of the lies are trivial, often bizarrely so, like Trump’s repeated claims to have received an award that doesn’t even exist. But the president has closed out this year’s campaign with two huge, dangerous lies — and there’s every reason to fear that this week he will roll out a third big lie, perhaps even more dangerous than the first two.

The first big lie is the claim that America is being menaced by hordes of “rioters, looters, arsonists, gun-grabbers, flag-burners, Marxists.”

Anyone who walks around the “anarchist jurisdictions” of New York or Seattle can see with their own eyes that nothing like this is happening. And the data bear out the obvious. One systematic study found that the summer’s Black Lives Matter protests were overwhelmingly peaceful, and that “most of the violence that did take place was, in fact, directed against the B.L.M. protesters.”

Oh, and Trump keeps claiming that Joe Biden won’t condemn the small amount of violence that has actually happened — when Biden has, in fact, done exactly that.

So Trump wants Americans to be terrified of a menace that exists only in his imagination. At the same time, he wants us to ignore the very real menace of Covid-19.

Over the past few months Trump has effectively abandoned any effort to limit the spread of the coronavirus. In fact, he has been actively promoting that spread. One credible Stanford study estimated that Trump rallies, which involve large numbers of shouting people packed closely together, most unmasked, have caused around 30,000 infections and 700 deaths.

But Trump wants Americans to believe that the pandemic — which killed more Americans last month than are murdered in a typical year — is fake news. We’re “rounding the corner,” he insists, even as infections and hospitalizations are rising at a terrifying rate. The news media is going on about “Covid, Covid, Covid” only because it’s out to get him. Doctors are inflating the reported death toll because they want to make more money.

These big lies are immensely destructive, and not just because they lead to bad policies. Like it or not, presidential rhetoric affects how millions of Americans behave.

Trump’s lies about an anarchist threat have given encouragement to white supremacists, including domestic terrorists. His dismissal of the pandemic threat, his mocking of precautionary measures like mask-wearing, have done a lot to help the coronavirus spread.

But the worst may be yet to come.

It’s possible — barely — that Trump will legitimately win re-election, although this would require that the polls be much further off than they were in 2016. If that doesn’t happen, however, it’s a near-certainty that he will refuse to accept defeat quietly.

Unless he loses in an overwhelming landslide, he has indicated he will try to steal the election by blocking the counting of Biden votes, with the aid of partisan judges. I don’t think he’ll succeed, but I wish I was sure of that.

What if he doesn’t manage to hang on to office? We all know what’s likely to come next: claims that he was robbed. He’ll claim that millions of people voted illegally — after all, he did that following the 2016 election, denying that he lost the popular vote. He’ll probably claim that millions of Trump votes were somehow discarded — after all, he has already made the false claim that ballots are being “dumped in rivers.”

And he’ll find a receptive audience. Professional forecasters have considered Biden the heavy favorite for a long time, but according to a late September Gallup survey, 90 percent of Republicans expect Trump to win. If he loses, our conspiracy-minded right will react with shock and rage.

The immediate result may very well be a wave of violence and property destruction — Trump supporters engaging in the behavior they falsely attribute to Black Lives Matter demonstrators. But that’s actually the part that worries me least.

No, the really big danger is that millions of our citizens will probably buy into an American version of the “stab in the back” myth that loomed large after Germany’s defeat in World War I, claiming the military was betrayed by the civilian government. And those voters may well end up choosing the G.O.P.’s next presidential candidate.





No.30 article:
Vienna Terrorist Attack Leaves at Least 4 Dead and Many Wounded

A gunman killed by the police was an Islamic State “sympathizer,” Austria’s interior minister said. Officers were searching for possible accomplices on Tuesday morning.

BERLIN — A terrorist attack in the busy streets of central Vienna left at least four people dead and many more wounded by gunfire on Monday night, government officials said.

One gunman was killed by the police, and Interior Minister Karl Nehammer called him an Islamic State “sympathizer” in a news conference on Tuesday morning.

The authorities initially said there were multiple attackers, but on Tuesday morning, Mr. Nehammer left open the possibility that there had been only one. The police were searching for potential accomplices, however, and officials urged people to avoid central Vienna.

The mayhem was unleashed on a mild autumn night as many Austrians ventured outside for a stroll or a last dinner out just hours before the country was to go on a new nationwide coronavirus lockdown.

There was gunfire in perhaps half a dozen locations, all in the same area, the authorities said.

At least 14 people were injured, six of them seriously, according to Harold Soros, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry. At least one of those shot was a police officer.

“We are going through a dark hour in our republic,” Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said in a statement. “Our police will move consequently against the perpetrators of this despicable terror attack.” 

The attack, which began around 8 p.m., took place in Vienna’s Inner City district, a nightlife hub packed with restaurants and bars a short walk from the Danube. The police, who reported several “exchanges of shots,” mobilized a large response that shut down a segment of the city’s historical heart.

The shootings took place near the city’s main Jewish synagogue, the 19th-century Stadttempel. The temple was closed at the time, and it was not clear if it had been a target, but it was the scene of a terrorist attack in 1981 that killed two people and left dozens wounded.

Video broadcast on local media Monday showed an assailant wearing a black hood running up to a man, shooting him at close range with a long gun, running away and then returning seconds later to shoot him twice more with a handgun. A spokesman for the Interior Ministry, Harald Sörös, described the victim as a passer-by.

That video was one of several that made their way onto social media and local news broadcasts purporting to show snippets of the chaos and bloodshed. The authorities urged people to hand such video over to them, rather than posting them publicly.

One video showed people aiding a wounded person lying in a pool of blood, just outside a restaurant on Ruprechtsplatz and less than a mile from the Austrian Parliament building. Several chairs in the restaurant’s outdoor area had been overturned, as if abandoned in a hurry.

Another video showed a gunman firing a rifle twice down a street, though the target could not be seen, and in others, people ran for cover or ducked behind obstacles as shots echoed through the streets, and heavily armed police officers took up positions around the area.

“We just saw quite a few people running, had no clue what was going on, then heard the shooting and a few people screaming,” said Julia Schrammel, who was having dinner with her three cousins at Motton am Fluss, a restaurant on the riverfront, when the attack took place.

“It took them a while to lock down the restaurant, but now we are locked down here,” Ms. Schrammel, a 24-year-old student, said hours after the shooting began. “We are watching the news from a TV in the restaurant, there are all sorts of rumors going on.”

Emergency vehicles blocked off streets and a streetcar line through the area was shut down. The sound of sirens and helicopters filled the night air as Austrians struggled to absorb what was happening.

“We are in shock,” said Farnaz Alavi, a 34-year-old human resources consultant in Vienna. “It feels like they orchestrated this attack on the last night of the lockdown when lots of people were out for maximum impact.”

Early Tuesday, the sense of crisis eased a bit as the police began escorting people out of restaurants and through safety zones. The opera and a theater were also evacuated.

But tensions remained high.

“There is a lot to monitor,” Mr. Ludwig, the mayor, said. “Many people are still in the inner city and we have to see that we get as many of them out of there.”

A heavy security force was deployed to the center of the city, and Austrians were urged to stay home. The chancellor said he had called in troops to ensure the security of official buildings, freeing up the police to “concentrate fully on the fight against terror.”





No.31 article:
Peter Secchia, Confidant of Ford and Bush, Dies at 83

He was a Republican fund-raiser from Michigan who became a White House regular and an ambassador to Italy. He died of Covid-19.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

Peter Secchia rarely boasted about his success, but he often marveled at it.

At 25, he went to work as a salesman for a lumber company that grossed $1 million annually. He ultimately worked his way up to chief executive and transformed it into a global conglomerate, with annual sales of $1.6 billion by the time he retired in 2002.

Buoyed by his financial success, he emerged as a major donor to his alma mater, Michigan State University, and a civic leader and philanthropist in Grand Rapids, Mich., his adopted hometown, and adjacent Western Michigan.

As a prominent Republican contributor and fund-raiser, Mr. Secchia (pronounced SECK-ee-uh) also became a confidant of two presidents.

Under Gerald R. Ford, he delivered homespun Midwestern advice as a self-described “chubby, chunky lumber salesman from Grand Rapids wearing jeans and a flannel shirt at the White House.” Under George H.W. Bush, he served as ambassador to Italy from 1989 to 1993.

When he returned to the United States, he became chairman of his company, Universal Forest Products. In 2002, he took the title of chairman of the board of what is now known as UFP Industries.

He had been dealing with several health issues and was receiving nursing care at home when he contracted Covid-19. He died on Oct. 21 at his home in Grand Rapids, a family spokeswoman said. He was 83.

His wife was subsequently hospitalized with the disease, but was said to be recovering.

Mr. Secchia was only in his 20s when he met Mr. Ford, who was campaigning for re-election to his Grand Rapids congressional seat. Mr. Secchia was elected chairman of the Kent County Republican Committee and became a major fund-raiser for state and local candidates and for the presidential campaigns of Bob Dole, George W. Bush and Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida.

In an interview with the Gerald R. Ford Foundation in 2008, Mr. Secchia recalled Mr. Ford’s prescience during a candid conversation in the White House shortly after he had pardoned former President Richard M. Nixon.

“I had to do it, and it will cost me the ’76 election, but I had to do it,” Mr. Secchia quoted Mr. Ford as saying.

Peter Finley Secchia was born on April 15, 1937, in Englewood, N.J., the son of Cesare Secchia, a bookkeeper for a car dealership who was known as Charlie, and Valerie (Smith) Secchia. He was raised in nearby Demarest.

He enrolled at Michigan State after graduating from Tenafly High School. But he dropped out when his working part time didn’t cover his expenses and enlisted in the Marines. He served in Beirut, then returned to the university and graduated in 1963 with a degree in economics. He and his wife would donate millions of dollars to establish the headquarters of the College of Human Medicine in Grand Rapids.

Mr. Secchia joined Universal Forest Products as a salesman in 1962. He bought control of the company in 1971 and was its chief executive until 1989.

Mr. Secchia, who also invested in retail outlets and restaurants, was “known as much for his irascible ways as for his generosity, humor and disdain for political correctness,” the company said in a statement after his death.

In addition to his wife, Joan (Peterson) Secchia, whom he married in 1964, he is survived by two daughters, Stephanie Oehler and Sandy Aslanian; two sons, Charlie and Mark; 11 grandchildren; and a sister, Gail Secchia.





No.32 article:
Justice Amy Coney Barrett Hears Her First Supreme Court Argument

But she did not take part in a pair of unsigned decisions in favor of a Black Lives Matter activist and a prisoner held in abusive conditions.

WASHINGTON — Justice Amy Coney Barrett heard her first Supreme Court argument on Monday, asking assured and probing questions in a case on the Freedom of Information Act.

Justice Barrett joined the court last Tuesday, a little more than a month after the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and the rushed and contentious confirmation process that followed President Trump’s nominating her.

But Justice Barrett sat out several major election disputes last week, saying she had not had time to review the parties’ filings. She also did not participate in the justices’ private conference last week, saying she needed time to prepare for this week’s arguments.

And with the court hearing arguments by phone on Monday because of the pandemic, Justice Barrett did not join her colleagues on the bench and take the junior justice’s traditional seat on its far right. But Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. did start Monday’s session by greeting the newest justice.

“It gives me great pleasure on behalf of myself and my colleagues to welcome Justice Barrett to the court,” he said. “We wish you a long and happy career in our common calling.”

The justices ask questions in order of seniority when they hear arguments over the phone, meaning that Justice Barrett went last on Monday. Her first question built on ones that had been posed by the next most junior member of the court, Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, appointed by Mr. Trump in 2018.

“I want to pick up on the thread that Justice Kavanaugh was just exploring with you,” Justice Barrett told a lawyer for the federal government.

Justice Barrett is working in Justice Ginsburg’s old chambers, and she has praised her predecessor as “a woman of enormous talent and consequence” whose “life of public service serves as an example to us all.”

But Justice Ginsburg’s law clerks have been assigned to work for the other three liberal justices, all Democratic appointees. Justice Barrett has hired four law clerks, three of whom had earlier Supreme Court clerkships, with Justices Clarence Thomas, Samuel A. Alito Jr. and Anthony M. Kennedy, all Republican appointees. Two of those three had also served as clerks to Justice Kavanaugh when he was an appeals court judge.

The choice of law clerks was a small but vivid sign that Justice Barrett is almost certain to become part of a six-member conservative majority.

Her first case concerned efforts by the Sierra Club, an environmental group, to obtain documents about harm to endangered species. The federal government has resisted those efforts, saying the records were protected by an exemption to the freedom of information law shielding documents that would disclose deliberations before final decisions.

The dispute started in 2011, when the Environmental Protection Agency proposed a new regulation to govern cooling water intake structures, which can harm aquatic life. Under the Endangered Species Act, the agency was required to consult with two other units of the federal government — the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service — to gauge and address harm the regulation would do.

The services prepared draft documents saying that the proposed regulation would jeopardize endangered species and, apparently as a consequence, the E.P.A.’s final regulation was more stringent than the one it had initially proposed.

Justice Barrett asked Matthew Guarnieri, a lawyer for the federal government, what judges should do if they suspect that government officials had stamped documents as “drafts” to avoid having to disclose them. “What other factors would a court consider?” she asked.

Mr. Guarnieri listed various “peripheral considerations that a court might take into account in determining that the label of a document as ‘draft’ is, in fact, accurate.”

That appeared to strike Justice Barrett as too complicated. “That’s a pretty fact-intensive determination,” she said, and she pressed him for a simpler test. “So it’s not your position that we should adopt some sort of bright line saying, listen, it’s not over until it’s over, it’s not until it’s actually issued in the sense of being final?” she asked.

Mr. Guarnieri was happy to agree to a bright-line rule, and Justice Barrett reviewed the bidding.

“So your first order of preference would be the kind of formalistic line that I was just describing,” she said. “And then your backup argument would be, if the court was uncomfortable about the possibility of avoiding FOIA obligations by, say, the stamping ‘draft’ on the top, that we go with the more kind of multifactor, fact-specific test.”

Mr. Guarnieri agreed. “That captures the way that we think the case ought to be resolved,” he said.

Later, Justice Barrett pressed Sanjay Narayan, a lawyer for the Sierra Club, after he argued that documents should be disclosed if they had “appreciable legal consequences.”

She said she could see how draft documents might have practical consequences, but she said she was doubtful they could have legal ones.

Before the argument in the case, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service v. Sierra Club, No. 19-547, the court issued a pair of unsigned decisions, ruling for a Black Lives Matter activist and a prisoner subjected to abusive conditions. Justice Barrett did not participate in the decisions.

In the first, it vacated an appeals court ruling against DeRay Mckesson, a Black Lives Matter activist who helped organize a protest in Baton Rouge, La., in the summer of 2016 after the fatal shooting of a Black man, Alton B. Sterling, by two police officers. The demonstration started peacefully but turned violent.

An unknown demonstrator threw a rock or something similar at a police officer identified in court papers as John Doe, badly injuring him. The officer sued Mr. Mckesson, arguing that he was indirectly responsible for the assault given his role in organizing the protest.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, allowed the case to move forward, rejecting Mr. Mckesson’s argument that his role in organizing the protest was protected by the First Amendment.

The Supreme Court did not address that constitutional argument, suggesting instead that ordinary tort principles in Louisiana law may shield Mr. Mckesson. It instructed the appeals court to ask Louisiana’s Supreme Court for a definitive ruling on that question of state law.

“We conclude that the Fifth Circuit should not have ventured into so uncertain an area of tort law — one laden with value judgments and fraught with implications for First Amendment rights — without first seeking guidance on potentially controlling Louisiana law from the Louisiana Supreme Court,” the opinion said.

Justice Thomas noted a dissent but did not give reasons.

In the second unsigned decision, the court ruled that Trent Taylor, an inmate in Texas, could sue corrections officers for holding him for six days in what he called “shockingly unsanitary cells.” The first, he said, was covered in feces. The second, he said, was frigidly cold and flooded with raw sewage.

The Fifth Circuit ruled that the conditions violated the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment. But the appeals court said the officers were entitled to qualified immunity because it had not been clearly established that “prisoners couldn’t be housed in cells teeming with human waste” for “only six days.”

The Supreme Court reversed. “No reasonable correctional officer could have concluded that, under the extreme circumstances of this case, it was constitutionally permissible to house Taylor in such deplorably unsanitary conditions for such an extended period of time,” the court’s opinion said.

In a concurring opinion, Justice Alito questioned the Supreme Court’s decision to intervene but said its ruling was correct. Justice Thomas dissented but again gave no reasons.





No.33 article:
In a Hot Election, the Cool-Headed Associated Press Takes Center Stage

At the end of a turbulent campaign, the global news organization has a big role to play, with 4,000 reporters collecting vote counts from county clerks in 50 states.

The Associated Press will not predict a winner of the presidential election. It will not even name an apparent or likely winner. The A.P. will make the call only when it is certain — just as it has in every U.S. election since 1848, when Zachary Taylor won the White House.

“If there’s no way for the trailing candidate to catch up, no legal way, no mathematical way, then the race is decided, essentially,” Sally Buzbee, The A.P.’s executive editor, said in an interview. “And if there is any uncertainty, or if there are enough votes out to change the result, then we don’t call the race.”

As The A.P. tracks the contest between President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr., as well as 35 Senate, 11 gubernatorial, 435 congressional and more than 6,000 down-ticket races, its determinations will not be swayed by outside forces.

“Race calls made by other organizations have no bearing on when AP declares a candidate the winner,” The A.P. said in an article on its website. “Our decision team does not engage in debate with any campaign or candidate.”

That stance may prove crucial in a turbulent election in which more than 90 million Americans cast their ballots before Election Day on Tuesday because of the coronavirus pandemic — an election further complicated by widespread misinformation and Mr. Trump’s false claims that the vote has been “rigged.”

The A.P. bases its determinations on the work of more than 4,000 freelance local reporters who collect vote counts from clerks in every county of the 50 states. Those local reporters phone the results to The A.P.’s vote entry centers, which are virtual this year because of the pandemic. More than 800 vote entry clerks assess the data, checking with the reporters about any anomalies, before entering it into the A.P. system.

A race caller in each state examines the counts with an analyst at the A.P.’s politics team in Washington to determine when a winner can be declared. Two editors sign off on every call, Ms. Buzbee said. And when the time comes to name the winner of the presidential race, The A.P.’s Washington bureau chief, Julie Pace, has to sign off.

With 250 bureaus in 99 nations, The A.P. provides roughly 730,000 articles, 70,000 videos and one million photographs each year to the more than 15,000 outlets and businesses that subscribe to its content.

At election time, it steps into the spotlight: Major news organizations including NPR, PBS, and two large newspaper chains, Gannett and McClatchy, wait for The A.P. to call races before they report results. Other outlets, including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post and Fox News, will use election data from The A.P. to help them make their determinations. Google will use the The A.P.’s election reporting for real-time results on its search page, as well as for a panel on YouTube. (ABC, CBS, CNN and NBC make their own calls, but will share information as members of the National Election Pool, a group that uses data from Edison Research.)

“The A.P. has a track record going back over a century of thorough, careful vote counting and cautious practices when it comes to calling races,” said Arnie Seipel, NPR’s supervising political editor. “They also have a decision desk with vast resources to do this kind of data collection and analysis. So by relying on The A.P., we are able to invest more of our resources into original reporting, instead of trying to replicate what they do.”

In the United States — which, unlike many other countries, does not have a national electoral commission — the news media takes the role of race-caller in presidential elections. “If we want to know who the next president will be, we’ve got to do the math ourselves — county by county, nationwide,” David Scott, a deputy managing editor at The A.P., said in an article posted on its website.

Ms. Buzbee, who has worked at The A.P. since 1988 and became its top editor in 2017, said the staff was well aware of its election role. “We take it enormously seriously,” she said. “We know the impact we’re going to have when we call the race for president. We know it’s going to zip around the world.”

The A.P. was the first news organization to declare Donald J. Trump the victor of the 2016 election. It published a straightforward news alert at 2:29 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on the day after Election Day: “WASHINGTON (AP) — Donald Trump elected president of the United States.”

The A.P. did not declare the victor of the 2000 election between George W. Bush and Al Gore, deciding that it was too close to call. That time, the job of naming the winner fell to the Supreme Court.

Because of the pandemic, most of The A.P.’s staff members have been working remotely since March. On Tuesday, about 50 of “the core folks” will work in the Washington bureau, rather than the usual crew of 200 journalists, Ms. Buzbee said. Instead of the usual shared pizzas, there will be boxed dinners.

Any chance of making the call for Mr. Trump or Mr. Biden on Tuesday night or the early hours of Wednesday? “If one of them is winning by a large margin and we have a handle on how many mail-in ballots remain outstanding, then it could be called on election night,” Ms. Buzbee said. “If it’s a close race, it will be later.”

After The A.P. declares the winner, it will publish articles about how it arrived at its call. “We’re trying to do that so we demystify the process and no one thinks this is happening in a black box,” Ms. Buzbee said.





No.34 article:
Statehouse Seats Are Up for Grabs, and With Them, Great Power

In most states, control of the state legislature comes with the authority to redraw state and federal electoral maps.

[Follow our live Trump vs Biden 2020 election updates and analysis.]

WASHINGTON — Abortion. Guns. Police. Schools. Health care. Covid-19.

These are just a few of the issues that state legislatures will make laws about next year. Not to mention the once-a-decade event: redrawing state and national electoral maps after the decennial census, an exercise that can give one political party a deep and enduring advantage in lawmaking for years.

So, while the campaigns for president and seats in Congress may have absorbed much of the nation’s attention, the elections to determine control of state government — more than 5,000 legislative races farther down the ballot — could also have a major effect on Americans’ lives.

About 80 percent of the nation’s 7,383 state legislative seats are up for grabs this year, with elections in 44 states, according to Tim Storey, an expert at the National Conference of State Legislatures, or N.C.S.L.

The stakes are high for both parties. Democrats are on offense in state elections this year, trying to pry chambers away from G.O.P. control, but Mr. Storey said it was highly unlikely that the Democrats would make gains anywhere close to those that Republicans scored in the 2010 election cycle, when they gained a whopping 24 chambers, the culmination of a historic realignment of Southern legislatures toward the Republican Party.

“If there are gains, they won’t be extraordinary or off the charts,” Mr. Storey said. Demographic change is slow, he said, and movement of a state from one party to the other is usually gradual.

A few of the chambers Democrats are aiming to flip, he said, are the Texas House, the North Carolina House and Senate, the Arizona House and Senate, the Minnesota Senate, and the Pennsylvania, Michigan and Iowa Houses. Republicans, for their part, are looking to take New Hampshire’s House and Senate.

Republicans have a distinct advantage in statehouses today. Of the 98 partisan legislative chambers in 49 states, about three-fifths — 59 chambers — are controlled by Republicans, and the remaining 39 by Democrats, according to the N.C.S.L. (Nebraska’s Legislature has only one chamber and its elections are officially nonpartisan.)

In all but one of the states with two chambers (Minnesota is the exception), the same party controls both chambers. That is an effect of rising polarization and the growing tendency of voters to stick with a single political party up and down the ballot.

The 2010 Republican sweep coincided with a census, giving Republicans disproportionate control just when lines were to be redrawn for congressional and state electoral districts across the country. The effects are still being felt today.

“I think most people, including Democrats, realize that Republicans were ahead of the game in 2008 and 2009 and 2010, and got control of the legislatures,” said Wendy Underhill, a specialist on redistricting at the N.C.S.L. This time, she argued, “both teams are equally well prepared.”

The redistricting process begins again next year, when the Census Bureau delivers population data to each state. That usually happens by April 1, though the timeline is less certain this year because of delays caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and by continuing litigation.

Whatever the timing, though, the outcome of this week’s balloting will be critical. While some states use nonpartisan or bipartisan commissions to draw electoral maps, the process in most states is controlled by the majority party in the state legislature.

“The state races have never been more important than they are this year,” said David Abrams, deputy executive director of the Republican State Leadership Committee, which focuses on electing Republicans to state offices. He said that his group was focusing on 14 target states and that in many of them, Democrats who flipped Republican seats in 2018 are vulnerable now. “The conventional wisdom is that we are entirely on defense, but that’s not actually true,” he said.

Issues beyond redistricting power are at stake, too — for example, health care access, which is especially important during the pandemic.

In North Carolina, where Republicans have controlled both chambers since the national sweep in 2010, Democrats are fighting to take back control, and want to expand Medicaid to cover low-income North Carolinians.

North Carolina is one of 12 remaining states — all with Republican-controlled legislatures and most of them in the South — that have not expanded their Medicaid programs under the Affordable Care Act.

Abortion is another example. Joe Pojman, the executive director of the Texas Alliance for Life, said his organization was focused not just on helping Mr. Trump win the state, but also on the down-ballot races for the Texas House, which Democrats hope to flip.

If that happens, Mr. Pojman said, “it would be very difficult to advance our agenda.”

One goal, he said, is a “trigger law” that would ban abortion in the state if and when Roe v. Wade is overturned. The new composition of the Supreme Court is seen as having made such a reversal more of a possibility, and similar bills have passed in other Republican-controlled states.

Abortion rights advocates say they are watching the Iowa House, which Democrats are trying to flip. The chamber voted this year to place on the ballot a proposal to amend the State Constitution to say that it does not protect abortion, according to Elisabeth Smith, chief counsel for state policy and advocacy at the Center for Reproductive Rights, an abortion rights group. If Republicans lose control of the Iowa House, she said, the initiative would not pass a second time, a requirement for putting the proposal before the voters.

Elsewhere, efforts at curbing police violence are at stake. In Minnesota, where Democrats control the House and are hoping to flip the Senate, a policing bill that passed the Legislature over the summer was weaker than Democrats wanted. It did not require officers to live in the communities they serve, nor did it completely ban choke holds or impose penalties for using them, according to Jessica Oaxaca, a spokeswoman for Senate Democrats. It also lacked protections for police officers who report illegal uses of force, she said, adding that in order to pass tougher changes, Democrats would need control of the Senate.

“We have to win the majority to have the conversation,” she said.





No.35 article:
How to Run a Race in a Time of Surging Coronavirus

Runners must decide whether we feel comfortable racing in-person and, if so, how we can best protect ourselves and others.

Competitive runners could soon face a familiar 2020 dilemma, as some race directors tiptoe forward with plans for in-person events, even as coronavirus cases climb again nationwide. Runners registered for these races, including me, must now decide whether we feel comfortable racing in-person and, if so, how we can best protect ourselves and the runners loping past us (or, for the speedy, vice versa).

To learn more and gather cautions and reassurance about racing safely, I spoke with race officials and infection-control researchers about starting lines, masks, the politesse of spitting, how to socially distance on the run, and what other race modifications runners should expect — or demand — at in-person events now. This is what they had to say.

“Races are not going to be the way they were,” says Todd Henderlong, the owner of Race the Region, a race series in Indiana that has been offering in-person events since May.

Race organizers should, for instance, be setting up registration and packet pickup operations that require little or no interaction with race personnel, says Saskia Popescu, an infectious disease epidemiologist who advises companies on how to respond to Covid-19. Well-spaced bins containing people’s bibs and shirts might, for example, be set up in an outside tent.

Starts will look different, too, Mr. Henderlong says. In order to keep runners socially distanced, in-person races cannot begin in the typical pre-pandemic way, with participants crowded, shoulder to shoulder, in a narrow chute, waiting for the starting horn. Instead, most races will be likely to employ some version of a time-trial start, meaning each racer receives an assigned starting time within an hourslong window, crosses the starting line alone or in company with only a few other runners and, for the most part, races solo.

Spectators are not allowed to line courses at these events, and, during shorter races, such as 5Ks (3.1 miles), there will be no water stops along the way. Even longer races, including marathons, generally now will be B.Y.O.W., Mr. Henderlong says, with racers expected to carry their own water or sports drinks and snacks. If liquids and refreshments are available on the course, they generally will consist of single-serve bottles and energy bars or gels set out on tables, ready for grabbing, without volunteers handing or hurling them to runners.

Likewise, finish-line areas will be eerily empty. No beer tents or buffet tables. No congratulatory hugs. No awards ceremony.

“For the finish walk-off, we pre-pack goody bags that include snacks, bottled water and Gatorade. Then we ask runners to leave the event area when finished running,” says Virginia Brophy Achman, the executive director of Twin Cities in Motion, which mounts the annual Medtronic Twin Cities Marathon and, until recently, offered in-person 5K races. (Its upcoming races will be virtual, because of newly rising case numbers in Minnesota.)

Runners’ racing strategies and practices also will — or should — change. Most events will require masks, for instance. “Masks are required at the event space” and must be in place for the start of the race, Ms. Achman says. “They may be removed after crossing the start line but must be put back in place after crossing the finish line.”

At the Grand Canyon Trail Half Marathon on Nov. 7, one of the few longer events scheduled to take place this fall in-person, participants will receive a neck gaiter as part of their race packets, says Randy Accetta, the race director. They must wear it or another facial covering at the start, and whenever they pass other runners en route.

(A recent, unpublished study of masks and gaiters concluded that three-ply cloth masks and gaiters block close to 60 percent of expelled aerosols during coughing, if the gaiter is folded into a double layer.)

Racers should plan, too, to carry a handkerchief and keep their mucus and spittle contained, says Bert Blocken, a professor of civil engineering at Eindhoven University of Technology in the Netherlands and KU Leuven in Belgium, who studies airflow, including during cycling and running events. In such races, he says, “it is well-known that saliva and snot flies around.”

Since those fluids could contain viral particles if the racer releasing them is infected, runners should not spit or blow their noses into the air, he says, and steer clear of any racers who do not comply.

In fact, distance and isolation are desirable throughout these races, he says. If you pass other runners, try to swing at least six feet wide, and preferably 15 feet or more, since respiratory particles are unlikely to float that far, he says. And avoid drafting behind other racers; their expired air congregates in the shoulder-wide slipstream behind them.

Of course, even with precautions in place, in-person racing cannot be risk-free. If you have concerns, consider contacting the race director and asking about race protocols, says Johanna Goode, the marketing director at RunSignUp, a company that handles registrations and other services for races around the country. Or “see if the race has a virtual option that will allow you to decide how to participate closer to the race date,” she says.

Some runners also may feel disheartened by the limits of today’s races. “We’ve had runners tell us they miss head-to-head racing,” Mr. Henderlong says. They mourn the loss of group sprints to the finish, “and having family cheering them on, high-fives, all of that.”

But Mr. Accetta believes that despite the limitations, in-person racing retains an allure that on-your-own, virtual racing may be unable to match.

“There is this sense of community when you share the same course,” he says. “You’re running together, even if you’re socially distanced.”





No.36 article:
U.K.’s Johnson Faces a Growing Revolt Over His Coronavirus Policy

The prime minister is caught uncomfortably between members of his Conservative Party who oppose his national lockdown and opponents who call it too little, too late.

LONDON — Two days after abruptly announcing plans to put England back into a lockdown, Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced a mutiny on Monday from members of his Conservative Party, who said he went too far, and scalding criticism from opposition leaders, who said he acted too late to stem a second wave of the coronavirus.

Mr. Johnson’s decision, a reluctant reversal after weeks of stubbornly resisting a lockdown, seemed to please almost no one. His allies in the right-wing press have turned on him, as have disgruntled business leaders.

The about-face even reopened fault lines from the debate over Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, as Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit leader, said he would rebrand his Brexit Party with a new name, Reform U.K., and a platform of opposing the lockdown.

A somber Mr. Johnson defended himself in Parliament, apologizing for the economic pain caused by the lockdown but insisting there was no alternative. At the current rate of infections and hospitalizations, he said, England’s hospitals would have to turn away patients within weeks.

“Doctors and nurses could be forced to choose which patients to treat, who would live and who would die,” he said. “That sacred principle of care for anyone who needs it — whoever they are and whenever they need it — could be broken for the first time in our lives.”

The Labour Party’s leader, Keir Starmer, endorsed the lockdown. But he accused the prime minister of dithering for 40 days after his scientific advisers recommended taking this step — a delay that he claimed had cost lives.

Mr. Johnson’s now-defunct program of targeted restrictions, he said, “not only failed to stop the second wave, they been swept away by it.” Mr. Starmer called for a two-week “circuit breaker” lockdown nearly three weeks ago.

The depth of Britain’s ordeal with the coronavirus was underscored by the news on Sunday that Prince William, the son of Prince Charles, and second in line for the throne, contracted the virus last spring, around the same time as his father.

Prince William did not disclose his diagnosis because he did not want to alarm the nation, according to the Sun newspaper, which first reported the story.

For all the criticism of Mr. Johnson, his latest plans are not likely to be derailed. While a handful of Conservative members of Parliament said they would oppose the lockdown measure when it comes up for a vote on Wednesday, the prime minister’s 80-seat majority, plus the seal of approval from the Labour Party, all but guarantees that it will be approved by the House of Commons.

Still, the swelling unrest in Conservative ranks, the rising strength of the opposition and the re-emergence of Mr. Farage as a threat from the right add up to a treacherous landscape for Mr. Johnson.

Even among some of his supporters, there was despair at the government’s inconsistency and failure to foresee predictable problems — and at the constant drumbeat of questions about its competence.

“The problem is if a narrative is established that he lacks a grip on the situation,” said Tim Bale, a professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London. “Most Conservative members of Parliament realize that the sine qua non of re-election is competence.”

Mr. Bale added that “if the opinion polls turn south very quickly,” Mr. Johnson “is going to begin to get into more nervous territory.”

Among the growing legion of malcontents are lawmakers from the north of the country, where the Conservatives won a critical number of parliamentary seats from the Labour Party last year. They fear that Mr. Johnson’s promise to “level up” the economy in their areas could be washed away by the economic tidal wave wrought by the pandemic.

Mr. Johnson had barely put behind him a bitter dispute with northern mayors over putting their cities, which have been hard hit by the virus, under targeted lockdowns. Several balked at what they said was the government’s insistence on reducing to 67 percent the amount of money it would pay for people who lose their jobs because of the restrictions.

Under the national lockdown, the government will extend a subsidy program that pays 80 percent of the wages of those people — a concession that the mayors said illustrated that the government does not treat the north the same as the south.

“Why did it take a lockdown that affected London for them to address these issues?” Andy Burnham, the Labour mayor of Greater Manchester, said in an interview. “Why didn’t it get addressed when it was just Manchester?”

Conservatives have a litany of other objections — that the lockdown is a death knell for the economy, an infringement of civil liberties and proof that the government lacks a coherent strategy for getting past the pandemic.

“As we drift further into an authoritarian coercive state, the only legal mechanism left open to me is to vote against that legislation,” said Charles Walker, vice chairman of the influential 1922 committee of Conservative lawmakers. “The people of this country will never, ever forgive the political class for criminalizing parents seeing children.”

Another Conservative lawmaker, Philip Davies, asked Mr. Johnson how many lost jobs and failed businesses were “a price worth paying to continue pursuing this failed strategy of lockdowns and arbitrary restrictions.”

The chaotic nature of the announcement added to the misgivings. Mr. Johnson convened an emergency cabinet meeting on Saturday after internal deliberations leaked late Friday. Then Downing Street botched the rollout, delaying a news conference almost three hours, causing it to run into the BBC’s popular variety show, “Strictly Come Dancing.”

Mr. Johnson’s reversal was particularly embarrassing because he spent more than two weeks deriding Mr. Starmer for demanding the circuit breaker shutdown, which turned out to be half the length of the one the prime minister ultimately adopted. As late as Friday, the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, defended the “focused, localized approach” over what he called the “blunt tool” of a national lockdown.

“You build resentment from those loyal supporters who have only recently defended a government policy they were told was inviolable, only to have to eat their words a few days later,” Mr. Bale said.

Mr. Johnson, he said, should not underestimate the threat posed by Reform U.K., as the party’s positions could appeal to Conservative voters. In addition to the lockdown, Mr. Farage, who also once headed the U.K. Independence Party, is likely to call for tougher immigration rules and oppose policies he deems as “politically correct.”

While Reform U.K.’s prospects will be handicapped by Britain’s electoral system — which disadvantages small parties because of its first-past-the-post voting system — it could still have an impact by draining support from the Conservatives.

“If the Reform party manages to scare Conservative members of Parliament as much as U.K. Independence Party and the Brexit Party did,” Mr. Bale said, “it will be significant.”





No.37 article:
Dancing on Grass and Concrete at New York City Ballet

Using Lincoln Center as a set, the company’s digital New Works Festival features site-specific films by Justin Peck, Jamar Roberts, Pam Tanowitz and others.

When it comes to digital site-specific work, there’s a thin line between a dance on film and a perfume ad. It’s dispiriting to say that in New York City Ballet’s New Works Festival we get plenty of eau de ballet.

That the company could present new work at all during a pandemic, as it did last week, with five short films that use the Lincoln Center campus as a set, is admirable. (Recently City Ballet called off its winter and spring seasons.) But there’s only so much whipping hair and water splashing, grassy knolls and dreamy overhead shots I can take.

The company did branch out of its usual bubble, commissioning choreography by Sidra Bell, Andrea Miller and Jamar Roberts, who were working with the dancers for the first time; as well as by Pam Tanowitz and Justin Peck, City Ballet’s resident choreographer and artistic adviser.

But what takes center stage more than the choreography is the filmmaking. Camerawork, both frantic and labored, gets in the way of dancing, creating a slickness — and a sameness — that turns stale fast. All but one of these short films was directed by Ezra Hurwitz (with cinematography by Jon Chema). Mr. Peck, with Jody Lee Lipes, as director of photography, took charge of his own.

Just as choreography needs a point of view, a site needs a purpose. One work, “Solo for Russell: Sites 1-5,” seems to have a reason for using Lincoln Center as its stage. Choreographed by Ms. Tanowitz with Russell Janzen — a rare instance of credit given to a dancer in the ballet world — the piece features the unflappable Mr. Janzen walking with purpose from one location to the next, sometimes with a roll of Marley flooring tucked under his arm, sometimes changing in and out of costumes (by Reid Bartelme and Harriet Jung).

In one iteration, strips of pale blue and yellow drape from Mr. Janzen’s collarbone to one leg. He is already statuesque, but as he stands on the stage of the Damrosch Park bandshell, the sculptural effect of the draping fabric and the towering structure transforms him into a monument from another time. (Is that what a dancer has become in the age of the coronavirus?)

Stoic and resolute, he has a last-man-on-earth quality. The clipped shots of movement — a slow promenade with a leg held forward in a pistol squat, a quick turn with a raised arm — are enhanced by Alfred Schnittke’s eerie music to convey a sense of resignation and alienation. Instead of showing us a complete dance, Ms. Tanowitz presents something more intriguing and, given our emotional mood, relatable: the shards of one.

Ms. Bell’s “pixelation in a wave (Within Wires),” set to an original score by her jazz musician father, Dennis Bell, features a cast — Ghaleb Kayali, Mira Nadon, Emily Kikta and Peter Walker — bouncing between landscape shots, which render them bite-size, and close-ups that tend toward the precious. Working with the dancers’ lines and shapes as they intersect with and are juxtaposed against the architecture of the site — at one point, a raised lawn above a concrete pathway — Ms. Bell’s chiseled shapes feel random with all the quick cuts; instead of the cool tension she seems to be going for, it’s hectic.

Ms. Miller’s “new song,” set to music by the Chilean singer Víctor Jara, has more flow as Harrison Coll, Indiana Woodward, Unity Phelan and Sebastian Villarini-Velez sail from the plaza to the wooded grove and into the water of the wading pool in the center of Hearst Plaza. Usually, Ms. Miller’s work seems linked to Ohad Naharin, the Israeli choreographer for whom she previously danced; this time, it is Pina Bausch. Hair. Long dresses. Got it.

The emotion of it, though, cracks something open in Ms. Phelan, who is unleashed in a way she hasn’t been before. But it’s all too earnest: As a group, the dancers walk into the water where, after the camera swoops overhead, they splash their chests with feeling.

The pool is a tempting location, and Mr. Roberts uses it, too, in his “Water Rite.” Most impressive here is the soloist, Victor Abreu, a member of the corps de ballet, who has always struck me as having a certain vulnerability: the look of a boy trapped in a man’s body. In “Rite,” set to jazz music by Ambrose Akinmusire, Mr. Abreu reveals a newfound maturity and power. And Mr. Roberts offers an arresting final image: The musicians, joining Mr. Abreu in the water, play the final note.

But in both this film and Ms. Miller’s, the use of the pool feels obvious and facile; I kept thinking of Eiko and Koma, the Japanese dance artists — and masters of site-specific work — who, in 2011, performed here, using the reflecting pool as a way, in part, to explore the sensation of surrender.

Mr. Peck succumbs to something else in “Thank You, New York”: sentimentality. The opening features images of the city alongside video portraits of the cast — Georgina Pazcoguin, Christopher Grant, Sara Mearns and Taylor Stanley — expressing their love for it in voice-overs. “New York, especially, now is a phoenix just waiting to rise from the ashes,” Ms. Pazcoguin says. “I know it. I can feel it. I can feel the embers, I can feel the energy.”

They do gas on, staring into the camera with lingering gazes or off into the distance. Woven throughout are images of the skyline, the Statue of Liberty, a street of outdoor diners. And then it gets worse. The music starts: a reworked version of the song “Thank You, New York” by Chris Thile.

In different locations, the dancers let loose: Mr. Stanley, at Riverside Park, sways this way and that while pausing to raise his eyes and arms to the treacly lyrics “Reaching up for stars that we’ll never see.” To the sound of “Mmmm,” he bends his knees and gives a little swivel.

Mr. Grant glides across the handball courts at Brooklyn Bridge Park with fervent footwork while Ms. Pazcoguin, atop the company’s theater at Lincoln Center, dashes to a corner of the roof and stares at the Metropolitan Opera: so near and yet so far.

In terms of their expansive, passionate dancing, the women definitely have an edge: Both Ms. Pazcoguin and Ms. Mearns, who is bathed in darkness while flittering across the pavement of a Chinatown street, never hold back. It’s true on film, too.

But this film is not a keeper for the pandemic time capsule. It is yet another sneaker ballet from Mr. Peck in the manner of Jerome Robbins, though without his subtle hand. Midway, it shifts into an unintentional comedy as the lyrics press on: “Thank you, New York, may I have another/Dance with you upon the winds of change.”

The music creates some earworm trauma. (And for whatever reason, I can’t get Taylor Swift’s “Welcome to New York” out of my head, either.) But while the sentiments behind Mr. Peck’s film are clear — we miss New York, and we miss dance — this love letter doesn’t deliver.



No.1 article:
Vienna attack: two men hailed for helping wounded

Vienna shooting: what we know so far

Mikail Ozen and Recep Tayyip Gultekin praised for courage and for video appealing for unity of all religions 

Vienna shooting: what we know so far

Two young Austrians have been hailed for their courage following the deadly gun attack in the capital, Vienna, after footage of them intervening to aid wounded people including a policeman spread across social media.

A video shot from a nearby building shows the pair running to a metro station exit and helping panicked passers-by to take cover as gunshots were still echoing down the street.

On Tuesday the interior ministry confirmed, without naming the two friends, that they had helped during the attack late on Monday carried out by a radicalised young Vienna-born man who held joint Austrian and North Macedonian citizenship.

The assailant killed four people before being shot dead by police.

Mikail Ozen and Recep Tayyip Gultekin, both Austrian citizens from Turkish backgrounds, had planned to “drink a last coffee” together at bustling Schwedenplatz before the country’s coronavirus lockdown came into effect, they said in a video posted online immediately after the attack.

The first shots could be heard even as they arrived at the busy square by the river to find “people lying on the ground covered in blood”, Ozen recalled.

They went to help a panicked older woman who was looking for a place to hide – only to see a wounded policeman lying on the ground.

“We couldn’t act as if we hadn’t seen him,” Ozen said. “We ran and carried him to the ambulance” by supporting him under his shoulders as the gunfire continued.

The two semi-professional martial arts practitioners issued an appeal for unity between “Jews, Christians and Muslims” that was picked up by many Austrian media outlets.

“We’re Muslims of Turkish origin, we hate any kind of terrorism. We’re with Austria, with Vienna, we respect Austria,” they said.

Turkish media reported that President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan had called the pair to congratulate them.

• This article was amended on 4 November 2020 to clarify that the suspect was Austria-born and held both Austrian and North Macedonian citizenship.





No.2 article:
Italy fears 'tsunami' of coronavirus patients – as it happened

 This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Here is a quick recap of the main developments from around the world:

Brazil reported 11,843 additional confirmed cases of coronavirus in the past 24 hours, and 243 deaths, the health ministry said on Tuesday. The country has now registered 5,566,049 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 160,496, according to ministry data, in the world’s most fatal outbreak outside the United States. 

White House scientific adviser Dr Deborah Birx warned the United States is entering a new “deadly phase” of the coronavirus pandemic, and urged an “aggressive” approach to containing its spread, Jessica Glenza reports.

Birx gave the warning in a written memo delivered to top administration officials on Monday. It is a direct contradiction of one of Donald Trump’s central, and false, closing campaign messages – that the US is “rounding the corner” on the pandemic.

“We are entering the most concerning and most deadly phase of this pandemic,” Birx wrote in the memo, first reported by the Washington Post.

She continued: 

Cases are rapidly rising in nearly 30% of all USA counties, the highest number of county hotspots we have seen with this pandemic. Half of the United States is in the red or orange zone for cases despite flat or declining testing.

The memo came as Trump gathered hundreds at in-person rallies in key swing states, and warned that his political rival Joe Biden would lock down the country again.

“This is not about lockdowns – it hasn’t been about lockdowns since March or April,” Birx said. “It’s about an aggressive, balanced approach that is not being implemented.”

Americans need “consistent messaging about uniform use of masks, physical distancing and hand washing, with profound limitation on indoor gatherings especially with family and friends,” she wrote.

Full story here:

The UK government said a further 397 people had died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 as of Tuesday, bringing the government’s tally to 47,250.

The figure is more than seven times the death toll of 54 announced on 23 March when the first national lockdown began. While the Tuesday total is often larger because of a delay in reporting deaths over the weekend, this week’s nevertheless marks the highest daily increase since 27 May when 422 people were reported as having died.

Separate figures published by the UK’s statistics agencies for deaths where Covid-19 has been mentioned on the death certificate, together with additional data on deaths that have occurred in recent days, show there have now been just under 63,000 deaths involving Covid-19 in the UK.

The government said that, as of 9am on Tuesday, there had been a further 20,018 lab-confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK, bringing the total number of cases to 1,073,882.

Separate government figures show there were 10,377 Covid-19 patients in hospital in England on Tuesday, up from 8,171 a week ago, while 952 were in ventilation beds, up from 742 a week ago.

A total of 1,280 patients with confirmed Covid-19 were admitted to hospitals in England on Sunday, the latest figure available, compared with 1,186 a week earlier.

The UK government’s data dashboard is here.

Europe passed a bleak milestone on Tuesday after reporting more than 11 million coronavirus cases, as Austria and Greece became the latest countries on the continent to impose shutdowns.

Still reeling from a deadly shooting spree in the streets of Vienna on Monday evening, Austria went into partial lockdown while Greece shut down major cities.

They joined Belgium, France, Germany and Ireland in re-imposing tough curbs on people’s lives in an echo of last spring as the virus that first emerged in China at the end of 2019 shows no sign of abating.

Meanwhile the Netherlands extended a partial shutdown to museums, cinemas and zoos as the government said new cases were not slowing quickly enough (see 7.05pm.).

Europe has now registered 11,008,465 infections and almost 285,000 deaths according to an AFP tally of official sources on Tuesday.

France’s daily Covid-19 death toll rose by 854 on Tuesday, an increase unseen since 15 April, while the number of people hospitalised for the disease went up by more than a 1,000 for the fifth time in nine days.

And if the number of new infections, at 36,330, was sharply down versus Monday’s all-time high of 52,518, the seven-day moving average of additional cases, which evens out reporting irregularities, reached a record for a second day in a row, at 43,438.

France reinstated a one-month national lockdown on Friday to try and contain the resurgence of the pandemic but it generally takes two weeks for restrictive measures to have some effect.

Authorities could nonetheless reimpose a night curfew on Paris and possibly the surrounding region in the coming days amid frustration that too many people are ignoring lockdown rules.

The cumulative number of cases now totals 1,502,763, the fifth-highest in the world, and the death toll stands at 38,289, the seventh-highest globally.

The sharp rise of the daily death toll is in part due to the fact the nursing homes fatalities are taken in account twice a week, on Tuesdays and on Fridays.

The number of hospitalisations is now at 26,265, a figure multiplied by almost six since an August 29 low of 4,530 and getting closer to the 14 April peak of 32,292.

France’s first lockdown, imposed between 17 March and 11 May, had been decided to prevent the hospital system from being overwhelmed.

The number of people in intensive care units increased by 148, to 3,878, a six-month high but still some way from the 8 April peak of 7,148.

Hungary will close bars and entertainment venues and impose a night-time curfew as of midnight on Tuesday to curb a fast spread of coronavirus infections, the prime minister Viktor Orban said in a video posted on his Facebook page.

Orban said the government would introduce a “special legal order” as of midnight and would ask parliament to extend it by 90 days. He said the measures were needed to prevent hospitals reaching capacity by mid-December.

Schools remain open as well as all shops and restaurants and soccer games will continue to be played in front of thousands of spectators nationwide.

Trying to minimise further harm to the recession-hit economy, Orban’s nationalist government has so far refrained from imposing strict lockdown measures.

From Monday, those violating rules on wearing face masks risk stiff fines, with offending restaurants and shops to be closed by authorities if necessary.

Last week the National Medical Chamber called on the government to limit the opening hours of restaurants and reimpose special shopping hours for the elderly as the number of patients with Covid-19 rises. These measures have not been taken.

Hungary reported 3,989 new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, its highest single-day tally, while the daily death toll also rose to a record high of 84. The total death toll rose to 1,973 and the number of patients treated in hospitals jumped to 4,767 from 4,417 on Monday.

The Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte has ordered extra lockdown measures to slow the spread of the coronavirus in the Netherlands, and said the government is also considering curfews and school closures.

The new measures, which include a ban on public meetings of more than two people not in the same family, were imposed amid signs the epidemic had reached a second peak.

Rutte said in a televised press conference:

The number of new cases is falling, but not quickly enough. 

The measures go into effect on Wednesday for two weeks. Rutte said other measures will remain in place through mid-December.

Bars and restaurants in the Netherlands were closed except for takeaway and delivery in a partial lockdown on 13 October to slow a second wave of infections. Public gatherings were then limited to four people.

Rutte on Tuesday said museums, theatres, cinemas, zoos and amusement parks will also have to close.

The Netherlands joins the UK, France, Germany and several smaller European countries in restricting gatherings and people’s movements in recent weeks.

On Tuesday the National Institute for Health reported 64,087 new cases over the past week, down from 67,542 the week before, the first time weekly numbers have declined since August.

Hospitals are near capacity because of a surge in patients with Covid-19, numbers of which are continuing to climb, and the government is under pressure to ease the strain on the healthcare system.

Here’s a quick recap of the latest coronavirus developments from around the world:

Baroness Dido Harding, the under-pressure head of England’s NHS track and trace, said the system needs to improve during a second coronavirus lockdown if the nation is to recover.

In an interview conducted at the CBI’s virtual annual conference on Tuesday, she said that the main problem was finding and testing people who had Covid but displayed no symptoms.

Every country is grappling with the same problem. Despite everyone’s best efforts and all of the work of our team in NHS Test and Trace to be the second line of defence, the virus is spreading too rapidly and too widely.

As we go into another really challenging period for us as a country, it is time for the organisation that I lead to take the next big leap forward.

We will be focusing on improving NHS Test and Trace so that when England emerges from lockdown we are better able to live with Covid.

Harding has faced criticism for the performance of the six month tracing system which last month contacted less than 60% of contacts of infected patients. Boris Johnson last week expressed confidence in Harding but said the system must improve.

Asked about the possibility of a testing “moonshot” as suggested by Johnson, Harding says she could not estimate how many people will be tested by the Spring. “I really don’t know, the medium-term for T&amp;T is three weeks.

“It is too early to give a sense of the potential as far away as the Spring,” she said.

She emphasised that test and trace was only one part of the government’s armoury to tackle coronavirus. ““There is no silver bullet... hands, face, space, we need to get better at that, test &amp; trace will get better, but on their own those two will not be enough,” she said.

Harding is facing demands from senior Tories including Sir Bernard Jenkin that she should resign from the post.

It emerged on Tuesday that the prime minister and health secretary are being sued for giving Tories including Harding key public sector roles without any open competition or proper process,

The Good Law Project and Runnymede Trust have launched legal proceedings against the government’s repeated appointment of individuals who are connected with senior members of the Conservative Party – without advertising these roles.

Governments in predominantly wealthy countries are negotiating to buy nearly 8.8bn doses of prospective Covid-19 vaccines in a “frenzy of deals” that could mean many poor countries would not get access to immunisation until at least 2024, a report says.

None of the 320-plus potential vaccines in development have been approved for use, but countries have already struck advance purchasing agreements for 3.73bn doses of the most promising candidates, with negotiations underway for another 5m doses, the study by Duke University’s global health innovation centre calculated.

However, manufacturers will only be able to produce so much of the successful candidates, with researchers estimating it could take three to four years to supply enough vaccine to immunise the global population. That means many wealthy countries may be able to vaccinate their entire populations several times over before most people in low-income countries are immunised, the report said.

Andrea Taylor, an assistant director at the Duke centre, said:

Countries are acting in their own interests, which makes senses.

The problem it leads to is a pattern of behaviour globally where we are limited in the number of doses we can produce in the first year or two … And so many are getting taken off the market and snatched up and reserved for high-income countries, leaving potentially very little for low- and middle-income countries.

France has reported 36,330 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, well below the 52,518 record set on Monday, but the 854 daily death toll linked to the disease was the highest since 15 April.

That tally was double Monday’s 416 figure and the total number of fatalities now stands at 38,289.

The cumulative number of cases now totals 1,502,763, the fifth-highest in the world. 





No.3 article:
Data reveals highest daily increase in deaths registered in five months while lab-confirmed cases go up by 20,018 

A further 397 people have been reported as having died in the UK within 28 days of testing positive for coronavirus, the highest daily increase in Covid-related deaths registered in five months.

While the Tuesday tally each week tends to be higher owing to a delay in reporting deaths over the weekend, the latest figure is nevertheless the highest recorded since 422 people were reported as having died on 27 May.

It is more than seven times the daily toll recorded on 23 March when the first national lockdown began, and takes the government’s official coronavirus death toll for the UK since the pandemic began to 47,250.

However, separate figures published by the UK’s statistics agencies for deaths where Covid-19 has been mentioned on the death certificate, together with additional data on deaths that have occurred in recent days, show there have now been just under 63,000 deaths involving Covid-19 in the UK.

The government said that, as of 9am on Tuesday, there had been a further 20,018 lab-confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK, bringing the total number of cases to 1,073,882.

On Thursday, new national lockdown restrictions are due to come into effect across England and will last for at least four weeks in a bid to curb the resurgent spread of the virus.

Under the new rules, people will be asked to stay at home as much as possible, unless for specific reasons including work and education. Households will not be allowed to mix indoors or in private gardens unless they are in each other’s support bubble, while pubs, restaurants and non-essential shops must close.

Data on patients with Covid-19 is not comparable across the UK due to differences in the way the figures are reported.

Separate government figures showed there were 10,377 patients with Covid-19 in hospital in England on Tuesday, up from 8,171 a week ago, while 952 were in ventilation beds, up from 742 a week ago.

A total of 1,280 patients with confirmed Covid-19 were admitted to hospitals in England on Sunday, the latest figure available, compared with 1,186 a week earlier.

Meanwhile, in Scotland, 1,225 patients were in hospital with Covid-19 as of Monday, up from 1,052 a week earlier, with 93 in ventilation beds, up from 90 a week earlier.

In Wales, the number of patients with Covid-19 in hospital reached 866 as of Monday, up from 654 a week earlier, with 57 in ventilation beds, up from 51 a week earlier.

In Northern Ireland, 379 patients with Covid-19 were in hospital as of Sunday, down from 431 a week earlier, with 42 in ventilation beds as of Monday, up from 30 a week earlier.





No.4 article:
Police attend Zizzi restaurant in Bristol over alleged Covid test breach

Investigation into reports of staff ordered to go to work while awaiting virus test results

A Zizzi restaurant near Bristol was closed after police investigated reports of staff being allegedly ordered to come into work while awaiting coronavirus test results.

One staff member was also purportedly warned, incorrectly, that they would not receive statutory sick pay of £92 a week if they stayed home after they expressed anxiety over working due to the suspected cases.

The Italian chain restaurant in Clifton village reopened on Monday after deep cleaning following its closure on Thursday afternoon, after staff had raised the alarm to police.

A sign on the door over the weekend said: “Due to a technical issue we are now closed. We do apologise for any inconvenience caused.”

Avon and Somerset police said: “We received a call on Thursday 29 October amid reports of two members of staff at Zizzi’s restaurant in Clifton failing to self-isolate the previous day. Two officers from our Covid team attended and the premises was shut.

“We have made Public Health England and the local authority’s environmental health team aware.” There was no suggestion of any contraventions of Covid guidelines at other Zizzi branches across the UK.

A source familiar with the matter told the Guardian: “A manager told staff to go to work while awaiting test results. One staff member was also told if they didn’t go to work they wouldn’t receive statutory sick pay. One asymptomatic staff member received a positive test result text while they were at work and didn’t go home.”

They said a member of kitchen staff had also been at work exhibiting symptoms of a fever, but was not sent home. Another asymptomatic person continued to work after their partner had tested positive.

The source said the events raised serious questions over the Zizzi branch’s treatment of staff and its apparent lack of consideration about customer wellbeing.

The managing director, Harry Heeley, said in a company update video on Friday: “It is key to remember that our focus as a team and as a business remains to protect the Zizzi team and business through these challenging and difficult times.”

He added: “We must not forget that the majority of our sites are performing comparatively well, demonstrating that where people are able to visit us they still love our brands and our teams, and will keep coming back.”

The Azzurri Group, owner of Zizzi, Ask Italian and Coco di Mama, was taken over by the investment firm TowerBrook Capital Partners from the UK private-equity firm Bridgepoint in July.

Across the group, 75 restaurants were subsequently closed after cost-cutting, with 1,200 jobs lost.

A spokesperson for Zizzi said: “We have clear Covid measures in place to protect the wellbeing of our customers and our teams, however on this occasion our strict protocols have not been adhered to.

“As soon as we discovered this, we acted decisively to voluntarily close the restaurant, with all team members self-isolating, and there is an ongoing internal investigation into the mistakes that were made.”

Zizzi has not been asked to provide customer details from NHS test and trace or public health to help trace people who visited the restaurant last week. This may be because it has not been identified as the location of a potential Covid outbreak.

A Bristol city council spokesperson said: “Environmental health officers are working closely with the police and Public Health England to ensure the premises at Zizzi’s Clifton is Covid-secure and adhering to test and trace and self-isolation requirements.”

• This article was amended on 6 November 2020 because an earlier version referred to TowerBrookCapital Partners as a “US investment firm”. The firm is headquartered in New York and London.





No.5 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

England’s chief medical officer says proposal is dangerously flawed and impractical

A high-profile proposal to avoid lockdown by letting the coronavirus run wild in the young and healthy while shielding the most vulnerable is dangerously flawed and operationally impractical, according to England’s chief medical officer.

Prof Chris Whitty told MPs on the science and technology committee that the Great Barrington declaration, put forward by three scientists at Oxford, Harvard and Stanford universities, would lead to a very large number of deaths and was unlikely to achieve such widespread immunity that the epidemic would fizzle out naturally.

Speaking at the hearing with Patrick Vallance, the government’s chief scientific adviser, Whitty said he expected the month-long lockdown for England that Boris Johnson announced at the weekend to have the desired effect of bringing the R value below 1 across the country, causing the number of cases to fall.

The scientists, who were called before the committee to explain the evidence behind the latest lockdown, said that left unchecked, hospital admissions would exceed levels seen in April, a situation Whitty described as “entirely realistic”.

Questioned on England’s strategy for lifting the lockdown, Whitty said he expected changes to be made to the three-tier system imposed in October. Vallance said further measures would be needed until the spring to keep infections down.

“We’re likely to need degrees of social distancing and other measures over the course of the winter. It’s only really come springtime and beyond when other things may start to allow some more relaxation,” Vallance said. Vaccines, new drugs and improved testing would all be important for restrictions to be eased, he added.

His comments came as Dido Harding, the under-pressure head of NHS test and trace, conceded the system needed to improve during the second lockdown if the country was to recover.

Lady Harding has faced criticism for the performance of the six-month tracing system, which last month contacted less than 60% of infected people’s contacts.

In an interview conducted at the CBI’s virtual annual conference on Tuesday, she said that the main problem was finding and testing people who had Covid but displayed no symptoms.

“Every country is grappling with the same problem. Despite everyone’s best efforts and all of the work of our team in NHS test and trace to be the second line of defence, the virus is spreading too rapidly and too widely,” she said.

“As we go into another really challenging period for us as a country, it is time for the organisation that I lead to take the next big leap forward. We will be focusing on improving NHS test and trace so that when England emerges from lockdown we are better able to live with Covid.”

MPs on the science and technology committee earlier pressed Vallance to explain why he had shown out-of-date modelling from Cambridge University and Public Health England at the prime minister’s announcement of the new lockdown on Saturday. The modelling suggested that deaths could reach 4,000 a day in the coming weeks if nothing were done, a figure the Labour MP Graham Stringer said “frightened a lot of people around the country”.

The modelling was based on the growth of the epidemic before the tier system was brought in and gave unrealistically high numbers of deaths.

Vallance defended the decision and said it was one scenario that informed thinking about a reasonable worst-case scenario. More recent results from the Cambridge model point to a much lower daily death rate, bringing it in line with other models that suggest they could reach about 2,000 a day.

The Great Barrington declaration calls on governments to protect the most vulnerable and let the rest of society return to life as normal. The aim is to let the virus spread in the young and healthy who build up enough immunity that the epidemic grinds to a halt.

callout-coronavirus

Whitty, however, said that with the vast majority of infectious diseases, herd immunity was never achieved naturally, and that it was “simply impractical” to believe vulnerable people in the community, care homes, hospitals and elsewhere could be shielded.

Another concern, he said, was that the strategy assumed that “very large numbers of people would inevitably die” unless all vulnerable people could be identified and isolated perfectly for several years. “Other than that, it no doubt has some merits,” he said.

Vallance agreed with the assessment and said Sage, the government’s expert committee, had reviewed the Great Barrington proposal and found “fatal flaws in the argument”.





No.6 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Expected move is met with fierce criticism from campaigners and human rights groups

Protections for protesters are set to be removed from the coronavirus rules under the second national lockdown, it has emerged, provoking anger from human rights groups and campaigners.

An exemption that permits demonstrations to take place with additional conditions designed to mitigate the spread of the virus is expected to be omitted from fresh regulations being drawn up for the lockdown that will commence from this Thursday.

There have been a series of a high-profile protests since the pandemic erupted in the UK including rallies for racial equality led by the Black Lives Matter movement, racist counter-demonstrations and marches against lockdown measures directed by conspiracy theorists and extremists.

While there will be no explicit ban on protests in the regulations, the removal of the exemption will render organising large-scale lawful protest almost impossible.

The expected move, first revealed by the Times, has been met with fierce criticism from campaigners and human rights groups.

Tyrek Morris, the co-founder of All Black Lives UK, a youth-led campaign group born out of the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement, said: “With regards to protesting, and protesting through the pandemic, one thing that is clear, we have no support from the government in any way shape or form.”

Morris said protests organised by All Black Lives UK had faced a heavy handed response, despite meeting the criteria set out by the exemption.

“Since the BLM movement arose again, the government has been completely against our protest, against protest full stop, and at every chance possible have tried to stop us. But we’ve always found a way around it. They could stop us protesting, but they can’t stop us fighting for our own rights.”

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Morris said criticism of the current government was implicit in the All Black Lives UK protests. “We have criticism for the way the government has mishandled the coronavirus pandemic, for how black people are more likely to suffer from this pandemic, we’ve been very vocal about Boris Johnson and his racist tendencies, his previous comments. So this does not come as a shock to me. They don’t want to hear us talk.”

Rosalind Comyn, the policy and campaigns manager at Liberty, the human rights group, said: “We should all be able to stand up for what we believe in. In a healthy democracy protest is one way we do that, and that’s why any measures which stop people expressing dissent are deeply worrying and should be treated with suspicion.

“We have always supported proportionate measures to protect lives, but people must not be criminalised en masse for voicing opposition to government action – even in the context of a pandemic. What’s more, parliament has been sidelined at every turn of this government’s pandemic response, making protest even more important than ever to ensure everyone’s voices are heard.

“The government and police must commit to uphold their duty to facilitate protest so we can stand up to power.”

A spokesperson for Extinction Rebellion UK, which has staged climate protests since the pandemic outbreak, said: “Only a government keenly aware of its epic failing would bring in such extreme restrictions to protest.

“These are the actions of a government not willing to listen to its citizens. Studies over the last year have found that protests held outdoors do not lead to spikes in infection rates. This is clearly a political choice at a time when the government needs to be held to account on many fronts.”

When the regulations were refreshed for the new three-tiered system in England, the wording explicitly said a clause about gatherings of more than six was applicable to protests.

The clause in effect permitted individuals to gather in a group of more than six for the purposes of protest as long as the following rules were satisfied:

The gathering has been organised by a business, a charity, a benevolent or philanthropic institution, a public body, or a political body.

The organiser of the protest has carried out a risk assessment that meets the requirements of the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999.

The organiser has taken all reasonable steps to limit the risk of transmission of coronavirus, in line with the risk assessment and with any relevant government guidance.

But while the clause remains in the new lockdown regulations, which were published late on Tuesday, the explicit reference to “protests” has vanished.

callout-coronavirus

Whitehall sources told the Guardian the change was spearheaded by the Covid-19 taskforce and was designed to make the rules simpler.

But a senior police source told the Guardian they feared being “left in the middle” by any dropping of the protections for protests and also would rather there was a clear-cut regulation, rather than something vague and open to interpretation. “It’s going to be difficult,” the source said.

Police are saying they are already under strain from trying to impose existing Covid regulations, with regular crime returning to normal levels, having plunged during the first lockdown.

A Home Office spokesperson said: “The right to peaceful protest is one of the cornerstones of our democracy. In these unprecedented circumstances, any gathering risks spreading the disease, leading to more deaths, so it is vital we all play our part in controlling the virus.

“People must follow the rules on meeting with others, which apply to all gatherings and therefore protests too. As they have done throughout the pandemic, the police and local authorities will engage, explain and encourage people to follow the rules before moving on to enforce the law.”





No.7 article:
Zimbabwe journalist Hopewell Chin&#x27;ono arrested again

Anti-corruption campaigner detained for allegedly breaking bail conditions

Hopewell Chin’ono, the Zimbabwean journalist and anti-corruption campaigner has has been rearrested for allegedly breaking bail conditions.

Police and officials took Chin’ono from his home in the capital, Harare, on Tuesday evening.

Legal sources said he had been charged with contempt of court relating to an alleged breach of bail conditions, an allegation that they described as “nonsense”.

Chin’ono, a respected documentary-maker who has worked for a number of international organisations, was first arrested in July after publishing a series of investigations into corruption in Zimbabwe. He was held in an overcrowded cell in a high-security prison for almost six weeks pending trial on charges of inciting violence.

On his release, Chin’ono was effectively banned from using social media for anything that could be seen as critical of the ruling Zanu-PF government.

The arrest was part of a wide-ranging crackdown on dissent in Zimbabwe, during which between 50 and 100 opposition party officials, writers, labour activists and others arrested. Detainees included the award-winning author Tsitsi Dangarembga.

The new arrest is thought to have been prompted by a tweet sent five days ago suggesting the chief justice of Zimbabwe, Luke Malaba, had intervened to deny Chin’ono bail.

Malaba, who was appointed by the former ruler Robert Mugabe and is seen as a government loyalist, has been the centre of an intense row over judicial independence in Zimbabwe, with judges accusing him of systematic efforts to influence their decisions and restrict their autonomy.

Earlier this year, Malaba was forced to withdraw a directive telling Zimbabwean judges that their judgments needed to be approved before being handed down.

Judges last week complained in an open letter that many “are now so afraid of their own jobs that they consciously and subconsciously make decisions that they consider ‘safe’, even if these do not accord with the law”.

The US embassy in Harare said the arrest of the respected documentary-maker was worrying.

“Reports that authorities have again arrested @daddyhope for speaking out against corruption and defending fundamental freedoms raise serious concerns,” the embassy said on Twitter.

The US, UK, EU and others condemned the wave of repression in July. Local clergy also published a scathing open letter accusing the country’s president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, and his government of an abuse of power. Images of political detainees being led to court in leg irons caused outrage.

Chin’ono faces a lengthy prison sentence. The initial charges against him were based on a series of tweets he sent to encourage attendance at an opposition rally that was due to take place on 31 July. The authorities banned the protest, citing Covid-19 regulations, and deployed the army and riot police to disperse any demonstrators.

Chin’ono was eventually freed on stringent bail conditions in September. He then gave a series of media interviews in which he described horrific conditions in prison.

Mnangagwa came to power in 2017 following the military-led ousting of Robert Mugabe, whose dictatorial rule lasted almost 40 years. A former spy chief known as the Crocodile, he promised political and economic reform leading to major investment from overseas.

The economic situation has since deteriorated, however, plunging millions into poverty. Inflation is running at more than 800%, and basic foodstuffs are often difficult to obtain.





No.8 article:




No.9 article:
Wealthy countries already have agreements for 3.73bn doses, with another 5bn under negotiation, study finds

Governments in predominantly wealthy countries are negotiating to buy nearly 8.8bn doses of prospective Covid-19 vaccines in a “frenzy of deals” that could mean many poor countries would not get access to immunisation until at least 2024, a report says.

None of the 320-plus potential vaccines in development have been approved for use, but countries have already struck advance purchasing agreements for 3.73bn doses of the most promising candidates, with negotiations underway for another 5bn doses, the study by Duke University’s global health innovation centre calculated.

However, manufacturers will only be able to produce so much of the successful candidates, with researchers estimating it could take three to four years to supply enough vaccine to immunise the global population. That means many wealthy countries may be able to vaccinate their entire populations several times over before most people in low-income countries are immunised, the report said.

“Countries are acting in their own interests, which makes senses,” said Andrea Taylor, an assistant director at the Duke centre. “The problem it leads to is a pattern of behaviour globally where we are limited in the number of doses we can produce in the first year or two … And so many are getting taken off the market and snatched up and reserved for high-income countries, leaving potentially very little for low- and middle-income countries.”

The World Health Organization has overseen the creation of a scheme called Covax in which signatory countries can access an equal share of successful vaccine candidates – first for healthcare and security workers and eventually for a minimum of 20% of their populations.

But many wealthy countries had invested in the Covax facility and struck their own deals directly with pharmaceutical companies, Taylor said, cutting down on the pool of doses that would be equitably distributed. “They’re giving with one hand and taking with the other,” Taylor said.

Ethiopia, for example, will receive enough doses of successful vaccines to cover 20% of its population under Covax, but has not struck any other side deals, meaning most of its citizens could go unvaccinated for years after British residents have been immunised.

Another issue facing poorer countries is that some lack cold-chain supply infrastructure and so will be unable to access vaccine candidates that require storage in freezing temperatures, or others that need to be stored in high heat.

The first hundreds of millions of doses of a Johnson &amp; Johnson candidate that can be stored for several months at normal fridge temperatures – easing its rollout in poorer countries – have already been purchased in large numbers by the US, UK, EU and Canada, the report said.

The study confirmed that Covax has purchased enough vaccine so far to immunise about 250 million people – well short of the 1.14 billion people it has pledged to cover.

Australia, which has agreed to purchase more than 80m doses of prospective vaccines, is one of the few wealthy countries so far to pledge to share its supply, in this case with smaller neighbouring countries, such as Vanuatu and Fiji.

Taylor said the report was intended as a warning and that the situation could be alleviated if manufacturing capacity improved significantly or wealthy countries agreed to make their excess supplies available through the Covax facility.

Public health experts have said the pandemic could be needlessly prolonged by “vaccine nationalism”, with countries hoarding their supplies or placing export controls on critical equipment or ingredients.





No.10 article:
Austria terror attacker ‘pretended he had given up jihadism’

Kujtim Fejzulai deceived mentors in deradicalisation programme, minister says

An Islamic State-supporting gunman who killed four people and injured 23 others in an attack in central Vienna on Monday night deliberately “deceived” his mentors in a deradicalisation programme to feign a renunciation of jihadism, Austria’s interior minister has said.

The 20-year-old dual Austrian and North Macedonian citizen, named as Kujtim Fejzulai, was shot dead by police nine minutes after opening fire in the Austrian capital’s first district at 8pm.

His victims were “an elderly man, an elderly woman, a young male passerby and a waitress”, according to Austria’s chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, who praised the bravery of a police officer shot in the attack and who is in a critical but stable condition.

Twenty-three people were injured with gunshot and knife wounds, of whom seven were in a critical condition, Vienna’s hospital association said late on Tuesday night.

Austria’s president, Alexander van der Bellen, said the nation’s tears were flowing for the victims and their relatives. He said the attack had targeted “life in a liberal democracy, which terrorists clearly hate deeply”.

On Tuesday, the city centre remained closed off, with 1,000 police officers patrolling the streets.

The attacker had been armed with an automatic rifle, a handgun and a machete, and had been wearing a fake suicide vest. He had posted a photograph of himself with the weapons on his Instagram account before the attack, according to the interior minister, Karl Nehammer. Late on Tuesday Isis claimed responsibility for the attack in a statement by its Amaq News Agency posted on Telegram.

Fourteen people associated with the assailant have been detained for questioning in searches on 18 properties in and near Vienna. After conflicting reports overnight, Nehammer said on Tuesday afternoon that there was no evidence so far of a second assailant.

Police in Switzerland arrested two men aged 18 and 34 over possible links to the attacker in the city of Winterthur about 10km from Zurich.

Swiss justice minister, Karin Keller-Sutter said the men were “obviously friends” with Fejzulai and said the three had met in person but did not say when.

“The two men were arrested on Tuesday afternoon in coordination with the Austrian authorities,” Zurich cantonal police said. “The extent to which there was a connection between the two arrested persons and the alleged assassin is currently the subject of ongoing clarifications and investigations which are being carried out by the responsible authorities.”

The attacker, born in Mödling, south of Vienna, developed a strong interest in political Islam as a teenager and eventually hatched plans to join Isis in Syria. He was deported from Turkey to Austria after a failed attempt in September 2018 to cross the border into Syria and was sentenced to 22 months in prison on 25 April 2019.

The sentence – reduced in keeping with an Austrian law covering the rights of 18- to 20-year-olds – was suspended on 5 December under the condition he would be regularly monitored by probation services and a deradicalisation programme that works with the Austrian justice ministry.

Nehammer said at a press conference on Tuesday afternoon that the terrorist had managed to deceive his mentors in such a way that no early warning signs pointing to his radicalisation had been registered.

“We are seeing a fault line in our system,” said Nehammer, of the conservative Austrian People’s party (ÖVP). “There was a premature release of a radicalised person.”

The young man had deliberately created the impression that he was eager to reintegrate into Austrian society in his meetings with the deradicalisation programme, Nehammer said, “all while being focused on destroying the system”.

An attempt to revoke Fejzulai’s Austrian citizenship had also stalled because of lack of evidence proving terrorist activity, the interior minister said.

“Fact is: the terrorist managed to deceive the judiciary’s deradicalisation programme … We need to evaluate and optimise the system on the side of the judiciary.”

The Derad deradicalisation programme is a Vienna-based association staffed by 13 mentors who work with individuals who are either suspected of having become radicalised or have already been sentenced for an association with terror groups.

One of the appeals of deradicalisation programmes is that they allow authorities to monitor individuals who are considered a potential risk to society for a longer period than if they were to simply sit out a prison sentence.

Derad’s director, Moussa Al-Hassan Diaw, said he rejected Austrian media reports that his programme had declared Kujtim F not to be threat and thus vouched for his release.

He said his organisation merely provided reports based on bi-monthly meetings with suspect individuals that a court could draw on. “Until a deradicalisation programme is stopped completely, there is always an element of risk,” said Al-Hassan Diaw.

The Austrian justice minister Alma Zadić, of the Green party, defended the judiciary’s monitoring programme, saying that the country’s Office for the Protection of the Constitution and Counterterrorism had been informed of Fejzulai’s release.

Kurz said the entire country had been the target of the attack. The chancellor called the murders “cold-blooded” and pledged that everything would be done to pursue those behind them.

“The enemy, the Islamist terror, wants to split our society, but we will give no space to this hatred,” he said. “Our enemies are not the members of a religious community, these are terrorists. This is not a fight between Christians and Muslims, or Austrians and migrants, but a fight between civilisation and barbarity.”

While Austria has not seen many high-profile jihadist terrorist attacks in recent years, the Alpine country has been a hub for extremist Islamist activity since the early 1990s, when Saudi Arabian and other Gulf organisations used it as a base for their operations supporting mujahideen fighters in Bosnia. The role was consolidated during subsequent conflicts in the Balkans, and revived in the early days of the Syrian civil war.

Hundreds of young Austrians travelled to Syria to fight between 2012 and 2014, their journeys and recruitment facilitated by a series of networks based in “Salafi enclaves” in Vienna, Graz and other cities that were eventually broken up by Austrian security services. The country eventually sent more fighters to Syria per capita of population than any other in Europe, except Belgium.

Austrian authorities launched a major crackdown, with key figures in the recruitment networks receiving lengthy prison sentences. However, problems with radicalisation have continued and there have been several attempted attacks, though some for unclear motives, over recent years. Many Austrian networks are closely linked to others in Germany, Switzerland and other neighbouring countries.

“Jihadi terrorism is not new to Austria but [in recent years] we have only seen low-profile attacks by people using any available weapon … and not able to acquire explosives or AK-47s. What was surprising was not that there was an attack was not surprising, but the way it was carried out,” said Johannes Saal, an expert in Austrian extremism at the University of Lucerne, Switzerland.





No.11 article:
Canada makes plan to evacuate its citizens from Hong Kong

Consul general in territory says contingency arrangements in place to bring 300,000 home

Canada has drawn up plans to evacuate hundreds of thousands of its citizens from Hong Kong if necessary, but officials have cautioned they can do little for pro-democracy activists seeking refuge from the Chinese authorities.

Jeff Nankivell, Canada’s consul general in Hong Kong and Macao, told a parliamentary committee the federal government had drafted plans to assist nearly 300,000 Canadians living in in the territory if the security situation deteriorated.

“We do have detailed plans in place and we have resources available and identified to cover a range of situations up to, and including, a situation where the urgent departure of a large number of Canadians would be necessary,” he said. 

“The likelihood of that kind of extreme scenario appears right now to be low, but it’s our job to plan for the most extreme situations.”

The potential need for evacuation plans was underlined by China’s decision in the summer to enact a controversial security measure. The law, which critics say has criminalised activism and dissent in Hong Kong, has stifled pro-democracy movements and had a chilling effect on media, education and politics.

Nankivell’s testimony is likely to further escalate tensions between China and Canada. After Ottawa expressed support for activists in Hong Kong, China’s ambassador to Canada, Cong Peiwu, said any “interference in China’s domestic affairs” could potentially jeopardise the “ the good health and safety” of Canadian citizens living in in the territory.

Canada’s prime minister, Justin Trudeau, quickly condemned the ambassador’s remarks, and accused China of “coercive diplomacy.”

Canada has plans for a large-scale evacuation, but Nankivell said his staff were unable to help asylum seekers looking for protection at the consulate.

“The global policy of Canada, similar to most other countries, is that our diplomatic missions, including consulates, do not accept applications of asylum at our offices from people who are in their own territory,” he said, adding that no one had yet tried to claim asylum.

In contrast to Canada’s evacuation plans, the UK has said it would extend immigration rights to Hong Kong residents who hold a British National Overseas (BNO) passport. There are currently 300,000 BNO passport holders – those who were born before the 1997 handover of the British territory – but as many as 3 million people could qualify.

China has criticised the plan. Its foreign ministry recently told the UK to “immediately correct its mistakes” and rescind the offer, according to Reuters.

The new visas would permit five-year entry, as opposed to the current six months, and applications open on 31 January. The UK has not yet said what measures are in place to aid its 30,000 citizens living in Hong Kong.





No.12 article:
The New East photo prize 2020 shortlist – in pictures

The winners will be announced to the public on 10 November. 

The biennial prize received over 700 entries this year from 26 New East countries. 

Calvert 22 Foundation and The Calvert Journal have announced the finalists of the New East photo prize 2020. This year marks the third edition of the competition, which celebrates contemporary photography from eastern Europe, the Balkans, Russia, and central Asia. The shortlist includes 11 photographers from Albania, Georgia, Hungary, Poland, Russia, and Uzbekistan. 

The winners will be announced to the public on 10 November. 

The biennial prize received over 700 entries this year from 26 New East countries. 





No.13 article:
Ugandan singer Bobi Wine arrested after confirmation as election candidate

Performer was dragged from his car and temporarily blinded by police with pepper spray

Bobi Wine, the popular Ugandan reggae singer and opposition presidential hopeful, was temporarily blinded by police when he was arrested in Kampala on Tuesday, moments after being successfully certified as a candidate in next year’s election.

Heavily armed police and army officers blocked Wine’s vehicle as he was leaving the Kyambogo University cricket grounds on the outskirts of the capital. They smashed the vehicle’s windows with a crowbar and bundled the 38-year-old into a waiting police van.

Wine, who is hoping to unseat Uganda’s long-time leader Yoweri Museveni, said police had directed pepper spray into his face amid violent scuffles with his supporters.

“We were abducted by the police and military … They were the ones that smashed my car,” the singer, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi Ssentamu, told supporters.

“They sprayed pepper spray in our eyes. I still can’t see properly. Very many people are in hospital in critical condition. This election is no election as usual – this is a revolutionary election. If it’s a boxing fight, it has begun.”

Authorities frequently accuse Wine of planning rallies that could disrupt public order, which he denies.

A police spokesperson said Wine had been planning an illegal procession that was broken up to preserve the flow of traffic and public order.

“He was forcefully removed from his vehicle, and a fracas ensued in the process of transferring him to the police vehicle. He was eventually safely delivered to his home in Magere [a neighbourhood of Kampala],” the spokesperson said.

Critics say President, Museveni, in power since 1986, increasingly depends on the armed forces to assert his authority.

Museveni, who was nominated as a candidate on Monday, said afterwards that his government would not tolerate the activities of enemies plotting chaos.

“They are planning all sorts of stupid things to disrupt the [election] process. The ones who want to disturb our peace, don’t try because we shall deal with you. Whoever tries will regret. Nobody should be intimidated by these crooks,” the 76-year-old politician said.

“I am already president and want to come back … The [ruling party] fought to bring peace in this country. Nobody has more guns than us. But we don’t scare people.”

The electoral commission has not fixed a date for the polls.

Wine is one of a new generation of politicians across Africa who are challenging long-time leaders, hoping to harness deep dissatisfaction among younger, more educated and often urban voters.

“We now enter the most critical phase of our liberation struggle!” Wine tweeted after having his candidacy certified.

He broke into formal politics in 2017 when he won a seat in Uganda’s national assembly, and has been since been badly assaulted and detained many times.

Those actions have reinforced a view among some Ugandans that the police serve at the behest of Museveni, who has rebuffed repeated calls to retire peacefully.

Museveni is eligible to seek another term next year after lawmakers removed constitutional age limits on the presidency. The former rebel leader’s party insists he remains its most popular member.

This east African country has never witnessed a peaceful transfer of power since independence in 1962.





No.14 article:
Russian &#x27;Sausage King&#x27; investigators find man handcuffed to bed

Discovery came during search of home of suspect linked to murder of Vladimir Marugov

An investigation into the crossbow murder of a Russian sausage magnate has taken a bizarre turn, as police searching a suspect’s home for clues instead found a man handcuffed to a bedpost.

Investigators said the man, whom they described as a pensioner, was being held captive and extorted to sign over his apartment, indicating a wider criminal ring behind the grisly murder of the oligarch Vladimir Marugov on Monday.

Police have arrested two suspects in connection with the killing of the “Sausage King”, which has prompted comparisons with violent attacks on entrepreneurs from Russia’s rough-and-tumble 1990s. But another suspect remains at large.

Marugov, 54, and his partner, whom Russian media have named as Sabina Gaziyeva, were in the sauna at his estate near Moscow when two masked attackers broke in, bound the pair with rope, and demanded money.

Gaziyeva managed to escape through a window and summon police. By the time they arrived at the house, however, Marugov had been shot dead and the killers had fled. The getaway car was later discovered in a nearby village. Inside it, police found masks, the crossbow used in the attack and several bolts.

Marugov was a prominent businessman who owned some of the country’s largest meat-processing plants, including one that translates as Meat Empire.

He had made headlines in 2018 for publicly feuding with his ex-wife, the poet Tatyana Marugova, over a divorce settlement. His son Alexander died in a motorcycle crash last year.

Investigators have arrested one of the two suspected attackers. A representative for Russia’s Investigative Committee said in a statement that he “acquired the crossbow in a shop in Moscow and was directly involved in the attack on the businessman”. The suspect, who has not been identified, has refused to cooperate with the investigation.

On Tuesday, investigators said they raided an apartment belonging to the suspect and discovered a pensioner handcuffed to a bedpost. The man told police he was being held against his will and had been pressured to sign over his Moscow apartment.

The man may have been under the influence of “a psychotropic substance”, the Russian news agency RIA Novosti reported. Police arrested another person at the scene who had apparently been guarding the prisoner.

The man was later identified by Russian state media as Alexei Zavgorodniy, a lawyer best known for representing a notorious mafia hitman in the 1990s. The contract killer Alexander Solonik, was better known as Sasha the Macedonian for his superior marksmanship with pistols in both hands (known as “Macedonian style” in Russian). Solonik was linked to dozens of killings and had escaped from prison three times before he was strangled to death by another well-known hitman, Alexander Pustovalov.

Investigators wrote that they believed the suspect in Marugov’s killing was also involved in defrauding Muscovites of their valuable apartments.

Police are still seeking a second murder suspect in the case.





No.15 article:
Italy working towards ‘light lockdown’ but medics worry hospitals could be overwhelmed

Italian doctors have urged the government to impose more aggressive measures to contain escalating infections over fears of a coronavirus “tsunami” on hospitals.

Giuseppe Conte’s government is working towards a “light lockdown” to avoid paralysing the country, Sandra Zampa, a health ministry undersecretary said before a meeting with regional presidents to thrash out an agreement that could see shutdowns only in badly affected and at-risk regions.

Other possible measures, expected to be finalised later on Tuesday, include a 9pm nationwide curfew, a ban on travel to at-risk regions, the closure of shopping centres at weekends and closure of museums.

For weeks, medics and scientists, including those advising the health ministry, have urged the government to enact tougher measures as infections escalated and hospitals came under strain.

“Our worry is that this second wave won’t be a coastal storm, but a tsunami that could overwhelm the national health system,” Filippo Anelli, the president of the Italian order of doctors, wrote on Facebook on Tuesday. “That’s why we’re asking the government for more aggressive measures.”

Anelli said hospital beds were filling up with Covid-19 patients, reducing the ability of hospitals to guarantee care to other patients.

“If we keep going like this, the situation could get out of control,” he added.

The number of people in intensive care with coronavirus has exceeded 2,000. Italian media reported in October that the government would evaluate another national lockdown if intensive care admissions eclipsed a 2,300 threshold. The daily infection rate has more than doubled since 17 October, rising by 28,244 on Tuesday. The death toll has also been increasing, with 353 more coronavirus fatalities recorded on Tuesday – the highest daily toll of the second wave so far.

Zampa said the new measures would be “tailor-made” to each region. Restrictions per region could be determined by the rate of Covid-19 transmission, the number of infections and people with symptoms and the availability of hospital beds.

“It will not be a rigid lockdown, but similar to the German model, light,” Zampa said.

Conte said on Monday that intensive care capacity would be at risk in 15 of Italy’s 20 regions within a month unless new measures were enacted. Tuesday’s decree will be fourth in less than a month. Last week, bars and restaurants were last week forced to close from 6pm, and gyms, cinemas and theatres closed completely, sparking protests across the country. Nightly curfews are already in place in regions including Lombardy, Piedmont, Lazio and Campania.

Conte has so far stopped short of ordering another national lockdown, leaving it up to regional leaders of badly-affected areas to impose one. However this provoked a battle as regional governors shied away from making unpopular decisions amid ongoing protests against restrictions.

Walter Ricciardi, a scientific adviser to Italy’s health ministry, told the Guardian on Monday that the government was “wasting time”.

“Like in other European countries, politicians haven’t had the courage to make prompt decisions at the right time,” he said. “Now, with every hour that passes we are moving even further towards a national lockdown.”





No.16 article:
Hurricane Eta lashes Nicaragua, raising fears of disastrous floods

Many thousands evacuated as storm moves inland, wrenching roofs off houses, downing trees and severing power lines in Puerto Cabezas

Hurricane Eta, an unusually powerful storm, has slammed into Nicaragua, bringing potentially disastrous flooding to one of the country’s poorest regions.

The heart of the storm begin to move inland on Tuesday, wrenching roofs off houses and causing rivers to overflow. In Puerto Cabezas on the Atlantic coast,trees were torn down and power lines were severed, plunging much of the city into darkness. About 10,000 people were in shelters in the city and an equal number in smaller towns across the region, according to city officials.

“We’re really afraid, there are fallen poles, there’s flooding, roofs torn off, some of the zinc on my house fell off,” Carmen Enríquez, a resident of Puerto Cabezas told Reuters.

Hurricane Eta quickly intensified on Monday to become a category four storm, with winds of up to 145mph, according to the US National Hurricane Center. The storm could bring up to 3ft of rain, causing “catastrophic, life-threatening flash flooding and river flooding, along with landslides in areas of higher terrain of Central America”, according to the NHC.

After pummeling Nicaragua, Eta is expected to head through Honduras, where it will weaken in the mountains before moving on to Belize. The northern indigenous regions directly in Eta’s path are some of Nicaragua’s poorest. Many people nearby live in flimsy homes that stand little chance against such a powerful storm.“This city of 70,000 people is very vulnerable. We have houses made of wood and adobe. The infrastructure of the residential houses is our main vulnerability,” Javier Plat, a Catholic priest in Puerto Cabezas, told Reuters.

Authorities in Nicaragua and Honduras had moved people on Monday from outer islands and low-lying areas to shelters. Residents scrambled to shore up their homes, but few structures along Nicaragua’s remote Caribbean coast were built to withstand such force.

Nicaragua’s army moved red-helmeted troops specialized in search and rescue to Puerto Cabezas. Along Honduras’s northern Caribbean coast, torrential rains from Eta’s outer bands caused some rivers to overwhelm their banks Monday, forcing evacuations.

At a shelter in Puerto Cabezas, farmer Pedro Down waited late Monday for Eta’s arrival. “When it comes it can rip off all the [roof] and destroy the house, so you have to look for a safer place,” he said, cradling a baby in his arms. “So I came here to save our lives.”

On television on Monday, Nicaragua’s vice-president and first lady, Rosario Murillo, prayed for God to protect the country. She said Nicaragua would apply lessons learned from previous storms. “How many hurricanes have come and we have moved on, thanks to God,” she said.

Eta is the 28th named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season, tying a record set in 2005. It is also the fifth to reach major hurricane status. The rapid intensification of some of these storms is consistent with the extra energy afforded them by the heating of the air and ocean through human activity, climate scientists have said.

This could be only the beginning of Eta’s destruction. The storm was forecast to spend much of the week meandering over Central America.





No.17 article:
Does Vienna attack signal new wave of jihadist terrorism?

Fact that Isis attacks have declined in EU does not mean threat has disappeared, says expert

Does the attack in Vienna on Monday night presage a return to the darkest days of the wave of terrorist violence that shook Europe between 2012 and 2017?

Over that five-year period, hundreds died in lethal stabbings, attacks with cleavers, bombings of stadiums and airports, as well as assaults by multiple gunmen in city centres with AK-47s that bear horrible resemblance both to that still being investigated in the Austrian capital and the spate of attacks in France in recent weeks.

All were the bloody work of young European sympathisers of Islamic State, then at the zenith of its power. So too was this most recent tragedy, it appears.

We now know something of the gunman shot dead in the attack in Vienna. He is described as 20 years old, born and raised in Austria, and recently released after serving part of a 22-month jail sentence for trying to travel to Syria to fight for Islamic State.

Before the attack, he posted images on social media: a selfie with an AK-47 assault rifle and a machete, but also a bayat, or oath of allegiance to Abu Ibrahim al-Hashimi al-Quraishi, the current leader of Isis, and one of its best-known slogans spelled out in ammunition.

Isis has claimed responsibility for the attack, but investigators are working to establish if the group directed or simply “inspired” it.

Austria has been spared the worst of the violence in Europe, but not the phenomenon of radicalisation among a small number of young men in often marginalised Muslim communities. The country was second only to Belgium as a source of so-called “foreign fighters” in Iraq and Syria, measured per capita, and has a history of radical activism going back to the 1990s.

That less attention has been paid in the west to Islamic extremism recently is understandable. Deaths in Europe from all forms of terrorism fell by 70% last year, and western Europe recorded its lowest number of incidents since 2012. According to the latest Europol reports, there were 21 jihadist plots in the EU in 2019, compared with 24 and 33 in the two previous years. Of the 21, four failed, 14 were foiled and three were carried out.

Nor does the scale of the attacks come close to the horrors of 2015 and 2016, when assault rifles and a truck were used to kill hundreds of people in a series of attacks.

That surge in violence came when ill-prepared western security services faced an organisation viewed as extreme even by other Islamists, determined to attack the west and ruling over a swath of territory that was easily accessible to Europeans.

But, though none of these factors remain, the threat does, albeit at a much reduced level.

“The fact that the number of [Isis]-inspired attacks has declined in the EU does not mean that the threat has disappeared. It primarily means that we have got better at detecting and breaking up terrorist plots,” said Gilles de Kerchove, the EU’s counter-terror co-ordinator, in an interview earlier this year.

There is much evidence of continuing, if sporadic, attempts by Isis to get potential attackers or organisers into Europe. There have been a series of arrests in Spain and Poland of individuals and groups suspected of planning operations and recruitment. In some cases, these efforts have begun to show results. In April, German police arrested five Tajik nationals on suspicion that they were members of an Isis cell that had been planning attacks on US forces stationed in Germany,

Isis has told supporters to exploit the disarray caused in western European countries by Covid. The group and allied networks have flooded social media with calls to violence since the murder near Paris last month of a school teacher who showed caricatures of the prophet Muhammad to students.

Counter-terrorism officials say it is too early to tell the degree to which recent attacks are the work of senior Isis leaders, possibly in the Middle East or elsewhere.

The young Tunisian who killed three worshippers in a church in Nice last week had arrived in Europe only a month before. There have been examples of very rapid radicalisation but few at such an accelerated pace. This raises the possibility that he had set out to carry out some kind of attack before reaching Europe, or that he had been instructed to do so.

Likewise, few so-called “lone wolves” act alone. Research has shown that most “leak” information about their attentions to others before. 

There are reports that the Vienna attacker had communicated with two contacts earlier in the day, sending some kind of jihadist propaganda to each. In Germany in 2016, Isis organisers were sending encouraging messages and advice to an attacker on social media until seconds before he stabbed and hacked at passengers on a train. 

One very obvious question is how an attacker got hold of high-powered weaponry and large quantities of ammunition. Experts point to the Balkans as a probable source.

Finally, there is the question of timing. Terrorists want their attacks to gain maximum publicity, not be submerged in other news, so the US elections are unlikely to be a factor. More likely, if more mundane, is a desire to strike before the Covid-19 lockdown in Austria, imposed from midnight, made it harder to both move and find vulnerable targets.







No.18 article:
Faith leaders challenge England lockdown ban on communal worship

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Letter to PM signed by senior religious figures says there is no scientific basis for ban in new coronavirus restrictions

Letter to PM signed by senior religious figures says there is no scientific basis for ban in new coronavirus restrictions

England’s most senior faith leaders have challenged the government’s decision to ban communal worship during the second lockdown, telling Boris Johnson there is no scientific basis for the move.

In a marked change of tone from the lockdown earlier this year, the faith leaders say: “We strongly disagree with the decision to suspend public worship during this time.”

Continuation of public worship is essential, the leaders of the Church of England, Catholic church and orthodox Judaism, along with Muslim, Hindu, Sikh and Pentecostal representatives, told the prime minister in a joint letter.

Places of worship have demonstrated in recent months that they can be made safe from Covid transmission, they say. “Given the significant work we have already done, we consider there to be, now, no scientific justification for the wholesale suspension of public worship.”

Highlighting the work done by churches, synagogues, mosques and temples to support communities through the pandemic, they add: “Our commitment to care for others comes directly from our faith, which must be sustained and strengthened by our meeting together in common worship.”

Earlier, Christopher Chessun, the Anglican bishop of Southwark, urged clergy and members of congregations in his diocese to write to MPs “questioning these restrictions”.

He said: “The church is not a branch of the leisure or hospitality industries with a tap that can be turned on and off by politicians at will. The right to freedom of religion is enshrined in Magna Carta and it is of the very essence of our common life that the liberties and freedoms of the people of this land extend to public worship.”

A legal challenge over the ban on communal worship is expected to be launched by a conservative faith-based organisation, with the backing of more than 70 leaders from different Christian traditions.

A pre-action letter organised by Christian Concern, which has been behind a string of legal cases citing freedom of religion in recent years, says: “Our clients fully acknowledge the seriousness of the coronavirus pandemic and the need for drastic precautions … However, such precautions may only be lawfully introduced by the churches themselves … Our clients are gravely concerned about this infringement of the constitutional liberties of the church by the secular government.”

The Muslim Council of Britain has called for an urgent review of restrictions, criticising the government’s “inadequate consultation and poor engagement with faith communities”.

Sikhs have raised concerns about Bandi Chhor Divas and Guru Nanak Dev Ji’s Gurpurab, two holidays in November when most Sikhs attend their Gurdwara. “It appears the government ignored the needs of the Sikh community,” said Bhai Amrik Singh, the chair of the Sikh Federation (UK).

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

The interfaith letter to the prime minister was signed by Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury; Stephen Cottrell, the archbishop of York; Sarah Mullally, the bishop of London; Vincent Nichols, the archbishop of Westminster; Ephraim Mirvis, the chief rabbi; Gurmail Singh Malhi, president Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Southall; Shaykh Dr Asim Yusuf, chair of the British Board of Scholars and Imams; Sayed Yousif Al-Khoei of Al-Khoei Foundation; Agu Irukwu, senior pastor, Jesus House for all Nations; Rajnish Kashyap, general secretary of the Hindu Council UK; and Daniel Singleton, national executive director of Faith Action.





No.19 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

NUS has called on government to give advice on how students can leave university safely

Students are defying government guidance that they should stay at university throughout lockdown to make a last-minute dash home before the new restrictions kick in across England on Thursday.

The universities minister, Michelle Donelan, has written to students urging them to stay put.

After a challenging first term, during which thousands of students have already had to lock down and self-isolate as a result of Covid outbreaks, many have decided to leave campus.

With continuing uncertainty about what might happen over Christmas and the majority of learning now online, they plan to continue their studies at home during lockdown without fear of being trapped at university over the holiday.

Donelan’s letter, however, stated: “You should not leave your term-time address to return to your parents or carers’ home until at least 2 December and should continue to learn at university for the remainder of this term.

“The reason we are asking you to remain at your university and not to travel home before the new restrictions come into place on Thursday is to prevent any further spread of Covid-19. Any movement around the country will risk the lives of our loved ones.

“I know and appreciate that a number of you may want to be back with your family during this difficult time, but I urge you to stay where you are in order to save lives.”

One mother of a first-year student agreed with the government that it was best for students was to remain on campus, but said: “I am already hearing that some students have left uni halls over the weekend to travel home and more are planning to ‘escape’ by the end of 4 November, including my son who is adamant he is coming home. He said, ‘I’m coming home, Mum. I’m not staying here on my own. Everyone’s going’.”

Lockdown discussions were also under way on the Student Room online forum. One participant who has decided to go home said: “Even before the lockdown was announced my entire course was pretty much all online – only five in-person sessions over the 10 weeks of term – so I’m not missing out on anything academically. Socially, there are no in-person society events either. So this year sucks.”

Others who have already left for reading week are not planning to return.

Larissa Kennedy, the president of the National Union of Students said: “If I were at university right now, I would not be staying. It’s not feasible for students, many of whom have already been in lockdown for weeks, to continue to be completely isolated over the next month. It could potentially be longer than that. Does that then roll into the end of term and into Christmas?

callout-coronavirus

“Mental health is my key concern. We have already lost one member of the student community to anxiety around lockdown,” she said, referring to the death last month of 19-year-old Finn Kitson, a student at Manchester University.

The government recommended before lockdown that students should stay at university and not travel home, but it has not been made a legal requirement. The lockdown guidance published by the Department for Education on Tuesday says students must stay at their university address for the duration and will only be able to go out for the same specific reasons as the rest of the population. 

The NUS, however, has called on the government to provide guidance on how students can leave university safely, both now and at the end of term. The government has said it is committed to getting students home for Christmas but is still to publish details.

In a separate letter to vice-chancellors, Donelan said she wanted all students to have some form of face-to-face learning. It follows earlier guidance from the Cabinet Office that universities “should consider moving to increased levels of online learning where possible” during the four-week lockdown.





No.20 article:
Woman who died in French forest ‘was killed by partner’s dog’

Death of Elisa Pilarski while six months pregnant was initially blamed on hounds from deer hunt

A pregnant woman who died while walking in woods in northern France during a deer hunt was killed by her partner’s dog and not the hunting hounds, a source close to the investigation and a hunting club said after DNA testing.

Elisa Pilarski, 29, died while out walking her partner’s American Staffordshire terrier in Retz forest, north-east of Paris, in November 2019.

She was six months pregnant at the time. The case sparked huge interest in France and became a cause latched on to by pro- and anti-hunting advocates.

A postmortem showed Pilarski died of bleeding after several dog bites to the upper and lower limbs and the head.

Suspicion initially fell on the hunting hounds but DNA tests on 67 dogs incriminated her partner’s dog, Curtis, instead, the local hunting club announced.

“The results of the DNA tests definitively confirm the innocence of the dogs,” the Rallye la Passion club said, adding that they showed Curtis to be the killer.

Another source close to the investigation, who asked not to be named, said the terrier’s DNA had been found on Pilarski’s dog bites and added that her DNA had also been found on his leash.

Just before the attack Pilarski had phoned her partner, Christophe Ellul, to tell him that she had come across threatening dogs and had difficulty keeping Curtis on his leash.

Ellul arrived at the scene about 45 minutes later to find her body in a ravine, next to Curtis and a pack of hounds. Her clothes had been torn off.

Ellul blamed the hounds for her death, allegations the hunting club vigorously denied. DNA tests were carried out on 62 hounds, and five dogs belonging to Pilarski and Ellul, including Curtis.

Pilarski’s mother said her daughter had never been alone with Curtis before.

After her death, the terrier went on to bite a person at a dog pound.





No.21 article:
Deciphering the quirks of England&#x27;s second Covid lockdown rules

Details around the restrictions are proving complex enough to puzzle even ministers

The government has published the full regulations for England’s second national lockdown, which is to begin on Thursday and will last for four weeks. A number of details had already emerged, and some are sufficiently complex to have puzzled even ministers.

Meetings with people outside of your household or support bubble are barred, with the exception of one-to-one gatherings in outdoor public spaces – a park or the countryside rather than a private garden. While gyms and other sports facilities will be closed, you can exercise outside with one other person but only if it is not formal sport. Thus, you can run (at a 2-metre distance) with someone else, and Downing Street said on Tuesday that one person can meet with a personal trainer in a park if they remain distanced. But despite some lobbying, tennis, golf and other non-contact outdoor sports will be banned for the duration of the lockdown. Michael Gove tweeted an apology on Tuesday after incorrectly saying he thought tennis would be allowed. Of course, this is all different when it comes to members of your own household – parents can still kick a football around with their children, for example.

Unlike in Scotland, when England introduced the “rule of six” limit for gatherings, children of any age were included despite some evidence that younger children appear less likely to transmit coronavirus. When the new lockdown was announced, the English rule was set to continue, which would have meant, for example, that parents caring for a baby or toddler would be unable to meet anyone from outside their household. Following an outcry, ministers said they would amend the rule. So you will be able to meet someone else with a child or children in tow, but only if they are below school age.

Angling is permitted, but only in a public space – for example by a river, rather than within the grounds of an angling club. Lidos and bathing ponds will have to close, the source of much protest from the sector, but a Downing Street spokesman said he did not know whether, say, a single person going swimming in a river or lake would contravene the rules. Perhaps the full regulations will clear this up.

As with the spring lockdown, places of worship are being told to close, with a few exceptions. As well being allowed to host funerals, they can stay open if they are being used for another purpose, such as a food bank, formal childcare, or as part of a school. Individual prayer is also allowed but not services, again something that has prompted some protest. Weddings are not allowed, apart from in “exceptional circumstances”.

There is a section on the ways in which people can buy alcohol for off-site consumption, which they can do at any time other than between 10pm and 5am. Helpfully, the guidance says the order can be placed online, by phone or text message, or “by post”.

The regulations include a detailed list of “other businesses” which must close, taking in everything from massage parlours and hostess bars, to outdoor markets – apart from those selling livestock or food – “visitor attractions at film studios”, and perhaps most niche of all, model villages.





No.22 article:
At least four civilians and one attacker were killed and more than 20 injured in attack in the Austrian capital

Five people have died in an attack in Vienna on Monday night, including two male civilians and two female, and one gunman who was killed by police.

Twenty-two people were injured with gunshot and knife wounds, of whom three are in a critical condition.

Authorities described the attacker as a 20-year-old “Islamist terrorist” with North Macedonian and Austrian citizenship.

The suspect was convicted last year for membership of Islamic State after being arrested on his way to Syria to join the group, officials said. The man, who also possessed an Austrian passport, was released early from a 22-month prison sentence in December.

Fourteen people associated with the assailant have been detained for questioning in searches on 18 properties in and near Vienna.

There is no indication of a second assailant, the interior minister, Karl Nehammer, said on Tuesday afternoon, after conflicting reports overnight.

Authorities are examining more than 20,000 pieces of video footage uploaded to them by members of the public to determine how many gunmen were involved and the exact course of events.

The attack began  shortly after 8pm with volleys of gunfire.

The suspect was shot by police nine minutes into the attack outside St Rupert’s church, carrying an assault rifle, a handgun and a machete. His body was also found with a fake explosives vest.

The Austrian chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, described the assaults as “definitely” a terror attack that had been “very professionally” planned. Kurz has called the military on to the streets of Vienna.

Early reports suggested the nearby Stadttempel synagogue could have been the target of the attack. But Oskar Deutsch, the president of Vienna’s Jewish community, said the synagogue on Seitenstettengasse was closed at the time of the attack. He told the Kurier newspaper it was “unclear” if it was a target.

The attack occurred on the last night before a new coronavirus lockdown was due to come into force in the city.

Schools are closed in Vienna on Tuesday and the Austrian state has declared three days of mourning.

EU and other world leaders  have expressed their solidarity with the Austrian people.





No.23 article:
Poland delays abortion ban as nationwide protests continue

Anti-government rallies continue over court’s ruling to restrict access to terminations

Poland’s rightwing government has delayed implementation of a controversial court ruling that would outlaw almost all abortion after it prompted the largest protests since the fall of communism.

“There is a discussion going on, and it would be good to take some time for dialogue and for finding a new position in this situation, which is difficult and stirs high emotions,” Michał Dworczyk, the head of the prime minister’s office, told Polish media on Tuesday.

The decision by the country’s constitutional tribunal promised to further tighten Poland’s abortion laws, which were already some of the strictest in Europe. The tribunal ruled that terminations should be illegal even in cases where a foetus is diagnosed with a serious and irreversible birth defect. This kind of abortion accounts for almost all of the small number of abortions performed legally in the country.

The decision has still not been published, despite a Monday deadline, and as such has not entered into force. “It’s clearly a political decision,” said Anna Wójcik, a researcher at the law studies institute at the Polish Academy of Sciences. “Judgments are meant to be published with no delay. It’s a legal trick to withhold publishing.”

The tribunal’s decision, which was in response to a challenge from a group of rightwing MPs, has focused anger on the Law and Justice (PiS) party. PiS has ruled Poland since 2015 and has been accused of eroding democratic norms during its time in power, including by packing the constitutional tribunal with its supporters.

The abortion ruling has caused anger beyond the usual groups of PiS opponents, and the scale of the protests appears to have taken the government by surprise. The more extreme wing of the party supports the constitutional ruling, but surveys show that much of the party’s voter base does not support tighter abortion restrictions, so the PiS hierarchy finds itself in a difficult spot.

The prime minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, has called for talks with protesters and opposition MPs, while the PiS-aligned president, Andrzej Duda, suggested a new proposal that would allow abortion in cases of life-threatening birth defects but not for conditions such as Down’s syndrome.

Duda’s proposal is likely to be criticised from both sides – as too weak by the extreme right of the ruling coalition, and as not going far enough by those leading the street protests.

The protesters have ignored a ban on gatherings of more than five people, intended to slow the spread of coronavirus, and have come out in force. More than 100,000 people gathered in the streets of Warsaw on Friday evening for the largest gathering so far. They shouted pro-choice and anti-PiS slogans.

There has also been violence in which far-right groups have attacked protesters, and government figures appeared to stoke the tensions. The PiS leader and deputy prime minister, Jarosław Kaczyński, told people they should “defend churches” from the protesters after some were defaced. Senior figures in the country’s powerful Catholic church have spoken out in favour of the constitutional ruling.





No.24 article:
Disgraced ex-monarch already under investigation over role in €6.7bn Saudi Arabia deal

Spain’s attorney general has instructed supreme court prosecutors to investigate new corruption allegations against the country’s disgraced former king.

Juan Carlos, who abdicated in 2014, is already under investigation over his alleged role in a deal under which a Spanish consortium won a €6.7bn (£5.9bn) contract to build a high-speed rail line in Saudi Arabia.

Reports emerged in March suggesting Juan Carlos had received a $100m (€88m) payment from Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah in 2008, three years before the contract was awarded. The king was covered by constitutional immunity while on the throne, but lost the protection when he stepped down to make way for his son, King Felipe.

The attorney general’s office did not give details of the new investigation, but said in a statement on Tuesday that a decree had been issued instructing anti-corruption and organised crime prosecutors to hand over their reports on the former king to supreme court prosecutors “so that they can continue the investigations until their conclusion”.

The announcement came hours after the online newspaper ElDiario.es broke news that anti-corruption prosecutors were investigating Juan Carlos, his wife Sofía and other members of the royal family over the use of credit cards linked to accounts not held in their names.

According to Eldiario.es, the transactions under investigation took place between 2016 and 2018, after Juan Carlos forfeited his immunity.

He abdicated after a string of damaging scandals that culminated in a controversial elephant-hunting trip to Botswana while Spain was devastated by the effects of the 2008 financial crisis.

But the scandals have refused to die down. Felipe stripped Juan Carlos of his annual stipend in March and renounced his personal inheritance from his father after reports that he was in line to receive millions of euros from a secret offshore fund with ties to Saudi Arabia.

The supreme court prosecutor said three months later that an investigation had been opened into “the second phase of the construction of a high-speed rail line to join the cities of Medina and Mecca” and was intended to “define or discard the criminal relevance of events that occurred after June 2014”, when Juan Carlos’simmunity ended.

Prosecutors in Switzerland are looking into a number of accounts the former monarch and his alleged associates held in the country.

It is alleged in documents from the Swiss prosecutor that Juan Carlos received a $100m “donation” from the king of Saudi Arabia that he put in an offshore account in 2008. He allegedly gifted €65m from the account to his former lover, Corinna Larsen, four years later.

Spain’s El Confidencial website reported in July that Juan Carlos had withdrawn €100,000 a month from the account between 2008 and 2012, and used the money to pay for some of the royal family’s expenses.

Juan Carlos has said that he never told his son he was set to benefit from two offshore funds, but has made no further comment on the allegations.

He announced in August that he was going into exile to protect his son from further embarrassment. In a letter sent to Felipe and released by the royal house, Juan Carlos said he would move from Spain because of the “public repercussions that certain past events in my private life are causing”.





No.25 article:
Attack in busy restaurant district of Austrian capital on eve of new Covid lockdown

Austrian police have made several arrests at addresses linked to an Islamic State sympathiser who killed at least four people in a terrorist shooting and stabbing attack in Vienna on Monday night.

Two men and two women died of their injuries after the attack in the centre of the Austrian capital, which took place hours before a coronavirus lockdown started.

The 20-year-old suspect, Kujtim Fejzulai, who was shot dead by police nine minutes into the attack, was convicted last year for membership of Isis after being arrested on his way to Syria to join the group, officials said. Fejzulai, who was born in Vienna and held joint Austrian and North Macedonian citizenship, was released early from a 22-month prison sentence in December.

Late on Tuesday Isis claimed responsibility for the attack without providing evidence, in a statement by its Amaq News Agency posted on Telegram.

The victims were “an elderly man, an elderly woman, a young male passerby and a waitress”, according to Austria’s chancellor, Sebastian Kurz. He praised a police officer shot in the attack and who is in a critical but stable condition as brave.

Kurz said the entire country had been the target of the attack. He called the murders “cold-blooded” and pledged that everything would be done to pursue those behind them.

“The enemy, the Islamist terror, wants to split our society, but we will give no space to this hatred,” he said. “Our enemies are not the members of a religious community, these are terrorists. This is not a fight between Christians and Muslims, or Austrians and migrants, but a fight between civilisation and barbarity.”

Austria’s president, Alexander Van der Bellen, said the nation’s tears were flowing for the victims and their relatives. He said the attack had targeted “life in a liberal democracy which terrorists clearly hate deeply”.

Twenty-two people were injured with gunshot and knife wounds, of whom three were in a critical condition.

The attacker had been armed with an automatic rifle, a hand gun and a machete, and had been wearing a fake suicide vest. He had posted a photograph of himself with the weapons on his Instagram account before the attack, according to the interior minister, Karl Nehammer.

Fourteen people associated with the assailant have been detained for questioning in searches on 18 properties in and near Vienna. Following conflicting reports overnight, Nehammer said on Tuesday afternoon that evidence gathered so far showed no indication that there was a second assailant.

The shooting began at 8pm on Monday evening near Vienna’s main synagogue, as many people were enjoying a last night of open restaurants and bars before a month-long coronavirus lockdown, which started at midnight.

Police were trawling through more than 20,000 videos filmed by members of the public to determine the exact course of events. They urged people to resist posting video footage on social media.

Hundreds of people were still taking refuge in cafes, bars and Austria’s national theatre early Tuesday morning. The city centre remained closed off, with 1,000 police officers patrolling the streets. Concertgoers were shown being escorted from the opera house under police protection on Monday night. 

Several hotels reportedly gave free accommodation to both Vienna residents and tourists who were stranded in the city.

People in Vienna were urged to stay at home on Tuesday. Schools outside the city centre were open, but parents were urged to keep their children at home if possible. Border checks have been increased.

The attack began just hours before Austria introduced new coronavirus restrictions at midnight on Monday, including an 8pm to 6am curfew. Bars and restaurants in the network of narrow streets known to locals as the “Bermuda triangle” were packed.

A witness said a gunman had started to fire at random at groups of people sitting at tables. “They were shooting at least 100 rounds just outside our building,” Rabbi Schlomo Hofmeister said. He told reporters that from his window above Vienna’s main synagogue, he saw at least one person shooting at people sitting outside in the street.

“All these bars have tables outside. This evening is the last evening before the lockdown,” he said. “As of midnight, all bars and restaurants will be closed in Austria for the next month, and a lot of people probably wanted to use that evening to be able to go out.”

Footage purportedly showing the attack and shared by European counter-terrorism agencies showed a man carrying a rifle and wearing a white shirt and beige trousers firing shots toward a building. A male voice can be heard swearing at the attacker from one of the buildings.

Initial reports had suggested that the nearby Stadttempel synagogue could have been the target of the attack, but Oskar Deutsch, the president of the Jewish Community Vienna, said the synagogue on Seitenstettengasse and the office building at the same address were already closed at the time of the attack. It was unclear if it had been a target, he said.

The Israelitische Kultusgemeinde, the organisation that represents Austria’s Jewish community, said it had closed all its synagogues and facilities including schools, restaurants and cultural centres nationwide. Security has been stepped up at Jewish establishments across the country. The IKG’s counselling service had been inundated with requests for help from distressed community members, Erich Nuler, the organisation’s crisis committee spokesman said.

Additional reporting by Ben Doherty

• This article was amended on 4 November 2020 to clarify that the suspect, Kujtim Fejzulai, was Austria-born and held both Austrian and North Macedonian citizenship.





No.26 article:
Birx warns US entering ‘deadly phase’ of Covid, contradicting Trump’s message

Deborah Birx says ‘we are entering the most concerning and most deadly phase’ as Trump claims US is ‘rounding the corner’

White House scientific adviser Dr Deborah Birx warned the United States is entering a new “deadly phase” of the coronavirus pandemic, and urged an “aggressive” approach to containing its spread.

Birx gave the warning in a written memo delivered to top administration officials Monday. It is a direct contradiction of one of Donald Trump’s central, and false, closing campaign messages – that the US is “rounding the corner” on the pandemic.

“We are entering the most concerning and most deadly phase of this pandemic,” Birx wrote in the memo, first reported by the Washington Post.

She continued: “Cases are rapidly rising in nearly 30% of all USA counties, the highest number of county hotspots we have seen with this pandemic. Half of the United States is in the red or orange zone for cases despite flat or declining testing.”

The memo came as Trump gathered hundreds at in-person rallies in key swing states, and warned that his political rival Joe Biden would lock down the country again.

“This is not about lockdowns – it hasn’t been about lockdowns since March or April,” Birx said. “It’s about an aggressive, balanced approach that is not being implemented.”

Americans need “consistent messaging about uniform use of masks, physical distancing and hand washing, with profound limitation on indoor gatherings especially with family and friends,” she wrote.

News of the memo comes after Dr Anthony Fauci, considered the top infectious disease expert in the US, who is the leading public health official on the White House coronavirus taskforce, while Birx is the team’s co-ordinator, warned the winter will bring “a whole lot of hurt”, if the US does not immediately change the pandemic’s trajectory.

The US set a world record for new cases over the weekend, with more than 100,000 new diagnoses in one day. Hospitalizations have increased alongside new infections. Deaths, considered a lagging indicator, also rose slightly.

Deaths have not reached the heights seen last spring, when the virus overwhelmed hospital systems in the north-east and New York City in particular. But experts warned they could rise to those levels again, if hospital systems become overwhelmed and are unable to find the nursing staff needed to treat patients.

Already, hospital systems are struggling to find nurses, training those with limited experience in working in field hospitals, and relying on traveling nurses to provide care.

Experienced nurses are “burned out with this whole (pandemic)” and some are quitting, said Kevin Fitzpatrick, an emergency room nurse at Hurley Medical Center in Flint, Michigan. “Replacing them is not easy,” he added.

Meanwhile, the nursing home industry where America’s most medically vulnerable residents live, has warned cases are growing inside facilities and community spread will inevitably find its way inside facilities. 

Experts in personal protective equipment are also warning of shortages, including critically of nitrile gloves. Dr Shikha Gupta, executive director of the nonprofit Get Us PPE, warned: “We are deeply unprepared for what that’s going to bring as hospitals reach capacity across the US with surging caseloads.”





No.27 article:
'It was an attack out of hatred, out of hatred for our fundamental values, out of hatred for our way of life, out of hatred for our democracy,' Kurz said. 'We will defend our fundamental values, our way of life and our democracy with all our might.'







No.28 article:
Vienna shooting: fourth victim dies as police make several arrests - as it happened

Government confirms five people including suspected attacker have died

We are shutting down this blog now, following a terrifying night in Vienna and a nationwide search for suspected attackers that continued into Tuesday. You can read our full report here and see the main developments below:

We will be closing this blog soon. Before we do, here is a post from my colleague, Kate Connolly, who reports on theatre staff attempting to distract people trapped inside as the attack unfolded:

Thousands of theatre and opera-goers caught up in last night’s attack in Vienna spent hours stuck in auditoriums and foyers as police ordered a shut down during their hunt for the attackers.

Across the city’s cultural landscape, for which Vienna is famous, people who had been out enjoying the last performances ahead of a coronavirus lockdown, which started at midnight, reported being entertained by musicians who tried to divert their attention from the attack taking place outside.

Many visitors to the Staatsoper, the Burgtheater, the Konzerthaus and other theatres and museums across Vienna, were not allowed to leave until given clear instructions by the police, and were obliged to leave the city centre.

In the Konzerthaus, the percussionist Martin Grubinger played several encores in an attempt to prolong a performance in order to keep the unwitting concertgoers in their seats, Austrian TV reported. They were subsequently informed of the attacks and kept in the concert building, where they were provided with food and drink, until midnight.

Parents whose children had been singing in the chorus at the Staatsoper were allowed to pick them up under police protection.

Musicians of both the Staatsoper and the Konzerthaus orchestras kept stranded concertgoers entertained with impromptu performances, which were well documented on social media.

Martin Kusej, the director of the Burgtheater, the equivalent of Austria’s national theatre, informed the public of the events at the end of a performance of Die Himmelszelt, or Heaven’s Tent, by the British playwright Lucy Kirkwood. Kusej said he had been “in total shock” before concentrating his efforts on attempting to keep 600 theatregoers calm. The time they had to wait was spent in part in a moderated conversation between the actors and the audience.

Pope Francis has said he is praying for the victims of Monday night’s attack.

French police say a man in Paris who brandished a machete while walking through streets in the central Pere Lachaise area has been arrested in his hotel room.

Witnesses reported the man to police, a spokesman said.

There is no suggestion of a link to the Vienna attack, or even that the man planned to use the knife violently. However, authorities are on alert following a string of attacks in France.

A few more details have emerged about the Vienna attacker. He is being referred to in Austrian media as Kujtim F, a dual citizen of Macedonia and Austria. The 20-year-old was arrested trying to cross the Turkish border into Syria, aiming to join the militant group Isis and was sentenced to 22 months in prison in April 2019.

Under the rules governing youth sentences in Austria, he was released from prison early, in December 2019.

According to the Austrian interior minister, Karl Nehammer, the attacker posted a picture on his Instagram account before the attack, showing him brandishing what looks like the two weapons he used. 

Our defence and security editor, Dan Sabbagh, reports Britain will be on the lookout for potential copycat attacks in the UK:

Intelligence agencies in the UK are expected to be “particularly vigilant” in the aftermath of the Vienna attack, which comes on the heels of a string of violent incidents in France and two days before a lockdown is due to begin in England.

It is well-established that terror attacks in one country encourage copy cats elsewhere, although the overall number of jihadist plots in the European Union (including the UK) has been gradually declining as Isis was gradually rolled up in Syria and Iraq.

There were 21 such plots last year, down from 24 according to data collected by European policing agency Europol, 14 of which were foiled and four of which failed.

Intelligence sources added it was unclear, at this stage, if the attacks in Austria were timed to coincide with the last night before the start of a lockdown, when more people than usual would have been out in the evening and on the streets.

But it would be prudent to take into account that timing in the run-up to the start of the England-wide lockdown expected to begin at just after midnight, in the small hours of Thursday.

Witnesses to the attack in Vienna on Monday night have spoken to Austrian media about their experience of the dramatic events.

“I heard shots, but I have never heard anything like that. So in my naivety, I thought it was fireworks,” one man told the tabloid Kurier. “Someone said to me, that must be gunshots. My girlfriend said to me to run into the pub and go right to the back,” he said.

One 53-year-old man told APA, the Austrian press agency, how he had been taken aback by the shooting during a business dinner in a pub on the Hoher Markt. “We heard the shots and then were told: ‘turn off the lights, lock the doors’,” he said. All the guests lay on the floor. “The fear amongst the guests was just crazy,” he added.

A large group of police looked after the people in the restaurant, he said, and brought in passersby from the street to safety. “After 10pm, the situation calmed down a bit.

“The police were called off, and the area was said to have been secured.” People in the restaurant were asked to leave the restaurant and to get away from the city centre, he said.

The Austrian president, Alexander Van der Bellen, has also just given a speech, in which he described Monday as a “dark night” following a “cowardly terrorist attack on the heart of our society”.

The nation’s deepest sympathy went out to all those who were fighting for their lives, and “our tears are flowing” for the victims and their relatives, he said.

The attack had targeted “life in a liberal democracy, which terrorists clearly hate deeply”. He said Austrians would “protect and defend our values” and added: “Hatred can never be as strong as our fellowship in freedom, in democracy, in tolerance and love.” 

He concluded his short speech with: “Long live our common and peaceful Europe.”

Here is more on the chancellor’s speech, from my colleague, Kate Connolly:

He said that the “Republic of Austria and its people have been the target of a brutal terror attack” in which “four citizens have been cold-bloodedly murdered”.

Fourteen other people were injured, some of them seriously, he added.

“It was an attack on our free society,” he said. “But we will defend our values.”

Kurz stressed that all of those behind the attack would be pursued. He added: “The enemy, the Islamist terror, wants to split our society. But we will give no space to this hatred. Our enemies are not the members of a religious community, these are terrorists. This is not a fight between Christians and Muslims, or Austrians and migrants, but a fight between civilisation and barbarity.”

He thanked the security services as well as the medical personnel and others “who through their civil courage have saved lives”. 

The Israelitische Kultusgemeinde (IKG) in Austria, the organisation representing the Jewish community, has said it has closed all its synagogues and related institutes across the country, following Monday night’s attacks in Vienna.

The decision affects synagogues, as well as kosher restaurants, Jewish supermarkets, schools and cultural centres, said Erich Nuler, spokesman for the IKG’s crisis committee, according to the Austrian daily Der Standard.

Security has been stepped up at Jewish establishments across the country, he said and community members were being urged to stay at home. Nuler said it remained unclear whether or not the attack in which two people were shot in front of the city’s main synagogue on Vienna’s Seitenstettengasse was aimed at the Jewish community.

The IKG was in close contact with security authorities, he said. Nuler added that the IKG’s psycho-social counselling centre was being inundated with requests for help from community members. He said that much effort was being made to explain to children in particular what had happened on Monday evening.

First details are emerging about the attacker who was shot dead by police. He was 20 years old and had north Macedonian roots, according to the interior minister, Karl Nehammer. He was a citizen of both Macedonia and Austria and had a criminal record related to terrorist activity.

Nehammer said the man had been armed with an automatic rifle, a handgun, and a machete. He was also wearing a fake explosives belt.

The minister added that 15 house raids had taken place across Vienna and St Pölten, about an hour from the Austrian capital. Several people had been arrested.

Kurz has just begun addressing the Austrian nation, saying the victims were an older man, an older woman, a young passerby and a waitress. He described an injured police officer who tried to stop the attacker as “brave”.

Theatre- and opera-goers have described their shock as they became aware of the nearby attack while they watched the last cultural offerings ahead of a nationwide coronavirus shutdown on Tuesday.

Visitors to the Staatsoper and the Burgtheater, the equivalent of Austria’s national theatre, were first made aware of the incident after the venues’ directors took to the respective stages to urge them to stay in their seats.

Witnesses at the Staatsoper reported that its director, Bogdan Roscic, explained to them in front of the closed stage curtain what had happened, and told the audience that security forces had instructed they were not allowed to leave the building.

One thousand people were reportedly present in the sold-out venue, as well as dozens of opera house employees. Audience members were only allowed to leave at 11.45pm, nearly four hours after the attack had begun. They were escorted by police to public transport facilities and urged to head straight home. 

“We were shaken, we did not know what was awaiting us. Many people were upset and exhausted,” one opera fan said.

Have you been affected by the shooting?

If you would like to share eyewitness accounts or news tips directly with our journalists then please get in contact via our form. You can also get in touch via WhatsApp by clicking here or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056.

Seven people who were injured in last night’s attack remain in a “critical, life-threatening” condition, Dr Michael Binder, medical director of the Viennese health association, KAV, has told the Austrian radio programme Ö1 Journal.

“Seven people are seriously injured and we’re dealing with bullet as well as stab wounds,” he said. He said not all the relatives of those who were injured have yet been informed.

A spokeswoman for the health association said that in total 17 people were injured in the attack and they are being treated at several hospitals in the Austrian capital.

She also confirmed that they were dealing primarily with gunshot wounds, but also with stab wounds. Ten people had medium to light injuries, she said.

“The patients are in a state of shock,” she said, adding that the 28-year-old police officer who is among the injured is in a critical but stable state. No other information has been released so far about the identity of the injured.





No.29 article:
Armed gang uses sewerage system to rob Milan bank

Robbers steal safe-deposit boxes after entering Crédit Agricole branch via manhole

A gang of armed robbers has broken into a bank in Milan by crawling through a sewerage network, stealing several safe-deposit boxes and escaping the same way.

The carefully planned heist began shortly after 8.30am on Tuesday, when two of the robbers walked into the main entrance of a Crédit Agricole branch on Piazza Ascoli and and pointed guns at the staff, Italian media reported. Two accomplices then emerged from a manhole inside the bank that connects to an underground tunnel.

The gang scuffled with the bank manager, who yelled “It’s a robbery”, and held him and another staff member hostage as dozens of police officers surrounded the bank. A third employee managed to escape.

Police sealed off the area before entering the bank, but the robbers activated a fire extinguisher, creating confusion and giving them time to escape back down the manhole. Several officers reportedly followed them into the sewers but lost them.

The robbers took 20 safe-deposit boxes, but it is not yet clear what they contained.

The bank manager was reportedly hit on the head with the butt of a gun, but no other staff were harmed. Speaking to reporters outside the bank after the ordeal, the manager said: “They entered from the basement. There were three of us inside when I realised what was happening and shouted. There was a short scuffle but they did not beat me.”

Milan prosecutors have opened an investigation.





No.30 article:
PM tells cabinet a solution to contain Covid must be developed by time restrictions ‘expire’ 

Boris Johnson has told the cabinet that England’s lockdown restrictions will come to an end on 2 December, saying that was a hard deadline to develop a new solution to contain the spread of the virus.

In a tacit admission that the current NHS test and trace system had not been enough to contain the virus, Johnson heralded a mass testing operation beginning in Liverpool, the start of an ambitious programme “Operation Moonshot” which would involve the entire population tested on a regular basis.

The prime minister also appeared to affirm the government expected the four-week national lockdown in England would be enough to get the virus’s reproduction R number below one – raising questions as to whether the lockdown would be extended should that not occur.

R, or the 'effective reproduction number', is a way of rating a disease’s ability to spread. It’s the average number of people on to whom one infected person will pass the virus. For an R of anything above 1, an epidemic will grow exponentially. Anything below 1 and an outbreak will fizzle out – eventually.

At the start of the coronavirus pandemic, the estimated R for coronavirus was between 2 and 3 – higher than the value for seasonal flu, but lower than for measles. That means each person would pass it on to between two and three people on average, before either recovering or dying, and each of those people would pass it on to a further two to three others, causing the total number of cases to snowball over time.

The reproduction number is not fixed, though. It depends on the biology of the virus; people's behaviour, such as social distancing;&nbsp;and a population’s immunity. A country may see regional variations in its R number, depending on local factors like population density and transport patterns.

Hannah Devlin&nbsp;Science correspondent

“Once again we are alas asking everybody to stay at home to protect the NHS to save lives and get the R down below one. I know we can, I know we will. It’s only just above one at the moment,” he said.

Speaking to the cabinet meeting, Johnson acknowledged that there would be dissent in the party. MPs will vote on Wednesday on the latest measures, with a small rebellion expected of Tory MPs – though any extension of lockdown measures would be likely to cause a far larger rebellion.

“Let’s be in no doubt none of us came into politics to introduce measures like this,” Johnson said.

“We don’t want to be doing things to repress liberty, we don’t want to do anything to damage our economy, to stop business from going about their lives, to stop anybody from doing what they wanted to do. But … what we’re doing is vital to suppress the virus and to prevent the NHS from being overwhelmed.”

Johnson reiterated that doctors and nurses would “be forced to make appalling choices on who to treat and who not to treat” if nothing further was done.

However, he said there was a “clear way ahead” and said the deadline of 2 December was a hard finish – and that a new solution needed to be developed by then.

“We have a very clear way ahead. These measures – the crucial thing to understand is that they expire on 2 December. They come to an end. And we therefore as a government and indeed as a country have a deadline and a target to develop solutions which previously … did not exist,” he said.

Johnson said rapid-turnaround testing “can be a massive and possibly decisive use to us in this country in defeating the virus”.

He said that “amid the uncertain gloom of November I see light ahead” and said ministers must “work flat out as a government to repay the confidence of the people who are doing the right thing and following the latest autumn measures”.

With two days to go before measures come into effect, ministers earlier prompted confusion over England’s new lockdown rules with Michael Gove apologising for incorrectly indicating tennis and golf could be played, as cabinet colleague Robert Jenrick apparently wrongly suggested a family would be allowed to meet a friend for a walk outside.

Gove, the Cabinet Office minister, issued an apology for signalling that singles tennis and golf in pairs could still go ahead. Jenrick, the communities secretary, mistakenly said that a family could go for a walk with a friend – despite there being a two-person limit on people meeting outdoors when outside of households or support bubbles.

Shadow health secretary Jon Ashworth said: “This is a pretty stark admission that fixing contact tracing isn’t a priority for Boris Johnson. Ministers lost control of the virus in the first place because of their failure to build an effective localised contact tracing regime with proper support to help people isolate.

“The priority for the next four weeks is rolling out saliva based testing more widely for key workers especially NHS staff, fixing contact tracing by putting local public health teams in charge and ensuring people have security to isolate when needed.”





No.31 article:
Spanish police seize 1.2 tonnes of cocaine on ship busted for second time in two weeks

Brazilian officers had already seized 1.5 tonnes before vessel slipped out of São Sebastião

Spanish police have seized more than 1.2 tonnes of cocaine on a ship carrying corn from Brazil, two weeks after their Brazilian counterparts confiscated 1.5 tonnes of the drug from the same vessel.

A team of customs agents and Guardia Civil and national police officers intercepted the Unispirit 50 nautical miles off the island of Gran Canaria on 16 October, and after escorting the vessel into port they conducted a painstaking five-day search of its cargo. Hidden among sacks containing 3,500 tonnes of corn, they found 1,210kg of cocaine.

The Spanish operation began following a tip-off from Brazilian federal police, who had discovered 1,524kg of cocaine hidden inside 15 sacks while the Unispirit was being loaded with its cargo at the south-eastern port of São Sebastião.

“At the beginning of the month, the ship continued its journey towards the Spanish port of Cádiz, which included a stop in the port of Las Palmas” in Gran Canaria, the Guardia Civil and national police said in a joint statement.

“There were still suspicions that there could have been more drugs concealed aboard. The Brazilian federal police told Spanish police that the ship had left port in strange circumstances before the Brazilian search had been completed. As a result, they asked customs agents and officers from the national police and the Guardia Civil to take another look at the cargo once it reached Spain.”

The second inspection turned up 12 further sacks that concealed cocaine.

A spokeswoman for the national police said the investigation was ongoing and that no arrests had been made.

Police intercepted a “narco-submarine” off the coast of Galicia in north-west Spain in November last year, and seized 3 tonnes of cocaine following a joint operation with police forces from the UK, Portugal, the US and Brazil.





No.32 article:
Golden jackals expected to emerge in Belgium, say experts

Expectation creature will settle in country comes after sheep attacks just 40 miles away in Germany

After more than a century, Belgium recently witnessed the return of the wolf and the lynx due to a mix of nature and nurture reasons. Now, to the trepidation of local farmers, an entirely alien species to the country is on the verge of making an entrance: the jackal.

The expectation that the wolf-like canine will be seen for the first time follows the discovery of attacks on sheep in Kranenburg, a German municipality in North Rhine-Westphalia, just 40 miles from the Belgian border.

In September, six ravaged sheep offered gruesome evidence of the creature. “Initially it was thought that they were killed by a wolf, but now further investigation shows that the culprit is a male golden jackal,” said Jan Loos, from the animal protection organisation Welcome Wolf. Near by, the golden jackal is already in evidence in the Netherlands.

As with wolves, the golden jackal is a protected species under the Berne Convention and the EU Habitats Directive. But it is believed the major opening for both animals lies in the growing movement of people out of the countryside and into cities, leaving space for them to make the abandoned land their own.

Kranenburg is on the same route that wolves have been known to cross from Germany to the Netherlands and on to the Belgian province of Limburg.

Frederic Thoelen, a biologist at the Natuurhulpcentrum Opglabbeek, told the Het Nieuwsblad newspaper he was “almost certain that this jackal will also settle in our regions”.

“Depending on the circumstances, this could be tomorrow if necessary, but just as well within two years,” he said. “They mainly target small animals, but also chickens or sometimes even sheep. Unlike the wolf, they do not attack larger animals, such as sick or weakened cows.”

Recent years have seen an explosion in the numbers of golden jackals in northern Europe, with some 117,000 in existence by the latest official estimate.

Native to the Middle East and southern Asia, but also known to inhabit Thailand, Pakistan and India, the opportunistic omnivore arrived at the southern edge of central and eastern Europe about 8,000 years ago. Its population grew, coinciding with a reduction of grey wolf numbers in Europe in the 19th century. The two tend to avoid being in the same territory.

Bulgaria now has the largest numbers, but there are also significant populations in Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, Greece, Slovenia, Croatia, Austria and Italy. Evidence of the animal has also been found in France, Germany, Switzerland, Netherlands, Denmark, Poland, Belarus and Estonia.





No.33 article:
Ivory Coast president wins third term after opposition boycotts ‘sham’ election

Rivals condemned Alassane Ouattara’s bid as illegal and urged supporters to stay home

Alassane Ouattara has won a third term in power in Ivory Coast after an election boycotted by the opposition.

The 78-year old president, who had once pledged to make way for a younger generation, took 94% of the vote. Two terms in office is widely seen as the limit set by the west African country’s 2016 constitution.

The main opposition candidates condemned Ouattara’s attempt to win a third term as illegal and had urged their supporters to stay at home as an act of civil disobedience.

Political crisis has consumed Ivory Coast since the death in July of Ouattara’s planned successor, the prime minister, Amadou Gon Coulibaly. Ouattara had been expected to leave office but reneged on his pledge, arguing the constitution did not prevent him. The disqualification of 40 opposition candidates and criticisms from his two main challengers increased tensions in a country where the spectre of electoral violence looms large.Thousands have fled to Liberia, Ghana and Togo in recent weeks, fearing the possibility of the same sort of post-election violence that killed 3,000 people in 2010. In the run-up to Saturday’s vote, protests against Ouattara had grown, particularly in opposition strongholds. Clashes with rival groups and a forceful response by security forces left at least 30 people dead, according to Amnesty International. Five more people were killed on election day. In a sign of mounting tensions over the vote, Outtara’s two main opponents said their homes had been shot at overnight.

The Carter Center, a US non-governmental organisation that monitored the election, expressed “concerns that the overall context and process did not allow for a genuinely competitive election”.

“The process excluded a number of Ivorian political forces and was hampered by an active boycott by a segment of the population and a volatile security environment,” it added.

The electoral commission said early on Tuesday that Ouattara received 94.3% of the vote. Turnout was 53.9%, according to election officials, although the opposition has said only 10% of Ivorian voters took part.

The former prime minister Pascal Affi N’Guessan, a leading opponent of Ouattara, said the result was illegitimate. “This was a sham election … marred by many irregularities and a low turnout,” he told reporters on Monday when it was clear Ouattara was going to win. N’Guessan vowed to form an alternative “transitional government”, deepening political tensions with Ouattara’s government.“The opposition parties and groups announce the creation of a council of national transition,” N’Guessan told reporters. Yet divisions within his own party, the Ivorian Popular Front, and among other senior figures in a weakened opposition, has left the plan in doubt.

The president’s supporters cite a 2016 constitutional change that they say means Ouattara’s first term effectively did not count.Amid deepening insecurity across much of west Africa, third-term bids and attempts to amend national constitutions have re-emerged in recent years in Guinea, the Gambia and Ivory Coast. The moves have fuelled disillusionment, particularly among younger populations who seek greater representation in government, transparency and freedoms.Ouattara, a former rebel leader, along with both main opposition figures, the 86-year-old former president, Henri Konan Bédié, and 67-year-old N’Guessan, are among an ageing political class that have maintained their grip of Ivorian politics for years.

Ouattara was the internationally recognised winner of the disputed 2010 election when the then president, Laurent Gbagbo, refused to concede defeat. Both men held their own inauguration ceremonies and the standoff persisted for months until pro-Ouattara forces captured Gbagbo from his underground bunker.

Gbagbo was later acquitted of crimes against humanity at the international criminal court, though prosecutors are appealing against the decision. Critics say Ouattara’s government has failed to bring about national reconciliation, concentrating prosecutions on the crimes committed by Gbagbo loyalists.The president, an ally of western governments including the country’s former colonial power, France, enjoys international support. Yet despite significant economic growth, driven by its powerful agricultural sector, more than half of the country lives in poverty, according to the World Bank. 





No.34 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Exclusive: unions express ‘extreme concern’ over social distancing in business secretary’s private office

The business secretary, Alok Sharma, is facing questions after a union health and safety inspection identified concerns over social distancing in his private office days before a member of his inner circle tested positive for Covid-19.

The Guardian has learned that an employee in Sharma’s private office tested positive last Monday after reporting Covid symptoms a day earlier, with other members of staff in the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (Beis) forced to isolate.

But Sharma – who had a meeting with the individual the Thursday before, with the pair also in the department’s Whitehall office the following day – went on a trip to South Korea on Saturday, where he continued meeting foreign dignitaries after being informed of his colleague’s positive test result when it came through on Monday.

A spokesman for the business secretary said his last “formal meeting” where the individual was present was on Thursday, denying he had any “close contact” with them prior to his departure, including when they were both in the office on Friday, and said he had not been told to isolate by NHS test and trace. However, an undisclosed number of staff have been instructed to isolate, the department confirmed, and an area of the office has been deep cleaned.

Unions representing civil servants have written to the BEIS permanent secretary, Sarah Munby, to express “extreme concern” following confirmed cases. There are understood to have been two other recent Covid cases among BEIS staff. The letter, from Public and Commercial Services (PCS) Union, FDA and Prospect, warns: “Health and safety rules apply to everyone irrespective of grade or role. The recent confirmed case of the virus in the private office has now recklessly put a number of people at risk who could otherwise have been working from home. This is unacceptable.”

It references a health and safety inspection carried out on Thursday 22 October – the same day of Sharma’s meeting including the individual who has tested positive for Covid – which found concerns.

A copy of the PCS health and safety report seen by the Guardian, which said there were 28 staff working on the floor with ministerial offices – including eight in Sharma’s office – compared with only 12 on some others, stated: “Ministerial offices, especially SoS [secretary of state], were very crowded and by far the busiest part of the building. The offices apparently had been given a ‘dispensation’ … to allow two people to sit on each bank of desks, contrary to the guidance applying in the rest of the building.

“Whilst they may well have been sitting 2 metres apart, because of movement in the office and narrow corridors, staff were often passing each other very closely and we observed staff standing closer together than 2 metres. We believe there are too many people (8 PO staff when we inspected) routinely in the SoS’s private office to enable social distancing and so protect the health and safety of all staff.”

A PCS spokesman said: “These revelations are extremely shocking and Alok Sharma has some serious questions to answer. Our members will be extremely worried at potentially being exposed to Covid-19 and will rightly want to know if proper safety processes were followed.”

callout-coronavirus

On Tuesday, Sharma, who is president of the COP26 UN climate change conference being hosted by the UK in Glasgow next year, met two South Korean ministers, as well as the acting mayor of Seoul and South Korean National Assembly members working on the Green New Deal.

If an individual is informed by NHS test and trace that they are a “contact” of someone who has caught Covid-19, by law they must isolate for 14 days from their last point of contact with the person.

Government guidance defines a “contact” as “a person who has been close to someone who has tested positive for Covid-19 any time from two days before the person was symptomatic up to 10 days from onset of symptoms (this is when they are infectious to others)”.

Among examples, it counts “having a face-to-face conversation within one metre” with someone who has tested positive. It also lists “a person who has been within 2 metres of someone who has tested positive for Covid-19 for more than 15 minutes”.

A spokesperson for the business secretary said: “Mr Sharma has followed government guidelines at all times. He had no close contact with the individual prior to his departure and has not been told to self-isolate by NHS test and trace. As required when travelling to South Korea, the business secretary was tested in the UK prior to departure and again on arrival in South Korea. Both tests returned negative results. Mr Sharma followed the local guidelines at all times during his visit.”

A Beis spokesperson added: “We have put in place extensive measures throughout the building to ensure that the two-metre social distancing rule is being observed, and to maintain a covid-secure work environment.

“In line with government guidance, the vast majority of our staff continue to work from home, and have done since the beginning of the pandemic. But the extensive measures we have taken ensure that a small number of colleagues who cannot carry out their normal duties from home are able to use the office, as well as those whose home or personal circumstances mean that they need to be able to access the building at least some of the time on a voluntary basis.”





No.35 article:
The increases come just as Americans anxiously ready themselves for an election season climax, in which the incumbent Donald Trump has attacked healthcare providers and adopted Covid-19 misinformation in his final arguments for re-election.

Over the weekend Trump hinted he might fire Anthony Fauci, the US’s foremost infectious diseases expert, if re-elected. “Don’t tell anybody, but let me wait until a little bit after the election. I appreciate the advice. I appreciate it,” said Trump after the Florida crowd chanted: “Fire Fauci.”

Trump also falsely claimed: “Our doctors get more money if someone dies from Covid. You know that, right?”

Dr Jim Souza, chief medical officer for St Luke’s, a hospital system with several locations in Idaho, responded: “If you’ve never seen a patient intubated on mechanical ventilation, connected to a dialysis machine, in a prone position, sedated and paralyzed – if you’ve never been part of that care – it’s heavy physical labor, it’s psychologically heavy work.

“It is just not OK to be calling into question the professional ethics of the very people who are on the frontlines fighting this fire,” said Souza.

Idaho has seen a 10% increase in cases in the last week. It is among a handful of the worst-hit states per capita in the nation, including neighboring Montana and Wyoming. North and South Dakota continue to lead the nation in new Covid-19 cases per capita. More than 231,000 people have died from Covid-19 in the US, according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Resource Center.

While the outbreak is worse in the west, it is not confined to that region. Infection and hospitalization rates have trended upward across the United States in the last two-week period, according to Covid Exit Strategy.

Uncontained spread makes one of the central tenets of lowering transmission – contact tracing – extremely difficult to impossible, as evidenced last month when North Dakota told residents to trace and notify their own contacts.

But even as an autumn wave swells, Trump has spent the final days of his campaign insisting the US is “rounding the corner” on the Covid-19 pandemic; holding in-person rallies which may have spread the disease to as many as 30,000 people by one estimate.

Trump’s attacks on his rival, the Democratic nominee, Joe Biden, have also been focused on Covid-19, as he told a crowd in North Carolina that Biden would “lock down” the nation again and make the country a “prison state” to contain the virus.

“More and more facilities are requesting [personal protective equipment],” said Dr Shikha Gupta, executive director of Get Us PPE, a non-profit which supplies healthcare facilities with PPE, when they cannot find equipment through suppliers. “We are deeply unprepared for what that’s going to bring as hospitals reach capacity across the US with surging caseloads.”

Nursing homes, where less than 1% of Americans live but which account for 41% of Covid-19 deaths, also remain extremely vulnerable to outbreaks.

“We lack personal protective equipment, we lack comprehensive surveillance and testing, and, to be honest, a number of nursing homes still struggle with infection control,” David C Grabowski, a health policy professor at Harvard Medical School, said. “We’ve seen this play out now twice.”

Nancy Roberts, a respiratory therapist at St Luke’s, said she had seen Covid-19-positive patients come in, “and they’re on just a little bit of oxygen, and in 24 hours they could be intubated and on a ventilator, and they’re terrified.

“For somebody to not believe this is happening, it blows my mind. I cannot personally wrap my head around that,” Roberts said. ‘One death is one too many deaths from this virus.”





No.36 article:
On a mild evening in the Austrian capital, the bars and restaurants of the city centre were busy before lockdown – but at 8pm gunshots rang out

Monday night in Vienna was supposed to be a last chance at freedom.

The weather was mild, and as the hours ticked down before a nationwide coronavirus curfew largely shut down the city for a month, the bars and restaurants of the “Bermuda triangle” – a network of narrow, fashionable lanes in the old city’s 1st district – were busy.

Diners and drinkers sat at tables outside, enjoying a last moment of revelry before another pandemic lockdown amid the full blast of winter.

Without warning, at 8pm on Seitenstettengasse, a winding cobbled boulevard a block back from the Danube Canal, the shooting started.

“They were shooting at least 100 rounds just outside our building,” Rabbi Schlomo Hofmeister recalled in the aftermath of the attacks that have left at least two civilians and one suspected attacker dead. He told reporters he saw, from his window above Vienna’s main synagogue, at least one person shooting at people sitting outside in the street.

“All these bars have tables outside. This evening is the last evening before the lockdown,” he said. “As of midnight, all bars and restaurants will be closed in Austria for the next month, and a lot of people probably wanted to use that evening to be able to go out.”

Another witness told Austria’s public broadcaster ORF that a gunman had started to fire at random at groups of people sitting at tables. “It sounded like firecrackers, then we realised it was shots,” they said. The shooter “shot wildly with an automatic weapon” before police arrived and opened fire.

Footage purportedly showing the attack and shared by European counter-terrorism officers showed a puddle of blood by the entrance of a restaurant.

Another unconfirmed clip showed a man carrying a rifle and wearing a white shirt and beige trousers firing shots towards a building. A male voice can be heard swearing at the suspected attacker from one of the buildings.

The shooting quickly spread to what police said were six different locations nearby.

At least four people have been killed – one of them an attacker shot dead outside St Rupert’s church, carrying an assault rifle and handguns, his body strung with an explosives vest and a bag of ammunition. Police later said the vest was fake.

A further 15 people were taken to hospital injured, seven of them reportedly critical.

“We are victims of a despicable terror attack in the federal capital that is still ongoing,” Austria’s chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, said hours after the gunfire erupted.

Video footage of the attack appeared to show only a single attacker, though on Monday night officials believed it was possible that several perpetrators were still on the loose. “They seem to also, as far as we know, be very well equipped, with automatic weapons,” said Kurz. “So they were very well-prepared.”

Chris Zhao, a student, was in a restaurant on Seitenstettengasse when the attack took place. He told the BBC he heard between 20 and 30 bangs that sounded like firecrackers shortly after 8pm.

The manager locked the door to the restaurant at first, but when he left, Zhao says he saw several people injured and one body. “We didn’t know what was going on,” he said. “We were in shock.”

Gernot Gruber, a 25-year-old student, was caught in the Hard Rock cafe, less than 100 metres from the first attack outside the synagogue. He initially thought the bangs he heard outside were fireworks.

“If you hear these noises in Austria you don’t think they’re gunshots, you really don’t,” he told the Guardian. Restaurant staff locked the doors and told people to get away from the windows before special forces police entered the building and told everyone to leave, and run towards Schwedenplatz, away from the initial attack.

Gruber said that when they emerged from the cafe, they saw police on the street corners pointing their weapons. Once the crowd had arrived at Schwedenplatz, the police asked them to raise their hands and to show they were not carrying weapons.

“That is the first time police ever aimed at me with their guns,” he said. “I think that this is an experience that almost nobody who lives here has ever had before. I’ve been to several countries and have heard and watched about these attacks. But I’ve never been close to one. It was really frightening.”

Lea, who only gave her first name, lives in the neighbouring 2nd district of Vienna. She said she normally spends evenings in the bustling quarter targeted by the gunman. Instead, she was at home as helicopters circled overhead.

“The situation right now is really scary, my phone is ringing all the time because everyone is so worried. It’s heartbreaking. Hopefully the police can find all of the shooters and no more people have to die.

But she said the Viennese would “rise stronger than ever”.

“There is no place here for terrorism, neither left, right or from a religious point of view. There is a reason why everyone is saying ‘Wien ist anders’ [Vienna is different].”

As the night wore on, Vienna was placed under a new kind of lockdown. Office workers were told to sleep overnight in their buildings, while restaurants were shut and barricaded.

Patrons at cinemas, the opera and theatres were held inside for hours before it was declared safe for them to go home. At the sold-out State Opera, about 1,000 spectators were informed of the attack when the director, Bogdan Roscic, stepped out in front of the stage curtain. They were eventually escorted out of the building at 11.45pm, nearly four hours after the attack began.

By then public transport was not stopping in the 1st district, and taxis would not come into the quarter, making the journey home long and difficult for many.

The motive for the assault remains under investigation, but by Tuesday morning, the interior minister, Karl Nehammer, said he was “certain” the attack has an Islamist motive. 

The gunman shot by police on Monday night is understood to be a 20-year-old with dual Austrian-Northern Macedonian citizenship, who had on 25 April 2019 been handed a 22-month prison sentence for trying to travel to Syria to join Islamic State. He was released early, in December 2019, in keeping with Austrian law covering the rights of young people.

Kurz praised the police for killing one of the suspected attackers and vowed: “We will not never allow ourselves to be intimidated by terrorism and will fight these attacks with all means.”







No.37 article:
&#x27;All my dad does is cry&#x27;: heartache over Covid visits ban in English care homes

As residents suffer from isolation, families are frustrated with a lack of action by government

“The care home offers a Zoom call once a week for 20 minutes, but all my dad does is cry,” said Penny Ogden, 58, who hasn’t been able to hold her 89-year old father, John Ross, for coming up to eight months. “He says: ‘I’m finished here, I want to die.’ Since 12 March, I’ve had two garden visits, one raining the whole time, and two window visits, which were horrendous. All my dad was doing was crying and asking me to come in.”

Ogden has a large family close to her father’s dementia care home in Liverpool, so her father used to receive two or three visits every day. Since the visits stopped, Ogden said her father has lost weight. He doesn’t understand why his family cannot visit, and he is beginning to forget who some of them are. She pays for him to have Netflix, but he seems to be sitting with the TV off whenever she calls.

Ogden is one of thousands of people who have been unable to visit their loved ones during the Covid pandemic, with care homes on high alert for outbreaks of the virus.

For those who have dementia, the restrictions can be impossible to understand.

“My dad just says, ‘what have I done wrong? I’ve lost all my family’,” Ogden said. “He says that nobody cares anymore.”

Ogden has pleaded with care staff to allow her to visit her father, offering to pay for tests for herself every week and volunteer at the care home for free, but they have told her they are simply following regulations.

Peter Williamson, 87, and his wife, Valerie, 85, have been married for 61 years and live in Greater Manchester.

Two years ago, Valerie was diagnosed with dementia. When her health deteriorated this spring, she was taken into hospital, and shortly after, moved into a care home. Williamson hasn’t seen his wife face-to-face since her admission to hospital on 13 May.

“We haven’t been apart until now,” he said. “I tried very hard to look after her, I didn’t want her to go into a care home.”

The care home used to allow him to speak to Valerie through a partially open window, but when Greater Manchester was put into lockdown at the start of August, that stopped.

“I FaceTime her, which is better than nothing,” he said. “She still recognises me, but I can see visibly that she’s deteriorating. When she went into the home, she could walk, but now she has to use a wheelchair.”

“I sometimes get a bit down and wonder if I’ll ever see her again.”

Williamson’s doctors think the stress of Valerie’s move caused him to suffer a stroke, which happened during a FaceTime call to his wife, though he has since recovered.

He said he thought the government’s pilot scheme for relatives to be tested and given PPE to pay visits was a “good idea”, but he hadn’t heard anything since the announcement.

“If it enables me to go to the care home, if I could sit for an hour with her, that would suit me fine,” he said. “I’ve read about it, but nothing’s happened.”

Despite being unable to go inside, Williamson calls the care home every day to ask how is wife is, and delivers flowers each weekend to make sure Valerie doesn’t forget him.

“Sometimes she thinks she’s in a prison, and other times on a holiday in a hotel, and she asks why I can’t come to stay, and why I have to go away, and that hurts a bit really,” he said. “I give her the flowers to have something to remember me by. I don’t like her to forget me.”

Before lockdown, Carole Quirke, 76, visited her husband, Barry, who turns 79 on Thursday, at his care home in Wiltshire about four times a week. The couple have been together for 27 years, and Barry was diagnosed with Lewy body dementia in 2014.

At the start of lockdown, during window visits, Quirke would play his favourite music from the 1960s, and Barry would tap his feet and try to dance. Now, he does not react to the music, and has lost the ability to speak.

“His life is about quality not quantity of time now,” said Quirke. “He is very ill, I know he is dying. He needs to know he is loved and cherished before he leaves.”

Quirke described the government’s pilot scheme announcement as “a PR stunt”.

“It doesn’t need to be a pilot, you just do it, that’s all we’re asking,” she said. “It’s very easy to put that in place, just start the testing. That’s all I’d love to do, is to go and help him and make him feel I’m there.”

Last week, Barry and another resident tested positive, and on a second test, negative, for coronavirus. Quirke has been told that due to regulations, the care home must shut for a month, even to window visits. She is also worried about the impact a second lockdown will have, and said the situation has “floored” her.

“When he was still lucid, I promised him I wouldn’t leave him alone with this disease,” she said. “I can feel he’s there and he needs comfort. I’ve said to the care home that if there’s any way around this, I’ll do it. I would just like a month of warmth for Barry before he goes.”





No.38 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Michael Gove and Robert Jenrick are latest senior figures to come unstuck when explaining rules

Ministers have prompted confusion over England’s new lockdown rules with Michael Gove apologising for incorrectly indicating tennis and golf could be played, as cabinet colleague Robert Jenrick apparently wrongly suggested a family would be allowed to meet a friend for a walk outside.

Amid uncertainty over the lockdown coming into effect on Thursday, Gove, the Cabinet Office minister, issued an apology for signalling that singles tennis and golf in pairs could still go ahead.

It came as Jenrick, the communities secretary, confirmed that a family could go for a walk with a friend – despite there being a two-person limit on people meeting outdoors when outside of households or support bubbles.

The government’s own website detailing the restrictions states that people can exercise or visit an outdoor space “when on your own, with one person from another household”, unless an exemption applies.

During a question-and-answer session with constituents on Monday, Gove said: “You’ll probably be able to play singles tennis at the moment. The guidance that we have is that if people are appropriately socially distanced they can take exercise with one other person … We are looking at allowing people to play on golf courses with one other appropriately distanced [person].”

But on Tuesday morning Gove reversed, tweeting: “My apologies, I got this wrong,” and sharing a link to guidance explaining that indoor and outdoor leisure facilities including swimming pools, golf courses and riding centres would all be forced to close from Thursday.

Speaking to BBC Breakfast on Tuesday, Jenrick confirmed golf and tennis would not be allowed under the new rules. “There are some differences to the national measures that we had in March and April which will benefit people. For example, you are able to do unlimited outdoor exercise during this period, so we’re not going back to the time where there was only, you know, one walk a day for a limited period.

callout-coronavirus

“You can go out with your own household, or with your own household plus one other person and walk the dog, go for a run, go for a walk around the town or city where you live or to the countryside...”

Pressed to clarify his comments, host Louise Minchin said: “I think I heard you say that outside you can be one household, plus one other person, is that what you meant and is that right?”

Jenrick replied: “Yes, that’s right.”

Suggesting a scenario that would be allowed, Minchin said: “So a family could go for a walk, with for example, a friend.”

Jenrick confirmed they could, saying “yes”. Pressed again by Minchin who asked whether it was correct it would apply to four people and one person, Jenrick appeared to contradict himself: “Yes, so you can go out in your own household, or with one other person.”

The government’s website sets out the new rules warning people must not leave their home except for specific circumstances, including “to exercise outdoors or visit an outdoor public place - with the people you live with, with your support bubble or, when on your own, with one person from another household (children under school age, as well as those dependent on round-the-clock care, such as those with severe disabilities, who are with their parents will not count towards the limit on two people meeting outside)”.

Tony Kerr, strategic development manager at National Tennis Association, said that Gove’s initial remarks had given “a glimmer of hope which was dashed … We don’t understand the decision and it doesn’t sound like the government understands the decision.”

“Not to be able to coach even one on one, we just don’t get it,” he said, adding that NTA – a social enterprise aimed at expanding the number of people who play the sport – has “measures in place that make it completely safe. Players don’t even touch the ball with their hands when they’re getting coaching.”

Hopes of a reprieve for grassroots sport during a second national lockdown were dashed by Boris Johnson on Monday. While elite sports have been given the go-ahead to continue, community sports and facilities will be forced to close.

Asked in the Commons on Monday whether golf courses would be exempted from the new restrictions, the prime minister said: “I must apologise to my honourable friend for not being able to offer the house a huge list of exemptions to the rules we’ve set out. Because once you unpick at one thing alas the effectiveness of the whole package is compromised.

“That’s why I want everyone to work together for the next four weeks to get the R rate under control so that we can open things up again in time for December.”





No.39 article:
Choy Yuk-ling could face jail for film about claims of police collusion with armed thugs

Hong Kong police have arrested and charged a journalist at a public broadcaster in relation to a documentary about the 2019 Yuen Long incident, when police were accused of standing by as armed thugs attacked commuters.

RTHK confirmed the arrest of Choy Yuk-ling, one of the producers of Hong Kong Connection. The respected current affairs programme investigated the police response to the attack, which left 45 people needing treatment in hospital.

Police charged Choi with two counts of giving false information, by misusing a vehicle number plate search as part of the investigation. The case will go before a magistrates court on 10 November, where she faces fines of up to HK$5,000 and six months in jail.

Video footage of the attack, on 21 July 2019, showed dozens of mostly masked men in white shirts storming a mass transit station in Yuen Long, chasing passengers and beating them with sticks. Hong Kong Connection used licence plate searches to connect cars seen at Yuen Long to people involved in the attack, and revealed links between alleged attackers and influential pro-Beijing village committees.

“The show revealed how police were patrolling the town before the rampage and took no action over the men wielding weapons,” RTHK said in a tweet confirming Choy’s arrest.

Police were widely criticised for failing to attend emergency calls from Yuen Long for over half an hour and making no arrests on the night, prompting accusations of collusion, which were exacerbated when pictures emerged of police officers standing alongside the attackers. Police have strenuously denied the accusations of collusion.

Changing and contradictory statements from police over time led to accusations they were attempting to rewrite history.

RTHK’s director of broadcasting, Leung Ka-wing, said the station was “afraid”, and if the arrest was due to Choy’s reporting then it was a serious matter for the entire industry.

“We are worried … whether we can continue the way we produce accurate news as before,” Leung said, but when asked if RTHK would put any current investigations on hold, he replied: “Why should we stop?”

Hong Kong journalists questioned the arrest, suggesting it was an attempt to discourage reporters from accessing public records to investigate authorities. The application form to search vehicle registration records was significantly tightened this year, leaving no option for journalistic queries.

“I think authorities are now exhausting every possible way to suppress the press, to make it difficult, if not impossible, for reporters to do their job to dig out the truth, to publish stories that make [the authorities] feel embarrassed,” the chair of the Hong Kong Journalists Association, Chris Yeung, told RTHK.

A local news reporter, Alvin Lum, said on Twitter that Hong Kong privacy law allowed for journalistic public interest exceptions, and the arrest would set an “outrageous precedent to use of public registries and undermine transparency”.

Since last year’s mass protests, and in particular since the introduction of the national security law in June, Hong Kong authorities have waged a crackdown on dissent and criticism.

While this is the first time a full-time journalist has been arrested in relation to their reporting, observers have blamed the national security law for creating a chilling effect on media and academics. The public broadcaster RTHK has been under particular pressure from pro-Beijing government members and authorities.

Yuen Long was the highest profile incident involving accusations or instances of police misconduct or brutality during the 2019 protests. No police officer has ever been charged, and in May an internal report by the police watchdog, the IPCC, covering the 2019 protest period, largely cleared them of any wrongdoing.

The IPCC said while police were slow to act at Yuen Long, it saw no evidence of collusion between police officers and the attackers – although it acknowledged it did not have the power to investigate collusion – and said that if police had taken any arrest action it would “would only escalate the situation”.





No.40 article:
If you have been affected by the events in Vienna you can share your experiences directly with our journalists

At least three people have been killed and 15 people seriously injured, after an Islamic State sympathiser led a terrorist shooting attack in Vienna on Monday night. Twelve hours after the assault, it is unclear if the man acted alone or how many others were involved, according to authorities.

If you’ve been affected by the incident and would like to share eyewitness accounts or news tips, anonymously if you prefer, direct with our journalists then please do so via the form below or via WhatsApp by clicking here or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056.

Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.

Though we’d like to hear from you, your security is most important. We recognise it may not always be safe or appropriate to record or share your experiences – so please think about this when deciding whether to record and again when deciding whether to send your content to the Guardian.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.41 article:
Gruelling rescue involved navy and volunteers pulling the pilot whales back into deeper waters 

Sri Lanka’s navy and volunteers have rescued 120 pilot whales stranded in the country’s worst mass beaching, but at least two injured animals were found dead, officials said.

Sailors from the navy and the coastguard along with local volunteers had pulled back at least 120 whales by dawn on Tuesday after a gruelling overnight rescue operation, navy spokesman Indika de Silva said.

The school of short-finned pilot whales had washed ashore at Panadura, 15 miles (25km) south of Colombo, since Monday afternoon in the biggest mass stranding of whales on the island.

“We used our small inshore patrol craft to pull the whales one by one back into deeper waters,” De Silva told AFP. “Sadly, two whales have died of the injuries sustained when they beached.”

Local authorities were braced for mass deaths as seen in Tasmania in September when about 470 pilot whales were stranded and only about 110 could be saved after days of rescue efforts.

Sri Lanka’s Marine Environment Protection Authority (MEPA) confirmed the Panadura incident was the largest single pod of whales stranded in the south Asian country.

“It is very unusual for such a large number to reach our shores,” the MEPA chief, Dharshani Lahandapura, told AFP, adding that the cause of the stranding was not known.

“We think this is similar to the mass stranding in Tasmania in September.”

Pilot whales, which can grow up to 6 metres (20 feet) long and weigh a tonne, are highly social.

The causes of mass strandings remain unknown despite scientists studying the phenomenon for decades.





No.42 article:
Tuesday briefing: America votes – and the world holds its breath

Trump’s final fearmongering before polls open … three victims and gunman killed during Vienna terror attack … why Sophia didn’t hand Grant marriage

by  Warren Murray

Hello, Warren Murray here – and please do not actually hold your breath for too long, you will turn purple.

Voting booths will open in the coming hours in the US presidential election between Joe Biden and Donald Trump. There’s a lot to take in, with the poll and its aftermath bound to sprawl across the news all week, so get started with this step-by-step guide. Keen UK readers might want to sneak in a nap today – because we expect the really serious action to commence after midnight GMT. Our US election live blog will be there at all times to shake you awake, should you find your endurance flagging.

The first major indicator is going to be Florida, where polls fully close at 8pm Miami time (1am Wednesday in Britain). If Biden notches an early victory, Democrats will sense a win across the nation. If it is close in that state, things may be more drawn out; and if Trump wins Florida then the whole contest remains up for grabs.

In terms of an overall national result: a landslide to Biden could mean a chance of a fairly quick declaration on Tuesday evening, US time. But would anyone be game enough to call it so early? If the vote is close a result may not be clear until Wednesday; or there could be a real cliffhanger, with the counting of mail-in ballots and possible lawsuits stretching it into days, or even weeks. And the outlook is excruciating: final polling shows Biden with a significant overall lead nationally – the majority in America want Trump out, Biden in – but the incumbent remains a threat in battleground states that could bring the electoral college votes he needs to win.

Published polling may show Biden headed for a win – but as our US data editor, Mona Chalabi, writes, that kind of polling was wrong in 2016. Chalabi points to the participation of millions of new voters as a powerful potential deciding factor. As coronavirus continues to kill Americans – with more than 80,000 new cases reported on Sunday – Trump has held the last of his super-spreader events in the form of campaign rallies. He has told his supporters that Joe Biden wants to lock down America, which is not true. Barack Obama has called Trump out for “lying every day”. As he continued to drag US democracy towards a tailspin, Trump threatened “violence on the streets” if the vote count is not wrapped up quickly – his tweet was promptly slapped with a warning label by Twitter, as was another carrying false claims of voter fraud.

David Smith writes that the president’s profligate campaign could neither escape the pandemic nor find a way to define Biden, but he has whipped up his base into a frenzy – will it be enough to keep him in office? Delivering his closing message on the last day of the campaign, Biden repeated his campaign message that the election was a “battle for the soul of the nation … The character of America is literally on the ballot,” he said at a drive-in rally in Cleveland, Ohio. “It’s time to take back our democracy.”

Vienna: three victims and gunman dead – Austrian police have continued overnight to hunt other gunmen still possibly at large after a string of shootings described by the chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, as a “repulsive terror attack” left three victims dead, while one assailant was killed by armed officers in the city centre. Fifteen people were receiving hospital treatment, with seven in a critical condition. Authorities have been saying that more than one perpetrator may remain at large. The attacker they killed was described as an Islamic State sympathiser who wore a fake bomb belt. Shooters sprayed bullets at people outside bars that were open for the last night before a coronavirus lockdown.

The initial shootings took place at six different locations in the city centre and authorities warned of a group of “heavily armed and dangerous” gunmen. Events unfolded near the Stadttempel synagogue, which was closed at the time. Emmanuel Macron has led the reaction by international leaders: “After France, it is a friendly country that is attacked,” said the French president, clearly referencing events including the church attack in Nice and the beheading of teacher Samuel Paty by an Islamist extremist. “This is our Europe. Our enemies must know who they are dealing with. We will not give up anything.”

Depraved – Domestic violence charities have hailed the verdict from the high court trial in which Amber Heard gave accounts of an enraged Johnny Depp perpetrating drug and alcohol-fuelled abuse. The star has promised to appeal after a judge ruled he was not libelled by the Sun newspaper calling him a “wife beater”. Depp’s lawyers said the decision was “as perverse as it is bewildering” and the judge had disregarded evidence from police, doctors and other unchallenged witnesses that “completely undermined the allegations”. Depp is also suing Heard, his former wife, for defamation in the US where Heard’s lawyers said they would present “even more voluminous evidence … We are committed to obtaining justice for Amber Heard in the US court and defending Ms Heard’s right to free speech.” Ben Quinn notes how Heard stood essentially alone for much of a proceeding from which she had little or nothing to gain.

Coronavirus latest – The number of furloughed workers in the UK is expected to more than double this month to as many as 5.5 million as England heads into lockdown and emergency Covid-19 wage support is expanded. Businesses are expected to claim for billions of pounds of extra state support. Many employers have scrambled to put people back on furlough after the scheme’s closure was reversed but for those already made redundant this has come too late. Retailers, hairdressers and restaurants in England have been extending their opening hours to accommodate a last wave of customers before lockdown hits. In Liverpool, up to half a million people are set to be tested under the UK government’s first attempt to embark on city-wide mass testing and track down every positive case. Covid coverage continues at our global live blog.

‘He didn’t propose’ – It was one of the greatest cinematic love stories of the 20th century, but Sophia Loren has revealed that Cary Grant never proposed to her on set. The 86-year-old Italian actor has previously detailed a love affair with Grant while filming the 1957 film The Pride and the Passion.

In an interview with the Radio Times she said: “Cary Grant was a very handsome man and a wonderful actor, but he didn’t propose.” Loren was 23 at the time, 30 years younger than Grant. She said she was too young to have any clear ideas about love and relationships at the time. Loren ended up marrying the film producer Carlo Ponti and they remained married until his death in 2007.

If Joe Biden is elected president this week, it will be the culmination of a career in politics that has seen successes as well as controversies. Journalist and biographer Evan Osnos examines what his past can tell us about the kind of president that the former vice-president could become.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/02-78880-20201103tifbiden.mp3 

In the 1990s, he was a different kind of film star – eloquent, artistic and cool. But this week, with the loss of his court case against the Sun, the dream has decisively soured, writes Hadley Freeman.

Fresh from winning the Giro d’Italia, Britain’s latest Grand Tour winner, Tao Geoghegan Hart, has spoken exclusively to the Guardian about leadership, why the team comes first and how he doesn’t want his recent success to be a one-off. Hopes of a reprieve for grassroots sport before a second national lockdown this week have been dashed by the prime minister, with community sports and facilities forced to close, even those which operate outdoors. Gary Chilton, whose father, Chris, scored a record 222 goals for Hull City, has accused the PFA of treating former players with dementia “like the elephant in the room”. Leicester moved up to second after a 4-1 victory at Leeds – their fourth successive away win in the Premier League.

Toronto Wolfpack have failed in their bid to be readmitted to Super League in 2021, after clubs overwhelmingly rejected their proposal to return to the top-flight next season. Feliciano López beat Filip Krajinovic in straight sets in the first round and remains on course to meet his Spanish friend Rafael Nadal at the Paris Masters. The Mercedes team principal, Toto Wolff, has said he believes Lewis Hamilton is far from finished with Formula One after the world champion suggested he is considering ending his career. And Diego Maradona has been admitted to hospital in Argentina with undisclosed “health problems” although it is not related to Covid-19 and his condition is not thought to be serious.

Asian stock markets followed Wall Street higher on Tuesday as investors watched for US election results, with analysts hoping for a win by challenger Joe Biden in the presidential race that might lead to more economic stimulus. Benchmarks in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Sydney advanced. Japanese markets were closed for a holiday. The FTSE was 40-50 points higher at time of writing while sterling was worth $1.291 and €1.108.

Our Guardian third edition squeezed the Vienna attacks on to the front thanks to some hectic work by print colleagues. The lead story is “Hard-hit Liverpool to embark on first attempt at mass Covid testing”. The Times has the “terrorist gun rampage in Vienna” across the top – its splash is the president’s reckless outburst that “Voting delay will put US in danger”. The Telegraph echoes it too: “US braced for victory delay and violence” is the picture lead, Vienna makes the front, and the splash is the Liverpool story: “Mass testing plan to offer way out of lockdown”.

The Mail leads with “Earl Spencer: BBC’s vile slurs to entrap Diana”. The Mirror initially gave a full front page to its Remembrance Day campaign, but for the late edition it cut that back to a half-page pic to fit in “City’s terror horror – Vienna under attack”. The Express stuck with “Virus battle will be won by spring” and a picture of Johnny Depp pointing to the court verdict story inside. In the Metro you’ve got “Johnny Rotten” for the actor and “Crony virus” for Kate Bingham, the Conservative minister’s spouse and venture capitalist heading Britain’s vaccine taskforce, who is claimed to have shown US financiers “official sensitive” government documents during a $200-a-head conference.

The splash headline in the i is “Covid hope: rapid test trial starts this week”. The FT leads with “Under-fire Johnson insists winter lockdown is time limited” and the Sun revels in being able to say of Johnny Depp: “He IS a wife beater”.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.43 article:
China changes school curriculum to reflect Beijing&#x27;s positive Covid narrative

Content added to classes will say the state ‘always put the life and safety of its people first’

Chinese government-endorsed content about the pandemic and the “fighting spirit” of the country’s response will be added to school curriculum, the country’s ministry of education has said, in a move to enshrine the country’s narrative of success against the virus. 

The content will be added to elementary and middle school classes in biology, health and physical education, history, and literature, and will “help students understand the basic fact that the Party and the state always put the life and safety of its people first”, the ministry said on Wednesday.

“Students will learn about key figures and deeds which emerged during the epidemic prevention and control efforts. They will learn to foster public awareness and dedication, to enrich knowledge about the advantages of the socialist system with Chinese characteristics,” the ministry said.

Earlier this year the National People’s Congress aired a proposal for the successes to be enshrined in the school curriculum, and content about China’s “fighting spirit” had already been incorporated into some high school subjects, Sixthtone reported.

While there was domestic pushback on China’s virus response, in particular the early attempts to cover up the outbreak and silence health workers who tried to speak out, the government has presented its efforts as hugely successful in containing Covid-19. In June it release a report lauding its own success and denying there was any coverup.

The country has largely contained the virus, and sporadic outbreaks – most recently in the Xinjiang region – are quickly clamped down on with local lockdowns and mass testing. But there are concerns about the approaching winter, and China’s National Development and Reform Commission has called on local governments to “guide families” in storing medical supplies ahead of a heightened risk of a Covid resurgence and the flu.

In Guangdong province, the health commission has released a list of 33 items for families to stock up on, from face masks and anti-bacterial swabs to first-aid material and emergency supplies like biscuits, water, escape rope ladders and whistles and and flashlights. Beijing, Jinan, Ningbo and other cities have issued similar recommendations to households.

Hospitals and clinics are also stockpiling emergency supplies, including preparing stadiums, exhibition halls and other public venues for the possibility of being turned into temporary quarantine wards. Authorities in Zhejiang province have said that by the end of this year, every district or city should have no less than two large venues that can be quickly converted into emergency medical spaces.

The emergency supplies lists have prompted speculation from internet users over whether US warships were approaching China’s southern coast, while residents outside of the country asked whether Chinese officials might be preparing for war.

China’s state-run Global Times dismissed the rumours. “It is crucial to have necessary family supplies in wartime, but a war is not going to happen within the next few years,” Song Zhongping, a military commentator told the paper.

China has reported a total of 86,070 cases since the beginning of the pandemic, with a death toll of 4,634.

On Tuesday it reported 49 confirmed cases from the previous day, including 44 imported from overseas. It also reported 61 asymptomatic cases found through testing, which it does not include in its tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases.





No.44 article:
Retail and hospitality in England open extra hours before lockdown

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Some sellers seeing strongest sales in months as customer numbers surge

Some sellers seeing strongest sales in months as customer numbers surge

Retailers, hairdressers and restaurants in England have said they are extending opening hours and seeing their strongest bookings in months, as Thursday’s lockdown looms.

Gary Grant, the chairman of toyshop chain The Entertainer, said shoppers were “clearing the shelves like it’s Christmas Eve” with sales on Monday double that of the equivalent day last year.

The chain is extending opening hours until 7pm or 8pm from 5.30pm as it expects strong trading to continue right up until Wednesday night. From Thursday, nonessential retail in England will close for a month, along with gyms, cinemas, hospitality venues and places of worship.

Dixons, the owner of PC World, Currys and Carphone Warehouse, and some branches of bookseller Waterstones are also extending opening hours ahead of four weeks of closure in what would normally be a peak trading period.

Queues formed outside Primark in some cities over the weekend as the chain, which does not sell online, prepared to close its doors on Thursday.

Across England there was a near 9% rise in shopper numbers compared with the previous week. However, the number of high street visitors is still well down on last year, including 45% down in central London.

Jace Tyrrell, the chief executive of the New West End Company trade body for London retailers, described the scene as a “mini rush”.

“It’s been one of the best Sundays since we reopened,” he said. “I think people want to get some shopping done as they are not certain shops are going to reopen in December.”

Hairdressers around the country were also busy. Regis, which owns 56 hair salons, said bookings were up 30% since the lockdown announcement on Saturday and the 60-strong Saks hairdressing chain said it had extended opening hours to include Sunday, early mornings and late evenings to cope with demand.

Janet King, the head of marketing at Saks, said: “Phones are ringing off the hook and our online booking app has struggled a little with the volume of traffic.”

Darren Messias, the managing director of KH Hair Salons, said its 20 salons in the Midlands would be doing a week’s appointments in three days by bringing in extra staff and opening late in some cases as clients booked in for emergency dyes and trims.

“The fear is that the government might extend the lockdown. People are panicking about getting their colours done for Christmas,” he said.

Pubs were also expecting a late rush. Peter Borg-Neal, the chief executive of Oakman Inns, said its 28 pubs were fully booked through to Wednesday night, from when the group will only be able to sell takeaway meals.

He said the group was hoping to sell as much beer as possible before the lockdown as pubs will not be able to sell takeaway alcohol from Thursday as they were allowed to do in the spring lockdown.

“We will have a big lump of stock left over. Probably 200 pints per pub. Why don’t they at least let us try to make some form of living. Why do they always favour the supermarkets?” Borg-Neal said.

Restaurants also reported a surge in bookings. Gaucho said it had taken 8,000 bookings for its steakhouses on Sunday, four times its usual number, while Rick Stein Group said its bookings on Sunday were up by 25% week on week. 

Ben Tish, the culinary director of hotel and restaurant owner The Stafford Collection, said its Norma restaurant in central London was fully booked for evenings until Thursday with minimal space at lunches. “People absolutely want their last hurrah,” he said.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Many galleries, museums and arts venues also reported a rise in inquiries from those wanting a last minute cultural hit.

The Wigmore Hall in London, for example, experienced a flood of phone calls about coming to what is the final performance in its series to socially distanced audiences.

“People are desperate to get in,” said the artistic director, John Gilhooly, “but unfortunately they can’t because we’re sold out.”

Instead, they can watch the free live stream of a grimly appropriate last performance: Schubert’s Winterreise (Winter Journey), a downbeat song cycle about entering the abyss. “Hopefully that’s not where we’re heading,” said Gilhooly.

All the business owners said the short-term surge in trade would not offset a difficult year with the latest four-week shutdown a further blow after at least three months of closure from March.

“This year is going to be shocking,” said Messias at KH. “Everybody is in the same boat. The high street is being absolutely murdered. It is very, very tough.”





No.45 article:
&#x27;Finding them is not rocket science&#x27;: the hunt for the Rwandan genocide fugitives

Arrest of Félicien Kabuga in Paris has energised search for others accused of playing role in 1994 genocide

No one paid much attention to the stooped old man who lived in the third-floor apartment of the comfortable but unexceptional block in Asnières-sur-Seine, a suburb on the outskirts of Paris. He shuffled off for his daily walks, and muttered inaudibly to those who greeted him.

Then one morning in late May, 84-year-old Félicien Kabuga’s neighbours woke up to the startling news that they had been living next to an alleged mass killer.

The arrest of Kabuga after a hunt lasting more than the quarter of a century made headlines around the world. Now Kabuga faces charges of playing a key role in the murders of about 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus during the Rwandan genocide in 1994 and is set to face a trial by a special UN tribunal next year. If convicted, he will spend the rest of his life in prison.

The arrest has given new energy to the hunt for others on the run and accused of playing significant roles in the genocide.

“People think that fugitives are living on an island in luxury but Kabuga was in a [one-bedroomed] apartment for years. Finding them is not rocket science … Justice is slow but will prevail, if there is political will and enough investigative resources,” said Serge Brammertz, the prosecutor who led the hunt.

There is now hope that the arrest of Kabuga will not just shock those still fleeing justice, but anyone who is protecting them, particularly officials and policymakers.

“We are trying to use the momentum [generated by the Kabuga arrest] to increase cooperation [which] remains very difficult. Replies to request for assistance are very slow,” Brammertz said.

An uneducated small trader who became the richest man in Rwanda and close to the elite clique which ran the genocide, Kabuga is accused of raising funds to buy the machetes used by militias to kill hundreds of thousands. He also co-owned an infamous radio station which broadcast messages charged with ethnic hatred, at one point telling armed gangs to “get to work” because mass graves were only “half full”.

Kabuga fled Rwanda in the aftermath of the genocide but was forced out of Switzerland after he was identified as he attempted to apply for asylum. He then spent time in what was then Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) and eventually in Kenya, where he supported powerful politicians and repeatedly evaded arrest.

By 2007 he was back in Europe, and was narrowly missed by investigators when seeking medical treatment in Germany. More recently, Kabuga lived in a series of modest homes around Paris, remaining unidentified despite a $5m (£3.9m) reward offered by the US state department, which named him among the most wanted fugitives in the world. But investigators were closing in.

Working with police across Europe, Brammertz used new technology to monitor the movements, finances and communications of the relatives who provided Kabuga’s essential support network.

“We had been tracking the movements of all the phones and 15 family members. We could determine that of all of them, one was locked on to one cell tower in Paris. I concluded that this was the hiding place of Kabuga,” Brammertz, who was appointed prosecutor of the UN tribunal in 2016 after successfully tracking Serbian war criminals Ratko Mladić and Radovan Karadžić, said.

The Covid-19 lockdown ordered by French authorities meant gendarmes from a newly created unit focused on crimes against humanity could devote more resources to the Kabuga case, and also meant there was little chance of the wanted man moving before a raid could be organised.

Though the empty streets made surveillance in the final stages of the investigation harder, the raid was successful. Policemen and prosecutors smashed in the apartment’s door, identified Kabuga with a DNA test, allowed him to make an omelette for breakfast and then took him into custody.

Kabuga’s detention was welcomed by victims of the genocide, such as Valerie Mukabayire, leader of AVEGA Agahozo, a group of female survivors.

“We were worried that [Kabuga’s] age would impede justice but now we are happy,” Mukabayire, who lost family members including her husband, said.

With the arrest of Kabuga and DNA confirmation of the death of the former defence minister Augustin Bizimana, prosecutors have now accounted for two of the three major fugitives indicted by the tribunal.

Taking Kabuga’s place at the top of the wanted list is Protais Mpiranya, who was a commander in Rwanda’s presidential guard in 1994.

Brammertz last year informed the UN security council that his office had developed “credible evidence” of the whereabouts of key fugitives and said he deeply regretted South Africa’s longstanding failure to execute an arrest warrant on one important individual, reported by local media to be Mpiranya.

“My office is generating valuable intelligence and leads: telephone numbers, places of residence, identification documents, travel details and more. We have submitted numerous urgent requests for assistance – particularly to countries in east and southern Africa – to follow up on these leads … [which] remain unanswered for more than a year,” the prosecutor told the UN.

Brammertz told the Guardian that the issue with South Africa was still pending. “I am always careful in publicly blaming and shaming but … [all countries] have an obligation under the UN charter to assist [the tribunal],” he said.

One problem faced by investigators is that fugitives often use genuine travel documents issued in false names. Investigators are now trying to establish the motives of those who provided the more than 20 different passports used by Kabuga during his years on the run. These may have been obtained through bribery, or given to Kabuga on the orders of powerful individuals who wanted the accused man to stay hidden and silent.

“Some of the people we are looking for are coming from a military background. Some have been involved in exploitation of natural resources. Some have been fighting together [with potential protectors] in the region,” Brammertz said.

In September the French supreme court refused Kabuga’s appeal against extradition, which means he will be transferred to the custody of the UN tribunal, which is based in The Hague, Netherlands and Arusha, Tanzania.

Last month judges decided he would be sent to a detention unit in The Hague out of health considerations amid the coronavirus pandemic, and be brought before an international judge there for an initial appearance in his war crimes case.

At a hearing 11 days after his arrest, Kabuga denied the charges against him. “I have done nothing wrong,” he said. “These are lies. I never killed a Tutsi.”





No.46 article:
At least three people dead – including one attacker – after string of incidents in Austrian capital

Police in Vienna are hunting at least one gunman after a string of shootings described by the Austrian chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, as a “repulsive terror attack” left at least three people dead.

Two civilians were killed by gunmen, while one attacker was killed by police in the centre of the Austrian capital. At least one gunman remains on the run, but authorities have not ruled out there being more still at large. The initial shootings took place at six different locations in the city centre and authorities warned of a group of “heavily armed and dangerous” gunmen.

Fifteen other people – including at least one police officer – were seriously injured in exchanges of gunfire. Seven victims were reported to be in critical condition.

“We have become victims of a repulsive terror attack in the capital that is ongoing,” Kurz said in a press conference.

“We are currently experiencing difficult hours in our republic. I would like to thank all the emergency forces who are risking their lives for our safety, especially today. Our police will take decisive action against the perpetrators of this repulsive terrorist attack.”

Kurz said the army would protect sites in the capital so the police could focus on anti-terror operations. Speaking to the Austrian broadcaster ORF, he said the attackers “were very well equipped with automatic weapons” and had “prepared professionally”.

Vienna mayor Michael Ludwig announced two civilians had been killed by gunmen several hours after the attacks. The identities of those killed have not been made public.

One attacker was shot dead by police. According to government sources, the slain terrorist was carrying an explosive belt and a bag filled with ammunition, ORF reported. The explosive belt was being defused by a de-mining team into the early hours of Tuesday.

Frequent sirens and helicopters could be heard in the city centre and large numbers of police were guarding an area near the city’s world-famous opera house.

“We have brought several special forces units together that are now searching for the presumed terrorists. I am therefore not limiting it to an area of Vienna because these are mobile perpetrators,” Nehammer told ORF, urging the public to stay indoors until the all-clear was given.

“We believe there are several perpetrators. Unfortunately there are also several injured, probably also dead,” he said.

The attack began just hours before Austria was due to introduce new coronavirus restrictions, including an 8pm until 6am curfew that came into effect at midnight on Monday night. Bars and restaurants in the network of narrow streets known to locals as the “Bermuda triangle” were packed.

Shooting first broke out at around 8pm on Seitenstettengasse street in the centre of the city but spread out to what police said were six different shooting locations in the vicinity.

A witness said a gunman had started to fire at random at groups of people sitting at tables. Footage purportedly showing the attack and shared by European counter-terrorism officers showed a puddle of blood by the entrance of a restaurant.

Another unconfirmed clip showed a man carrying a rifle and wearing a white shirt and beige trousers firing shots towards a building. A male voice can be heard shouting “Asshole, motherfucker” at the attacker from one of the buildings.

Police repeatedly appealed for witnesses to refrain from sharing photographs or video from the scene after footage which appeared to show an injured policeman was briefly posted on Twitter.

Initial reports had suggested that the nearby Stadttempel synagogue could have been the target of the attack.

But Oskar Deutsch, president of the Jewish Community Vienna, said the synagogue on Seitenstettengasse and the office building at the same address were already closed at the time of the attack, and it was “unclear” if it was one of the targets of the attack.

Deutsch told the Kurier newspaper that no members of Vienna’s Jewish community were among those injured in the attack.

Citing an interview with a rabbi living directly above the synagogue, Kurier reported an attacker had taken random shots at people sitting outside cafes and bars on Judengasse and Seitenstettengasse in central Vienna. “He did not aim at the Stadttempel [synagogue],” the witness said.

The synagogue was the target of a terror attack almost four decades ago. On 29 August 1981, two members of the Palestinian group Fatah – The Revolutionary Council, also known as ANO – tried to storm the synagogue building but were stopped by security forces. Two people were killed and 21 others injured in the attack.

More recently, however, Austria had been spared the sort of major attacks that have hit other European countries.

The French president, Emmanuel Macron, tweeted that “we French share the shock and sorrow of the Austrian people”.

“After France, it’s a friendly nation that has been attacked,” he added, referring to the killing on Thursday of three people by a knife-armed attacker in Nice and the beheading of a schoolteacher by a suspected Islamist outside Paris several days before.

Boris Johnson tweeted: “I am deeply shocked by the terrible attacks in Vienna tonight. The UK’s thoughts are with the people of Austria – we stand united with you against terror.”

Italian prime minister Giuseppe Conte said there was “no room for hatred and violence in our common European home”, while his foreign minister Luigi Di Maio, tweeted that “Europe must react”.

Czech police said they had started random checks on the border with Austria.

“Police are carrying out random checks of vehicles and passengers on border crossings with Austria as a preventive measure in relation to the terror attack in Vienna,” Czech police tweeted.







