No.1 article:
The Lost Days That Made Bergamo a Coronavirus Tragedy

BERGAMO, Italy — When Franco Orlandi, a usually hale former truck driver, arrived in mid-February with a cough and fever at an emergency room in the northern Italian province of Bergamo, doctors determined that he had a flu and sent him home. Two days later, an ambulance brought the 83-year-old back. He couldn’t breathe.

Italy had not recorded a single domestic coronavirus case, but Mr. Orlandi’s symptoms puzzled Monica Avogadri, the 55-year-old anesthesiologist who treated him at Pesenti Fenaroli Hospital. She didn’t test him for the virus because Italian protocols, adopted from the World Health Organization, recommended testing only people with a link to China, where the outbreak had originated.

When she asked whether Mr. Orlandi had a connection to China, his wife seemed befuddled. They hardly ever ventured beyond their local cafe, Patty’s Bar.

‘‘China?” Dr. Avogadri recalled Mr. Orlandi’s wife responding. “She didn’t even know where it was.”

What Dr. Avogadri did not know was that Covid-19 had already arrived in her region of Lombardy, a discovery made five days later by another doctor in nearby Lodi who broke the national testing protocol. By then, Dr. Avogadri, hamstrung by those same protocols, had herself fallen ill after days caring for Mr. Orlandi and other patients. Her hospital, rather than identifying and treating the disease, was accelerating its spread across Italy’s economic heartland.

Bergamo became one of the deadliest killing fields for the virus in the Western world, a place marked by inconceivable suffering and a dreadful soundtrack of ambulance sirens as emergency medical workers peeled parents away from children, husbands from wives, grandparents from their families.

Hospitals became makeshift morgues and produced parades of coffins and scenes of devastation that became a warning to officials in other Western countries of how the virus could rapidly overwhelm health systems and turn infirmaries into incubators.

Officials confirmed that more than 3,300 people died with the virus in Bergamo, though they said the actual toll was probably double that. Mr. Orlandi’s town, Nembro, became perhaps Italy’s hardest struck, with an 850 percent increase in deaths in March. So many, the local priest ordered a stop to the incessant tolling of the bells for the dead.

The question of how such a tragedy could unfold in Bergamo, a wealthy, well-educated province of just more than a million, with top-level hospitals, has remained an uneasy mystery, a blood stain that the government prefers to avoid as it points with pride to Italy’s success in flattening the first wave of infections.

The World Health Organization’s guidance on testing engendered a misplaced sense of security and helped blind doctors to the spread of the virus. But missteps and inaction after Covid-19 exploded into view aggravated the situation and cost Bergamo — and Italy — precious time when minutes mattered most.

The director of Pesenti Fenaroli Hospital closed its doors almost as soon as he realized he had an outbreak. But regional officials ordered them opened hours later. Hospital workers, visitors and discharged patients were exposed to the virus, and then moved through the province.

For days, there was an expectation that the national government would lock down towns in Bergamo, as it had earlier done immediately and decisively in Lodi. Some mayors in Bergamo waited anxiously for the police to seal the borders, even as many business and local leaders expressed reluctance.

Italy’s prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, publicly turned to a committee of scientific advisers, which formally proposed that he follow the example of Lodi and shut down the newly infected towns in Bergamo. Privately, though, national business lobbies urged him not to close the area’s factories.

Ultimately, after critical days filled with bureaucratic dithering, as well as spats between Rome and the regional authorities, the government decided the time to save Bergamo had passed.

With the virus out of control in the province and clusters emerging all around it, the government waited longer but then went bigger. Two weeks after Mr. Orlandi had tested positive, Italy locked down the whole region. Then the country. But Bergamo was lost.

Now that the coronavirus, deep into its second wave, has washed across the globe and left virtually no nation untouched, it is easy to forget how alone among Western democracies Italy was in February, confronted with a threat for which it had no playbook.

Throughout flu season, some local family doctors in the Lombardy region had noticed strange pneumonia cases and were prescribing more scans than usual. The region has business ties to China, and local infectious disease doctors had kept an eye on the coronavirus outbreak in the city of Wuhan. They also trusted Italy’s new and narrower protocols, adopted from the W.H.O. at the end of January, which essentially limited testing to people linked to China.

But hardly any of the pneumonia patients had such a link, which meant that the few people being tested were mostly air travelers. All had come back negative.

Then, on Feb. 20, Annalisa Malara, a doctor in the town of Codogno, in Lodi province, decided to break the protocol and test a 38-year-old man with serious pneumonia who was not responding to standard treatments. The man’s test came back positive that same evening and he became Italy’s first known locally transmitted case of Covid-19.

Two days later, on the outskirts of Rome, an emergency meeting was held at Italy’s Civil Protection Agency, the national disaster relief body. Crammed into a small conference room, Mr. Conte sat at the head of an oval table, surrounded by his ministers, as Italy’s health minister, Roberto Speranza, proposed a dramatic lockdown of towns in the Lodi area.

The ministers, exchanging nervous looks, unanimously agreed and the government dispatched Italy’s police and army to seal the borders on Feb. 23 — a decision that it cites to this day as the metric of its boldness and willingness to put Italy’s public health over its economy.

Mr. Speranza weighed the momentous decision carefully, deciding it was better to err on the side of caution.

‘‘I was playing with the lives of people,” he said, adding that in the story of the pandemic, “It was the first time in the history of Western countries that we were locking down and taking away the freedom of the people.”

The discovery of the virus in Lodi, just 60 miles from Bergamo, struck Dr. Avogadri, sick in bed at home, with the force of a revelation.

She picked up the phone on Feb. 21 and called her colleagues at Pesenti Fenaroli, in the town of Alzano Lombardo in Bergamo’s industrial and densely populated Serio river valley. She urged them to test her patient, Mr. Orlandi.

At first, they ridiculed her, noting that he’d never been anywhere near China. But other patients on the same floor were deteriorating, and another man with suspicious symptoms soon arrived in the emergency room. Hospital officials decided to swab test him and one of Mr. Orlandi’s roommates.

By midday on Feb. 23, the results were brought to Dr. Giuseppe Marzulli, the hospital director. Both tests were positive.

Dr. Marzulli grilled the reporting doctor about whether the staff had adequately investigated connections to China. They had. There weren’t any. The virus was already circulating in their midst.

“It was at that moment I understood we were screwed,” Dr. Marzulli said. “We had looked for who had been in China, and this was the tragic error.”

They swabbed Mr. Orlandi that day, as members of his family moved through crowded corridors of the third floor.

Some visitors noticed staff members coughing.

Given the government’s swift action in Lodi, Dr. Marzulli began to prepare for a lockdown. He canceled shift changes so that no new personnel would come in, and he closed the emergency room, mindful that the hospital had only about a dozen swabs to perform coronavirus tests.

“We didn’t have swabs. It was the biggest problem we had,” he said. 

Hours later, the region and the Bergamo hospital network overseeing Pesenti Fenaroli decided together to reopen the emergency room over Dr. Marzulli’s objections.

Aida Andreassi, a senior Lombardy health official, said the emergency room had been sanitized and the hospital represented an “indispensable garrison” for a region that needed all its medical facilities.

But without enough swabs, Dr. Marzulli said, the hospital was defenseless.

On Feb. 24, Mr. Orlandi’s test results came back. He was positive, too. By then, about 50 more patients had arrived at the emergency room with symptoms, quickly burning through the hospital’s stock of swabs, Dr. Marzulli said.

A doctor, who tested Dr. Avogadri with one of the available swabs, pressed hospital officials for more tests, reminding them in a frantic email that they had “symptomatic colleagues who have not been swabbed.”

His superiors pleaded with another hospital in the region for 100 swabs, according to email correspondence seen by The New York Times. But Dr. Marzulli said only half of them made it to Pesenti Fenaroli, on Feb. 26.

He scrambled, separating patients with symptoms from those without, and sending home visibly sick staff members. But many patients who came in contact with the virus stayed put, while their nurses and doctors kept circulating.

On Feb. 27, documents provided by Lombardy show, the region sent hundreds more swabs to the Bergamo hospitals. But they didn’t arrive at Pesenti Fenaroli right away, Dr. Marzulli said.

He was forced to ration out a couple dozen swabs a day until March 1, when he himself fainted from exhaustion with the virus.

“If we have to identify a spark,” Giorgio Gori, the mayor of Bergamo city said as infections devastated his town, “it was the hospital.”

The small towns around the hospital increasingly became central to a drama playing out between Bergamo and Rome.

On Feb. 25, Bergamo province reported just 18 cases compared to 125 in Lodi. Lombardy’s top health official expressed concern about contagion at Pesenti Fenaroli Hospital but said, “It’s early to say if it’s another cluster.”

In Rome, Mr. Conte discouraged expanding testing, reasoning that health officials had to follow international protocols, “otherwise we would end up dramatizing” the emergency.

On Feb. 26, with 20 reported cases in Bergamo, Rome’s scientific committee said it didn’t see any flare-ups that required a lockdown. Claudio Cancelli, the mayor of Nembro, said Bergamo’s health officials threatened to cut off funding to the area’s 18 mayors if they closed centers for the elderly or disabled.

The next day, he said, they assured the mayors, “Don’t worry. There is no red zone foreseen.”

But on Feb. 28, Bergamo’s caseload had jumped to 103, against 182 in Lodi. At a Lombardy regional news conference, leading doctors identified the Pesenti Fenaroli Hospital as the outbreak’s source.

Confindustria Bergamo, the province’s industrial association, responded that same day by posting a video titled, “Bergamo Is Running.”

“Current health warnings from Italian government officials are that the risk of infection is low,” the narrator stated. The images showed factories humming.

That message resonated with Simona Ghilardi, who ran a national transport and logistics company in Nembro, about a mile from Pesenti Fenaroli Hospital. Colleagues in locked-down Lodi had told her about losing clients. Stopping industry in Bergamo was unthinkable to her.

“When you are born here the first thing they tell you is — you have to work,” she said.

As talk of a lockdown persisted, she looked out onto her vast warehouse filled with stacks of grocery store circulars, bags of chemical products and crates of detergent to ship to China. “The factory has to survive too,” she said.

Business leaders, and even the Alzano Lombardo mayor, resisted a lockdown, telling the local newspaper that it would be a tragedy for the economy and contacting their commercial associations with influence in Rome.

In the capital, Mr. Conte stressed that he would be guided by science alone. He declined interview requests for this article but has denied ever receiving requests from Confindustria as his government weighed what to do in Bergamo.

The powerful industrial group’s own representatives said they made their requests clear.

“There was a direct line between Confindustria and the government at that time,” said Licia Mattioli, who was then the group’s vice president.

The leadership argued directly to Mr. Conte that the rapid lockdown of the factories in Lodi unnecessarily cost jobs and that in Bergamo’s factories steps like social distancing would be sufficient.

“What they were saying was that to stop all the industry, also locally, is really very, very dangerous,” she recalled.

“I don’t know if they understood,” she said of Mr. Conte and his ministers. “But they listened at least.”

The factories stayed open until late March, and many never closed.

“I can assure you that never, never, never we made considerations on this,” said Mr. Speranza, the health minister. “We decided since the beginning that the first point is health — everything else comes after.”

On March 3, the government’s scientific committee proposed a red zone around Nembro and Alzano Lombardo. The Lombardy authorities considered it a done deal. So did Mr. Cancelli, the Nembro mayor, who was now infected and working in isolation.

“This place should have been closed in February, when it became clear that there were officially declared cases in the hospital, that surely were in contact with health workers, relatives, other patients,” Mr. Cancelli said. “On March 3 we thought, ‘Now they will close tonight.’”

But Mr. Conte, who needed to approve the decision, has said that he didn’t hear of the plan for two more days.

In the meantime, Mr. Speranza said, he pressed the scientific committee for a report on their rationale for closing the towns. “They said only ‘Close,’” Mr. Speranza said. “You can’t say, ‘I take away the freedom of people,’ for two words.”

The interior ministry notified Bergamo’s military police to begin preparations for a lockdown, according to Col. Paolo Storoni, then the head of the Carabinieri in the area. Carmen Arzuffi, the owner of Hotel Continental, said the local police prefect called on March 4 to book 50 rooms for 100 incoming officers.

On March 5, the scientific committee again urged the government to lock down the towns. Mr. Speranza said he sent Mr. Conte the report that night. A member of Parliament from Bergamo privately pressed Mr. Conte’s office about what was taking so long, arguing that a human catastrophe was unfolding.

Mr. Conte’s office replied, according to correspondence seen by The Times, that there would be a ministerial-level meeting on Saturday, two days later, and that no decision would come before then.

By March 6, law enforcement had begun setting up at the hotel.

The police filled the hours by inspecting the routes they were supposed to close off and holding briefings in the basement, with commanders drawing maps of the towns and their streets on an easel.

“They knew it all by heart,” Ms. Arzuffi, the hotel owner, said.

As they ran drills, Mr. Conte met on March 6 with the scientific committee in Rome yet again. According to Mr. Speranza, the committee told Mr. Conte that closing Bergamo was no longer the issue. All of Lombardy, including Milan, needed to be locked down.

Two days later, on March 8, Mr. Conte did just that.

Mr. Conte has portrayed himself as urging the scientists to think bigger and bolder, saying he told them, “Shouldn’t we think of more radical measures?”

Later that day, the police officers at the Hotel Continental packed up and left.

“Nothing happened,” Mr. Cancelli said.

As the authorities decided what to do, the virus seemed to spread everywhere and touch everyone. Infections ravaged homes and apartments. People started dying.

Mr. Orlandi, the burly truck driver who had once delighted the children in his family by thumb wrestling them with his gaping hands, died the day after his family learned he had contracted the virus. Some of his family became infected and died, too.

Giuseppa Nembrini, 82, and Giovanni Morotti, 85, a married couple in two separate rooms down the hall from Mr. Orlandi, both died.

Angiolina Cavalli, 84, a patient across the hall, died as well. Her husband, Gianfranco Zambonelli, 85, who had visited the hospital, died of the virus, too.

“They never told us anything,” Francesco Zambonelli, their son, who also contracted the virus, said of the hospital. “I think without knowing it, we became a vehicle for contagion to others.”

Some of the sick included Bergamo soccer fans, 40,000 of whom had commuted to Milan on Feb. 19 to cheer for their local team, Atalanta, in a Champions League match against the Spanish team Valencia.

“We were stuck one next to the other,” recalled Matteo Doneda, 49, a rabid fan of Atalanta, who sang at the game, “You’ll know when we do damage! We are Bergamaschi, and we know no limits!”

On Feb. 26, Mr. Doneda said cookies began “tasting like sand” and his wife drove him to a hospital. He could barely walk and soon found himself breathing from within an oxygen helmet, surrounded by elderly people gasping for air. He said some of them had broken jaws under their masks, from fainting and falling in the ward.

Dr. Avogadri declined and lost consciousness, eventually drifting into a semi-comatose state in an intensive care ward, as she lost half of her hair. “I wanted to die,” she said.

When she was finally discharged, she discovered that the doctor who managed to find her a swab at Pesenti Fenaroli Hospital had died and that her older sister, who lived nearby, lay in an intensive care unit, a breathing tube down her throat.

All the authorities involved now recognize Bergamo’s losses as a tragedy. But invariably they lay blame for it elsewhere.

The World Health Organization says that it limited its case definitions for practical reasons, primarily not to waste resources at the outset of an uncertain contagion. The rationale, said Dr. Margaret Harris, a spokeswoman for the organization, was “to limit the testing to a specific population at risk.” It is a position that past W.H.O. officials considered reasonable.

But Dr. Harris also argued that when the agency updated the guidelines at the end of January, it made clear “that the patient’s doctor is the one, ultimately, to decide who to test.”

Doctors in Bergamo considered that a convenient caveat.

The guidance was “the thing that generated the huge problem of the spread of the pandemic,” Dr. Avogadri said. “It was a big limitation.”

The W.H.O. “made a mistake,” said Giuseppe Ruocco, Italy’s chief medical officer and a senior official in its health ministry, adding that if Italy hadn’t automatically followed the organization’s lead it “could have certainly avoided cases and the infection of medical staff.”

In June, Italy bestowed a knighthood in the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic on Dr. Malara, the physician who exposed the outbreak by disregarding the protocol.

Local officials and bereaved families in Nembro and Alzano Lombardo argue that closing the towns in February would have slowed the spread. A local prosecutor is investigating what happened and what didn’t happen and why.

But the government would prefer to focus on its closing of Lodi and then the region.

“It’s two small towns that everyone now knows,” Mr. Speranza, the health minister, said when asked how it was possible the prime minister didn’t know for three days about the shutdown proposal in Bergamo. “But it’s two small towns.”

And Mr. Conte has dismissed questions about the boldness of his decision making.

“There was no delay,” he has insisted.

Today Bergamo is a province gutted by loss.

Earlier this month, the Rev. Matteo Cella, who performed many abbreviated funeral rites for families he knew, greeted widows and widowers, sons and daughters, nieces and nephews on the Day of the Dead.

Wearing blue surgical masks, they leaned against the gravestones of their loved ones, or alongside the wood crosses of the unfinished graves of coronavirus victims.

Father Cella and other prelates read the names of the 231 people who had died in Nembro since the previous November. At least 188 had succumbed to Covid-19. They read the name of Mr. Orlandi, and of the other patients and doctors and visitors with whom he shared the third floor of the hospital during his final days.

As the mourners followed the priests in prayers, some wandered to the mausoleum wall at the back of the cemetery. Familiar names filled the wall.

“Franco Orlandi,” read one. “1-3-1936 – 25-2-2020.”

“It’s still astonishing,” said Luigia Provese, 81, who drank coffee at the same bar as Mr. Orlandi and said that three of the four people she played cards with had died from the virus. “These are all people I know.”

As the virus has exploded again throughout Italy, Bergamo’s massive infection rate during the first wave, doctors say, has given it a measure of immunity. Its hospitals, once an exporter of infection and the sick, are taking patients in from the surrounding areas.

On Nov. 2, Bergamo’s fairgrounds debuted as a newly converted intensive therapy ward. Dozens of beds radiated wires. Ventilators stood on standby. A team of nurses in hazmat gear huddled for a briefing about reserve oxygen tanks.

Their coordinator, Lauretta Rota, 56, looked on in disbelief.

“It took some time to believe this was happening all over again,” she said. “There is an emotional and physical exhaustion that comes with that knowledge of what we have to face.”

Her cellphone rang.

“OK,” she said, excusing herself. “The first patient is on the way.”





No.2 article:
One Seat, Competing Pressures as Newsom Considers Senate Pick   

Alex Padilla, California’s secretary of state, has emerged as the front-runner to succeed Kamala Harris. But Gov. Gavin Newsom appears to be in no rush to make his choice.

SACRAMENTO — Since Gavin Newsom’s days as a young upstart running for mayor of San Francisco through more than two decades of public life, Alex Padilla has been a stalwart ally.

As president of the Los Angeles City Council, Mr. Padilla introduced Mr. Newsom to important local  labor and Latino leaders. As a state senator, Mr. Padilla chaired Mr. Newsom’s short-lived first campaign for governor. And as California secretary of state, Mr. Padilla conferred a key early endorsement that helped Mr. Newsom win the governor’s seat in 2018.

[Sign up for California Today, our daily newsletter from the Golden State.]

Now Mr. Newsom is in a position to return the favor: He must appoint someone to fill the soon-to-be-vacant U.S. Senate seat of Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. Though many names have been floated to succeed Ms. Harris, Mr. Padilla has emerged as the front-runner, according to more than a half-dozen advisers, political consultants and fellow lawmakers familiar with the governor’s thinking.

Yet nearly a month after Ms. Harris’s election, Mr. Newsom has not yet named a successor — and the pressure is mounting.

“Look, all roads lead to Alex Padilla,” said Nathalie Rayes, president of the Latino Victory Fund, which has waged a “Pick Padilla” campaign since August. “I think the longer he waits — well, I would have done this a long time ago, but I’m not the governor of California.”

Since President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. chose Ms. Harris as his running mate in August, the question of her successor has been a matter of high-stakes speculation. Mr. Newsom faces extraordinary crosscurrents of factional rivalry and identity politics in a state where the Democratic Party is thoroughly defined by both.

He has spoken about the Senate appointment not as a political bauble that he is eager to dispense, but as a burdensome task that is likelier to generate grudges than personal gratitude and popular excitement. That sense of looming peril has only deepened in recent days, following news that Mr. Newsom breached his own administration’s public-health guidance to attend an extravagant birthday gathering at the French Laundry restaurant for a longtime political adviser.

Critics have seized on the faux pas, adding to the challenges Mr. Newsom already has as his state grapples with a terrifying surge of Covid-19, ongoing problems in its unemployment benefits system and an imminent loss of the federal stimulus funds that underwrote temporary shelter for tens of thousands of homeless people during the pandemic.

Asked last week about the Senate appointment, Mr. Newsom sidestepped.

“That determination has not yet been made,” he said, speaking from his home, where he was in quarantine after three of his four children were revealed to have been in contact with a California Highway Patrol officer who later tested positive for Covid-19.

He said he hadn’t laid out a timeline for the decision, beyond that it must be made before Jan. 20, when Ms. Harris is sworn in as vice president. But, he added, “progress has been made.”

The uncertainty has made room for lobbying by an array of aspirants and their political proxies. During some weeks it has seemed that the list of candidates for the post has continued to grow rather than narrowing toward an eventual selection.

Democratic leaders have sought to tug Mr. Newsom in different directions, playing on what they see as his short- and long-term political aspirations. Some argue that he must appoint a Black candidate if he hopes to prevail someday in a Democratic presidential primary, others that he must name a Latino to win a comfortable re-election in 2022, still others that Ms. Harris must be replaced by another woman or that he must placate progressives if he wants to govern successfully in an ongoing fiscal crunch.

This is in addition to the hard fundamentals of campaigning statewide in California, which both the governor and Senator Harris’s successor will have to do in 2022, when their terms end. California, the most populous state, has myriad subcultures — north and south, coastal and inland — and primary campaigns alone can cost millions of dollars.

Though Republicans are less than a quarter of registered voters in the state, another third or so of the electorate has no party preference and turnout drops in off-year elections.  Whomever Mr. Newsom appoints will need not only experience but the cash, the campaign operation and the charisma to turn out Democrats from the Mexican border to the Oregon state line.

Mr. Newsom has held conversations with a few potential appointees, though he does not appear to have conducted formal interviews for the job, people familiar with the process said.

Mr. Padilla, 47, has emerged as the favorite of Latino lawmakers, advocacy groups and a number of labor officials, and his circle of political advisers overlaps significantly with Mr. Newsom’s. The middle son of Mexican-born parents — a short-order cook from Jalisco and a housekeeper from Chihuahua — Mr. Padilla worked his way through the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, earning a degree in 1994 in mechanical engineering.

He and his siblings still live within five miles of the house where they grew up in Pacoima, Calif., in the San Fernando Valley. His original plan, he says, was to work in aerospace but the anti-immigrant politics that swept California in the early 1990s propelled him instead to political activism.

“That really was a wake-up call,” he said last week, chopping onions for pumpkin chili as he spoke from his home. Relatives chattered in the background; he and his wife, Angela, have three children and his mother-in-law lives with them. “I knew I’d have to do my part or our community would continue to be scapegoated.”

After his graduation, he worked in the office of  Senator Dianne Feinstein. By 1999, he was a 26-year-old city councilman representing his old neighborhood. By 2001, he was the youngest-ever City Council president of Los Angeles.

In the State Senate, where he spent eight years, Mr. Padilla chaired Mr. Newsom’s 2009 bid for governor before Jerry Brown got into the race and Mr. Newsom dropped out, running for lieutenant governor instead.

In 2014, Mr. Padilla ran for the secretary of state’s office on a promise to register a million new California voters. As a result of legislation he pushed that registers Californians to vote when they get a driver’s license, the state has added more than 4 million.

Exit polls showed that a third of California’s electorate this year was Latino, a group that makes up 40 percent of the state’s population. Yet the state has never elected a Latino senator or governor. Mr. Newsom helped ensure that lockout continued in the 2018 elections, when he trounced one of the state’s most prominent Latino Democrats, former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, in a primary election.

“There’s been a failure by both political parties to champion the needs of a growing electorate,” said Sonja Diaz, director of the Latino Policy and Politics Initiative at the University of California, Los Angeles. Choosing a Latino for one of the nation’s most powerful posts, she added, would help reverse that.

But other Latino candidates also have supporters. California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, 62, has run and won statewide and has represented Los Angeles in Congress; his name also has come up as a potential member of the Biden cabinet.

And  Mayor Robert Garcia of Long Beach, the city’s first openly gay mayor, has an enthusiastic base. In addition to leading what would be the biggest city in many other states, Mr. Garcia’s history-making personal biography and charisma have earned him attention in the national Democratic Party.

On Wednesday, Mr. Garcia — who has been a backer since 2009 of Gov. Newsom — said addressing a coronavirus surge hammering Los Angeles County is his top priority at the moment and would not speak at length about the Senate vacancy.

“Anybody would be honored to serve their country in that way,” Mr. Garcia, 42, said “But I’m going to support whoever the governor selects.”

Should Mr. Newsom elevate a statewide officer like Mr. Padilla or Mr. Becerra to the Senate, it would also create a new vacancy for him to fill — potentially furnishing him with a consolation prize for a person or group disappointed by his Senate decision.

Still, active campaigns are underway to urge Mr. Newsom to replace Ms. Harris with a woman, particularly a Black woman. Led by longtime state Democrats like Willie Brown and groups of high-dollar female donors, they note that when Ms. Harris resigns and assumes her new office, the Senate will once again have no Black female members. The number of women of color in the chamber would drop by a quarter to just three: Tammy Duckworth of Illinois, Mazie Hirono of Hawaii and Catherine Cortez-Masto of Nevada.

At least two Black women in California’s House delegation are pursuing the appointment: Representatives Barbara Lee, 74, and Karen Bass, 67, though Ms. Lee is seen as mounting the far more determined campaign for the job. Ms. Bass, who was vetted for the vice presidency last summer, is under consideration for potential cabinet jobs in the Biden administration as well.

Neither endorsed the governor during the 2018 Democratic primary. But both women are highly regarded on the left, as is a third member of the House delegation who is interested in joining the Senate, Representative Ro Khanna, 44, a former co-chairman of the Bernie Sanders presidential campaign.

Asian-American leaders in the state have also encouraged Mr. Newsom to consider choosing a member of the increasingly organized community, such as Mr. Khanna or Representative Judy Chu, who chairs the Asian Pacific American Caucus in the House.

Another prominent progressive, Representative Katie Porter of Orange County, is seen as a probable candidate for the Senate at some point, but perhaps more likely to seek the seat currently held by Ms. Feinstein, who is 87 and announced this week she was stepping down as the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee.

There are practical reasons, however, why it may make sense for Mr. Newsom to avoid an appointment from the House. Democrats are expected to hold only a tiny majority in the chamber in January and that number could shave down even further if lawmakers accept appointments for jobs in the Biden administration.

Some Democrats have also suggested a long shot option that Mr. Newsom could appoint a distinguished figure in the late stages of their public life, who would serve out the remaining two years of Ms. Harris’s term without seeking re-election — someone like Dolores Huerta, the civil rights leader and labor organizer, who is 90, or Mr. Brown, who is 82.

For the moment, Mr. Padilla downplayed the urgency of Mr. Newsom’s decision.

“He’s a deliberate person with tons on his plate,” said Mr. Padilla. “There are wildfires. There’s Covid. He has a budget due in January. This is just one more significant item.”

But Ms. Rayes of the Latino Victory Fund was less patient.

“I know other people have their favorites, and I guess he’s just really feeling the pressure,” she said. “But it would be easier to just come out with it.”





No.3 article:
New York City Will Reopen Elementary Schools and Reduce Hybrid Learning

Mayor Bill de Blasio announced an abrupt shift in managing schools during the pandemic. Officials had faced criticism that they prioritized activities like indoor dining over children’s well-being.

Mayor Bill de Blasio announced on Sunday that he would reopen public elementary schools, abruptly shifting policy in the face of widespread criticism that officials were placing more of a priority on economic activities like indoor dining than the well-being of New York City’s children.

Mr. de Blasio said middle and high schools would remain closed, but also signaled that he would overhaul how the city manages the system during the pandemic, which has forced millions of children in the United States out of schools and is perceived to have done significant damage to their education and mental health. 

The mayor said the city would abandon a 3 percent test positivity threshold that it had adopted for closing the school system, the largest in the country, with 1.1 million children. And he said the system would aim to give many parents the option of sending their children to school five days a week, which would effectively end the so-called hybrid learning system for some city schools. 

Students can return only if they have already signed up for in-person learning, meaning just about 190,000 children in the grades and schools the city is reopening next week would be eligible. About 335,000 students in total have chosen in-person classes. 

Children in pre-K and elementary school can return starting Dec. 7. Mr. de Blasio also announced that students with the most complex disabilities can return on Dec. 10. 

“Whatever happens ahead, we want this to be the plan going forward,” Mr. de Blasio said at a news conference. “We know what we didn’t know over the summer, we know what works from actual experience.”

Mr. de Blasio is reopening elementary schools even though the city’s seven-day average test positivity rate on Sunday had climbed to 3.9 percent — well above the former threshold that led him to close the system on Nov. 18 as a second wave of the outbreak threatened the city.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who has often clashed with Mr. de Blasio over the response to the pandemic and has final authority over how schools operate during the crisis, said on Sunday that he supported the mayor’s plan. 

Bringing children and educators safely back into public schools has been one of the most vexing, high-stakes problems created by the pandemic. 

As virus cases have spiked across the country in recent weeks, some cities, like Philadelphia, have delayed plans to reopen schools, and others, including Los Angeles, do not yet have a plan to reopen. Many children throughout the country have not returned to classrooms since March, and it is unclear how many will before a vaccine is distributed.

Starting in the summer, Mr. de Blasio sought to make New York the first big city in the country to fully reopen its public school system. After a series of logistical and political problems forced the mayor to twice delay the start of in-person classes, the city welcomed hundreds of thousands of children back into classrooms about two months ago. 

Reopening, despite its many issues, was a major milestone in the city’s long path to recovery — and the closing of the schools less than eight weeks later was a blow.

Still, the number of cases in the school system itself remained very low, so Mr. de Blasio’s decision became a flash point in a broader debate throughout the country and the world over what should be closed during the pandemic. Officials have wrestled with whether to keep classrooms open while forcing indoor dining rooms and bars, which are far more likely to spread the virus, to shut. 

Mr. Cuomo, not the mayor, controls regulations regarding indoor dining, bars and gyms. But after the city schools closed, both Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio had come under intense criticism from some parents, who expressed deep concern about how their children were faring during remote learning.

In fact, the timing of Mr. de Blasio’s announcement raised new questions about why he decided to close schools at all just 12 days ago. 

Managing the city’s sprawling public school system has clearly been one of the most daunting tasks facing the mayor and his team during the pandemic. But the seemingly haphazard changes to the reopening plan have been frustrating for parents and educators. The mayor himself acknowledged as much on Sunday when asked whether he had any regrets about closing schools again.

“I felt pained — I didn’t want to do that to kids or parents,” he said. 

After several tumultuous weeks, Mr. de Blasio’s announcement was generally well-received on Sunday. The powerful teachers union, the United Federation of Teachers, which has often clashed with City Hall over its effort to reopen the system, said it supported the new plan, as long as rigorous virus testing was in place.

The new blueprint represents the city’s second shot at reopening, after the first attempt was plagued by problems and the trigger that Mr. de Blasio’ set for closing schools — a positive rate of 3 percent on all virus tests conducted in the city — was roundly assailed as too low by parents, politicians and public health experts. 

Now, instead of using such a metric, the city will increase testing in schools and close those that have multiple confirmed virus cases. The system will also, for now, adopt a model that has become more common across the country and world, offering classroom instruction only to young children and students with disabilities. 

Since Mr. de Blasio first announced his plan to reopen schools in July, mounting evidence has shown that elementary schools in particular can be relatively safe, as long as strict safety protocols are followed. 

New York’s schools had extremely low test positivity rates during the roughly eight weeks they were open this fall, and there was agreement from the president of the teachers’ union to the mayor’s top public health officials that schools were far safer than had been anticipated. By the time schools closed, the school positivity rate was .28 percent. 

When elementary schools reopen, the city will significantly increase random testing: Rather than testing a sampling of students and staff in each building once a month, the city will test weekly. Students will not be allowed to attend in person unless parents sign consent forms, allowing testing. 

Nothing else about New York City’s safety plan will change; six feet of social distance will be mandated. But the city will reduce its use of hybrid learning — under which children physically attended school a few days a week and learned remotely the rest of the time — for many schools. 

Some schools that have seen large numbers of students return to classrooms will most likely have to stick with hybrid for the time being. 

But many schools, particularly in neighborhoods with large populations of Black, Latino and Asian-American students, have had low enrollment. Some teachers reported seeing just three or four students a day, though most classrooms can hold about nine children under pandemic rules.

It is likely that in those neighborhoods, more children will be able to return full time. 

The hybrid learning plan was undercut from the start by a series of regulations about who could teach and when, which had been agreed upon by the teachers’ union and City Hall.

Teachers could not be required to teach both in-person and online on the same day and were discouraged from livestreaming lessons in the classroom to children at home, even though  other districts have adopted that practice. 

Many educators said the rules were nearly impossible to follow, and some schools disregarded them. Some large high schools urged students to stay remote full time, so that schools could more easily offer electives and advanced courses. As a result, in-person high school enrollment has been relatively low.  

Parents said that children were delighted to be back in classrooms, but that the quality of education provided under the hybrid plan was sometimes lacking.

Students chose in-person learning at far lower rates than Mr. de Blasio had hoped and expected. After predicting over the summer that about 75 percent of the school system would return for classroom instruction, the city recently revealed that just under a third of students actually did. 

The percentage of students who can return to classrooms in the coming days will certainly be lower than that, since middle and high school students who opted for in-person classes will not have that option for now. 

City data has shown that white families, who make up just 15 percent of the public school system, have chosen all-remote learning at the lowest rates. 

That means that white students may have a disproportionate presence in city classrooms once they are reopened, and can attend school full time, while hundreds of thousands of children of color may be learning from home until next fall. 

Asked about that dynamic on Sunday, Mr. de Blasio said he was “very concerned,” but said school would return to normal after a vaccine was distributed. 

The mayor said earlier this fall that families would not have another opportunity to switch from remote to in-person classes. 

That is sure to upset some parents who might have chosen in-person learning if they had known that their children might have been able to return to school full time — and will present a frustrating challenge for principals, who will once again be forced to restructure their schools.

Remote learning has been particularly disastrous for the roughly 24,000 children in New York’s District 75, a set of schools for children with disabilities who require the most intensive support, which includes students on the autism spectrum and children with serious cognitive delays. 

Online learning simply was not an option, and their parents have spent months asking the city to get their children back into classrooms as often as possible. 





No.4 article:
Brazen Killings Expose Iran’s Vulnerabilities as It Struggles to Respond

After suffering a string of audacious attacks, Tehran faces an agonizing choice: embracing hard-liner demands for swift retaliation or trying to make a fresh start with the Biden administration.

The raid alone was brazen enough. A team of Israeli commandos with high-powered torches blasted their way into a vault of a heavily guarded warehouse deep in Iran and made off before dawn with 5,000 pages of top secret papers on the country’s nuclear program.

Then in a television broadcast a few weeks later, in April 2018, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel cited the contents of the pilfered documents to hint coyly at equally bold operations still to come. “Remember that name,” he said, singling out the scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh as the captain of Iran’s covert attempts to assemble a nuclear weapon.

Now Mr. Fakhrizadeh has become the latest casualty in a campaign of audacious covert attacks seemingly designed to torment Iranian leaders with reminders of their weakness. The operations are confronting Tehran with an agonizing choice between embracing the demands of hard-liners for swift retaliation or attempting to make a fresh start with the less implacably hostile administration of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Trailed by a carload of bodyguards, Mr. Fakhrizadeh was driving a carefully circuitous route to the home of his in-laws in the city of Absard, Iran, according to witnesses and the Iranian news media.

An empty Nissan parked at a roundabout exploded, knocking down a power line. Gunmen leapt from a parked Hyundai Santa Fe, others arrived on motorcycles and waiting snipers filled out a hit team of 12 assassins, according to a detailed account posted online by Javad Mogouyi, a documentary filmmaker for Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps.

Mr. Fakhrizadeh, hit with at least three bullets, tumbled from his car and fell bleeding on the ground. The nearest medical clinic had lost electrical power. Roadside cameras were disabled. All 12 assassins escaped unharmed, and Mr. Fakhrizadeh was pronounced dead by the time a rescue helicopter was able to transport him to a Tehran hospital.

“It was like a Hollywood action movie,” Mr. Mogouyi wrote in his account.

It was the latest in a decade-long pattern of mysterious poisonings, car bombings, shootings, thefts and sabotage that have afflicted the Islamic Republic. Most have hit largely anonymous scientists or secretive facilities believed to be linked to its nuclear program, and almost all have been attributed by both American and Iranian officials to Tehran’s great nemesis, Israel. Israeli officials — without formally acknowledging responsibility — have all but openly gloated over the repeated success of their spies.

Never, however, has the Islamic Republic endured a spate of covert attacks quite like in 2020. In January, an American drone strike killed the revered general Qassim Suleimani as he was in a car leaving the Baghdad airport (an attack facilitated by Israel’s intelligence, officials say). And Iran was humiliated in August by an Israeli hit team’s fatal shooting of a senior Al Qaeda leader on the streets of Tehran (this time at the behest of the United States, its officials have said).

Seldom has any country demonstrated a similar ability to strike with apparent impunity inside the territory of its fiercest enemy, said Bruce Riedel, a researcher at the Brookings Institution and a former official of the Central Intelligence Agency with experience in Israel.

“It’s unprecedented,” he said. “And it shows no sign of being effectively countered by the Iranians.”

With the killing Friday of its top nuclear scientist as well, Iranians are now grappling with a new sense of vulnerability and demands to purge suspected collaborators. Most of all, they are debating how to respond at a delicate moment.

Iran has endured years of devastating economic sanctions under a campaign of “maximum pressure” from President Trump, and many Iranian leaders are desperately hoping for some measure of relief. President-elect Biden has pledged to seek to revive a lapsed agreement that lifted sanctions in exchange for a halt to nuclear research that might produce a weapon.

To pragmatic Iranians, that possibility makes Mr. Trump’s last months in office no time to lash back and risk renewed hostilities.

But Iranians also know that their enemies in the United States and Israel may take advantage of this period to attack Tehran further. It is a chance to squeeze its leaders between domestic demands for revenge and a pragmatic desire for better relations.

“From today until Trump leaves the White House is the most dangerous period for Iran,” Mohammad-Hossein Khoshvaght, a former official at the Ministry of Culture and Guidance, wrote in a message on Twitter.

Retaliation against Israel or Mr. Netanyahu’s main ally, the United States, would play into the hands of Iran’s enemies in the region, Mr. Khoshvaght argued. They are seeking “to create a difficult situation,” so the new administration cannot revive that nuclear agreement, he added.

Iranian hard-liners argued that the killing of Mr. Fakhrizadeh proved that holding out for a new start with Mr. Biden was only emboldening the country’s foes.

“If you don’t respond to this level of terrorism, they may repeat it because now they know Iran won’t react,” the conservative political analyst Foad Izadi said in an interview from Tehran.

“There is obviously a problem when you see these types of things repeating.”

Underscoring Mr. Fakhrizadeh’s stature, the Iranian authorities announced plans on Saturday to give him the burial of a national hero at one of the country’s holiest shrines.

Videos circulated of a senior cleric who heads the judiciary praying with the scientist’s family over his body shrouded in an Iranian flag and his face uncovered — an extraordinary and unexplained departure from the Islamic tradition of wrapping the dead in a white cloth from head to toe.

Israel for decades has embraced a strategy of targeted assassinations in trying to slow down potential progress toward the development of a nuclear weapon among its hostile neighbors. Israeli intelligence agencies have been linked to the killings of scientists working for Egypt in the 1960s and for Iraq in the 1970s for the same reason, historians say.

Iran first accused Israel of killing one of its scientists when he dropped dead in his laboratory after a poisoning in 2007, and a series of more violent attacks on Iranian scientists between 2010 and 2012 have been widely attributed to Israel, too.

In one, a bomb in a parked motorcycle blew up a particle physicist as he was lowering a garage door at his home in Tehran. In three others, motorcyclists speeding past the moving cars of other scientists slapped magnetic bombs to their car doors, killing two and wounding a third. And in a fifth attack, gunmen on motorcycles sprayed a scientist with bullets while his car was stopped at a traffic light with his wife sitting beside him.

Israel has developed a singularly successful track record in part by concentrating the considerable resources of its spy agencies mainly on Iran, its greatest nemesis, said Mr. Riedel of the Brookings Institution.

Israel, he said, has also carefully cultivated ties within countries neighboring Iran as “platforms” for surveillance and recruitment — most notably in Baku, Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan’s recent conflict with Armenia has called attention to drones and other weaponry that Israel has furnished it as part of that relationship.

Israel recruits native Farsi speakers from among Iranian immigrants to make contacts or analyze intercepted communications, he added, and Israel has managed to enlist a steady stream of Iranian collaborators.

Now, Mr. Riedel  argued, the attack on Mr. Fakhrizadeh may be an indication that Israel plans other killings. After an eight-year “hiatus” since the wave of assassinations from 2010 to 2012, he said, “I think it is a signal that the game is afoot, or coming.”

Speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss covert operations, a senior Israeli official involved for years in tracking Mr. Fakhrizadeh said Israel would continue to act against the Iranian nuclear program as necessary. Iran’s aspirations for nuclear weapons, promoted by Mr. Fakhrizadeh, posed such a menace that the world should thank Israel, the official insisted.

In Iran, the killing has already elicited new demands to root out spies, including from the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

In his first public response to the killing, Ayatollah Khamenei declared that Iran’s first priority was “investigating this crime and definitive punishment of its perpetrators.”

Hard-liners blamed the administration of Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani — a pragmatist who had bet heavily on negotiations with Washington — for the security failures that allowed the attack.

“The night is long and we are awake,” said Hossein Dehghan, a recently announced candidate in next year’s presidential election who is a senior commander of the Revolutionary Guards and the defense adviser to Ayatollah Khamenei.

“We will come down like thunder on the heads of those responsible for the murder of this martyr and make them regret it,” he continued in a message on Twitter.

Mr. Rouhani, for his part, suggested in a televised speech that Iran would continue what he has called a policy of “strategic patience,” or what his critics call waiting for Mr. Biden.

“We will answer at the right time,” Mr. Rouhani said. “All the enemies should know that the great Iranian people are more courageous and honorable to not respond to this criminal act.”

But within Iranian politics, analysts said, the hard-liners stood to gain the most politically from the attack. Any renewed conflict with Israel bolsters their case against negotiation with its allies in the West, said Sanam Vakil at Chatham House in London.

Since Mr. Biden won the November election, the hard-liners have begun pushing against Mr. Rouhani to defer any negotiations with the new American administration for as long as possible, Ms. Vakil said. Conflict with Washington strengthens their appeal and weakens more pragmatic factions in the Iranian election coming next year.

“So an event like this plays in the hands of the hard-liners,” she said, “because they can push out negotiations until after the Iranian election — and that is what they are gunning for.”





No.5 article:
She Dived More Than 300 Feet Under the Sea. Can She Go Deeper?

Alenka Artnik of Slovenia recently set a record in free diving. But her race to the bottom may not be over.

One morning this month, on the warm waters of the Red Sea off the coast of Egypt, Alenka Artnik donned a thin purple wet suit and a monofin, secured a four-pound weight around her neck, and fastened herself to a thin line she held loosely in one hand.

Then she dived. Deep, with no mask or goggles but with her nostrils clamped. The line extended 114 meters (374 feet) below the surface and, holding her breath, Artnik was determined to get to the bottom of it and come back up under her own power. If successful she would set a new world record.

This feat was not for the faint of heart, or lung.

Nicholas Mevoli, the first American to break the 100 meter barrier with a monofin in a so-called free dive, died while attempting to break a second American record in the sport seven years earlier, after surfacing with a lung injury. Natalia Molchanova, a 41-time world-record holder and 23-time world champion — widely considered the greatest free diver of all time — vanished during a training dive in Spain less than two years later.

But after a sleepless night, Artnik, a 39-year-old Slovenian, wasn’t focused on danger or death. She needed to remain present and calm. Just after 8 a.m., Artnik packed her lungs with air and descended, kicking down into the inky blue.

There are three recognized depth categories in the sport of competitive free diving. In “free immersion,” athletes pull themselves along a rope down to depth and back without wearing fins. In “constant no fins,” athletes use a modified breaststroke. In “constant weight,” the one in which Artnik sought her world record, divers dolphin-kick to depth and back wearing a monofin. It’s the deepest discipline and the most celebrated. Any weights used to help them sink, must return to the surface with them or they will be disqualified.

In deep water, barometric pressure cranks up roughly every 10 meters, or approximately 33 feet. At 20 meters, Artnik’s lungs were compressed to a third of their normal capacity, so she moved the air she’d need to equalize her sinuses from her lungs into her mouth. That’s what divers call a mouth fill. If any air escapes through their lips, diving deep becomes impossible without injury.

Involuntary physiological changes were triggered by the pressure as well. As her lungs continued to compress, blood flow shifted from her arms and legs into her core. Her pulse slowed to half her resting rate as her body adapted to use the oxygen in her bloodstream more efficiently, to keep her alert and alive. That’s all part of what scientists have called the mammalian diving reflex, as a similar response occurs in seals, dolphins and whales.

At 70 meters, Artnik closed her eyes, stopped finning and the momentum sucked her down like a tractor beam. She surrendered to the free-fall, knowing it’s best not to think or move at all. Thoughts require oxygen. Stress torches it. As she sank deeper the increased pressure made her feel as though she was being hugged by the ocean.

“I definitely felt like I belonged there in that moment,” Artnik said. “It felt so right.”

Yet by the time the alarm on her dive watch chimed at 109 meters, five meters above her target depth, she’d been underwater for almost two minutes. She opened her eyes, and when she reached the end of the line at 114 meters, grabbed one of the fluttering tags at the end it, turned and started her ascent toward the surface. To reach light and air again, she’d have to swim against the weight of the water, which feels like swimming against a current.

Her next breath was still almost two minutes away.

Artnik didn’t discover free diving until she was 30 years old. At the time, she was managing a skate shop in Slovenia, and lacked purpose. “I was drinking quite a lot and sort of sabotaging myself,” she said. “I felt that I had something more to give.”

In December 2011, on a lark she jumped into a pool workout where a group of seven beginners and intermediate free divers performed underwater laps. She held her breath and joined them. She was hooked immediately. She took her first free diving course in the open water the following spring and reached 28 meters (92 feet) in the Mediterranean Sea.

After her father died in 2013 and the skate shop went out of business in 2015, Artnik sold her family house and traveled to Egypt, training in deep water full time. Back then her personal best was 49 meters (161 feet).

That’s advanced, not elite.

When Molchanova disappeared, she was the only woman to have surpassed 100 meters, setting the world record at 101 meters (331 feet). Her death left a void at the top of the sport, especially among women. But in May 2018, Alessia Zecchini of Italy pushed the mark to 105 meters (344 feet). Later that year, Artnik shocked much of the free diving world by matching it. Days later, Zecchini extended the record to 107 meters (351 feet).

In August 2019, Artnik broke Zecchini’s world record for the first time at the CMAS World Championships in Roatán, Honduras, with a dive to 111 meters (364 feet). By the end of that event Artnik and Zecchini held the record together at 113 meters (371 feet).

The two have become close as they have electrified women’s free diving by hitting depths even the great Molchanova never approached. They were expected this year to continue to push the limits of the sport and one another. But the pandemic forced the cancellation of competitions from Europe to Asia to the Caribbean. Nationwide lockdowns made training difficult.

In late September, when a buzz rippled through the European free diving community that Egypt was open for business, Artnik and dozens of other European athletes flew in to train in the Red Sea. Artnik spent weeks diving every other day and getting progressively deeper. By late October, she felt she could get the record.

Andrea Zuccari, the owner of a free dive shop in Sharm el Sheikh that caters to advanced divers, set up the competition with just two weeks’ notice as a vehicle for Artnik’s record attempt. A team of sanctioned judges flew in to certify the dives. The rest was up to Artnik.

What makes Artnik such an impressive athlete is her ability to tap into power while moving with effortless fluidity. Tito Zappalá was Artnik’s deep safety diver for her record attempt. He had been one of her safety divers throughout her time in Sharm, and on Nov. 7, rode an underwater scooter to 60 meters to meet her and monitor her ascent. He marveled as he watched her glide toward the surface, her eyes closed. She reminded him of something the renowned Italian free diving pioneer Enzo Maiorca used to say.

“Try and be like milk in the water. Dissolve yourself in water,” Zappalá said. “She’s like this. She has the feeling. She has the big connection with the sea.”

The ascent is the most perilous part of any deep dive because when divers’ oxygen levels get too low, which can happen on dives that extend beyond three minutes, they are at risk of blacking out. Safety divers are trained to pick up on signs of hypoxia and, if they feel a diver is in danger, grab and ferry them to the surface.

But when a second safety diver joined them at 30 meters, Artnik continued to swim with purpose and control. A third safety diver met them at 10 meters, and Artnik still did not crack. She finned just three more times and calmly floated to the surface after a dive of three minutes and 41 seconds.

She gripped the line and took sharp inhalations to promote re-oxygenation. Then performed the necessary surface protocols for the judge. When a diver pushes their limits, these seemingly simple tasks can become impossible because of a loss of motor control or consciousness. Artnik removed her nose clip, showed the judge her tag and flashed the OK sign, like she’d just jogged around the block. She said the magic words softly but clearly, “I’m OK.”

When the judge flashed his white card signaling a record, the safeties and the small band of athletes and spectators erupted in cheers and pounded the water into a froth. Her exit was so clean that when Zecchini watched the video, even she was in awe.

“I was really happy for her,” she said. “She did an amazing dive and an amazing exit.”

In fact, Artnik’s commanding performance suggests — even as a world-record holder who has helped push women’s free diving to a level few considered possible five years ago — she has even more to give.

That she could go deeper still.





No.6 article:
A Gymnastics Coach Accused of Emotional Abuse Speaks Out

In her first public remarks since being suspended from the sport for eight years, Maggie Haney disputed accusations that led to her punishment but said she could now see flaws in the way she treated some young athletes.

If she could travel back in time, before she was suspended from gymnastics after being accused of berating and mistreating her athletes, including an Olympic champion, Maggie Haney says she would change the way she coached.

She wouldn’t push some of her young gymnasts to redo a routine again and again after even the tiniest mistakes. To demand their focus, she wouldn’t yell at them. Instead she would learn to let some imperfections slide.

“I think my mistakes were that I cared too much, and wanted them to be a little too perfect every day, when maybe that’s not possible,” Haney, one of the most prominent coaches in the sport, said this month in an interview with The New York Times, the first time she has spoken publicly in nearly a year. “Maybe what used to be OK is not OK anymore, and maybe it shouldn’t be. I think maybe the culture has shifted.”

Haney has not coached at her gym in central New Jersey or anywhere else since February, she said, when U.S.A. Gymnastics, the sport’s national federation, temporarily suspended her before later barring her from coaching for eight years for what it called her “severe aggressive behavior” toward her athletes. She said she hasn’t even coached her own daughter, who is 11.

The athletes who have trained under Haney include Laurie Hernandez, who won a silver medal on the balance beam at the 2016 Olympics and helped the United States win the team gold medal.

Hernandez’s complaint to the federation was one of nearly a dozen that led to Haney’s ban, which she is appealing to an arbitrator. It was considered the harshest penalty for emotional and verbal abuse in the sport’s recent history.

The suspension was also viewed as a warning that coaches could now face stiff penalties for the mental and nonsexual abuse that was long accepted in the sport before the Lawrence G. Nassar sexual abuse scandal shed light on the toxic culture in gymnastics. Nassar was the longtime United States national team doctor who in 2018 was sentenced to prison for molesting more than 200 girls and women under the guise of medical treatment.

Haney said the accusations against her — particularly those from Hernandez, whom she coached from age 6 — had come out of nowhere, and she vehemently denied them. More than 30 gymnasts at MG Elite, Haney’s gym in Morganville, N.J., and their families continue to support her and are awaiting her return to the sport, she said. Some have voiced their support for Haney in a YouTube video compiled by the public-relations firm she hired to help restore her reputation.

Haney, 42, said she was convinced that U.S.A. Gymnastics had used her as a scapegoat after its missteps in the Nassar case, in which the organization failed to protect its gymnasts from a sexual predator. The federation needed to do “something bold, something dramatic,” she said, to prove to the public that it cares about its athletes.

“I’ve dedicated my whole life to this,” Haney said, her voice beginning to waver. “To be out of the gym has been really hard. I feel like it was unfairly taken away from me.”

Haney’s accusers have not wavered. They say the ban is warranted, and some even wanted a permanent one. They claim that she bullied her gymnasts, publicly shamed them about their weight, encouraged eating disorders and forced them to train with injuries.

Hernandez, who is now training in California for the Tokyo Olympics next summer, told The Times in April that Haney’s treatment of her was “just so twisted that I thought it couldn’t be real.” She said the abuse included Haney calling her weak, lazy and messed up in the head and that the emotional abuse led to a continuing battle with depression.

Riley McCusker, who has a good chance of making the United States team for the Tokyo Games, filed a lawsuit against Haney last month. Among the accusations in the complaint was that Haney had forced McCusker to train through injuries, including while she had a painful, potentially serious medical condition called rhabdomyolysis, which is a breakdown of muscle tissue that can happen from overexertion.

In a separate lawsuit filed last month, another gymnast, Emily Liszewski, a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh, accused Haney and an assistant coach of forcing her to perform an advanced skill on the uneven bars at the Arena Gym, a gym not far from MG Elite, and it led her to fall and hit her head. Liszewski was unconscious for three days, with multiple skull fractures, and had seizures because of the injury, the lawsuit said. The suit also claimed that Haney once picked Liszewski up from the floor by her hair after the gymnast had fallen.

“These situations are not at all the way I recall them,” Haney said, adding that Hernandez’s mother and McCusker’s mother were often in the gym — sometimes on the training floor — but never expressed displeasure over her demanding coaching style. (Neither mother responded to a request made through a representative to comment for this article.)

Haney added: “I just think when money gets involved, people will say and do different things. I think a lot of this is about money.”

The arbitrator’s ruling on Haney’s appeal is expected in the coming days, said one of her lawyers, Steven Altman. He said he hoped that Haney’s suspension would be rescinded because U.S.A. Gymnastics’s hearing for the case had been biased and flawed, and “as a practical matter, a kangaroo court.” Seven of Haney’s accusers were not even coached by her, Altman said, and the gym offered a fun environment amid the intense training that is generally needed to master the sport’s daring moves.

“When they were doing gymnastics, it was serious,” Altman said. “They worked on life-threatening skills for hours a day.”

U.S.A. Gymnastics, in an emailed statement, said on Sunday that Haney’s hearing was “both fair and impartial, and adhered to the requirements” of the organization’s procedures, as well as the law that oversees Olympic sports in the United States.

Haney conceded she could be intense in the gym. But she said that most of the time “everybody is smiling and laughing and music is playing.” She carefully crafted the atmosphere at the gym, she said, knowing that parents had entrusted her with their children, at times from morning until evening. The program, Haney said, included closely monitored online learning, a certified teacher holding classes during the day and an emphasis on safety.

As a young gymnast herself, training in an elite program for a while, Haney worked with harsh coaches who screamed at the girls, she recalled, and had them step onto a scale daily, then listed everyone’s weight on a bulletin board in the gym. To make the girls lose weight, the coaches forced them to wear rubber suits or 20-pound belts and jog around the gym, she said.

“It didn’t faze me and didn’t bother me, but that kid next to me, it could’ve really bothered and scared them,” she said, adding that she never weighed her gymnasts or forced them to lose weight. “I think what I’ve learned over the last year is that so much of this comes down to perspective. Every person. Every athlete. Every coach. They have their own perspective of things.”

Some of the families whose children continue to train at MG Elite were drawn to her gym because of what they described as an exacting nature.

Henry Rivera, an engineer at a software company, moved his 12-year-old daughter to MG Elite last year so she could train with Haney. He said she had left her previous gym because her routines were getting sloppy and the coach there was pushing her to perform skills she didn’t feel prepared to do.

Rivera said he appreciated that Haney had made the gym a safe space for his daughter, yet never babied her.

“If I wanted her to come home happy and smiling every day, I’d send her to clown school; I’m serious,” Rivera said. “If my daughter has goals and her goal is to be an elite athlete, I need a coach to teach her the right things and safely, and to push them.”

Rivera said if Haney ever was abusive to his daughter, he would have noticed because he monitors what she is going through “emotionally, mentally and physically,” considering it his job as a parent.

“As parents, we need to be vigilant,” he said. “And if you don’t like it, get up and leave.”

In a telephone interview with her parents standing by, his daughter, Hezly, said Haney just wanted her gymnasts to be the best and was tough on them, “but not like to the point where it was horrible.” She said that she was sad to see Haney go and that she missed her.

“She never crossed the line,’’ she said.

Another parent at the gym, Charisse Dash, is a sports agent who recruits athletes from the Dominican Republic to play in Major League Baseball. Her 10-year-old daughter has worked with Haney since she was 6.

“You’re not there to play, you’re there to work,” Dash said, describing that type of gymnastics as “a 9-to-5 job.”

She added: “Do I classify the rigor of the training as abuse? I think you really have to see it on a case-by-case basis.”

Dash said she and her husband ran “a very tight ship” at home with their five children, where screaming, not coddling, was common. So, to them, Haney’s demanding style was a great fit.

“I don’t think it’s fair to say that Maggie is an abuser, by all means,” Dash said. “It depends on how much any child or any person can tolerate.”

Haney’s U.S.A. Gymnastics hearing in February and March was held by telephone, and Haney listened to weeks of it while huddled in a closet so her two children would not interrupt her. About a half-dozen parents testified in support of her, but not all of the parents who wanted to testify were given the chance to, she said. Even when Haney herself testified, she said, she felt that her side of the story didn’t matter. She was sure the three-person hearing panel had already made up its mind.

Some of the gymnasts who accused her of abuse, she said, had been asked to leave the gym because they could not physically keep up. The part she remembers as the worst, though, was sitting through Hernandez’s live testimony. Haney considered their relationship strong, so it was inconceivable to her that Hernandez felt mistreated.

Hernandez often slept at Haney’s house and was considered a part of the family, Haney said. Haney took Hernandez to the beach, to restaurants, to get her nails done, and gave her a tuition break at the gym. When she and Hernandez returned from the 2016 Olympics, Haney said, she helped organize a parade in her town, in Hernandez’s honor.

When Hernandez was competing on the television show “Dancing With the Stars” soon after the Rio Games, Haney said, she spoke to her one night for three hours. The coach remembered their talking like old friends, about makeup and music and how Haney, with her perfectionist’s eye, noticed that Hernandez’s foot had slipped during an earlier dance, but that she had covered the mistake well. Haney recalled telling Hernandez to enjoy her break from gymnastics.

“You’re a star now,” Haney said she told her.

Within days, Laurie Hernandez’s mother, Wanda, called Haney to say that they were cutting all ties. Though Wanda Hernandez told The Times in April that she had severed the relationship after learning that Haney had mistreated her daughter, Haney said she was blindsided by the move and now thinks it was financially motivated because the Hernandezes first offered her a cut of Laurie’s income after the Olympics, but then did not follow through.

“For me, it was never about the money,” Haney said. “I just remember being so confused and not understanding any of it.”

Neither Wanda nor Laurie Hernandez responded to interview requests made through Laurie’s agent, Sheryl Shade.

The situation left Haney wondering what she had done wrong. She said she had been protective of her gymnasts, even when it came to food, as she watched other coaches at meets hover over the meal table to control their athletes’ consumption.

“My kids were never the ones stuffing bread into their pockets,” she said, describing how some athletes felt compelled to sneak food back to their rooms.

She said she encouraged her gymnasts to make smart choices, though McCusker’s lawsuit said Haney promoted unhealthy eating and weight-loss habits.

Haney acknowledged that there had recently been a change in how some gymnasts expected to be treated by their coaches, especially since this summer, when hundreds of them worldwide began speaking out about the abuse they endured from tyrannical coaches.

Many coaches, Haney said, now don’t know when they might cross the line or upset an especially sensitive child or parent, so they “are just letting the girls do whatever because they don’t want to get in trouble.” 

The culture has shifted perhaps too far, she said, and she expects the sport, going forward, to be filled with underachievers. She said she thinks coaches will not push their athletes as hard.

Haney blames parents for that. They have become too invested in their daughters’ success, she said, and now are emboldened to lash out at anyone — and potentially crush anyone — who stands in their daughters’ way.

“I feel that somebody needs to stand up for coaches,” Haney said. “If I don’t stand up and fight for the truth, then other coaches aren’t going to, either. I know if this can happen to me, I think it can happen to anyone.”





No.7 article:
‘I Have Never Seen So Many Toadstools.’ A Bumper Crop of Mushrooms in Ukraine.

Hunting for mushrooms deep in the forest is the ideal socially distanced pastime.

KHOMUTYNSI, Ukraine — Valery Kravchuk, a seasoned mushroom hunter, pushed aside some dead leaves to reveal his prize: a beautiful blusher, so called because it turns pink when pinched.

“Mushrooms are like magnets for me,” he said. “I feel them.”

This fall, Ukrainians have been driving their cars down country roads, getting out and walking deep into the forest for the world’s most socially distanced pastime: mushroom hunting.

By serendipity, the country had a bumper crop of mushrooms in a year when gathering them remains one of the few activities for those wanting to get out of the house while avoiding other people.

Ukrainian biologists chalked up the bounty this fall to a dry summer followed by an unusually warm fall and late first frost, coming only at the end of November.

“All the mushrooms which were supposed to grow starting in July had to fit into a month and a half this autumn,” said Zinaida Kosynska, a mycologist and author of Ukrainian mushroom guidebooks.

“It’s been amazing,” said Emilia Koleda, a professional mushroom hunter who sells her finds on the shoulder of a highway outside Kyiv, the capital.

She stood beside seven buckets of boletus mushrooms, a late season delicacy that she said she scooped up during just a single forest excursion. In past years, three buckets made for a good day.

The mushroom bonanza has been a lucky break in a poor country, where mushrooms are a staple for some families, while others supplement their income by picking for the market.

Ms. Koleda said there were no other possibilities to earn money because of lockdowns. With her income, she bought firewood for winter heating and everything her grandchildren needed for school.

“Mushrooms saved so many people this year,” she said. “Nature helped us through the quarantine.”

In Ukraine, a line of cars parked on the roadside in the middle of nowhere is a telltale sign that hunters are about, walking quietly among the trees, carrying small mushroom harvesting knives.

“It is my way to be in nature,” said Andriy Hrybovskyi, whose last name translates as “mushroom,” a sign of the activity’s deep roots in Ukraine. He knows a few spots in a forest he can visit after work, to breathe fresh air and find dinner.

Knowledge of the sites in the forest where mushrooms grow is the currency of mushroom hunters, both professional and amateur, and that knowledge is a closely guarded secret.

When asked for advice on locations, the etiquette for a polite Ukrainian mushroom hunter is to describe some phony spots, so as not to appear rude, while in fact never revealing where the mushrooms really are. Ukrainians who have taken to tagging spots on Google maps are seen as spoilers of this tradition.

Many Ukrainian families appoint a designated taster, usually someone deeply versed in the various species who knows which to avoid. The taster will sample the harvest a day before everybody else, just in case. It is a grim tradition, but necessary.

Viktoria Ganzha, from Poltava in eastern Ukraine, who tastes for her family, has been busy this year. She described the role as that of a sapper, the first to enter a minefield. “I am the de-miner,” she said.

The Ukrainian government has reported an increase in poisonings this year, the sad downside of the mushroom bounty. By mid-November, 289 people had been poisoned and 11 had died, the government said.

The authorities closely monitor another danger in Ukraine, radioactive mushrooms picked in the region surrounding Chernobyl. Harvesting in the area is illegal, but the mushrooms popping up in the Chernobyl zone this fall have fascinated Ukrainians over anecdotal accounts that they are unnaturally large, fitting the stereotype of radiation’s effects on top of an already good mushroom year.

The police arrested one group of men smuggling 120 pounds of mushrooms from the Chernobyl zone.

Professional pickers this year are also finding an abundance of the common toadstool.

Viktor Klimov, a professional picker in the pine forests in northern Ukraine, specializes in the toadstool. The cartoonish, red-and-white polka-dot mushrooms are poisonous but seen to have medicinal qualities in tiny doses, including bolstering the immune system. Dried toadstools are in demand.

“I have never seen so many toadstools in my entire life,” Mr. Klimov said of this year’s mushroom season.

The pine forests where Mr. Klimov works are overgrown with moss, making hunters’ steps silent. Out in this forest, every spoken word feels like a crime. Hunters speak only in a whisper.

Mushrooms like warm and rainy weather, but not too much of either. They need balance — and this is exactly the feeling that those who pick them are looking for, too, particularly in this unstable year.

Mr. Kravchuk, who was hunting this month for blushers, drives slowly on the muddy, barely passable road leading to his spot — a grove of 100-year-old oaks between farm fields — believing the mushrooms like a calm atmosphere.

But while he loves to pick them, Mr. Kravchuk does not enjoy eating them.

When he returned home, he nibbled a few as a precaution, and then set them aside for his family to pickle or fry with potatoes and onions.





No.8 article:
The Beat at the Heart of ‘Lovers Rock’

Steve McQueen’s new “Small Axe” anthology includes a film that centers on an offshoot of reggae that represented big shifts in the music, and in Black British culture.

The lovesick kiss-off “Silly Games” and its indelible high note play a pivotal part in “Lovers Rock,” one of five pieces in the director Steve McQueen’s new “Small Axe” anthology, which examines Black British life across the ’60s, ’70s and ’80s.

The film takes its name from the musical genre lovers rock, a softer, sentimental spin on reggae created and popularized in mid-70s England by the first generation of British citizens born to Caribbean immigrants and Caribbean-born immigrants who moved to Britain at a young age. “Lovers Rock,” which arrived on Amazon Prime Nov. 27, is a fictional story set in 1980 that follows a woman named Martha (Amarah-Jae St. Aubyn) as she attends a “blues party” (short for “rhythm and blues”), a nighttime gathering thrown by Black people denied entry into white-dominated clubs. Blues parties usually took place in houses belonging to members of the community, where D.J.s would guide the festivities on professional sound systems.

As McQueen’s characters come together, they’re backlit by artists like Janet Kay, Dennis Brown and Gregory Isaacs, who set the stage for young love to freely sprout. Kay’s “Silly Games,” which reached No. 2 on the British singles chart, “had to be the heartbeat of the party,” McQueen said, “because it has so many meanings — the yearning, and the vulnerability of the singer. That’s the bravest thing you could possibly do, falling in love, because you’re opening yourself to hurt.”

Recreating a 1980s house party involved extensive research, partly informed by McQueen and his co-writer Courttia Newland’s memories. McQueen, born in 1969, was occasionally brought to the events as a child, once falling asleep and “waking up with all these coats on me.” Those memories constituted a lodestone of evidence during the research process. “I remember, for example, the sweat dripping down the walls,” he said in an interview. “Things like the carpet in a West Indian front room, the clothes, and so forth.”

On top of all that, “the music was the scent in the air which changed everything,” he explained.

Lovers rock represented a major shift. “Pre-lovers rock, it was predominantly a male dance floor — it was cool for a guy to dance on his own or with other guys,” said Mykaell Riley, a senior lecturer and director for the Black Music Research Unit at the University of Westminster, who consulted on the film. By spotlighting female vocalists, who sang about romantic concerns rather than the politics inherent to traditional roots reggae, lovers rock musicians and D.J.s were able to fundamentally alter the trajectory of the night.

According to Dennis Bovell, the lovers rock pioneer who wrote “Silly Games” and also consulted on McQueen’s project, changing this gender dynamic was something like a mission statement for the nascent genre. “We wanted to bring the girls to the front, and make them the stars,” he said.

“Silly Games” is first heard in the opening minutes of “Lovers Rock,” sung by a group of women cooking food for the party. Later on, when the night has reached its romantic crescendo, it’s played in full by the D.J.s, and then sung a cappella by the entire room in an ecstatic sequence lasting 10 minutes that wasn’t scripted to carry on that long, but unfolded naturally during the filming.

Beyond the historical significance of songs like “Silly Games,” McQueen and his team also endeavored to make the soundtrack period accurate, rather than a well-curated anachronistic pastiche.

“A guiding principle was to not just get into crate digging territory, because at the end of the day it’s a community party,” said Ed Bailie, a music supervisor who worked on “Small Axe,” adding that they looked for tracks that would “make people who are in the garden go into the living room.” A relatively light moment takes place early on in the night, when the D.J. transitions from the disco group Sister Sledge to Carl Douglas’s novelty single “Kung Fu Fighting,” prompting Martha and the other partygoers to pantomime martial arts action as they dance.

Securing legal permission to use some of these songs wasn’t easy. Many of the original labels that hosted the kind of music heard in the film have since shut down or been folded into a winding maze of corporate parents and their subsidiaries, requiring the filmmakers to be flexible about what would make it into the final product.

For example, getting the rights to Cry Tuff and the Originals’ skeletal dub track “Robin Hood,” which is used to test the sound system before the party begins, required a fact-finding mission. Searching for the owner led Bailie’s team to the estate of Prince Far I, the Jamaican musician who occasionally recorded under the Cry Tuff pseudonym, and who died in 1983. After prolonged communication, including plenty of “late night calls with the clearance team at BBC,” Bailie said, the proper contracts were sent along and signed over smartphones.

The diversity of music mirrors the film’s arc, with the playlist transitioning from poppy crowd pleasers to dreamy ballads to, near the end, a predominantly male dance floor exuberantly cutting loose to murky dub cuts by the Revolutionaries and Augustus Pablo. That reflected reality, too, as there would come a point in the night when the couples had paired off, leaving the male stragglers to reclaim the dance floor. “It was warrior-like, because you could be the person you wanted to be,” McQueen said.

These spaces reflected then-ongoing debates within the Black British community. Bovell said that in the genre’s early days, a lovers rock singer’s background might be intentionally obscured in order to avoid accusations they were less legitimate than native Jamaican singers. “There’s an identity crisis which is, ‘Am I more Jamaican? Or am I more British? Am I British-Jamaican?’” Riley said, pointing out that the authenticity of lovers rock, which he called the “first Black British genre in response to Jamaican popular music,” was questioned along the same lines. “It carried an element of pop that was very different from roots reggae. But it held its own, and this is what was genius about it.”

Bovell described a defiance that came with the genre’s birth. “When we came to look at making reggae in London and to give it a London identity, we were struggling against all the doubters that said, ‘You can’t beat reggae outside of Jamaica,’” he said. “You bet we can. And we’re going to do it here and show it to you.”

One of the joys of McQueen’s film is how it gestures at these ideas within the conceit of one magical night, where young love takes root amid such greater tensions. For Bovell, who cameos in the film as a lodger in the house where the party takes place, and whose low voice can be heard during the “Silly Games” sequence, the experience of filming was like stepping into a time machine. “It was so real to be in that room,” he said. “I was thrown back 40 years.”

McQueen said that even with all the research that went into the episode, the alchemy of the final product is something he couldn’t have planned for. “You cram everything into a room to get the closest you possibly can,” he said. “But that one thing you cannot manage happened. I don’t know why.” A moment later, he corrected himself: “You know why it happened? Because we wanted it to happen.”





No.9 article:
Biden Expected to Name Top Economic Officials This Week

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is expected to nominate Neera Tanden, a divisive figure within the Democratic Party, to lead the budget office. He also named an all-female communications staff.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is expected to name top members of his economic team this week, including Cecilia Rouse, a Princeton labor economist, to run the Council of Economic Advisers, and Neera Tanden, the chief executive of the Center for American Progress, to lead the Office of Management and Budget, according to people familiar with the matter.

The announcement — which will include Mr. Biden’s decision to name Janet L. Yellen, the former Federal Reserve chair, as Treasury secretary — would potentially culminate in several women in top economic roles, including the first Black woman to lead the Council of Economic Advisers and the first Indian-American to lead the Office of Management and Budget. All three jobs require Senate confirmation.

With the picks, Mr. Biden is showcasing a commitment to diversity in his advisers and sending a clear message that economic policymaking in his administration will be shaped by liberal thinkers with a strong focus on worker empowerment as a tool for economic growth.

Two of Mr. Biden’s top economic aides during his presidential campaign, Jared Bernstein and Heather Boushey, will also be named to the Council of Economic Advisers, which is a three-member team that advises the president on economic policy. Both Ms. Boushey and Mr. Bernstein come from a liberal, labor-oriented school of economics that views rising inequality as a threat to the economy and emphasizes government efforts to support and empower workers.

In many ways, his team is unified by a commitment to running the economy hot — with strong growth and low unemployment — in order to drive up wages. And it is likely to signal an embrace of spending to help workers, businesses and local governments recover from the pandemic recession, regardless of the effect on the federal budget deficit.

“President Biden’s appointments show that he is quadrupling down on his commitment to working people and raising wages,” said Jason Furman, an economist at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government and the former head of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Barack Obama. “He has appointed four of the best labor market economists in the country to head the Treasury and the Council of Economic Advisers.”

In addition to those roles, Mr. Biden is expected to name Adewale Adeyemo, a senior international economic adviser in the Obama administration, as deputy Treasury secretary.

The names of several individuals expected to be announced by Mr. Biden this week were reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.

Mr. Biden has also selected Brian Deese, a former Obama economic aide who helped lead that administration’s efforts to bail out the American automotive industry, to lead the National Economic Council, according to three people with knowledge of the selection.

Mr. Deese, 42, is not an academic economist but a veteran of economic policymaking, having served as the acting head of the Office of Management and Budget and the deputy director of the Economic Council under Mr. Obama. He was also a special adviser on climate change to Mr. Obama, a role that could signal Mr. Biden’s commitment to fashioning an infrastructure bill for his legislative agenda that heavily features spending on clean energy initiatives.

Mr. Biden on Sunday announced an all-female White House communications staff, with Jennifer Psaki, a veteran of the Obama administration, in the most visible role as White House press secretary.

Kate Bedingfield, 39, who served as a deputy campaign manager for Mr. Biden, will serve as the White House communications director. Karine Jean Pierre, who previously served as the chief public affairs officer for MoveOn.org, will be the principal deputy press secretary. Pili Tobar, a former immigrant advocate with the group America’s Voice, will serve as the deputy White House communications director.

Symone Sanders, a senior adviser to Mr. Biden on the campaign, will serve as the senior adviser and chief spokeswoman for Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. Ashley Etienne, a former senior adviser to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, will serve as the communications director for Ms. Harris.

The appointments indicate Mr. Biden’s plan to include racial, gender and ideological diversity in top roles, fulfilling a campaign pledge to ensure that a broad swath of America is represented in policymaking decisions.

But they could fall short of hopes within the progressive wing of the Democratic Party, which has been frustrated that their views are not being sufficiently represented in early personnel decisions. In particular, the decision to select Ms. Tanden, a divisive and partisan figure in the Democratic Party, could culminate in an intraparty fight, as well as a confirmation battle.

Republicans, who are expected to retain control of the Senate, are unlikely to easily pass Ms. Tanden, who advised Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign and has been one of the most outspoken critics of President Trump.

She could also face questions from Senate Democrats given her role in the 2016 election: Many of those who worked for Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who ran against Mrs. Clinton, remain convinced that Ms. Tanden was part of a group of Democrats working behind the scenes to scuttle his nomination.

Josh Holmes, a former chief of staff to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, referred to Ms. Tanden on Twitter on Sunday as a “sacrifice to the confirmation gods,” suggesting that her downfall would sate Republican anger toward Mr. Biden’s presidency and allow other nominees to more easily win confirmation.

Drew Brandewie, a spokesman for Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said on Twitter on Sunday evening that Ms. Tanden “stands zero chance of being confirmed.”

But Stacey Abrams, a voting rights activist in Georgia and a rising star in the Democratic Party, praised Ms. Tanden’s nomination, saying on Twitter that she was “very proud” of her friend.

The selection of Ms. Tanden, who was involved in the development of the Affordable Care Act as an adviser to the Department of Health and Human Services during the Obama administration, is likely to resurface questions about the funding of the Center for American Progress. The New York Times reported last year that from 2016 through 2018, the center accepted nearly $2.5 million from the United Arab Emirates to fund its National Security and International Policy initiative.

In addition, hacked emails from Ms. Tanden that were released through WikiLeaks in 2016 could also provide additional fodder for her critics.

Mr. Biden’s other picks are most likely less contentious. Ms. Rouse, a labor economist, worked on Mr. Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers from 2009 to 2011 and at the White House’s National Economic Council during the Clinton administration in the late 1990s.

Claudia Goldin, a Harvard economist, a pioneer in research on the role of women in the American economy and one of Ms. Rouse’s thesis advisers in graduate school, called her a leading expert on labor markets and education.

“She is a deeply thoughtful person and a superb listener who brings out the best of those around her,” Ms. Goldin said.

Mr. Bernstein was Mr. Biden’s first chief economist when he was vice president and has written extensively on the power of low unemployment and strong economic growth to bolster workers and wages. Ms. Boushey runs the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, a liberal think tank focused on inequality, and was a top policy adviser to Mrs. Clinton in 2016. She has focused much of her research and writing on government initiatives meant to increase women’s participation in the labor force, such as paid leave programs.

The appointments drew praise from Kevin A. Hassett, Mr. Trump’s first Council of Economic Advisers chairman.

“They have put together a very strong team of experienced policymakers and smart economists,” Mr. Hassett said. “At this difficult time, it is great to know that a strong C.E.A. will be helping to guide policy.”

Mr. Adeyemo is an immigrant from Nigeria and has extensive experience working at the Treasury Department during the Obama administration, when he was a senior adviser and deputy chief of staff. Mr. Adeyemo was also Mr. Obama’s chief negotiator for the macroeconomic policy provisions of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which Democrats ultimately opposed, and served as the first chief of staff of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. After a two-year stint as a senior adviser at BlackRock, he joined the Obama Foundation in 2019 as its president.





No.10 article:
Jan Myrdal, Swedish Author and Provocateur, Dies at 93

His father and mother were both Nobel winners. His most famous book was about how badly they had treated him.

Jan Myrdal, a radical Swedish writer who spurned the liberal politics of his famous Nobel-winning parents and embraced Communism, Marxism and Maoism, died on Oct. 30 in Varberg, Sweden. He was 93.

His death was announced by Cecilia Cervin, a former chairman of the Jan Myrdal Society, a group dedicated to preserving his extensive book collection.

Mr. Myrdal traveled and wrote widely, specializing in Asia. He depicted life in a small Chinese village during the Chinese Revolution, and his writings extolled the virtues of authoritarians. He abhorred the damaging effects of Western imperialism on developing countries.

But perhaps nothing in his career as a polemicist garnered him as much attention as the books he wrote expressing his distaste for his parents, Gunnar and Alva Myrdal. The elder Mr. Myrdal was an economist and sociologist who shared the 1974 Nobel in economic science with Friedrich A. von Hayek and wrote “An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy” (1944), a pioneering study of race.

A cabinet minister and Sweden’s ambassador to India, Mrs. Myrdal split the 1982 Nobel Peace Prize for her work promoting nuclear disarmament.

But to Jan, his parents were cold, cruel and contemptuous. They called him a “problem child” and left him with relatives (whom he preferred) for extended periods when they traveled.

In several autobiographical works he called novels, beginning with “Childhood” (1982), Mr. Myrdal wrote that his father had mocked him for being overweight, asking him, “Are you going to give birth soon?” He said his mother had treated him like a research subject, recording what he said in a notebook.

Once, he recalled, Gunnar drove his car into a ditch, causing Jan to fall out of the car and hit his head. Bleeding and hoping for sympathy, he heard his father tell him, “Don’t act silly.”

“Since then, I’ve had a scar on my forehead: a triangle,” Mr. Myrdal told The Tampa Bay Times in 1992. “As if I had been branded.”

His feelings of not belonging led him, when he was about 10, to ask his father, “Am I your illegitimate son?” The question angered the elder Myrdal, who did not answer, slamming the door behind him.

The accusations against the prominent Myrdals stirred a scandal in Sweden — not long before Mrs. Myrdal was awarded her Nobel — and turned “Childhood” into a best seller.

When excerpts from the book ran in newspapers, they had headlines like “I Detest My Mother and My Father Because They Never Gave Me Love.”

Jan Myrdal was born on July 19, 1927, in Stockholm and moved with his parents and younger sisters, Sissela and Kaj, to New York City in 1938; his father had been hired by the Carnegie Corporation to study racism in the United States.

Jan enjoyed living in Manhattan, where he attended private school and read with fascination books about the French Revolution and the works of the Swedish writer August Strindberg.

But he was angry when his parents made plans to return to Sweden in 1942. The pending move led to a fight with his father, who, he said, grabbed him by the neck, shook him hard and pinned him to the floor.

At 15, calling himself a Communist, Jan left his family, dropped out of school and began a peripatetic decades-long career as a writer, provocateur and public intellectual.

“I chose to write,” he told United Press International in 1987. “It meant I had to break with school and that kind of education. That I knew from Strindberg and others. One had to make oneself impossible from the start, tear down bridges.”

Mr. Myrdal began writing books in the mid-1950s, but none attracted much attention until he wrote “Report From a Chinese Village” (1965), which was based on a month that he spent in 1962 interviewing the people of Liu Ling, a tiny rural collection of man-made caves.

“In many ways, this is the book that everybody interested in China has been waiting for, a book describing what it feels like to be a peasant living through the Chinese Revolution,” Martin Bernal, an expert on Chinese political history, wrote in The New York Review of Books. He praised the book for the candid stories told by the villagers.

Some of Mr. Myrdal’s other foreign travel work and political commentary raised questions about his allegiances, or was seen as overly sympathetic to authoritarian rulers.

His “Report From a Chinese Village” and one of its sequels, “Return to a Chinese Village” (1984), were viewed as uncritical of the brutality of the Cultural Revolution.

In 1970, after visiting Albania, then still ruled by the dictator Enver Hoxha, Mr. Myrdal published “Albania Defiant.” Writing in The New York Times Book Review, the journalist and author Anatole Shub wrote that the book conveyed “the Gospel according to Hoxha in basically uncritical, dogmatic Marxist terms” and showed “unlimited admiration” for the Albanian people and for Hoxha’s brand of socialism.

Then, in October 1979, Mr. Myrdal visited Cambodia shortly after the dictator Pol Pot had largely been driven from power by Vietnam but still controlled parts of the country after conducting a reign of terror that led to the deaths of nearly a quarter of Cambodia’s seven million people. Mr. Myrdal had met him a year earlier, and Pol Pot had signed Mr. Myrdal’s visa.

After his trip, where he had a government official for a babysitter, Mr. Myrdal told The Times that he had seen no “horror stories.”

Mr. Myrdal went on to punctuate a visit to Iran in 1990 by voicing his support for Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini’s fatwa that Muslims should kill the writer Salman Rushdie for what Khomeini called blasphemy in the Rushdie novel “The Satanic Verses.” Mr. Myrdal told a Swedish newspaper that the cleric’s order had allowed oppressed Muslim masses in Europe to be part of a struggle “for their human dignity.”

Mr. Myrdal’s survivors include his sisters, Sissela Bok, an ethicist and philosopher, and Kaj Folster, a writer. Three of his four marriages ended in divorce. His third wife, Gun Kessle, whose photographs illustrated many of her husband’s books, died in 2007.

In 1967, well after Mr. Myrdal had become estranged from his parents, the police in Stockholm beat him with batons and arrested him during an anti-Vietnam War protest.

Still, even in a protest against the United States in the streets of his hometown, he could not avoid the scrutiny of his parents. His mother, then a cabinet minister, had joined the government&#x27;s decision to deny the protesters a permit, and his father publicly criticized his son for demonstrating.

“He was insane,” Jan Myrdal said of his father’s rebuke. “And six months earlier, Alva had said we should stop seeing each other to avoid compromising her position.”





No.11 article:
Leadership of U.N. Human Rights Body Becomes Proxy Battle for World Powers

A fight over the council’s presidency is seen by some as an effort by China, Russia and Saudi Arabia to put a more compliant state in control ahead of greater involvement by the Biden administration.

GENEVA — The annual choice of who will steer the United Nations’ top human rights organization is usually done quietly and by consensus. For months, this year’s selection seemed to follow that script.

Until a week ago, that is, when an unexpected contest emerged over the 2021 presidency of the organization, the U.N. Human Rights Council. The position — which holds significant sway over a body that, despite its name, includes some of the world’s worst rights abusers — rotates by region, and is due to be filled next year by a member of the Asia-Pacific bloc of countries.

The dispute over the council presidency is pitting some of the U.N.’s most powerful member states against tiny Pacific Island nations, and is playing out as U.N. members jockey for influence in anticipation of a new, more engaged American administration.

For months, the only announced candidate to lead the council next year was Fiji’s U.N. ambassador, Nazhat Shameem Khan, the country’s first female High Court judge, a former prosecutor and a diplomat well regarded by Western nations.

But three days before the deadline for applications, another member of the regional bloc, Bahrain, tossed its hat in the ring and told Fiji to step aside, setting off a round of infighting. 

Bahrain is closely aligned with Saudi Arabia, whose human rights record — including the state-sponsored killing of the dissident Jamal Khashoggi — is bad enough that it suffered an embarrassing defeat this fall when it sought only a seat on the council. Syria, a member of the bloc aligned with Russia and with a long and notorious record of abuses, also pledged to block Fiji.

“That was quite a shock,” Doreen de Brum, a diplomat from another Pacific nation, the Marshall Islands, said of the opposition. “We thought Fiji would be the sole name.”

Geneva-based diplomats interpret opposition to Fiji’s candidacy as an effort by China, Russia and Saudi Arabia to put the council’s presidency in the hands of a compliant state as the role of the United States takes new shape under the incoming Biden administration.

“They feel they are losing control,” Marc Limon, a former diplomat and director of the Universal Rights Group, a think tank, said of opponents to Fiji’s candidacy.

“The lengths they went to and the level of subterfuge employed to pull this off suggests they had one eye on a Biden administration return to the council,” Mr. Limon added. China, in particular, has tried to take advantage of America’s absence from the council to expand its influence.

The Geneva-based Human Rights Council, whose mission is to promote and protect rights, includes representatives from 47 nations elected to staggered three-year terms.

As a member for two years, Fiji has backed investigations into reported abuses in Venezuela, Belarus, Syria and Yemen — the sort of country-specific resolutions that have been fiercely denounced by China and others.

The issue has particular resonance as 2021 looms. Western governments hope the United States will re-engage with the council under President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., filling a vacuum left when the Trump administration walked out on the body in 2018.

Western governments have wanted the council to consider changes that would encourage U.S. reinvolvement after the Trump administration denounced the body as a “cesspool” of anti-Israel bias.

These diplomats want the council to reconsider why Israel is the only nation treated as a standing item on its agenda. They also hope to introduce tougher rules for council membership, another issue cited by the Trump administration when it pulled out.

A council president aligned with states hostile to reform would be in a position to steer the council toward other business, sidelining American interests along the way. Though the council president has little direct authority, the person can significantly influence its priorities.

It has been led for the past year by the Austrian ambassador Elisabeth Tichy-Fisslberger, who has been known for her persistence and adroit leadership. The council had risked shutting down during the Covid-19 pandemic, but instead it completed two sessions, leading to action on high-profile issues ranging from racism in the United States to human rights abuses in Venezuela.

Fiji’s prime minister, Frank Bainimarama, far from backing down, has been contacting fellow Pacific Island leaders to rally support for his country’s candidacy.

On Thursday, the Marshall Islands said it would reject any candidate but Fiji and demanded a meeting of the Asia-Pacific group to sort the matter out. Qatar, which is at odds with Saudi Arabia, said it would also oppose the candidacy of Bahrain and its ambassador, Yusuf Abdulkarim Bucheeri.

That could set the stage for a vote by the bloc in the coming weeks.





No.12 article:
For One Day, the N.H.L. Arena Moved to the Mountains





No.13 article:
What We Learned From Week 12 of the N.F.L. Season

The Titans demolished the Colts, the Chiefs won again and the Broncos, with no quarterback, were crushed in a week defined as much by the coronavirus as the action on the field.

With the coronavirus sweeping through the N.F.L. at a greater extent than it had all season, Week 12 had an uneasy edge to it, and several teams had to cobble together solutions to problems brought by player absences resulting from positive tests and close contacts. The league soldiered on, however, getting all 12 of Sunday’s games in regardless of the issues. But a Tuesday game in which as many as 20 Ravens players could be out because of a coronavirus outbreak still looms.

Here’s what we learned:

In a season in which he continually seems to get better, Mahomes has had at least 30 completions and 300 yards passing in four consecutive games — an N.F.L. record. His 462 yards passing on Sunday were the second-most in his outrageous career, and 229 of them came in the first quarter. He is up to 3,497 yards passing and 30 touchdowns for the season and has thrown just two interceptions.

Because of his size, many people assume Derrick Henry prefers to run inside the tackles, but the Titans’ star running back is equally adept at running to the outside. In Sunday’s dominant effort against Indianapolis, Henry gained 146 of his 178 yards rushing on runs outside the tackles, according to the N.F.L.’s Next Gen Stats database, with all three of Henry’s touchdowns coming on outside runs to the right.

Hill’s 269 yards receiving are tied with Del Shofner of the Giants for the 15th most in an N.F.L. game and fell 67 short of Flipper Anderson’s record of 336, which was set for the Los Angeles Rams in 1989. While Calvin Johnson and Julio Jones have each topped 300 in recent years, Anderson’s record has endured.

*Except when it takes more.

Bills 27, Chargers 17 Buffalo’s defense did most of the heavy lifting in this win at home, but Josh Allen threw a 2-yard touchdown pass, and ran in a 3-yard score, giving him 15 career games with both a passing and a rushing touchdown. Allen trails only Cam Newton, who had 20, for the most such games in a player’s first three seasons.

Chiefs 27, Buccaneers 24 Patrick Mahomes threw for 462 yards and Tyreek Hill had 269 yards receiving, but of all those yards, the last 8 were potentially the most vital as the short pass from Mahomes to Hill with 1 minute 15 seconds remaining gave Kansas City a first down and allowed the team to run out the clock in a game that had been slipping away from them.

Titans 45, Colts 26 Indianapolis got 295 yards passing from Philip Rivers, and two rushing touchdowns from backup quarterback Jacoby Brissett, but that wasn’t nearly enough to compete with Tennessee, which could have taken the entire second half off on offense and still won.

49ers 23, Rams 20 Running backs Raheem Mostert and Jeff Wilson returned from injury — a most welcome sight for San Francisco — but this upset was powered more by wide receiver Deebo Samuel, who had 11 catches for 133 yards, and defensive tackle Javon Kinlaw, who had a 27-yard pick-6.

Patriots 20, Cardinals 17 Arizona came into the day averaging 414.3 yards a game, but New England limited the Cardinals to a respectable 298. Kyler Murray was held without a touchdown pass for the first time since Dec. 1, 2019, 14 starts ago.

Browns 27, Jaguars 25 Florida’s warm weather helped wake up Cleveland’s passing game, with Baker Mayfield throwing for 258 yards and two touchdowns. But the Browns are unlikely to change their run-heavy approach going forward since Mayfield also missed badly on several other potential touchdowns while running back Nick Chubb raced for 144 yards on 19 carries.

Vikings 28, Panthers 27 In one of the more impressive make-good moments you’ll see, Minnesota wide receiver Chad Beebe muffed the catch on a punt return late in the fourth quarter, letting Carolina extend its lead with a field goal, only to then score the go-ahead touchdown on his team’s ensuing possession.

Saints 31, Broncos 3 While Denver was limited to 13 yards passing, New Orleans managed just 78 in Taysom Hill’s second career start at quarterback. That will be plenty as long as the Saints’ running game can generate 229 yards and four touchdowns every week.

Packers 41, Bears 25 It was 41-10 in the third quarter when the Packers decided they had tried long enough and let Chicago do whatever it wanted for the rest of the game. The result was a final score that was far closer than the game ever felt, but it was easy to imagine Green Bay scoring 50 or more points if the team had kept pressing.

Giants 19, Bengals 17 Despite losing quarterback Daniel Jones to a hamstring injury in the third quarter, Big Blue was able to fight its way past a Joe Burrow-less Cincinnati. Backup quarterback Colt McCoy didn’t do much, but the Giants scored three field goals following Jones’s injury, which was enough to secure the team’s third straight win. The 4-7 Giants are tied with Washington for first place in the N.F.C. East ahead of 3-6-1 Philadelphia’s game on Monday against Seattle.

Falcons 43, Raiders 6 After the Raiders’ loss last week, much of the talk centered on how well quarterback Derek Carr had played against Kansas City. He turned that narrative on its head by losing three fumbles and throwing a pick-6 in a humiliating loss to Atlanta.

Dolphins 20, Jets 3 Because of a thumb injury on Tua Tagovailoa’s throwing hand, Ryan Fitzpatrick was forced into a start against one of his many former teams, and he helped get Miami back on track following last week’s loss to Denver by throwing for 257 yards and two touchdowns.





No.14 article:
Food Delivery Apps Are Booming. Their Workers Are Often Struggling.

When the pandemic lockdown led the Manhattan restaurant where Natanael Evangelista was an employee to close for good, he quickly shifted to working for food delivery apps. He had few options. He was undocumented, did not speak much English and needed money badly. He owed months’ worth of rent, and his family in Mexico needed help.

But he was worried. Two of his cousins were also delivery workers — one had contracted the coronavirus and fallen into a coma, while the other had been assaulted and had his bike stolen.

With hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers out of work and the city’s unemployment rate at 13.2 percent, many desperate people have turned to working for food delivery apps like DoorDash, Uber Eats and Grubhub, which have seen huge demand from customers who are working from home.

While delivery drivers have been essential to feeding New Yorkers and keeping them safe, their working conditions, already precarious before the pandemic, have gotten worse.

The recent surge in cases means greater risk of exposure traveling from restaurants to homes. Rising crime in New York City has also led to instances of assault and bicycle theft.

“Delivery work is a dangerous business,” Mr. Evangelista, 27, said. “It’s very worrying.”

Some workers also complain that many restaurants deny them the use of their bathroom out of health concerns, forcing them to carry plastic bottles.

Even as the food delivery companies have seen sales surge, the workers’ pay has remained erratic. Because the drivers are independent workers, they are not entitled to a minimum wage, overtime or any other benefits, like health insurance. Undocumented immigrants, who are not eligible for unemployment or federal coronavirus assistance, make up the bulk of the work force in New York.

The added competition from the surge in new workers has compounded the financial challenges. While there are no precise figures, advocacy groups estimate that there were roughly 50,000 delivery workers before the pandemic — a number they say has grown exponentially. Uber alone said it had added 36,000 couriers in New York since March.

DoorDash and Uber said they had provided extra help to delivery drivers during the pandemic, including offering sick pay to those who had gotten the virus. DoorDash, the nation’s largest food delivery app, said it provided masks, gloves, hand sanitizer and wipes to drivers, as well as access to low-cost telemedicine appointments.

“Since the beginning of the Covid-19 crisis, we have taken action to protect and support Dashers who are on the front lines,” Becky Sosnov, a spokeswoman for DoorDash, said. 

DoorDash said it had changed its pay model, which came under fire last year after it was revealed that tips were being used to subsidize its payments to workers.  The company recently reached a $2.5 million settlement with prosecutors in Washington, D.C., after being accused of misleading consumers over how it tipped its workers.

At Uber Eats, “delivery people receive 100 percent of all tips,” Meghan Casserly, a spokeswoman for the company, said. She said Uber Eats has provided 10 million safety supplies — masks, wipes and hand sanitizer — to workers in the United States and Canada.

But workers interviewed for this article who drive for other food delivery apps said they still sometimes do not receive all of their tips. 

Some food delivery apps say drivers can earn as much as $22 per hour, including tips, though many drivers said they never earned anywhere close to that much.

At a park on Manhattan’s Lower East Side, Edgar Usac, a delivery driver, was waiting for orders on a recent Saturday. After four hours, he said, he had made $11. Another driver, Elias Pacheco, 35, said: “I have made $32 so far. I started at 10:30 this morning.” It was 5 p.m.

Drivers for food delivery apps are typically paid per delivery depending on the estimated duration and distance of a trip, plus tips. The work can be convenient for people supplementing a main source of income, but a struggle for those who depend on it as a primary job, advocates for the workers said.

“The pandemic really exacerbated the challenges that these workers are facing and that they regularly face,” said Maria Figueroa, director of labor and policy research for the Cornell University Worker Institute. “In addition to getting low pay, they don’t get enough work from each of the applications, so they have to work for at least three or four of them, and there are more workers than the market can hold.”

Treating the drivers as essentially freelancers, Ms. Figueroa said, has allowed the food delivery apps to offset what have been thin profit margins by not having to pay for health insurance, retirement benefits or workers’ compensation for injuries on the job.

On good days, Mr. Evangelista makes roughly $100 after working five to six hours, but other days he can make as little as $42. In his old job, working in the kitchen of a restaurant in Midtown Manhattan, he made about $15 an hour, he said.

Workers said food delivery apps do not always give them all of their tips, or sometimes deduct them from their pay.

Gustavo Ajche, 37, a construction worker who turned to food delivery apps when he lost his job during New York’s lockdown in the spring, said he was blocked by one app, Relay, after he complained that he had not received his tips. “They don’t care,’’ he said.

In one case, a $10 tip he had received from a customer appeared on the restaurant receipt, which he showed to a reporter — but not on his Relay app or in his bank account.

Alex Blum, the chief executive of Relay, a small company that delivers mainly in New York City, attributed the error to the restaurant’s failure to manually enter the tip into the Relay system.

Mr. Blum said Relay paid its delivery workers $11.80 an hour, the city’s minimum wage, even in between deliveries. But the company has been the target of numerous lawsuits from workers who claim that they are not paid fairly for the hours they work.

“They don’t think about you, your life, your bicycle,” said Otoniel Timoteo, 36, who turned to delivery work in May after being laid off from a restaurant in Queens where he worked as a waiter. “We cannot make demands, otherwise they will block you. But we have no choice. How can we live?”

The New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission two years ago adopted a $17.22 per hour minimum wage for drivers for ride-hailing apps like Uber and Lyft, but it does not apply to delivery workers. Efforts in New York State to provide more rights to gig workers by reclassifying them as employees have stalled in the Legislature.

In California, companies that employ gig workers won a major victory on Election Day when voters approved a ballot referendum that allowed the companies to continue treating the workers as independent contractors.

Across the nation, the demand for takeout during the pandemic has been a boon for food delivery apps. 

“The pandemic has certainly been a nice tailwind for revenue growth, and it has also helped them start to close the gap towards profitability in a speedier fashion,” said Tom White, a senior internet analyst at D.A. Davidson, a wealth management firm.

Uber’s delivery service brought in $1.45 billion in sales nationwide between July and September compared with $645 million during the same period last year.

DoorDash, which also owns another food delivery app, Caviar, reported revenue of $1.92 billion in the nine months through September, compared with $587 million for the same period last year, according to a prospectus filed earlier this year for its planned initial public offering. It recorded 543 million orders through September, compared with 181 million in the same period last year.

Even before Mr. Evangelista took his first food app order, the requirements for the job pushed him deeper into debt.

His electric bicycle set him back $2,000. Two locks for the bike cost about $200. He had to buy a helmet. He even paid out of his own pocket for a $65 tote bag from Postmates, another food delivery app, to carry orders, he said.

His younger brother, Enoc, also laid off from a restaurant job, recently signed up to be a delivery worker. Mr. Evangelista could not suggest an alternative.

“The pay is not good, but there aren’t good jobs out there anyway,” he said. “We need to work and survive the best way we can.”





No.15 article:
Bah, Pandemic! How Theaters Are Saving ‘A Christmas Carol’

For all his flaws, that cranky old miser Ebenezer Scrooge has been a godsend for American theaters. Through recessions and blizzards and other upheavals, he has drawn small children and big money to his redemption story in “A Christmas Carol.”

Stage adaptations of the tale, which generally run between Thanksgiving and year-end, have been a tradition and a lifeline for troupes big and small, professional and amateur. But now, after decades in which the Dickens classic has sustained them, this year theaters are sustaining Dickens.

Gone are the large-cast extravaganzas playing before cheery crowds in packed venues. Instead, theaters are using every contagion-reduction strategy they have honed during the coronavirus pandemic: outdoor stagings, drive-in productions, street theater, streaming video, radio plays and even a do-it-yourself kit sent by mail.

Many of these theaters are willingly running the long-lucrative show at a loss — they are hungry to create, determined to stay visible and eager to satisfy those “Christmas Carol” die-hards who don’t want to miss a year.

“It’s absolutely an obligation, in the best sense of that word,” said Curt Columbus, the artistic director of Trinity Repertory Company, in Providence, R.I., which has staged “A Christmas Carol” each holiday season since 1977. “The story felt more urgent, and more necessary, than it has in many years.”

A primer for those who don’t know a Cratchit from a Fezziwig: “A Christmas Carol” is an exceptionally durable novella, written by Charles Dickens and published in 1843, about the transformation, via a series of ghostly visitations, of a wealthy businessman (that’s Scrooge) from mean and miserly to caring and charitable.

Dickens himself performed readings of the story for more than two decades, with stops in America as well as Britain, until his death in 1870; it has been repeatedly adapted for stage and screen, and the story, in one form or another, has been a seasonal staple of the American regional theater since the 1970s. Last year a critically lauded adaptation from England’s Old Vic theater reached Broadway; this year, it will be livestreamed from its London home, fully staged but audience-free.

“‘A Christmas Carol’ does everything we talk about when we talk about theater — it builds community, and it tugs us toward our better selves,” said Joseph Haj, the artistic director of the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, which has staged the story since 1975, last year selling 57,900 tickets to the show. This year, the Guthrie will stream a retelling by four actors; it will cost $10 to watch, and will be free for schools.

Mr. Haj doesn’t expect to make money on it. Nor does Leda Hoffmann, artistic director of the Contemporary American Theater Company in Columbus, Ohio, which, for $20 per device, will stream a contemporary reimagining with Ebony Scrooge at its center. “This is very likely a losing proposition, but we’re telling the story because we want to tell it,” she said.

The financial implications are enormous, especially for those that have opted not to charge at all. Ford’s Theater in Washington last year sold $2.5 million worth of tickets to “A Christmas Carol.” This year, it is releasing a free audio version on its website and on public radio, paid for by corporate sponsorships and donations. “Hopefully it will come back to us in other ways,” said Paul R. Tetreault, Ford’s director.

The money “A Christmas Carol” usually brings in allows theaters to perform more challenging work at other times of the year.

In Raleigh, N.C., where Ira David Wood III, the artistic and executive director of Theater in the Park, has been playing Scrooge in a musical adaptation since 1974 (he missed one year, when he had open-heart surgery), the money earned from the holiday show “enables us to do ‘Uncle Vanya’ and play to maybe 12 people,” he said.

Like many major regional theaters, Providence’s Trinity Rep is enormously dependent on the show, which accounts for half of all annual sales. This year, its one-hour streaming version looks still to be popular — in the first 72 hours, 75,000 people from 46 states signed up to watch. But ticket revenue, which last year topped $1.7 million, will be zero, because the video is being aired for free.

“This thing has kept American theaters alive for decades and decades,” said Charles Fee, the producing artistic director of Great Lakes Theater in Cleveland. “Without ‘Christmas Carol,’ our company would almost certainly have failed.”

The 2020 renditions are taking place in every imaginable fashion, although rarely the traditional. Last Tuesday, a prominent regional theater still hoping to stage an indoor production — the American Shakespeare Center in Virginia — canceled all live performances and replaced them with digital options, citing the resurgent pandemic. 

Live outdoor productions are requiring social distancing and masks. “Obviously we understand the gravity of trying to do something right now, and we’re in a perpetual state of anxiety,” said Christopher Brazelton, the executive director of the Elm Street Cultural Arts Village in Woodstock, Ga., which is planning a short run of an open-air concert version of its annual “Christmas Carol” musical.

Safety concerns have led several theaters to reconsider the longstanding and crowd-pleasing practice of casting children. To portray Tiny Tim, the disabled child whose fate plays a key role in Scrooge’s awakening, some are now turning to the shortest adult members of their casts. The Lyric Theater of Oklahoma, staging an outdoor production at which patrons walk from musical scene to musical scene across the 10-acre Harn Homestead, is using a puppet so Tiny Tim can be hugged and hoisted without fear.

Stuart Carden, the artistic director of Kansas City Repertory Theater, explored six “Christmas Carol” options before settling, as local infections increased, on a sort of virtual fireside chat, in which four popular local actors, including one who has played Scrooge for 35 years, tell the story direct to camera, for $65 per household. “We just knew we had to continue,” he said.

The Alliance Theater in Atlanta is opting for a drive-in “live radio play” in a parking lot across from a college football stadium. Four performers will be ensconced in separate shipping containers, with attendees encouraged to honk their horns, flash lights and sing along with Christmas carols.

And the St. Louis Shakespeare Festival has enlisted PaintedBlack STL, a coalition of local Black artists, to create scenes from “A Christmas Carol” in 21 storefronts around that city’s Central West End; as patrons wander from window to window, scanning a QR code will allow them to listen to the story as sung by the hip-hop Q Brothers Collective. On weekend nights, there will be live performers along the route.

The most popular solutions are versions of the new normal — streaming, in Milwaukee and Houston, for example, and radio, in cities including Chicago, Louisville and San Francisco.

One particularly inventive example: From its warehouse home in Chicago, Manual Cinema will livestream an original adaptation featuring shadow puppets and murder hornets and a new character, the contrarian Aunt Trudy.

Here and there are some big ventures. The Tony Award-winning actor Jefferson Mays will tackle 50 different roles in a $3.7 million one-man video version, filmed by a Broadway producer to benefit 71 amateur, community and regional theaters and arts organizations.

That’s why, on a recent rainy Thursday, Mr. Mays found himself several feet above an empty stage in a cavernous Washington Heights theater, grinning and grimacing as a whirring pair of electric fans made his black dressing gown billow and a faraway director shouted out cues.

“Swim!” instructed the director, Michael Arden. “Look down at the city!” “You’re falling fast!” With each cue, Mr. Mays adjusted his face and his body, writhing in the air as cameras zoomed in. And then, “Cut!”

Mr. Mays has been perfecting his one-man adaptation for years, and he hoped to frighten, delight and inspire audiences with his version on Broadway. But then the pandemic struck. So instead of an audience, he was playing to a virus-tested, face-masked, socially distanced film crew.

“No matter how many times I’ve read it, it hits me in the solar plexus,” he said later, “and these times seem to need it more than ever.”

One low-tech way to find it: a trip to the mailbox. New Jersey’s McCarter Theater Center is offering $40 gift-wrapped boxes with abridged staves (Dickens-speak for the novella’s sections) as well as cards to prompt conversation, or just to color.

Sarah Rasmussen, the theater’s artistic director, hopes families will perform and explore the tale themselves. “Storytelling can happen anywhere,” she said.





No.16 article:
Embracing My Inner Bob Ross

While covering an exhibit of the famous PBS artist, I replaced my notebook with an easel and experienced even more of the joy of reporting.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

INDIANAPOLIS — For a reporter on an assignment, there’s a time to be a bystander, observing from a distance to better keep an objective perspective on events.

And then there’s a time to paint.

I was all set to write a story on the opening of the “Bob Ross Experience,” a permanent exhibit and painting workshop series in Indiana, on a recent weekend, without ever picking up a brush. But the course of events had other plans.

I had been looking forward to the assignment ever since I pitched it to my editor in September — I would attend the opening of the exhibit, a celebration of the late artist and his beloved PBS show, “The Joy of Painting,” which inspired amateurs to create their own masterpieces. And there, in the city of Muncie, where Ross filmed nearly all of the show’s 403 episodes, I would take it all in while staying six feet from his dozens of fans — some sporting Afros and wearing “happy little clouds” masks — and their collection of easels, canvases and brushes.

The morning began amicably: I watched a dozen masked painters try to recreate “Gray Mountain,” a vibrant landscape from a 1992 episode of the show, in a three-hour workshop led by an instructor. I watched the peaks take shape from individual strokes, until the dozen canvases — at least from my vantage point at the back of the room — could pass for Ross originals.

Maybe anyone really can do this, I thought. I smiled, secure in the knowledge I’d never have to try myself.

But then, an hour later, at a five-minute mini-workshop in which an instructor taught fans to create their own “happy little trees,” the moment of truth came. The instructor, Ted Simpson, knew I was covering the event and walked up to me with a white 4 by 4 canvas square in hand. I knew what he wanted before he opened his mouth.

“You know what they say about the best reporters …” he began.

I braced myself. I considered: Was I really scared of a happy little tree?

I dropped my coat in the corner. And I picked up a brush.

I should clarify: It was not the act of painting itself that I objected to — I took drawing classes in high school by choice, and even won a couple of awards. But after spending the previous week bingeing episodes of “The Joy of Painting,” in which Ross repeatedly assured viewers that “it’s just that easy,” I wondered what it would say about me if it wasn’t.

At first, my fears were realized: I couldn’t even hold the brush properly. I was stabbing at the pools of paint and lifting the brush straight up as though staking a vampire, when I needed to drag it through the globs as if petting a dog.

“Let the brush do the work for you,” Mr. Simpson told me. (I had flashbacks to cooking with my mom growing up, trying to pierce the casing of the raw Italian sausage that I was slicing with one cut rather than working the knife back and forth. “Let the knife do the work,” she told me then.)

Then came the time to put the paint on the canvas. “Little tiny taps, almost like a zigzag,” Mr. Simpson said. But I was still wielding the brush like a pen, jabbing it into the canvas as if it were the chest of someone who had offended me on the playground.

“All right, there we go,” he said, dragging his own brush dipped in dark green paint across the bottom of my canvas. “You’ve got it.” (Despite the fact that very clearly, I had not gotten it, or his brush would not be on my canvas.)

A few minutes later — after carving my initials into the bottom left corner with a knife in letters that looked as if they came from a 4-year-old — I was staring at my own happy little tree, which looked respectable, until you saw the model. Side by side, it suddenly looked like something Charlie Brown would bring home for Christmas.

But back in my Indianapolis apartment later that week, I looked across the room at my tree and realized: That didn’t matter.

“To me, that’s what’s so fantastic about painting: Each and every person will paint differently,” Ross once said. “That’s what makes it special.”

It may seem like a small thing, but putting down my notebook and picking up a brush helped me better understand the event and Ross’s fans. After all, the exhibit was called an “experience.”

In reporting, no two stories are exactly alike, and approaching them that way can deprive readers of a richer reading experience. Kind of like what Bob himself preached about art.

“If we all painted the same way, hmm, what a boring time it would be.”





No.17 article:
Finding Hope When Things Feel Gloomy

Creating hope may be an uphill climb, but there are ways to get there.

In my practice as a clinical psychologist, on more days than not, I hear some version of this plea: “How can I feel hopeful without deluding myself?”

I get it. While helping appropriately skeptical people build meaningful lives, I never want to sugarcoat the state of the world. Feeling frustration and pain makes sense during this unnerving time.

Yet there is still room for hope, which isn’t a flimsy feeling or about convincing yourself that things will improve. Hope is an action-filled process — and I teach my patients to look at it that way, too. According to a renowned hope researcher, Dr. Charles Snyder, who was a professor in psychology at the University of Kansas, hope arises when you identify paths to approach your goals alongside a willingness to persevere despite obstacles.

When you equate hope with empowering behaviors, it doesn’t feel optimistic so much as realistic.

But even when pursuing hope feels unnatural, it can be liberating. Maintaining hope when facing challenges predicts both emotional and physical resilience, while hopelessness, or the combination of experiencing negative life events and believing you’re powerless, fuels depression.

“Hope is a psychological stabilizer — it protects our well-being from stressful events,” said Mark Manson, an author who writes about hope and happiness.

Even if you feel emotionally depleted now, research suggests that it’s possible to consciously and systematically increase hope. In analyzing dozens of studies on brief hope interventions in older adults, Silvia Hernandez, a doctoral candidate at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, said cognitive behavioral therapies can significantly improve hope in people struggling with depression, health and bereavement.

“We know that if we can help a person bear the storm, they will eventually see sunlight,” Ms. Hernandez said. “Holding onto the smallest sliver of hope can be enough to pull us through and ultimately save a life.”

Here are some of my favorite ways to spark and maintain hope in hard times.

While you should allow yourself to experience a certain amount of distress and mourning, step away from the urge to give up entirely. When crises in the world at large feel out of your control, thinking about the various components of your life — and setting small, specific goals to improve them — can help reduce feelings of helplessness.

“I remember the values, like kindness and compassion, that form the North Star I try to navigate my life by, and keep in touch with their importance through the turmoil and uncertainty and anxiety of life right now,” said Sharon Salzberg, a mindfulness teacher and the author of “Real Change: Mindfulness to Heal Ourselves and the World.”

“Doing this gives my life a cohesive path that feels like it is onward leading,” she said.

If it feels overwhelming to think about how to take steps forward right now, try noticing small opportunities in what Cory Newman, director of the Center for Cognitive Therapy at the University of Pennsylvania, calls “micro-progressions.”

“Contrary to microaggressions, which are small but hurtful and accumulative comments or actions that show insensitivity toward persons who are not in the ‘white privilege camp,’ micro-progressions are small actions that communicate respect,” Dr. Newman said.

While these deliberate behaviors don’t undo inequalities, they are steps in the direction of beginning emotional reparations.

“Micro-progressions are best delivered without any announcement, as if they are not special, but just normal,” Dr. Newman said. “An example would be resisting an urge to comment in a meeting while a person of color who has not yet finished speaking continues to have the floor.”

Remember that a key facet of hope is creatively problem-solving when obstacles arise. Plan ways to move forward rather than shutting down when stressors come up. Similar to athletes who anticipate “hitting a wall,” rehearse pushing past fatigue. If you strategize before you’re drained, you can keep going.

Of course, shifting from feeling as if there are no options to actively brainstorming and executing ideas takes practice. It can be tough to get past all-or-nothing thinking. In cognitive psychology, there’s a bias known as functional fixedness, where people become locked into seeing only one use for common objects, even when that’s not the case. One example I use with clients is peanut butter: While it’s a spread for a sandwich, it can also be used to remove gum from your hair. In the same way, thinking resourcefully may not come easily, but if you let yourself think out of the box, you may find surprising solutions.

So take a moment to anticipate thoughts or urges that haunt you, like, “I can’t,” or notice when you’re itching to give something up, then imagine how you might shift your inner soundtrack, perhaps by seeing these thoughts as visitors you don’t have to take too seriously. You can also list thoughts that hijack you, each on its own index card, then shuffle through them casually (e.g. “Why bother?”) as you continue to sit with your emotions and move toward pursuing meaningful actions.

In the midst of so much pain, it’s possible to consciously notice what hasn’t been broken by all the disruption and change. Ms. Salzberg practices and prescribes reflecting on the question, “What’s still true?”

“If you can find something intact, whole, unbroken, it will give you hope,” she said. “It might be the life reflected in a child’s smile or a puppy’s antics. It might be nature; it might be fundamental beliefs in things like the power of love.”

One thing that never changes is that it’s impossible to predict the future. Instead of expecting that everything will go terribly, shift into a more open state of mind. Curiosity helps interrupt despair, Dr. Newman said.

Added Mr. Manson: “Few of the challenges we face today are historically unique and most of the long-term trends show that the world is continuing to get better.”

Gathering uplifting photos, music, mementos and a list of practices that inspire you can help you access the motivation to keep going when you need a boost. While this may seem superficial, one study showed that creating a hope collection significantly increased hope in patients with terminal cancer.

“Go to the park, remove your shoes, and feel the grass,” advised Juan Carlos Ruiz, a pastor at the Lutheran Church of the Good Shepherd in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Over the course of the pandemic, Mr. Ruiz has provided funerals and burials for many undocumented individuals, at no cost to their families. To bolster his hope, he similarly anchors himself with nature.

Creating hope takes willingness and ongoing effort, like an uphill climb, yet ultimately leads to enjoying an improved perspective — not to mention awe-inspiring views.





No.18 article:
Should Isolation Periods Be Shorter for People With Covid-19?

Patients are usually most infectious two days before symptoms begin and for five days after, a new analysis finds.

People with Covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus, are most infectious about two days before symptoms begin and for five days afterward, according to a new analysis of previous research.

A few patients who are extremely ill or have impaired immune systems may expel — or “shed” — the virus for as long as 20 days, other studies have suggested. Even in mild cases, some patients may shed live virus for about a week, the new analysis found.

The accumulating data presents a quandary: Should public health officials shorten the recommended isolation time if it means more infected people will cooperate? Or should officials opt for longer periods in order to prevent transmission in virtually all cases, even if doing so takes a harsher toll on the economy?

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that infected people isolate for a minimum of 10 days from the beginning of their illness. The agency is considering shortening the recommended isolation period and may issue new guidelines as early as next week, according to two federal officials with knowledge of the discussions.

In September, France dropped its required period of isolation to seven days from 14 days, and Germany is considering shortening it to five days. (Isolation refers to people who are ill; quarantine refers to people who have been exposed to the virus and may become ill.)

Setting the isolation period at five days is likely to be much more palatable and may encourage more infected people to comply, said Dr. Muge Cevik, an infectious disease expert at the University of St Andrews in Scotland who led the new analysis, published in the journal The Lancet Microbe.

A recent survey in the United Kingdom showed that only one in five people were able to isolate for 10 days after developing symptoms. “Even if we do more testing, if we can’t ensure people self-isolate, I don’t think we’ll be able to control the spread,” Dr. Cevik said.

In the United States, many people don’t get tested for the infection until a day or two after they begin to feel ill. With the current delays, many receive results two or three days later, toward the end of the period during which they are infectious.

“Even if you were to get the P.C.R. test right on the very first day that you could, by the time you get the results back, 90 percent of your shedding has been completed,” said Dr. Michael Mina, a virologist at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. “This meta-analysis shows just how short your transmission window is.”

Dr. Cevik and her colleagues set out to analyze the so-called kinetics of the coronavirus over the course of an infection, and to compare the pathogen to the closely related SARS and MERS viruses.

The researchers considered nearly 1,500 studies published from 2003 to June 2020 on the timing of infection in thousands of people, most of whom were sick enough to be hospitalized. The team drew data from 79 studies of the new coronavirus, 11 studies of MERS and eight studies of SARS.

People who never develop symptoms seem to carry about the same amount of the new coronavirus as symptomatic patients, Dr. Cevik and her colleagues found. But asymptomatic people seem to clear the virus more quickly from their bodies.

People with Covid-19 usually are most infectious a day or two before the onset of symptoms until about five days after, the analysis concluded. Yet patients may carry genetic fragments from the virus in their noses and throats for an average of 17 days, and, in some cases, for up to three months.

A few patients may carry infectious virus in their lungs — as opposed to the nose and throat — for as long as eight days after symptoms begin, noted Dr. Megan Ranney, an emergency physician at Brown University. For these patients, at least, isolation periods should probably be longer than five days, if only they could be identified.

“The trouble is, who has Covid pneumonia versus who doesn’t is not always fully apparent just based on physical exam,” she said. “They wouldn’t know it on their own.”

Older people tend to be infectious for longer than younger people, but no study in the analysis detected live virus beyond nine days of symptom onset. The results suggest that positive tests after that point find only genetic fragments, rather than whole live virus, Dr. Cevik said.

Because the infectious period seems to peak relatively quickly in the course of the illness, health care workers at community clinics may be at higher risk of becoming infected than those working in I.C.U. units, where patients tend to be in the later stages, Dr. Cevik added.

The analysis underscores data that has accumulated since March. In July, based on similar evidence, the C.D.C. truncated its recommendation for isolation to 10 days from 14 days.

But even at 10 days, the isolation period may be too long for many people, experts said. Patients may be financially unable to isolate for so long, or they may not feel sick enough to want to do so.

“If you could make that shorter for people, I think that would really help people comply with the public health guidelines,” said Angela Rasmussen, a virologist affiliated with the Center for Global Health Science and Security at Georgetown University, referring to the recommended isolation period.

But the new analysis is limited by the fact that only a few of the included studies looked at live virus, she added.

Some people who are older or very sick may be infectious for longer than a week. But if a shorter recommended period encourages more people to isolate, the benefit will more than offset any risk to the community from the small amount of virus that a few patients may still carry after five days, said Dr. Stefan Baral, an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University.

But some doctors said that they were not convinced by the analysis that five days of isolation would prevent transmission from a majority of people.

“There’s a sweet spot there, I would imagine, but I haven’t figured out where that is,” said Dr. Taison Bell, a critical care and infectious disease physician at the University of Virginia.

Dr. Cevik and other experts suggest that people can isolate as soon as they experience even mild symptoms, such as a sore throat or head and body aches — without venturing out for a P.C.R. test right when they are most infectious.

But Dr. Bell said he was unsure how this would work in practice, because these early symptoms were similar to those from other viral infections, including the common cold.

Dr. Cevik said a P.C.R. test could be performed after isolation ended to confirm the diagnosis. Alternately, it may make sense to take a rapid antigen test — which can detect high amounts of virus — while isolating, so as to confirm an active coronavirus infection.

Other experts also endorsed the use of at-home rapid tests. “I think that’s a lovely solution,” Dr. Ranney said. “If you have symptoms, and you have a reliable test that you can do at home, stay home, test at home and isolate for five days.”

Over all, the new analysis underscores how quickly the coronavirus blooms in the body and the speed with which both patients and doctors must respond to keep it contained, Dr. Baral said. Levels of the MERS virus peak at seven to 10 days from symptom onset, and those of the SARS virus peak at Days 10 to 14.

By contrast, the new coronavirus “moves quick,” Dr. Baral said. “It’s a very difficult virus to control, as compared to SARS.”

Home isolation is safe for most of those newly infected with the coronavirus, he added — essentially the model of care that doctors use for patients suspected of having influenza.

Some countries already have adopted policies to make it easier for people to isolate. Vietnam provides income support to people who need to take time off work. Until May, the Japanese government asked patients who were young and had mild symptoms to stay home for four days before seeking testing.

Japan’s guidelines now ask patients to consult by phone with their doctors and to seek testing only if they seem likely to be infected. Anyone who tests positive is admitted to a hospital or a hotel to isolate. In the United States, New York City and Vermont have made similar accommodations available to infected patients.

Even if the rest of the country doesn’t implement such policies, having patients isolate at home — while wearing a mask, keeping windows open, cleaning high-touch surfaces and staying far from other household members — is more feasible for five days than for 10, Dr. Baral said.

“I do think there’s an element of diminishing returns with those last four or five days,” he said. “An intense amount of isolation during that first five to seven days would avert a ton of infections — a ton.”





No.19 article:
The Luxury E-Commerce Wars Heat Up

In 2015, the chairman and controlling shareholder of the luxury goods group Richemont, Johann Rupert, took to the stage at an industry conference in Monte Carlo and issued a rallying cry to some of his biggest rivals.

“I invited the other big groups to create a singular, dominant neutral platform for the luxury goods industry in which we were shareholders,” Mr. Rupert, a blustery South African, recalled this month. “I was talking to Mr. Arnault of LVMH and Mr. Pinault of Kering,” he said, referring to the heads of two major luxury conglomerates, Bernard Arnault and François-Henri Pinault. “I told them the future of luxury retail lay online as well as offline, and that it was too big a game for any company to try to dominate.”

Mr. Rupert then added with a sigh, “As usual, everyone wanted to do it themselves.”

Five years on and the coronavirus pandemic has revealed just how important e-commerce is to the future of luxury goods. Unlike the music industry, which has Spotify, or the hotel business, which has Booking.com, the luxury fashion industry is still without a single dominant online player.

But this month, Richemont, which owns Cartier and Van Cleef &amp; Arpels, and the Chinese technology titan Alibaba announced that they were making a $1.1 billion investment in the online fashion retailer Farfetch. The Pinault family, whose company, Kering, owns Gucci, Saint Laurent and Alexander McQueen, also increased its stake in Farfetch by $50 million through its investment vehicle Artémis.

The move united two of the biggest groups in luxury in common cause and potentially formed a bridge between two of the dominant luxury e-commerce platforms: Farfetch and Yoox Net-a-Porter, also owned by Richemont. It also set the stage for a potential realignment of the online retail landscape, currently suspended between the poles of Amazon and Alibaba, as luxury gravitates toward the ever-increasing might of the Chinese consumer market.

“The pandemic has shone the spotlight on online fashion in a big way as an area for growth, and a category leader will definitely emerge in the next five years,” said Chris Morton, the founder of Lyst, the fashion search platform, whose sales have grown “in the triple digits” since the start of the year. “This is the fight to the top we are running.”

Scott Galloway, a professor of marketing at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “A supreme luxury e-commerce group is a compelling idea, but no one so far has been able to pull it off,” he said.

Could that be about to change?

For the last decade, the Western luxury e-commerce landscape has largely been dominated by Farfetch — an inventory-free marketplace platform founded by José Neves in 2007 — and Yoox Net-a-Porter, the largest of the wholesalers, which was created in 2015 after a merger between Yoox and Net-a-Porter. 

Luxury brands were late to embrace e-commerce. When they did, many depended on either Farfetch or Yoox, rejecting the overtures of giants like Amazon. Partly, this was because of Amazon’s reputation as “the everything store,” which clashed with the luxury industry’s emphasis on exclusivity. Cases of third-party sellers offering counterfeit goods on Amazon also were a contributing factor. A spokeswoman for the company said that “Amazon strictly prohibits the sale of counterfeit products” and “invests heavily in both funds and company energy to ensure our policy is followed.” She pointed out that the company has pursued cases against counterfeiters in partnership with Valentino, among other brands.

When the pandemic forced many stores to close, however, brands had no choice but to focus on digital sales — and the more-established platforms for digital customers. According to data released last week by the management consulting firm Bain &amp; Company, online luxury purchases were worth $58 billion in 2020, compared with $39 billion in 2019, nearly doubling the sector’s share of the market for global luxury sales to 23 percent from 12 percent.

“Luxury e-commerce is now in an environment of rapid mutation,” said Claudia D’Arpizio, a luxury consultant at Bain. Few contenders have become profitable, she said, despite being pumped full of investment.

Moving to take advantage of the moment, Amazon embarked on two initiatives. First, it unveiled special storefronts in both the United States and Europe between May and October. Created in conjunction with Vogue and local fashion councils, both storefronts showcased the work of independent designers who had been left without an outlet when department stores canceled orders. Second it introduced a new Luxury Stores app geared toward Amazon’s 150 million Prime subscribers.

“I would guess that somewhere near 100 percent of our existing customers are on Amazon and a huge percentage of those are Prime members,” Alex Bolen, chief executive of Oscar de la Renta, Amazon’s Luxury Stores first partner and guinea pig, said to Vogue in September. “For me to get more mind share with existing customers in addition to getting new customers — that’s the name of the game. We want to be able to talk to her wherever she’s comfortable shopping.”

Other brands, such as Roland Mouret and Altuzarra, have joined, and Amazon said more brands were expected to come on board in the first quarter of next year. As with Farfetch and Luxury Pavilion, an invitation-only luxury platform on Alibaba’s Tmall site, participating brands control how their goods are presented on the app, allaying fears about Amazon’s utilitarian interface and lack of selectivity. Amazon also bolstered its fashion credentials by hiring Sally Singer, Vogue’s former digital creative director and an editor with deep ties to the designer community, as its new head of fashion direction.

Jonathan Cohen, a New York designer who joined the Amazon independent designers initiative in May, said it helped get his business through the initial lockdown, but he nevertheless opted not to continue once the special storefront was dissolved in early October (as planned) and the designers who chose to continue became part of the main Amazon platform.

According to Mr. Cohen, the brand had received “messages from customers asking why such expensive pieces were selling on Amazon.”

Yet going it alone is also increasingly untenable. LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the largest luxury group in the world, has publicly rejected the idea of working with Amazon, but even its proprietary solution — the wholesale platform 24 Sèvres, created in 2017, with an exclusive arrangement with Dior and Céline — has not gotten meaningful traction with consumers, and it continues to lose money. (The group also made a multimillion-dollar investment in Lyst in 2018.)

“The term ‘platform’ is intoxicating at first blush, but at second, it’s a license to spend tens of billions of dollars before you see any return,” Mr. Galloway, the New York University professor, said.

Enter the Farfetch alliance.

Farfetch, which went public in 2018, has a business model that includes an e-commerce marketplace for brick-and-mortar boutiques, and it works directly with brands on their back-end technology and logistics. It also has direct brand ownership thanks to a $675 million acquisition of New Guards Group, which manufactures and distributes brands like Off-White and Palm Angels. This month, the company also reported a record quarter. The value of goods sold reached $798 million in the three months ending Sept. 30, a 62 percent increase from the same period a year earlier. Gross profit was up 82 percent, edging the 13-year-old company toward profitability in 2021.

Mr. Neves of Farfetch acknowledges that Amazon is his leading competitor in the race for luxury e-commerce supremacy, so it makes sense that he would team up with its greatest international rival, Alibaba.

The new Richemont-Alibaba investment in Farfetch underscores how Alibaba has been able to circumvent some of the issues that luxury brands have with Amazon. Its Tmall Luxury Pavilion has successfully lured almost 200 high-end names onto its site by promising a highly burnished and controlled customer experience and a clampdown on counterfeit products.

It also comes after new restrictions on international travel, which means that Chinese consumers — the consulting firm McKinsey &amp; Company predicts they will account for $178 billion in luxury spending by 2025 — who used to splurge on luxury purchases abroad are now buying them at home. Alibaba and Richemont will put $300 million each into Farfetch itself and another $250 million each into a new joint venture called Farfetch China. They will own 25 percent of the Chinese entity and have an option to buy another 24 percent in about three years.

“I think this deal transcends competitors’ offerings: You are either a disrupter or you are a disrupted, and I hate being the latter,” Mr. Rupert said. “Being an owner of brands, this could have all dragged on, but we see this deal as an acceptance of a new way of retail. Even the whole of the luxury goods industry combined would still have difficulty fighting a giant like Amazon.”

Richemont is in a somewhat unorthodox position in that it also owns Yoox Net-a-Porter, once deemed Farfetch’s biggest rival. Its online business continues to operate at a loss, and Yoox, which has lost most of its white-label clients, has proved an expensive asset. Three years ago, before the Yoox merger, Net-a-Porter’s founders passed on merging with Farfetch. Now that Richemont (alongside Kering) appears to be hedging its bets, speculation has grown around the possible creation of a luxury e-commerce group with critical mass and ties to both the conglomerates and Asia.

“I want to offer a reminder that we are open to every single group or brand,” Mr. Neves, who was sitting in the audience for Mr. Rupert’s speech in 2015, said in an interview. “Brands and retailers are not our competitors, they are our partners. We are witnessing a paradigm shift in the way people buy luxury as more and more consumers gravitate online. We help clients become a part of that.”

There are still hurdles. A joint venture with Alibaba could potentially cannibalize Farfetch’s existing operations. A previous, much-hyped Farfetch venture in China with JD.com failed to generate any momentum with consumers. Additionally, many luxury brands still yearn to consolidate and control the digital channels that connect them to consumers wherever they are in the world — with no third party involved.

“I”m not sure it will be a winner-take-all situation,” said Antonio Achille, global head of luxury for McKinsey. “But there is no doubt Amazon will enter the game, or that there will be further consolidation.”

Some executive shuffling suggests that luxury companies are readying themselves for this new era. On Monday, Yoox Net-a-Porter announced that Geoffroy Lefebvre, currently group digital distribution director at Richemont, would become its chief executive in January. Meanwhile, Matchesfashion.com said it had poached Yoox Net-a-Porter’s global buying director, Elizabeth von der Goltz, for the newly created role of chief commercial officer. And LVMH’s digital chief, Ian Rogers, confirmed that he was leaving to join a French cryptocurrency start-up called Ledger.

Last week, the German luxury e-commerce start up Mytheresa, formerly part of Neiman Marcus, said it had filed for an initial public offering in the U.S. in order to take advantage of the boom in online sales.

Mr. Galloway says that for the players the calculation is simple.

“Luxury is struggling with the fact e-commerce is basically becoming Amazon in the West and Alibaba in the East,” he said, before making an analogy to World War II. “None of them can fight the Germans on their own, so they need to ally with the Russians, which in this case is Alibaba. This is like the Russians and the British and the Americans getting together. They are competitors. The real enemy, however, is in Seattle.”





No.20 article:
Biden Fractures Foot Playing With His Dog, Putting Him in a Boot

The president-elect visited an orthopedic specialist, and while initial X-rays did not show an obvious fracture, a more detailed CT scan showed hairline cracks.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. twisted his ankle playing with  one of his dogs over the holiday weekend, an injury that his doctor said on Sunday resulted in hairline fractures in his foot that would most likely require him to wear a walking boot for several weeks.

Although initial X-rays showed no obvious fracture, a “follow-up CT scan confirmed hairline (small) fractures of President-elect Biden’s lateral and intermediate cuneiform bones, which are in the midfoot,” Dr. Kevin O’Connor, the director of executive medicine at GW Medical Faculty Associates, said in a statement distributed by Mr. Biden’s office.

Mr. Biden visited an orthopedic specialist in Newark, Del., on Sunday afternoon for just over two hours, leaving just before 6:30 p.m. and going to an imaging center for a short time for the additional CT. A Biden spokesman said the president-elect had scheduled the follow-up on Sunday to avoid disrupting his schedule on Monday. A van was maneuvered to block reporters and photographers from seeing Mr. Biden as he entered the doctor’s office.

Mr. Biden, 78, is already operating on a crunched transition time frame, after the head of the General Services Administration did not formally acknowledge the presidential election results for weeks after Election Day, temporarily depriving Mr. Biden of access to federal resources and preventing his advisers from beginning coordination with Trump administration officials.

President Trump, who has refused to concede to Mr. Biden, reposted on Twitter an NBC News video of Mr. Biden leaving the doctor’s office on Sunday, and added, “Get well soon!”

Mr. Biden slipped and injured himself Saturday while playing with Major, a German shepherd the Bidens had fostered that they then adopted in 2018. They have another German shepherd, Champ, and have announced plans to get a cat when they move into the White House next year, as well.

Mr. Trump had no pet during his four years in the White House.





No.21 article:
Trump Looms Large Now, but Maybe Not Forever

One-term presidents generally don’t leave big footprints. And the last four years may be seen as a reaction to the game-changing presidency of Barack Obama.

President Trump’s critics warn that history will look unkindly on his effort to overturn a democratic election. This forecast, while understandable, may be wrong. History rarely looks on one-term presidents at all.

For the last four years I’ve covered his administration as a journalist while also researching and writing books about 19th-century American history. This made it natural to try assessing him from a distance, as future historians might peer at him. Someday the clamor of his tenure will fade, leaving behind a few essential facts, the first of which is his single term.

Few presidents who served four years or less find an enduring place in the popular imagination. One term is not long to influence a country so large and dynamic — and a president’s failure to win a second term can be a sign that he didn’t. If you are not from Indiana, you may not know my state produced Benjamin Harrison, a one-term president who was different from President William Henry Harrison, who died after one month in office. Few people visit the statue of James Buchanan in a lonely corner of a Washington park, and in my life I have met just one enthusiast for Chester A. Arthur.

One-term presidents who escape obscurity often did something beyond the presidency — like John Adams, one of the nation’s founders, or Jimmy Carter, whose much-admired post-presidency has lasted 10 times as long as his term. John F. Kennedy’s legacy rests, in part, on legislative achievements that passed after his assassination. Others are known for their failures while in office: Warren G. Harding for a corruption scandal, Herbert Hoover for economic calamity, Andrew Johnson for being impeached.

We can’t be sure what history will make of Mr. Trump, whose term featured scandal, impeachment and calamity, as well as a pandemic. His story may not be over; he remains at the head of a powerful movement, and reportedly talks of running in 2024. But to judge by information available today, he has a relatively narrow role in the American story: as the reaction to a game-changing president — Barack Obama.

Something like this is true of many presidents. A relative handful enact lasting change, while others respond to them. The ones who left a mark include Andrew Jackson, Mr. Trump’s favorite, who served two terms, from 1829 to 1837. Jackson founded the Democratic Party, reinforced slavery, pursued populist economic policies, and faced down a near-rebellion over states’ rights. When he exceeded his power to achieve his goals, critics called him King Andrew.

Jackson was followed by eight presidents who served in his shadow, two of whom died in office and none of whom went on to a second term. History does not linger long on most of them; they were subordinate characters, mostly shaped by Jackson’s agenda — either advancing or resisting it.

In the same way, Mr. Trump’s place in history may be overshadowed by Mr. Obama’s. Elected in 2008, Mr. Obama seemed to personify America’s growing diversity as a multiracial republic. His campaign motivated new voters, and he talked at first of transcending old political divisions. He said he wanted Americans to regain trust in institutions battered by 9/11, the war in Iraq and the financial crisis. He raised taxes on the wealthiest Americans, signed the Affordable Care Act, tried to break an impasse over immigration and approved a nuclear agreement to ease a long-running conflict with Iran.

He also did not manage to transcend the old divisions. Facing unrelenting opposition from Republicans in Congress, he enraged them by using executive authority to govern around them. Numerous Republicans claimed Mr. Obama had acted like a king.

The Obama presidency paved the way for Mr. Trump. He rose by relentlessly attacking Mr. Obama, promoting the racist conspiracy theory about his birthplace and falsely claiming that he favored open borders. Mr. Trump told voters in 2016 that he was their “last chance” to win before they were overwhelmed by immigration and globalism.

It is astonishing to recall how much Mr. Trump devoted his term to re-fighting the battles of the Obama years. Using executive authority as Mr. Obama had, he rolled back housing and environmental regulations, reversed transgender rights in the military, and branded antiracism programs as racist.

But on many issues he only partly succeeded. He withdrew the United States from the Iran nuclear agreement, but other nations did their best to maintain it. He abandoned Mr. Obama’s strategy toward China, but he struggled to make his own strategy work. He damaged the Affordable Care Act but never managed to repeal it, even when his party controlled Congress.

It was revealing that he publicly supported the most popular benefits of the health insurance law that he said he despised, such as protections for pre-existing conditions. His predecessor defined what health insurance should cover, and Mr. Trump accepted the definition.

Mr. Trump withdrew from the Paris climate accord, but his successor plans to rejoin it. Mr. Trump ended Mr. Obama’s program giving legal status to some undocumented immigrants who arrived in the United States as children, but the Supreme Court restored it, finding Mr. Trump’s action “arbitrary and capricious.” Though Mr. Trump took other actions to limit immigration, the most permanent symbol of his policy may be an unfinished wall in the desert. He neither erased all of President Obama’s accomplishments nor completed his own.

President Trump still has a legacy. He attracted a vast and loyal following. The tax cuts he approved could last for years, while the three conservative justices he appointed are likely to remain on the Supreme Court for decades. His obsessive use of social media made him unlike any president before him, as did his open disregard of barriers between his public duties and personal business. He spoke well of authoritarian rulers, and accelerated the use of disinformation.

The epic conflicts he generated seem like perfect material for future history classes. It is easy to imagine a high school history book recounting the monthslong court fight over his effort to ban Muslims from entering the United States, followed by discussion on religious freedom and the Constitution.

But in those same textbooks, President Trump may be a minor player in the larger story of a democracy grappling with demands for a more equal society — an era marked by the election of Mr. Obama, the first Black president.

And Mr. Trump’s tenure already has a fitting bookend: On Jan. 20, he will be replaced by Mr. Obama’s vice president.





No.22 article:
A Rush to Expand the Border Wall That Many Fear Is Here to Stay

DOUGLAS, Ariz. — Four years ago, President Trump took office with a pledge to build a towering wall on America’s border with Mexico — a symbol of his determination to halt immigration from countries to the south and build a barrier that would long outlast him.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has said he hopes to halt construction of the border wall, but the outgoing administration is rushing to complete as much wall as possible in its last weeks in power, dynamiting through some of the border’s most forbidding terrain.

The breakneck pace at which construction is continuing all but assures that the wall, whatever Mr. Biden decides to do, is here to stay for the foreseeable future, establishing a contentious legacy for Mr. Trump in places that were crucial to his defeat.

In southeastern Arizona, the continuing political divisiveness around the president’s signature construction project has pitted rancher against rancher and neighbor against neighbor in a state that a Democratic presidential candidate narrowly carried for the first time in decades.

The region is emerging as one of the Trump administration’s last centers of wall building as blasting crews feverishly tear through the remote Peloncillo Mountains, where ocelots and bighorn sheep roam through woodlands of cottonwoods and sycamores.

“Wildlife corridors, the archaeology and history, that’s all being blasted to oblivion or destroyed already,” said Bill McDonald, 68, a fifth-generation cattleman and former lifelong Republican who voted for Mr. Biden. “Tragedy is the word I use to describe it.”

Even those like Mr. McDonald who loathe the wall are bracing for the possibility that it could endure for decades to come, basing their assessments on signals from Mr. Biden’s transition team.

While the president-elect has said he will halt new wall construction, other immigration priorities like ending travel bans, accepting more refugees and easing asylum restrictions are eclipsing calls to tear down portions of the wall that already exist.

Advisers involved with the transition team, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss planning for the incoming administration, rejected the notion that there would be any attempt to dismantle the existing border wall, with one adviser calling the wall a “distraction.”

Customs and Border Protection officials are still rushing to meet Mr. Trump’s mandate of 450 miles of new wall construction during his term, nearly doubling the rate of construction since the start of the year. The administration had built 402 miles of wall as of Nov. 13.

Of that, about 25 miles had no barrier before Mr. Trump took office. The rest replaced much smaller, dilapidated sections of wall, or sections that had only vehicle barriers, which border officials say did not deter migrants crossing on foot.

Some of the costliest and most invasive construction is unfolding this month in Guadalupe Canyon, an oasis-like habitat for species of birds, like the buff-collared nightjar and tropical kingbird, that are rarely found in the United States.

Until the blasting crews showed up this year, the canyon was so remote — about 30 miles outside of Douglas, the closest town, on largely dirt roads — that ranchers in the area say illegal crossings by migrants were extraordinarily infrequent.

Now parts of the canyon resemble an open-air mining operation. Work crews are blasting cliff sides on a daily basis to build the wall and access roads to it in one of the costliest portions of construction anywhere on the border.

Jay Field, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers, cited the canyon’s “4.7 miles of challenging, rugged and steep terrain” in a statement explaining that the cost per mile for this segment is about $41 million, roughly double the border wall’s estimated average cost per mile laid out in a 2020 C.B.P. status report.

“This isn’t just heartbreaking but totally pointless,” said Diana Hadley, a historian whose family’s ranch includes much of Guadalupe Canyon. She said natural barriers had long served as a deterrent against crossings in the remote area.

Such critical views of the wall are far from unanimous along this part of the border. One prominent supporter of the wall is the Republican mayor of Douglas, Donald Huish, whose family migrated to the United States from Mexico after the Mexican Revolution.

“Once the government does something this big it’s very hard for them to take it back,” said Mr. Huish, adding that he believed that the wall had made the town safer by pushing migrants to cross the border in stretches of desert relatively far from Douglas.

“We’d reached the saturation point of finding illegal aliens in our back alleys, and now that situation has changed,” Mr. Huish said, citing the impact of both the wall construction now underway and portions of the wall that were built before Mr. Trump took office.

Another outspoken wall supporter is Belva Klump, 83, whose family has ranched in Arizona’s borderlands for generations.

“All I can say about the wall is that I’d like to see more of it,” Ms. Klump said. When asked to expand on what she meant, Ms. Klump used a slur to refer to people who cross the border with Mexico without authorization.

“That’s what the wall is good for,” she said.

One of her grandsons, Timmothy Klump, 31, put it another way.

“The wall is a common-sense thing that improves our security and keeps my cows from wandering into Mexico,” Mr. Klump said. “The ranchers opposed to the wall are in the minority.”

In their remaining time in office, Trump administration officials are promoting the wall while criticizing Mr. Biden’s immigration proposals.

Mark Morgan, the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, has said the wall allows the agency to funnel migration into certain areas and strategically deploy agents in places where they can make apprehensions.

Mr. Morgan said Mr. Biden’s plan to stop construction of the border wall was “going to have a dramatic negative impact.”

“This is nothing but politics,” Mr. Morgan said of the continuing controversy over the wall. “It’s really unfortunate and in fact quite disgusting that our ability to protect the American people is going to be negatively impacted because of politics.”

The border agency has thus far concentrated construction in areas owned by the federal government, much of it in areas with terrain that already impedes migration, such as some of the stretches of border in Arizona where work crews are blasting. The government has accelerated construction in some of these places by waiving dozens of laws, including measures protecting Native American burial sites and endangered species.

Rodney Scott, chief of the Border Patrol, said last month that the Rio Grande Valley in Texas, an area with historically high illegal crossings, was a higher priority for the agency. But the construction there has been slow going because the planned path for the wall runs through privately owned land.

While few miles of border wall have been constructed in South Texas, it has had immense impact on landowners there. The administration has filed more than 117 lawsuits against landowners this year to survey, seize or potentially begin construction on property, an increase from 27 lawsuits filed in 2019, according to the Texas Civil Rights Project.

Richard Drawe, a 70-year-old landowner in the area near Progreso, Texas, voluntarily signed over his land to the administration to avoid facing the government in court, conceding that the administration could eventually use its eminent domain authority to take the land anyway.

A year ago, the wall was just a looming presence in the distance. The steel bollards now stretch past his home, cutting him and his wife off from the sunsets and the roseate spoonbills they loved to watch.

“I’m used to living out in the open, no fences, doing what I want to do,” Mr. Drawe said. “I don’t want to see a damn wall when I step out the door.”

But while Mr. Drawe, who voted for Mr. Trump earlier this month, does not want the border wall on his property, he agrees that it will help Border Patrol agents slow illegal migration.

Brian Hastings, the Customs and Border Protection chief for the Rio Grande Valley sector, said the wall has given the agency more flexibility to strategically place agents in areas that lack barriers or surveillance technology.

“We will see the benefits greatly once this wall system is in place without a doubt,” Mr. Hastings said in an interview. “It allows us to be able to respond quicker.”

Still, as construction intensifies, some say it is premature to accept the premise that the wall is here to stay.

Vicki Gaubeca, the director of the Southern Border Communities Coalition, said the next administration could not only halt construction but start taking down some sections, especially those that are harmful to Indigenous traditions or endangered species.

“Look at how destructive the Prohibition era was and how the country moved on,” said Ms. Gaubeca, whose group was part of a coalition that this year won a federal appeals court ruling that the Trump administration did not have the authority to transfer $2.5 billion from the Pentagon for wall construction, sending the matter to the Supreme Court.

“New leaders,” Ms. Gaubeca said, “can pivot away from bad ideas.”

But even if Mr. Biden wants to do so, he could face logistical and financial challenges including the payment of termination fees for canceling some contracts. A single contract in November 2019 for 33 miles of fence replacement in Arizona, currently valued at about $420 million, could cost the government nearly $15 million to terminate, according to ProPublica, which first reported on the fees for altering the contractual agreements.

If the project is halted, border authorities will also likely need to do further work on the river levee where the wall was planned to be built to ensure it is resistant to flooding and approved by the International Boundary and Water Commission, according to Customs and Border Protection. The wall was part of the flood control plan previously approved by the commission, and portions of the levee have already been altered to prepare for the construction of the border wall.

While others seem resigned to living in the wall’s shadow, Karen Hesselbach, who lives on another stretch of the border in Arizona near the San Pedro River, sees things differently.

She said work crews had destroyed the solitude she sought when moving from Maine to the border 23 years ago. Ms. Hesselbach can now gaze at the wall from her front yard.

Ms. Hesselbach said she had begun likening the border wall, which she despises, to the work of Christo, the Bulgarian-born conceptual artist known for epic-scale environmental projects.

“I try to look at it as a temporary art installation,” said Ms. Hesselbach, 69, who owns a thrift store in the town of Palominas. “My hope is it gets torn down.”





No.23 article:
‘Because She’s a Girl’: Lockdown Exposes Gender Gap in U.K. Sports

Inequalities are especially pronounced in English youth soccer, where only a handful of clubs have kept training open for future female professionals, while boys at the same level play on.

When Lisa Bloor heard that her daughter Abby’s elite-level soccer club was being shut down in England’s latest coronavirus lockdown she faced a tough problem: how to explain that boys at the same level were allowed to keep playing.

“How do I tell my daughter it’s because she’s a girl?” Ms. Bloor asked. “It’s disheartening. There’s no logic in it at all.”

As the coronavirus has upended lives across the world, women have found themselves disproportionately affected, whether by taking on the often invisible labor of an outsize share in household duties, caring for children and relatives or finding the hard-fought gains they made in the workplace in past years almost entirely wiped out.

In early November, after Britain’s government reluctantly admitted the need for a second lockdown of all but England’s most essential services to stop the number of Covid-19 cases spiraling out of control, the restrictions — and exceptions to the rules — laid bare yet another gender gap: the one between women and men’s sports.

When the British government granted “elite sport” special dispensations for the duration of a four-week lockdown, the top six tiers of men’s soccer could carry on training and competing. But only the top two women’s soccer leagues were permitted to continue.

The Football Association, which governs the sport in England, ruled that the men’s F.A. Cup tournament would not stop, but postponed the women’s F.A. Cup until the national lockdown lifts in early December.

Nowhere was the gender divide more transparent than in the decision surrounding the soccer clubs’ academies, which sharpen the skills of the most promising school-age players and prepare them to turn professional.

Boys’ training at more than 80 English Football League and Premier League clubs’ academies could remain open under “elite” protocols, but the F.A. decided that girls’ academies at clubs such as Everton — where Abby Clarke, Ms. Bloor’s 16-year-old daughter, trains at least four times a week as part of the development squad — were “nonelite” and would have to suspend all activity throughout the lockdown.

The governing body later rowed back that decision, but admitted it was likely that only a few girls’ academies — four or five at the most — would reopen, because of a dearth of resources. To adhere to the “elite” protocols, clubs must complete thorough risk assessments and have a range of medical staff on hand to oversee rigorous testing — a steep cost when budgets in women’s soccer are small and already stretched.

“You can’t argue with the ambition to have fairness and parity,” said Kelly Simmons, the F.A.’s director of the women’s professional game. “It comes down to where the women’s game is in terms of its resources and its commercial revenue at the moment. The men’s game has been able to invest multimillions into boys’ academies and state of the art facilities. We’re not there yet on the women and girls’ side.”

Halfway through lockdown, after two weeks of her daughter’s training alone and kicking a ball against a wall, Ms. Bloor that said Everton reversed field and decided it could afford to restart girls’ training. But she was dismayed that many other girls were not as fortunate.

Other soccer-mad girls took to social media to ask #IsItBecauseIAmAGirl, railing against the F.A.’s different rules for men’s and women’s teams as a petition calling for girls and women’s soccer to continue reached more than 15,000 signatures within the space of a few days.

Philip Gill, the father of three girls between 22 months and 12 years old, and the coach of a girls’ soccer team in Padiham, in northwest England, started the appeal.

Mr. Gill said the F.A.’s decision “puts on this perception that if you’re a girl, you’re less important. I don’t want my kids growing up seeing that.

“It’s time to give the ladies’ game the same opportunities as they’ve given the men’s,” he said.

Soccer is far from the only sport where differences between the treatment of men’s and women’s teams have been accentuated by the coronavirus pandemic and lockdowns.

As Britain emerged from its first lockdown, the men&#x27;s international cricket team began play this summer months before the women’s.

A similar delay occurred in rugby union. But even after play resumed, the women’s teams confronted new rules designed to limit transmission of the virus, while a costly testing system was provided for the men’s teams so they could play by the same rules as before.

In a recent study of the first lockdown, Britain’s elite sportswomen reported that their finances and fitness had taken a sharper hit than those of their male counterparts. That’s largely because, unlike the men, they are paid only on a match-fee basis and had to pay for fitness equipment during lockdown, while men could borrow from their clubs’ gyms.

“Lockdown definitely entrenched those ideas that women’s sport aren’t on the same level as men’s sport in terms of opportunity, access and funding,” said Ali Bowes, a senior lecturer in sociology of sport at Nottingham Trent University, who led the research.

It’s not just professional sportswomen who have felt the effects of lockdowns on sports and exercise more acutely than men.

Research from Sport England into the impact of the first lockdown found that women were more affected by care responsibilities, more anxious about leaving home to exercise and more affected by reductions in group activities.

“Everything’s pointing to lockdown having made it worse for women,” Dr. Bowes said.

As part of the lockdown, gyms, public swimming pools, dance studios, tennis courts and other facilities were ordered to shut their doors. With those avenues closed, advocates for women’s sports say that many women will be deterred from staying active over the winter because of safety concerns about exercising outdoors in the dark.

Lucy Robinson, a 22-year-old student based in Derbyshire, is in exactly that position. She gave up running alone after one wintry evening last year when she was out jogging and a stranger followed her on a bike, shouting lewd comments.

With gyms shut because of the lockdown, Ms. Robinson, who is not a fan of online classes, said she was missing out on the physical and mental health benefits that sport can bring.

“Women are being put in a really tough situation where they have to choose between making their health worse or putting their safety at risk,” she said.

For the women who do want to relieve cabin fever with a run outdoors, the government’s coronavirus regulations have done little to assuage safety fears.

Research from England Athletics has shown a third of women have been harassed while out running alone and that many would feel safer when running with a group. But group exercise is not permitted during the lockdown.

The government devised an exception to the restrictions that allows for one person not in your household to join you for outdoors exercise, provided they keep a safe distance, but that has been criticized as impractical.

Rini Jones, a marathon runner who shares her experiences on her Instagram account, abrowngirlruns, is still going out for runs alone during lockdown but always takes a number of precautions, including running only along well-lit roads.

Sexual assault and the killings of female joggers, especially women of color, play on her mind, and Ms. Jones said that she usually considers the cars passing her by as potential witnesses should anything happen to her. 

“There is an inexcusable lack of understanding at the highest levels of decision-making that this is the reality for women, and for women of color and marginalized women, it’s even more precarious,” she said. 

For the women whose exercise and sporting lives have been jeopardized by the monthlong lockdown in England, there is a small light at the end of the tunnel: Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government announced on Monday that when the country moves into a tiered system of restrictions in early December, sports teams will be allowed to reunite and gyms will be allowed to open their doors to customers again, though group exercise classes remain banned in some places.

It’s a welcome relief for many, but Dr. Bowes, who led the research into the impact of lockdowns, said that she hoped that the new light that the coronavirus restrictions have shone on the deep-seated issues in how women’s sports and exercise are treated could herald greater accountability for gender inequalities.

The differences, she said, are “the byproduct of over 100 years of sport prioritizing men.” But, “in these extreme moments when the world goes upside down, we start to see where the priorities are,” Dr. Bowes said. Speaking up and calling out the problems, she said, “sets us on a really positive path for how things might change in the future.”





No.24 article:
Republicans and Democrats Need to Work Together. Earmarks Can Help.

Nothing greases the gears of government quite like pork.

As the Trump presidency fades to black, it is time for Washington to get to work. In embracing Joe Biden, the American people cast a vote for civility, pragmatism and competence. Lawmakers now have a duty to hunker down and find ways to make progress on critical issues. But with both chambers of Congress narrowly divided and ideologically polarized, coming together on even the most modest deals could prove daunting.

One promising move under consideration: bringing back congressional earmarks.

Loosely speaking, earmarks are spending requests — or, depending on your definition, also limited tax or tariff benefits — inserted into bills at the behest of individual lawmakers for the benefit of specific entities in specific locations. Think: funding for a domestic violence crisis center in Alaska or for STEM programs in a rural school district in Colorado.

In the big picture, earmarks add up to little more than a rounding error, generally constituting not more than 1 percent of the federal budget. They are used to determine spending priorities, not spending levels, meaning they determine how the pie gets divided rather than how big it is.

As conceived, earmarks allow the people who presumably best understand a state or district — its elected officials — to direct federal dollars to where they are most needed. In practice, they also get used for all kinds of daffy or ill-conceived projects. Remember the infamous Bridge to Nowhere? Classic earmarking. At its most vile, the process veers into organized bribery, as special interests pursue ethically questionable, and occasionally illegal, means to get lawmakers to champion their pet issues. In the mid-2000s, a handful of earmark-related scandals landed some prominent political players in prison. Earmarks became a tidy symbol of government waste and corruption.

In 2007, the Democratic-controlled House began reforming the practice, increasing transparency and accountability. Members were required to attach their names to requests and to certify that they had no financial interests in the projects. Beneficiaries were limited to nonprofit entities or public projects. In 2011, Republicans assumed control of the chamber and went even further, declaring a moratorium on earmarks.

This ban has made Congress less accountable and more dysfunctional. It is time to abandon the experiment.

Despite their bad reputation, earmarks are not inherently corrupt. Since America’s earliest days, they have proved a useful tool for building coalitions. (The first known instance of congressional earmarking dates to the Lighthouse Act of 1789.) Nothing greases the gears of government quite like pork. A lawmaker may not care for a larger bill per se, but the ability to slip in a little something for the voters back home can be a compelling motivator. “Without earmarks to offer, it’s hard to herd the cats,” John Boehner, the former House speaker, once observed.

It is this utility that many earmark opponents object to. They do not want costly legislation to be easier to pass. The budget watchdog group Citizens Against Government Waste warns that “earmarks cause members to vote for excessively expensive spending bills that cost tens or hundreds of billions of dollars in exchange for a few earmarks worth a few million or sometimes just thousands of dollars.”

Considering the thicket of crises the nation is facing, big-ticket legislation, including another meaty round of coronavirus relief, is precisely what is needed.

Of course, the earmark ban didn’t really ban earmarks. Pork spending simply became stealthier, with some members falling back on similar, more convoluted moves such as “phonemarking” or “lettermarking.” Worse, non-earmark earmarks are not subject to the same transparency requirements, making them harder to track. So much for increased accountability.

There are also questions of constitutional authority. When Congress declines to specify how the money it appropriates is spent, the executive branch is happy to fill the void. Curtailing congressional earmarks “simply shifts that power more explicitly to a president and a cadre of unelected bureaucrats,” according to John Hudak, a senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution and the author of “Presidential Pork.” “Eliminating earmarking is a serious abdication of power by Congress which empowers a branch of government beyond what the Founders intended,” he has argued.

This argument should have special appeal for Republican lawmakers, who like to complain that unelected bureaucrats and unaccountable regulators have too much authority.

Since 2011, clusters of lawmakers have periodically flirted with restoring earmarks, only to abandon the efforts. The practice remains easy to demagogue, especially with mistrust of government running high. In the wake of this month’s election, House Democrats are approaching the issue with renewed energy. In a recent interview with Roll Call, Steny Hoyer, the majority leader, said that once the new chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee is chosen, she would begin asking members to submit “congressional initiatives for their districts and their states.”

Members in both chambers should facilitate this process — working to ensure that the new system has maximum transparency and sufficient oversight, of course. Earmarks are not a magic cure-all for today’s hyperpolarized politics. They are unlikely to, for instance, convince conservatives to support the Green New Deal or members of the progressive “Squad” to back corporate tax breaks. But restoring positive incentives for lawmakers to embrace negotiation and compromise could provide at least some counterbalance to the partisan forces fueling rigidity and gridlock.





No.25 article:
Overwhelmed: First by Fire, Then by Kindness





No.26 article:
The King of Trump TV Thinks You’re Dumb Enough to Buy It

Chris Ruddy, the C.E.O. of Newsmax, has found a business opportunity in feeding Trump supporters the fantasy that the president could still win the election.

In 2004, Hillary Clinton was in the Senate and Christopher Ruddy had some making up to do. He was, back then, best known as “the Inspector Clouseau” of the Vince Foster case — a New York Post reporter who had popularized the baseless theory that Mrs. Clinton’s friend, who committed suicide in 1993, had been murdered.

But it now seemed possible that Mrs. Clinton might run for president, and Mr. Ruddy laid it on pretty thick. Mrs. Clinton was doing “a remarkably and surprising good job for NY as Senator,” he wrote to a mutual friend, former Mayor Ed Koch of New York. “I might not like Hillary’s liberalism, but I don’t dislike her on a personal level — as I do Rudy. Rudy Giuliani is a bad person.”

I asked an amused former Clinton aide to dredge this correspondence out of an old box because Mr. Ruddy, a Long Island-born 55-year-old, has emerged as the most audacious media entrepreneur of the Trump election fantasy. The chief executive of Newsmax and part of President Trump’s South Florida social circle, Mr. Ruddy has capitalized on the anger of Mr. Trump’s supporters at Fox News for delivering the unwelcome news, first in Arizona and then nationally, that Mr. Trump had lost his re-election campaign. On Newsmax, however, the fight is still on, the imaginary election-altering Kraken is yet to be released, Mr. Trump is striving valiantly for four more years and the ratings are incredible.

Newsmax’s prime-time ratings, which averaged 58,000 before Election Day, soared to 1.1 million afterward for its top shows, with one host, Greg Kelly, cheerleading on Twitter and on the air for “the QUEST TO COUNT all the LEGAL VOTES.” The ratings even drew a congratulatory call from Mr. Trump himself, my colleagues Michael Grynbaum and John Koblin reported last week.

But Mr. Ruddy, as those Clinton messages show, is not the sort of true-believing ideologue his viewers may imagine in the foxhole alongside them. He is, rather, perhaps the purest embodiment of another classic television type, the revenue-minded cynic for whom the substance of programming is just a path to money and power.

All successful TV programmers have some mercenary in them, of course, but even by those standards, Mr. Ruddy is extreme. He has turned Newsmax into a pure vehicle for Trumpism, attacking Fox News from the right for including occasional dissenting voices. And when Trumpism turned this month from an electoral strategy into a hallucinatory attempt to overturn the election, Mr. Ruddy saw opportunity: Newsmax, available on cable in most American households and streaming online, became the home of alternate reality.

“In this day and age, people want something that tends to affirm their views and opinions,” Mr. Ruddy told me in an interview.

He wasn’t hard to reach. Like many people who get generally, even inexplicably, friendly media coverage, the genial Mr. Ruddy is always willing to talk to the press. He is, in fact, a rare and valuable commodity: someone with real access to Mr. Trump who will tell the truth on the record. His insights — 62 quotes in The New York Times in the last four years, 61 in The Washington Post and 51 appearances on CNN — deliver what journalists crave: up-close insights about the president. He has even invited reporters to tag along to Mar-a-Lago as his guest at the president’s private club, which has been a minor irritant for President Trump’s staff, two former Trump aides told me. Not that he’s made any secret of his strategy. The fake crisis of the U.S. electoral system is “great for news,” he told The New Yorker’s Isaac Chotiner last week.

Mr. Ruddy is hardly alone in the sudden scramble to convert Mr. Trump’s political profile into cash.

“There are a lot of well-capitalized people circling,” said Michael Clemente, a former executive at ABC News and Fox News and former chief executive of Newsmax, who has been part of conversations as a potential leader of a new venture. He describes the proposition as a question of math, and the dominance of liberal-leaning cable channels: “Fifty percent of the country has 90 percent of the news media speaking to them.”

The noisiest effort is led by Hicks Equity Partners, the family business of a Republican National Committee co-chairman and friend of Donald Trump Jr., Thomas Hicks Jr. The Hicks group has sought to lead buyouts of both Newsmax and its smaller and stranger rival, the One America News Network. The group is also pursuing a third strategy, according to a confidential investment proposal I obtained, which would focus on culture rather than news: building “a family-friendly programming destination of broad appeal based on traditional values” by buying and merging a small “equestrian sports and lifestyle” channel and a larger one, which a person briefed on the talks identified as the small, independent Ride-TV and Great American Country, which is owned by the cable behemoth Discovery. (A spokesman for Hicks Equity Partners didn’t respond to an inquiry about a potential deal.)

Other possibilities for the president to cash in on his stature include creating a new Trump TV network from scratch, either as a television broadcast channel, a package of online video or even a way to direct cash into the Trump family political operation.

Mr. Ruddy has a head start. His main commercial advantage is the network’s distribution, which the company says puts it in 70 million of the roughly 90 million American homes that have cable, thanks to deals with the largest distributors, Comcast and AT&amp;T. It’s a laborious, and expensive, process to get onto the cable package — even if you are, as Newsmax currently is, way up the dial. The programming is also available through a livestream on its app and on a range of newer “over-the-top” TV platforms like Roku. (OAN claims to be available in about half as many cable homes.) The process of establishing a cable network is also deeply political, as things often are in monopolistic industries: Newsmax was dropped from AT&amp;T’s DirectTV in 2016, and restored the next year after Senator Charles E. Grassley called the move “unfair” during hearings about AT&amp;T’s attempt to acquire Time Warner. You could imagine executives at Comcast and AT&amp;T taking their time to make a deal with Trump TV.

But Mr. Ruddy also has a problem. His TV business, a speculative bet that could be worth billions if it can cut deeply into Fox’s audience, currently loses money. The company invested $70 million from 2014 to 2017, according to a confidential overview produced for potential investors in 2018 that one of them shared with me. And Mr. Ruddy told me Newsmax is still investing.

Those costs are partly because new channels often pay cable companies to get on TV. Mr. Ruddy declined to describe his specific arrangements with the cable providers, but said, “It’s not unusual for companies to do that when they start out.” And it’s partly because big advertisers have fled right-wing talk shows, leaving even the widely viewed prime-time shows on Fox News with less lucrative “direct response” ads for pillows and medical devices.

Newsmax has inverted the usual media business dynamic. The company is losing money on television, and making it on the internet, though Mr. Ruddy told me he expects that “revenues on cable and OTT television will be more robust and consistent than the online business for the next 10 years.”

Newsmax has built a solid, and unusual, business by catering to the 50-and-older demographic it described in the document shared with investors as “Boomers and Beyond.” The website’s voice, its big and lucrative email lists, and its products, from books to magazines to vitamin supplements, have the tone of conservative direct mail. And it’s working: The company projected its 2018 revenues at more than $59 million, divided among advertising, subscriptions and e-commerce. (One sponsor on the app last week was selling health advice, asking “Is the ‘Pandemic’ a Lie?”)

Newsmax has been raising money to finance its TV ambitions. Private equity from “a couple of investors,” Mr. Ruddy said, has paid to upgrade studios and hire figures like Mr. Kelly and the former White House press secretary Sean Spicer as the hosts of shows that replaced hours of World War II documentaries, and carry conservative radio talkers including Howie Carr from Boston. The investors, he said, are domestic, despite a Politico report (picked up on Breitbart) indicating he was in talks to raise money from Qatar. Mr. Ruddy said he sent proposals to many sovereign wealth funds, among others, but has not taken foreign investment. He blames his former rival, Stephen Bannon, for pushing the Qatar story, but such grudges are fleeting in the often-shifting alliances of the new right: Mr. Bannon’s podcast, “War Room,” is now also broadcast on Newsmax late at night on weekdays.

Newsmax now needs to raise more money, or sell fast, if it’s going to keep upgrading its talent and production quality to press its advantage with Fox News — which has begun nervously trying to block guests from appearing on the network.

When I pressed Mr. Ruddy on why he was stringing along his audience with a story he can’t, really, himself believe — that Mr. Trump won the election — he didn’t really defend it. Instead, he countered that he wasn’t the only one. “For two years, the liberal media pushed this Russian hoax theory, and there didn’t seem to be any substantiation at the end of the day and it was a pretty compelling, gripping story — controversial personalities, things happened, sparks were flying,” he said.

Newsmax continues to tell a gripping story. On Friday night, Mr. Kelly referred to Joe Biden’s “alleged victory,” hosted a long interview with Rudy Giuliani and later turned to an analyst who gave Mr. Trump a “35 to 40 percent chance that he wins this.” The 8 p.m. host, Grant Stinchfield, announced that “the momentum seems to be shifting back to the president’s favor,” and interviewed a lawyer for Mr. Trump, Jenna Ellis, and a Pennsylvania state senator trying to take back the state’s election certification.

Mr. Ruddy’s cynicism brings me back to the most trenchant attack from conservative media on the mainstream media: that journalists think conservatives are stupid. Tucker Carlson regularly tells his audience that the college-educated snobs in New York who preside over the major outlets view conservatives as unsophisticated rubes, misled by misinformation, not as people who actually believe in the ideas pushed by Mr. Trump, like immigration should be sharply curtailed. Those attacks on the media are often false, but the coastal media sometimes does fail to understand people who aren’t like them, left and right, and sometimes they patronize their audiences.

But nobody I’ve ever covered treats an audience with the blithe disdain of Mr. Ruddy. He has them watching a great story — a thriller, a whodunit — about a stolen election. He thinks they’re stupid enough to fall for it, dumb enough to keep watching even after the fantasy inevitably dissolves, buying the supplements and the books and, crucially, tuning in to channel 1115 in large enough numbers that, eventually, the cable companies will pay him.

Perhaps he actually thinks his viewers are that dumb. Or maybe he just needs them to stick around long enough for him to find someone just as cynical, but with more cash on hand, to buy him out.





No.27 article:
For Trump, Past Is Prologue

He has always tried to weave a reality different from what is actually true.

If you are having a hard time fathoming how Donald Trump could deny reality, attempt to force-feed America his fictions, fight truth with conspiracy and concoction, and try to spin a loss into a victory, you shouldn’t. You need only be open to a fair analysis of Trump’s life. There is nothing new about this man’s behavior. This is what he has always been: a liar, a con man and a grifter.

For instance, consider a period in his life 30 years ago, in 1990, and you will see that everything he is doing now he did then. His brazen play at fact alteration isn’t innovation but regurgitation.

New York City was just coming off the racially divisive Central Park Five case in which five young Black and brown teenagers were wrongly convicted of attacking a white female jogger in Central Park. After the attack, Trump took out a full-page newspaper ad calling for New York State to adopt the death penalty and said of the teens in a CNN interview:

“Of course I hate these people. And, let’s all hate these people because maybe hate is what we need if we’re going to get something done.”

In early 1990, Trump and his wife at the time, Ivana, separated and went through a messy divorce based on Ivana’s claim of “cruel and inhumane treatment.”

The author Harry Hurt III wrote in his 1993 book, “Lost Tycoon: The Many Lives of Donald J. Trump,” that Ivana asserted during a deposition in the 1990 divorce that Trump had assaulted her.

As The Daily Beast summarized in 2019: “After a painful scalp reduction surgery to remove a bald spot, Donald Trump confronted his then-wife, who had previously used the same plastic surgeon.”

The Daily Beast continued:“Donald held back Ivana’s arms and began to pull out fistfuls of hair from her scalp, as if to mirror the pain he felt from his own operation. He tore off her clothes and unzipped his pants.

“‘Then he jams his penis inside her for the first time in more than sixteen months. Ivana is terrified … It is a violent assault,’ Hurt writes.”

Ivana Trump has strenuously objected to this interpretation of events.

At the same time, Donald Trump’s casino business was floundering.

As The Atlantic reported in 2017:

“In 1990, with Trump Taj Mahal in trouble, Trump’s father Fred strolled in and bought 700 chips worth a total of $3.5 million. The purchase helped the casino pay debt that was due, but because Fred Trump had no plans to gamble, the New Jersey gaming commission ruled that it was a loan that violated operating rules. Trump paid a $30,000 fine; in the end, the loan didn’t prevent a bankruptcy the following year. As noted above, New Jersey also fined Trump $200,000 for arranging to keep Black employees away from mafioso Robert LiButti’s gambling table.”

And The New York Times reported on Aug 16, 1990, that Trump’s supposed wealth was underwater. According to The Times: “Donald J. Trump’s accountants and bankers have concluded that his empire is worth far less than he contended late last year — and that if he had been forced to sell his assets this spring he might not have realized enough money to get out of debt.”

Still, that August, Trump sits with Barbara Walters for a “20/20” interview for his new book, “Trump: Surviving at the Top.” In the interview, Trump begins by attacking the press:

“Whether it’s a marriage, by the way, or whether it’s financial, I’ve never seen press reporting as I have with regard to me. And, I hope the general public understands how inherently dishonest the press in this country is.”

Trump then goes on to try to spin Walters — who would not be spun — on how his teetering on the edge of bankruptcy should actually be seen as success.

In the middle of the interview, Walters put this to Trump: “In your book you say, ‘Success is so often a matter of perception.’ What do you think the perception of you is today?”

Trump responds: “I really don’t know what the perception is. I think people see me as a fighter. I think people have always seen me as a fighter. They know that I don’t take a lot of crap from people, and from others.”

That is what it’s always about for Trump, then as now: perception, not reality. He doesn’t want to be perceived as a loser, even if he is. He doesn’t want to be perceived as a racist, even if he is. He will bend heaven and earth to create an amenable reality when the real reality is counter to his conception of self.





No.28 article:
Dave Prowse, Man Behind Darth Vader’s Mask, Is Dead at 85

Mr. Prowse went from being a weight lifting champion in Britain to helping portray one of the most memorable villains in movie history. But his voice did not make the edit.

Dave Prowse, the British actor who gave the imposing physical presence — but not the voice — to Darth Vader in the original “Star Wars” trilogy, died on Saturday in a hospital in London. He was 85.

Mr. Prowse’s death was confirmed by Thomas Bowington, his agent. Mr. Prowse’s family did not release a cause of death, but he retired in 2016 because of ill health, Mr. Bowington said.

Standing 6-foot-6 and with a physique honed by years of weight lifting (he was once the British heavyweight champion), Mr. Prowse had the perfect presence for the role of Darth Vader, whom he played in 1977’s “Star Wars,” in “The Empire Strikes Back” in 1980 and in “Return of the Jedi” in 1983.

He was scouted for the role by George Lucas, the franchise’s creator, who had seen Mr. Prowse play a bodyguard in Stanley Kubrick’s “A Clockwork Orange.”

Mr. Lucas actually offered Mr. Prowse a choice of roles for the original “Star Wars”: Chewbacca, the hairy, gentle giant and a hero in the franchise; or Darth Vader, the arch-villain. Mr. Prowse told the BBC in a 2013 interview that the choice had been simple. “I said, ‘Well, don’t say any more, George, I’ll have the villain’s part,’” Mr. Prowse recalled. “You always remember the bad guy.”

There was another reason he turned down Chewbacca, he added: “I thought, ‘Oh, God no, three months in a gorilla skin, no thank you very much.’”

Mr. Prowse’s voice had the distinctive agricultural tones of someone born in Bristol, in southwest England, and many believe that is why he did not get to voice Darth Vader. His lines were instead overdubbed by James Earl Jones after filming had finished.

In the BBC interview, Mr. Prowse said that it was not actually his accent that had led to the change. Wearing Darth Vader’s mask had caused his lines to come out muffled during filming, he said, and Mr. Lucas did not have time to fly him out to America to overdub the lines afterward.

Mr. Prowse only learned that his voice was missing from the film at its premiere. “I’m watching the film and all of a sudden this strange voice comes over,” he told the BBC in the 2013 interview. “I thought, ‘Oh, goodness me, that’s not me.’” But he said that Mr. Jones had been “a great choice” for the part and the pair became friends.

But some said the change was inevitable because of his accent. “They always knew they were not going to use that voice,” Carrie Fisher, who played Princess Leia in the films, said in a 2016 BBC interview. “We called him Darth Farmer.”

Mr. Prowse’s face and voice could have finally made an appearance in the franchise in “The Return of the Jedi” when Luke Skywalker (played by Mark Hamill) removes Darth Vader’s mask so that the pair can look at each other. But Mr. Lucas instead decided to use the actor Sebastian Shaw to play the character in that moment.

In some fight scenes, Darth Vader was also played by Bob Anderson, a fencer and stunt double.

Regardless of the changes, Mr. Prowse was always a favorite of “Star Wars” fans and spent much of his life afterward attending conventions and dealing with fan mail — some of it of a salacious nature from women who found his suit sexy, he told Jackie Collins in a 1980 interview.

David Charles Prowse was born in Bristol, England, on July 1, 1935. His first passion was not acting but bodybuilding and he won the British heavyweight championship in weight lifting in the 1960s. Once he moved into acting, his first roles were mainly as monsters in horror movies.

In Britain, he became more widely known when he got the part of the Green Cross Code Man, a superhero who promoted road safety. He appeared as the character in a government television campaign and also toured schools to encourage children to stop, look and listen before crossing the street.

The British government almost fired him from that role after “Star Wars” came out, Mr. Prowse told Ms. Collins in the 1980 interview, because they felt Darth Vader’s image could clash with a road safety campaign. 

That campaign ran until 1990, and Mr. Prowse wrote in a 2014 piece for The Guardian that it was “the best job I’ve ever had, including my Star Wars role, and by far my proudest achievement.” But even in Britain, Mr. Prowse will most likely be remembered more for being the man behind the suit in “Star Wars” than anything else.

He is survived by his wife, Norma Scammell, and three children, Mr. Bowington said.





No.29 article:
Which Nxivm Show Is Better? An Expert Investigates

The reporter who broke the story of the cult for The New York Times thought he was done with Nxivm. But he couldn’t resist seeing how “The Vow” and “Seduced” compared with his own experiences.

It was the comedian Judd Apatow who convinced me to invest a little too much of my time in the two recent documentaries about the sex cult Nxivm.

“The Vow” on HBO and “Seduced” on Starz have a combined running time of 13 hours. I make cameos in both shows as the reporter who in 2017 broke the story about Nxivm (pronounced Nex-e-um) for The New York Times, and had fast forwarded through them to check out how good I looked. (Quite good, it turns out.)

The Nxivm story was bizarre and sickening. The group, which was based near Albany, N.Y., offered “self-improvement” courses, claiming they would help participants overcome fears and realize their potential. But Nxivm was a misogynistic, mind-control cult whose adherents referred to its leader, Keith Raniere, as “Vanguard,” and where women who joined a secret sorority were branded with a symbol containing his initials. Over the past two years, several Nxivm officials have pleaded guilty to federal charges and Raniere, following his conviction for sex trafficking and other crimes, was recently sentenced to 120 years in prison.

I’d had my fill of Nxivm. But the documentaries have become pandemic TV hits and, given my role in them, plenty of people have offered me their opinions of the shows. They have included friends and acquaintances I wouldn’t have expected to spend evenings absorbed by a sex cult. Then, my interest was further piqued when Apatow tweeted, “I may need to do a 300 hour podcast to explain why The Vow goes so much easier on the NXIVM cult than Seduced.”

I decided to watch the documentaries more closely to see how their depictions of Nxivm jibed with my impressions. They struck me as starkly different from each other. “The Vow” resembles a crime show that follows several Nxivm defectors and the actress Catherine Oxenberg, whose daughter India became a member of the cult, in real time as they try to alert law enforcement authorities to its horrors. “Seduced,” in which the Oxenbergs are the central characters, is a study of the coercive techniques used by cults and delves deeply into the abuse that Nxivm visited on its female members.

I watched “The Vow” first because I played a part in its story. I learned about Nxivm from the two filmmakers, Jehane Noujaim and Karim Amer, who would go on to direct the show. The couple had previously made “The Square,” a well-received documentary about the Arab Spring, and we met in 2016 when they approached me about making a documentary based on a book I had written about a former FBI agent, Robert A. Levinson, who disappeared in Iran.

In mid-2017, they sent me urgent text messages asking if I was willing to speak with some people in grave danger. They put me in touch with Mark Vicente, a top lieutenant to Raniere, who had just left Nxivm after learning about the branding of women. Vicente then connected me with Catherine Oxenberg and several Nxivm defectors including his wife, Bonnie Piesse, Sarah Edmondson, a Canadian actress, and her husband.

They all provided me with critical information contained in the Times exposé of Nxivm and appear in the article. But back when I started reporting the story, I soon discovered that the tip from Noujaim and Amer hadn’t been random. They were already following the experiences of the defectors with an eye toward making a documentary, and were apparently hopeful that I would be a character in it; namely, the intrepid reporter. They said they often had a journalist figure in their films. I told them that wasn’t happening with me.

There is no question in my mind that Catherine Oxenberg and the defectors featured in “The Vow” were among the heroes who brought down Nxivm. And “The Vow” captures their anxieties and fears as they face threats of legal reprisals from the group and rejection by former friends who remain loyal to Raniere.

But while the documentary’s vérité style offers intimacy, several defectors in the show are Hollywood types comfortable around a camera and seem at times to be playing to it. Also, in my first encounters with the film’s characters, they stuck me as messier — and in turn, more interesting — than how they appear in “The Vow.”

For instance, Vicente and Edmondson insisted during our first talks that Nxivm wasn’t a cult but a self-improvement group that had somehow gone off the rails. And Vicente, a filmmaker who shot much of footage chronicling Raniere’s reign that animates “The Vow,” told me that he still wanted to promote a movie he had made that glorified Raniere’s activities in Mexico. I told him I thought he was nuts.

The first season of “The Vow” also omits a piece of context about Vicente: Before joining Nxivm, he had been a devotee of another cult. One of the show’s directors, Amer, said the issue will figure into one of several additional episodes of “The Vow” that will run on HBO next year. Those episodes will continue the show’s chronological approach and focus on Raniere’s trial and information disclosed during it, he said.

I came to “Seduced,” with fresher eyes, though I was aware of some behind-the-scenes friction and competition between the shows. Initially, Catherine Oxenberg only took part in “The Vow,” and India had no interest in talking about her experiences in Nxivm.

I never spoke with India while reporting on Nxivm. Back then, she was lost in the cult, and federal prosecutors might have indicted her along with other Raniere followers but for the relentless efforts of her mother. So I was surprised when I saw her positioned as the main character in “Seduced” — she comes across as sane and chastised, a tribute to the healing powers of cult deprogramming for those who can afford it.

(Close watchers of the shows will notice that they only see India in “The Vow” in archival footage. The same is true for the appearances of Vicente and Edmondson in “Seduced.”)

Overall, I would give “Seduced,” which was created by Cecilia Peck and Inbal B. Lessner, the higher marks for clarity and brevity. The show’s immediate portrayal of Raniere as an embodiment of misogynistic evil matched my impressions, and it quickly demolishes the delusion that Nxivm was successful. (The cult was financially propped up by two of its adherents, Clare and Sara Bronfman, heirs to the Seagram liquor fortune.) The show, however, struck me as a little too heavy on self-described “cult experts” and talking heads (which I guess includes me).

Critics have lauded both documentaries for highlighting how cults prey on the vulnerable. But cults don’t exist in isolation, and neither show explored an area I had often wondered about: the ranks of enablers outside Nxivm — lawyers, public officials and others — who had unwittingly or otherwise shielded the group.

Soon after watching the shows, my wife and I were walking at dusk along a lovely country road when my cellphone rang and “Danielle Roberts” appeared on the caller ID. At first, the name didn’t ring a bell. Then, I remembered that she was the physician and Nxivm member described in my first article about the cult as having used a cauterizing device to brand women.

Roberts had dodged my calls when I was working on the story. Now, she was calling me on the eve of Raniere’s sentencing. She and other of the cult leader’s remaining followers had proof, she said, that prosecutors had manufactured evidence against him. Roberts wanted me to immediately write an article for The Times about this supposed miscarriage of justice. I told her that I had retired from the newspaper and passed her along to a former colleague.

The next day, Raniere was sentenced to spend the rest of his life in prison. That’s a long time and, during the duration, I hope to never hear about Nxivm again.





No.30 article:
Debra White Plume, Defender of Her Tribe, Is Dead at 66

She championed the rights of the Oglala Lakota in South Dakota and was a leader in protests at Wounded Knee and oil pipeline sites.

Debra White Plume, a prominent Native American activist who faced down police bullets, uranium mining companies and oil pipeline projects in trying to protect the traditional Oglala Lakota way of life, died on Nov. 10 in Rapid City, S.D. She was 66.

The cause was cancer, which was found in her lungs and abdomen, according to her husband, Alex White Plume.

In 1973, Ms. White Plume was among the first people to join the American Indian Movement’s occupation of Wounded Knee, on the Pine Ridge Reservation in southwest South Dakota, over demands that the U.S. government respect its treaties with Indigenous tribes from the 19th and early 20th centuries.

The police surrounded the town — the site of an 1890 massacre by U.S. cavalry troops — and a 71-day standoff ensued. Both sides traded fire almost nightly, leaving two Native Americans dead and one federal agent paralyzed by a gunshot.

“It was a moment in time — there was the women’s movement, there was the civil rights movement, there was the Vietnam War stuff going on, and we just said, ‘That’s enough for us, too. We’re not going to take this anymore,’” Ms. White Plume said in a videotaped interview in 2016 with the independent news organization Democracy Now!

But little changed. Today some 20,000 Oglala Lakota eke out a hardscrabble existence on the reservation. Unemployment hovers at about 85 percent, alcoholism is rampant, life expectancy is 30 years below the national average, and treaty rights are routinely ignored.

Those conditions prompted Ms. White Plume, in 1999, to help found Owe Aku (Bring Back the Way), an advocacy group dedicated to cultural preservation and the protection of Lakota treaty rights through nonviolent direct action. She became its executive director and held that title at her death.

Ms. White Plume came to see that the biggest challenge facing Native Americans was in protecting their water supply. She and others feared that uranium mining, just outside the reservation, could contaminate water with radioactivity and chemicals like arsenic, used in the extraction process. And they saw two major oil pipelines in the works — the Keystone XL and the Dakota Access — as threatening not only ancestral burial sites but also aquifers.

In 2015, Ms. White Plume was the lead plaintiff in a still unresolved lawsuit to stop the giant uranium mining company Cameco from expanding its operations at Crow Butte, a sacred site across the Nebraska border and within Lakota treaty territories. (The company has suspended its mining there.) And she had a leading role in promoting nonviolent direct action to protest the oil pipelines.

In 2011 she was arrested outside the White House in Washington during a protest over the Keystone project, a 1,200-mile pipeline that would extend from Alberta, Canada, to Nebraska.

In 2016, at the Standing Rock Reservation, which straddles North Dakota and South Dakota, she helped establish camps for thousands of occupying protesters who for months had gathered to stop the completion of the 1,172-mile-long Dakota Access Pipeline.

“I’m Lakota, I’m a woman, and water is the domain of the women in our nation,” Ms. White Plume said in a video interview at Standing Rock. “And so it’s our privilege and our obligation to protect water.” She added, “If somebody wants to label me, I guess it would be water protector.”

Debra Richard — her Lakota name was Wioweya Najin Win — was born on the Pine Ridge reservation on Aug. 20, 1954. Her father, John Baptiste Reshaw, held a variety of jobs. Her mother, Bernice Ione (Swallow) Stone, who was from the Cheyenne tribe, helped run a shelter for battered women.

As a youth, Ms. White Plume traveled to California under the Indian Relocation Act of 1956, which encouraged Native Americans to leave their traditional lands and assimilate in urban areas. She attended high school in San Jose for a time but eventually returned to Pine Ridge, where she graduated from Red Cloud High School and Oglala Lakota College.

The years following the Wounded Knee occupation were a violent time on the reservation, with infighting among its residents and clashes with the police. In the late 1970s, Ms. White Plume, along with her mother and one of her brothers, came under fire outside her home. She suffered a graze wound on her arm, and the others’ wounds were not life-threatening. They never found out who shot them but suspected that the attackers were undercover police officers.

She married Alex White Plume in 1988, and the couple settled down in a modest house along the banks of Wounded Knee Creek. There they reared their nine children and raised horses and a small herd of buffalo, which they kept for spiritual and cultural purposes.

The White Plumes gained news media attention in 1998 for planting industrial hemp, one of the few crops that could grow on the reservation, without Drug Enforcement Administration approval. (The crop is a species of cannabis.) Mr. White Plume reasoned that because the reservation was sovereign Lakota territory, federal laws prohibiting hemp farming did not apply. The courts, however, disagreed and ordered the plants destroyed. (Congress legalized production in 2018.)

Ms. White Plume appears briefly in the Michael Apted documentary “Incident at Oglala” (1992), about the murders of two F.B.I. agents in 1975 and the conviction of the Native American activist Leonard Peltier in the killings. And she is featured in the documentaries “Standing Silent Nation” (2006), about hemp farming, and “Crying Earth Rise Up” (2015), about the dangers of uranium mining.

In addition to her husband, Ms. White Plume is survived by their children — Johnny Joe White Plume, Lance Martin, Wacinhin Ska Win Rosebud White Plume, Jessica White Plume, Wiwang Waci Win Camp, Vic Camp, Posh Camp, Dallas White Plume and Sam Tall — as well as many grandchildren.

She dedicated her last years to Ama’s Freedom School, which she founded. A school without walls, it teaches traditional Lakota culture outside the regular school system. (Ama means memory in the Lakota language.)

If Ms. White Plume had mellowed over the years, it was only a little, and her objectives remained the same. Speaking during the Standing Rock protests, she said:

“I fought with cops before. I’ve been shot at by police. I’ve been shot by police. We got it on with police on Pine Ridge back in the day, so I understand that rage. But when we’re together to protect sacred water, let’s do it with dignity, let’s do it with training, let’s do it with unity.”





No.31 article:
Hong Kong’s Courts Are Still Independent. Some Want to Rein Them In.

The judiciary is crucial to the city’s status as a global hub for trade and finance. But the Chinese Communist Party has been gaining more authority over it.

HONG KONG — They were arrested on one of the most violent days in Hong Kong last year, when protesters threw firebombs at the main government offices and set a barrier aflame outside Police Headquarters. But last month, a judge quickly dismantled the prosecutors’ case against them.

In his ruling, District Judge Sham Siu-man said that police officers had given unreliable testimony, and that they appeared to have gone against their training by using batons to subdue one protester. He found all eight defendants not guilty, saying one had merely been asking the police to do their job when she used a loudspeaker to urge restraint.

The next day, a Chinese government-owned newspaper in Hong Kong splashed a photo of the judge, wearing his court wig and robes, on its front page beside images of protesters and burning barriers. “Strange opinion issued by the court,” the headline read. The judge, it continued, says the protesters “were actually the ones wronged.”

As the Chinese Communist Party extends its grip over Hong Kong, pro-Beijing forces are increasingly targeting the city’s independent judiciary, an institution that forms the backbone of this global center for commerce and capital.

State newspapers have railed for months against “yellow judges” seen as lenient toward protesters. (The color yellow is a symbol of the protest movement.) Party officials have called for an overhaul of the courts to rein in judges’ autonomy. The city’s leadership has exerted more influence over the selection of judges.

“It would be naïve for anyone to think they will leave the judiciary alone. Why would they?” said Dennis Kwok, who represented Hong Kong’s legal sector in the local legislature until he was removed from office this month. “They want to get their hands on everything.”

The far-reaching national security law that Beijing passed this summer gives the state even more authority over the Hong Kong judiciary. China’s legislature also bypassed the local courts to force the ouster of four lawmakers in November, exercising new powers that some lawyers and legal scholars worry could be turned against judges.

The Hong Kong judiciary, with its British-born, 170-year-old tradition of robes, wigs and independence, is at the heart of an existential fight over the territory’s future.

Hong Kong’s courts firmly divide the city from mainland China, where the opaque legal system is under the control of the Communist Party. The city’s underlying rule of law has helped attract droves of multinational corporations, bringing a flood of money that has made Hong Kong one of the world’s leading cities.

The judicial system’s integrity is fiercely defended in Hong Kong. The demonstrations that engulfed the city last year began over a proposal that many saw as potentially undermining the local courts, by allowing extraditions to mainland China.

In addition to imposing the national security law, Communist Party officials and state newspapers in the city are pushing for still more control. In a continuing series, Ta Kung Pao, a newspaper owned by the Chinese government’s liaison office in Hong Kong, has demanded that judges be patriotic. It has called for establishing a council to set the length of sentences, an external panel to handle complaints about judges and greater scrutiny over the judicial selection process.

“Beijing understands that this is an area that people will be very sensitive to and the international community will be watching over,” said Eric Cheung, a legal scholar at the University of Hong Kong. “Beijing may not want to be seen as interfering with judicial independence, but I think it is very clear some Beijing officials are not happy with some decisions made by our judges.”

Even before the protests and the security law, Beijing had significant judicial oversight. When China reclaimed Hong Kong from Britain in 1997, the ultimate authority for interpretation of its laws moved to Beijing.

The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, China’s rubber-stamp legislature, has the power to interpret the Basic Law, Hong Kong’s local constitution. Several of its rulings have gone against the city’s pro-democracy camp. The committee’s interpretation of oath-taking in 2016 paved the way for the removal of six pro-democracy lawmakers who had protested during their swearing-in ceremonies.

The security law has further constricted the city’s courts. It allows for some cases, such as those involving foreign forces or imminent threats, to be tried on the mainland. Under the law, Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief executive, will designate judges for trials on national security charges.

Hong Kong’s Department of Justice recently pressed beyond the scope of the law, asking that a judge authorized to hear national security matters handle the trial of Tam Tak-chi, an activist charged with sedition and unauthorized assembly. Those charges do not fall under the security law.

Britain is considering whether to bar its judges from serving in Hong Kong. Foreign judges serve temporary roles on the Court of Final Appeal so the city can maintain ties to common-law countries.

Both the pro-Beijing and pro-democracy camps have found fault with the courts over protest cases — perhaps signaling that the judiciary remains an impartial institution, with a range of outlooks among judges.

A High Court judge was criticized by pro-Beijing figures for ruling this month  that the riot police had not been carrying sufficient identification and that mechanisms for dealing with complaints of police mistreatment needed to be improved. The Hong Kong Journalists Association had filed the suit over the police’s handling of reporters during protests.

Some judges have been lambasted by the opposition for giving tough sentences to demonstrators, or for appearing to sympathize with people who attacked protesters. After a district judge compared the protest movement to terrorism in an April ruling, Geoffrey Ma, the chief justice of the Court of Final Appeal, barred him from future cases related to the political upheaval.

The criticism of judges, from both sides, has grown so frequent this year that Justice Ma issued a lengthy defense of the judiciary’s independence.

“It is wrong to make serious accusations of bias or breach of fundamental principles merely based on a result of a case not to one’s liking,” he wrote in September. “The judiciary is not above criticism by any means but any criticism must be solidly based and properly made. In particular, there must not be a politicization of the judiciary and its functions.”

So far, the protest cases that have been prosecuted do not indicate that the courts lean strongly to one side or another.

Of 10,148 people arrested in the protests, 2,325 have been prosecuted for crimes such as rioting, unlawful assembly or assault. As of the end of October, 372 had been convicted and 77 acquitted, according to Hong Kong police records.

Rioting, in particular, has been a tough charge to prove. Among the protest-related rioting cases that had been prosecuted as of the end of October, there were four guilty pleas, one conviction and 12 acquittals, according to an analysis in Stand News, a local online publication.

As the demonstrations heated up last year, the police used increasingly aggressive tactics, charging into crowds and grabbing stragglers. But in court, the authorities have struggled to explain why defendants were targeted and to provide evidence of their wrongdoing.

Judge Sham, in his ruling last month, wrote that the police might have been responding out of anger when they arrested Jackie Chen, a social worker charged with rioting. Ms. Chen had held a small loudspeaker during the protest and urged the police to let people leave peacefully.

“Someone stood up and reminded them to act according to the law,” Judge Sham wrote. “This might make some police officers feel unhappy, but if the person is charged with rioting, I can’t see how the person would become a rioter.”

The government is appealing the acquittals in that case.

Ms. Chen says she is frustrated by the process and contends that the government’s apparently unending pursuit of such cases undermines the legal system. But she added that her initial victory gave her some solace.

“Everyone still has one ray of hope: that you face a normal judge in court, and hope that you would not be found guilty,” she said. “But even if you are not found guilty, you could expect that decision to be appealed. Then you hope that the appeal wouldn’t succeed.”





No.32 article:
Nike and Coca-Cola Lobby Against Xinjiang Forced Labor Bill

Business groups and major companies like Apple have been pressing Congress to alter legislation cracking down on imports of goods made with forced labor from persecuted Muslim minorities in China.

WASHINGTON — Nike and Coca-Cola are among the major companies and business groups lobbying Congress to weaken a bill that would ban imported goods made with forced labor in China’s Xinjiang region, according to congressional staff members and other people familiar with the matter, as well as lobbying records that show vast spending on the legislation.

The bill, which would prohibit broad categories of certain goods made by persecuted Muslim minorities in an effort to crack down on human rights abuses, has gained bipartisan support, passing the House in September by a margin of 406 to 3. Congressional aides say it has the backing to pass the Senate, and could be signed into law by either the Trump administration or the incoming Biden administration.

But the legislation, called the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, has become the target of multinational companies including Apple whose supply chains touch the far western Xinjiang region, as well as of business groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Lobbyists have fought to water down some of its provisions, arguing that while they strongly condemn forced labor and current atrocities in Xinjiang, the act’s ambitious requirements could wreak havoc on supply chains that are deeply embedded in China.

Xinjiang produces vast amounts of raw materials like cotton, coal, sugar, tomatoes and polysilicon, and supplies workers for China’s apparel and footwear factories. Human rights groups and news reports have linked many multinational companies to suppliers there, including tying Coca-Cola to sugar sourced from Xinjiang, and documenting Uighur workers in a factory in Qingdao that makes Nike shoes.

In a report issued in March, the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, a bipartisan group of lawmakers, listed Nike and Coca-Cola as companies suspected of ties to forced labor in Xinjiang, alongside Adidas, Calvin Klein, Campbell Soup Company, Costco, H&amp;M, Patagonia, Tommy Hilfiger and others.

In a statement, Coca-Cola said that it “strictly prohibits any type of forced labor in our supply chain” and uses third-party auditors to closely monitor its suppliers. It also said that the COFCO Tunhe facility in Xinjiang, which supplies sugar to a local bottling facility and had been linked to allegations of forced labor by The Wall Street Journal and Chinese-language news media, “successfully completed an audit in 2019.”

Greg Rossiter, the director of global communications at Nike, said the company “did not lobby against” the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act but instead had “constructive discussions” with congressional staff aides aimed at eliminating forced labor and protecting human rights.

Asked about the allegations of forced labor, Nike referred to a statement in March in which it said that it did not source products from Xinjiang and that it had confirmed that its suppliers were not using textiles or yarn from the region.

Nike said that the Qingdao factory had stopped hiring new workers from Xinjiang in 2019, and that an independent audit confirmed there were no longer employees from there at the facility. (According to a report published in March by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute that cited state media, the factory employed around 800 Uighur workers at the end of 2019 and produced more than seven million pairs of shoes for Nike each year.)

China’s vast campaign of suppressing and forcibly assimilating Uighurs and other minorities in Xinjiang has attracted the scorn of politicians and consumers around the world.

But for many companies, fully investigating and eliminating any potential ties to forced labor there has been difficult, given the opacity of Chinese supply chains and the limited access of auditors to a region where the Chinese government tightly restricts people’s movements.

The Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act would require companies sending goods to the United States to scrutinize those supply chains, or perhaps abandon Chinese suppliers altogether. It would impose high standards, barring imports of goods made “in whole or in part” in Xinjiang unless companies prove to customs officials that their products were not made with forced labor.

The bill also targets so-called poverty alleviation and pairing programs that ship Muslims from impoverished areas to work in factories elsewhere, which human rights groups say are often coercive. Companies would be required to disclose information on their ties to Xinjiang to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Richard A. Mojica, a lawyer at Miller &amp; Chevalier, said that for many companies, convincing the authorities that they have no involvement with forced labor could take months. Firms were already responding by trying to find sources for products outside Xinjiang, he said.

“Rebutting a presumption of forced labor is going to be a very challenging endeavor,” he said.

Companies and groups lobbying on the bill have been pushing for various revisions, including easing disclosure requirements, people familiar with the conversations said.

Apple, which has extensive business ties to China, has also lobbied to limit some provisions of the bill, said two congressional staff members and another person familiar with the matter.

Disclosure forms show that Apple paid Fierce Government Relations, a firm led by former staff aides to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and President George W. Bush, $90,000 to lobby on issues including Xinjiang-related legislation in the third quarter. Apple’s lobbying was previously reported by The Washington Post.

Apple also paid outside firms this year to lobby on another bill, the Uyghur Forced Labor Disclosure Act of 2020.

Apple disputed the claim that it had tried to weaken the legislation, saying it supported efforts to strengthen American regulations and believes the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act should become law.

According to a document viewed by The New York Times, Apple’s suggested edits to the bill included extending some deadlines for compliance, releasing certain information about supply chains to congressional committees rather than to the public, and requiring Chinese entities to be “designated by the United States government” as helping to surveil or detain Muslim minority groups in Xinjiang.

In its March report, the Australian Strategic Policy Institute identified Apple and Nike among 82 companies that potentially benefited, directly or indirectly, from abusive labor transfer programs tied to Xinjiang.

That report said that O-Film Technology, a contractor for Apple, Microsoft, Google and other companies, received at least 700 Uighur workers in a program that was expected to “gradually alter their ideology.” It tied other Apple suppliers, including Foxconn Technology, to similar employment programs.

Apple said in a statement that it had the strongest supplier code of conduct in its industry and that it regularly assessed suppliers, including with surprise audits.

“Looking for the presence of forced labor is part of every supplier assessment we conduct and any violations of our policies carry immediate consequences, including business termination,” the statement said. “Earlier this year, we conducted a detailed investigation with our suppliers in China and found no evidence of forced labor on Apple production lines and we are continuing to monitor this closely.”

Lobbying disclosures show that companies have spent heavily to sway Congress on Xinjiang-related legislation, though they reveal nothing about their specific requests.

In the first three quarters of 2020, Nike spent $920,000 on in-house lobbying of Congress and other federal agencies. Disclosures do not break down expenditures by topic, but show Nike lobbied on matters including physical education grants, taxes and climate change, as well as the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act.

Nike also paid outside firms like Cornerstone Government Affairs, Ogilvy, Capitol Counsel, GrayRobinson, American Continental Group, DiNino Associates and Empire Consulting Group more than $400,000 this year to lobby on issues including the act.

Mr. Rossiter said that Nike had these firms on retainer long before the Xinjiang legislation was introduced, and that the company actively worked with lobbying firms to engage Congress on a variety of subjects it cares about.

Coca-Cola has also invested heavily, spending $4.68 million in the first three quarters of 2020 on in-house lobbying and hiring Empire Consulting Group and Sidley Austin to lobby on issues including the act.

Coca-Cola said in a statement that it complies with all laws associated with its political activities and has “adopted best-in-class disclosures practices.”

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce declined to comment on lobbying, instead providing a letter it sent to Congress in November with seven other industry groups. The letter said the groups had long been working to combat forced labor, and urged the government to take a comprehensive approach that would mobilize the administration, Congress and foreign governments to address the problem, in addition to industry.





No.33 article:
Amanda Seyfried Finally Stakes Her Claim

The goats didn’t want to go out in the morning, Amanda Seyfried said. There was one in particular that was giving her trouble, the one Seyfried described as the “God-knows-how-big-she-is goat.” This one was spoiling for a fight. This one could not be moved.

So what did Seyfried do? She got in that goat shed, planted her feet and pushed.

The goat pushed back, of course. That’s the thing about goats: They’re stubborn. They also have horns, and Amanda Seyfried, a 34-year-old actress, does not.

It was frustrating. It was exhausting. It was also, Seyfried hastened to add, completely awesome.

And that’s one of the primary reasons Seyfried lives on a farm in the Catskills instead of in some overpriced condo on the Sunset Strip: A morning tussle with your goats has the ability to put just about everything else into perspective. “It’s insane how much I can feel so accomplished and successful here without having to be in a successful movie,” she said.

Seyfried shares the farm with several chickens, horses of wildly varying sizes, a donkey named Gus, those goats, her actor husband, Thomas Sadoski, and their two children. That last bit somehow proved the most surprising: During a week of conversations over Zoom, Seyfried wore no makeup and looked scarcely older than the breathy ditz she played in “Mean Girls” (2004) or the singing bride from “Mamma Mia!” (2008). But she is a mother now, a farmer and, for the first time in her career, a significant Oscar contender.

In Netflix’s new drama “Mank,” directed by David Fincher and due Friday on Netflix, Seyfried plays Marion Davies, the 1920s and ’30s screen star better known today as the mistress of the newspaper magnate William Randolph Hearst. It’s a relationship that would be fictionalized for Orson Welles’s roman à clef “Citizen Kane,” and “Mank” chronicles that process, as the screenwriter Herman Mankiewicz (Gary Oldman) reminisces about the years he spent partying at Hearst’s San Simeon estate, a glittery Shangri-La where Davies became a confidante with whom he could share gossip and gin.

Seyfried has just a handful of scenes in “Mank,” but she still walks away with the movie, playing Davies as gratifyingly sly and self-aware, a brassy, no-airs girl from Brooklyn who has been plopped into a castle by Hearst and is determined to make the most of it. Davies throws parties, drinks too much and often says the wrong thing, but when you say the wrong thing in upper-crust circles, it just means you’ve told some wealthy men the truth, and the girl can’t help it.

When Marion’s not onscreen, you wish she was, but Seyfried is not used to being deemed the standout: When reading the rave reviews for “First Reformed” (2018), in which she played a pregnant widow beseeching Ethan Hawke’s conflicted pastor, Seyfried was happy just to get an honorable mention. She has found that most of the time when critics name her, it’s in a parenthetical telling you who played the daughter or the girlfriend. “Skating through like that has been my experience, mostly,” she said.

This sort of disarming frankness comes naturally to Seyfried, whose big blue eyes get even wider when she reminisces about making “Mank” but narrow slightly whenever she makes a self-assessment. She can’t help but wonder if directors wrote her off after mainstream romantic dramas like “Dear John” or “Letters to Juliet” (both from 2010), and she often derides herself as “lazy” for playing a version of herself in those movies. It’s important to Seyfried that an audience likes her; she is working on liking herself.

Despite her fair share of hits, Seyfried was still shocked when she ran into Quentin Tarantino at the airport recently and he knew who she was. “Keep your expectations low,” she told me, “and you’ll be pleasantly surprised.” Last fall, when her agent relayed that Fincher had her in mind for “Mank,” Seyfried’s eyes filled with tears. “It’s really nice to be respected by somebody that you think is just a one-of-a-kind master of his domain,” she said.

In a phone interview, Fincher compared Seyfried to Cameron Diaz — a mainstream comedienne who was always capable of giving more, even if she was rarely asked for it.

“We all knew that Amanda was luminescent, we all knew that she was effervescent, we all knew that she was funny,” he said. “We all knew that she understood how to parse or set up a joke, and we all knew that she could be moving. I think the thing that was ultimately surprising was the mercurial nature of how quickly she could scramble through those things, because it gives Marion this whole other dimension.”

Fincher is famous for shooting dozens upon dozens of takes, a process that can frustrate movie stars who are used to nailing their lines and moving on. Seyfried found his method to be a dream. She wasn’t rushed, she wasn’t discounted. Finally, she had the space to see what she was made of. “It was my turn,” she said. “It was me.”

WHAT MADE SEYFRIED pursue acting in the first place? “I’m still sorting this out with my therapist,” she said. But she sees a lot of herself in her 3-year-old daughter, Nina, who is creative, quick to express herself and eager for affirmation. Becoming a mother has often prodded Seyfried to look back on the arc of her own life, and from her vantage point in the Catskills, things play a little differently now.

After a pleasant childhood in Allentown, Pa., where her film-buff father got Seyfried hooked on Laurel and Hardy comedies and classics like “Nosferatu,” she spent her teenage years commuting to New York City to film episodes of the soap operas “As the World Turns” and “All My Children.” Some actresses take forever to land their first breakthrough credit. Seyfried’s first movie was “Mean Girls.”

That’s a pretty heady beginning for someone who’s still trying to figure herself out. All Seyfried knew back then is that she loved the attention, loved earning a laugh, and loved making people feel something. And when she was young, she was eager to use all of herself in every role.

Maybe that’s why she was successful so early. Blessed with those big eyes and an intimate, immediate connection with the camera, it wasn’t hard for Seyfried to convince you she was feeling something: She really, really was. “I don’t think I’ve ever unpacked what that did to me emotionally,” she said.

Her tendency to burn brightly and her lifelong eagerness to please has sometimes made her an easy mark, she knows now. “If you don’t have boundaries, then you’re screwed in this industry,” she said. “That is a scary place for a young person, somebody who doesn’t have a backbone — which was me. And I paid for it.”

She recalled a job she booked when she was still a teenager, where the director asked her to appear nearly nude onscreen. Without anyone else on set to advocate for her, she reluctantly agreed to take her clothes off.

“I have been put in very insane positions,” she said. “I was walking around with no underpants on and a T-shirt, and I didn’t want to be, yet I didn’t feel like I had any power to say, ‘No, this makes me uncomfortable.’” (She wouldn’t name the project.)

That’s part of why at 22, Seyfried began looking at houses outside Hollywood. As her career kept heating up, she needed to her draw her own boundaries, to remind herself that a set is not home, that home is home. Seven years ago, coming off roles in “Les Misérables” and “Lovelace,” she finally happened across the farm in the Catskills and knew it was what she had long been searching for.

Her business manager demurred, but Seyfried put her foot down: “I was like, ‘No, Mark! I’m telling you, this is where I’m going to die.’”

Later, she met, married and moved in Sadoski, and children would eventually be added to the farm’s menagerie, including a son born in September. Spending the last few years in the Catskills has “solidified my need to be out of the game when I’m not working, to be in nature and to refresh,” Seyfried said. “Everybody needs a center of gravity. Somewhere to feel safe.”

Safety is a priority for Seyfried, and she wants it to be a priority for Hollywood, too. She was reminded of this over the summer during a contentious vote to ratify the new Screen Actors Guild contract. “There was a lot of infighting, and it was really hard to know where I stood,” she said. Ultimately, Seyfried voted no, because she felt the contract didn’t do enough to protect actors who are shooting intimate scenes: “I just feel like really, this industry is not as safe as it wants to be.”

Ten years ago, Seyfried might have been too afraid to go against the grain, especially because her fellow actors still voted overwhelmingly to ratify the contract. But it can be a good thing to take a righteous stand: It means you know yourself and your own priorities, and finally, Seyfried thinks she does. No matter how her “Mank” performance fares this awards season, all the time she has spent on her farm this year has given Seyfried the ability to see these things much more clearly.

“This movie is definitely the best opportunity I’ve had in my career, and it is absolutely shifting my career for the better,” she said. “But without it, I was just as happy, because I’ve made space for myself to feel accomplished in my own world.”

Later, Seyfried would text me a photo from the shed where she’d had her morning clash. I could see most of her goats milling around in the distance, but one had gotten right up in the lens, defiantly staring the camera down with wide-set eyes. It looked stubborn as hell. It looked like it wouldn’t be easily led. And I knew why Amanda Seyfried had loved the fight.




No.1 article:
Brazil records 287 new Covid deaths – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Here’s a summary of the latest developments, as Monday draws to a close.

Serbia is to start tests of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, as it continues talks with Pfizer about purchasing the jab.

Laboratories will get 20 doses this week for testing, according to a statement from the country’s prime minister, Ana Brnabić.

Russia has said interim trial results show the vaccine is 92% effective at protecting people from Covid-19. Before Serbia adopts any vaccine, it must be approved by its medicines and medical devices agency. So far, 1,604 people have died amid 175,438 cases in the Balkan country.

Here’s Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus addressing a press briefing earlier, where he said the festive period was “no time for complacency” over Covid.

Mexico is in a “bad shape” as coronavirus cases and deaths surge, according to the head of the World Health Organization. 

The country’s death rally is now more than 105,500 and confirmed cases have passed 1.1 million. Public health experts believe it is likely to be significantly higher.

The number of weekly deaths has risen from 2,000 in the week beginning 12 October, to 4,000 by last week. At least seven of Mexico City’s 54 public hospitals are at capacity for Covid-19 beds and respirators.

WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a press conference in Geneva: “The number of increase in cases and deaths in Mexico is very worrisome. This shows Mexico is in [a] bad shape.”

A hairdressers in northern England has been ordered to close by the courts, after repeatedly opening during the latest lockdown.

Sinead Quinn, owner of Quinn Blakey Hairdressing near Bradford, has already been fined £17,000 for trading during November’s restrictions. 

When approached by officials from Kirklees Council, she quoted the 13th century Magna Carta, one of Britain’s key constitutional documents, saying the Covid laws didn’t apply to her.

Brazil’s health ministry has confirmed 21,138 new cases of Covid-19 and 287 deaths.

Covid-19 has killed more than 170,000 people in the country, the world’s second-highest death toll behind only the US. Cases are rising again after a brief hiatus.

Earlier on Monday, the World Health Organization urged its government to be “very, very serious” about its rising coronavirus infection numbers, which director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus described as “very, very worrisome”.

Opec will hold a second day of talks on Tuesday, as the oil producers’ club hopes to reach an agreement over cuts to production.

Demand has been affected by the pandemic, with the current Opec president, Abdelmadjid Attar, saying it had caused “immense challenges”.

The 13 member states are hoping to keep the crude oil market afloat. They agreed to a cut of 7.7m barrels in April, but the reduction is expected to be extended for another six months.

Eurozone finance ministers have agreed to move ahead with changes to the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) fund, amid fears of future economic uncertainty due to Covid-19.

The IMF had already warned that governments and the ECB may need to provide more support than initially expected because of the second wave of Covid-19. The fund was set up to help member states in financial difficulty, 

However German finance minister Olaf Scholz said: “The ESM reform strengthens the euro and the entire European banking sector because we are making the eurozone even more robust against attacks by speculators.”

Fans at the Autumn Nations Cup game between England and France this weekend will go thirsty, as the Rugby Football Union is keeping Twickenham’s bars shut.

The fixture will see 2,000 fans attend, the first time any supporters have been able to attend a match at England’s home ground since March. The RFU has decided alcohol will only be available “in restaurant style facilities and be served to the table with a substantial meal”, in line with government regulations on hospitality venues in England.

Ratings agency Moody’s has said that most countries still face a “significant negative shock” from the pandemic, and that vaccine trials have not caused it to change its forecasts.

“Most (sovereigns) face a significant economic loss, a marked increase in their debt burden, and some, in particular emerging markets, face a deterioration in debt affordability,” a top sovereign analyst at Moody’s told Reuters.

Moody’s said in October that the global recession caused by the pandemic has been far deeper than expected and has disproportionately affected emerging and frontier market nations. 

Labour will abstain in a vote on England’s new coronavirus tier system on Tuesday over a disagreement on support for the hospitality sector.

The party is understood to believe that government support must go further and will abstain in the vote on the tiers system, which is due to replace lockdown rules from Wednesday. The vote is still expected to pass. 

Spending time with friends and family at Christmas is “not worth putting them or yourself at risk”, according to the head of the World Health Organization.

Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the body’s director general, said people should consider whether travelling during the festive period is necessary. Urging “extreme caution”, he said that “gains can easily be lost”.

He said: “We all need to consider whose life we might be gambling with in the decisions we make. [The] Covid-19 pandemic will change the way we celebrate, but it doesn’t mean that we can’t celebrate. We still can celebrate.”

He warned that “this is no time for complacency,” despite last week seeing the first decline in newly reported cases globally since September. 

Colombia will keep its land and river borders closed until 16 January in an attempt to stem Covid’s spread.

The country has seen illegal crossings since it closed its borders in March, with many migrants returning home from Venezuela amid its social and economic crisis.

Its sea borders will reopen on Tuesday, the head of the country’s border agency, Juan Francisco Espinosa, said.





No.2 article:
Unilever New Zealand to trial four-day working week

Consumer goods company says all 81 employees will be paid for five days but work four in 12-month experiment

The consumer goods company Unilever is poised to try out a four-day working week for all its New Zealand employees.

Unilever said all 81 staff members at its offices across New Zealand would be able to participate in the trial, starting next week and running for 12 months until December next year. The employees would be paid for five days while working just four.

The Unilever New Zealand managing director, Nick Bangs, said the aim was to change the way work was done, not increase the working hours on four days.

“If we end up in a situation where the team is working four extended days then we miss the point of this,” he said. “We don’t want our team to have really long days, but to bring material change in the way they work.”

After 12 months Unilever will assess the outcome and look at how it could work for its 155,000 employees globally.

“It’s very much an experiment. We have made no commitments beyond 12 months and beyond New Zealand. But we think there will be some good learning we can gather in this time,” he said.

There is no manufacturing in New Zealand and all the staff are in sales, distribution and marketing.

A shorter working week has been debated for a while in New Zealand with estate planning firm Perpetual Guardian making headlines in 2019 for pioneering the idea with its 250 staff and declaring it had seen big productivity increases.

Perpetual Guardian’s founder, Andrew Barnes, said it had been a success. “For us this is about our company getting improved productivity from greater workplace efficiencies … there’s no downside for us,” he said.

The idea gained momentum this year when the prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, encouraged firms to look at four-day weeks to offer flexibility to employees amid the coronavirus pandemic. She also said it may help boost domestic tourism while international borders remained shut.

“When the prime minister talked about it in the context of what the future of work would look like, that was encouragement for us,” Bangs said.

The New Zealand government has not yet adopted the idea itself.





No.3 article:
He advised people to consider not travelling during the next few months, and urged 'extreme caution' despite last week seeing the first decline in newly reported cases globally since September, saying these gains could easily be lost





No.4 article:
Starmer has decided to break with the government in a vote on Covid restrictions for the first time, but will not vote against the restrictions adding that this would 'not be in the interest of the country'.

Tuesday’s Commons vote on the tiers system is due to replace lockdown rules from Wednesday and put 99% of the country into tiers 2 and 3. The vote is still expected to pass





No.5 article:
Keir Starmer decides to withdraw backing for PM’s coronavirus restrictions

Keir Starmer has decided to break with the government in a vote on Covid restrictions for the first time, while the government is scrambling to contain a Tory rebellion by unveiling a multimillion-pound fund for pubs.

The prime minister is to announce new one-off discretionary funding paid to councils for “wet” pubs and bars which cannot open under the strictest new tier restrictions for England, the Guardian understands.

But Labour is understood to believe that support for the hospitality sector must go further, and will abstain in Tuesday’s Commons vote on the tiers system, which is due to replace lockdown rules from Wednesday and put 99% of the country into tiers 2 and 3. The vote is still expected to pass.

Though Boris Johnson will hope to win around some rebels with the new funding, lockdown-sceptic MPs were expressing anger on Monday night at the publication of an impact assessment of the economic and health costs of the stricter tier system.

The report threw down the gauntlet to Tory MPs, warning that letting the NHS be overwhelmed would be “intolerable for our society”, but concluded it was impossible to know whether the economic impact of the new tiers system would be greater than that of taking no action.

It was criticised by some MPs for being thin and repetitive. Mel Stride, the chair of the Treasury select committee, said he was deeply disappointed by the “rehashed” and “frustrating” analysis. There had been repeated calls for its publication.

Starmer’s move to whip Labour to abstain in Tuesday’s vote will prompt fears in Downing Street that Johnson can no longer count on the opposition’s support for coronavirus measures that have become deeply unpopular with his own MPs. On Monday, the environment secretary, George Eustice, acknowledged that up to 100 MPs could rebel.

Starmer will tell his MPs he does not believe Labour should directly oppose the measures because of the need to keep control of the virus. But he will say that, by abstaining, the party can signal that the financial support for hospitality businesses is inadequate.

Starmer, who met England’s chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, on Monday night, said coronavirus “remains a serious threat to the public’s health” and Labour accepted the need for continued restrictions. “However, I remain deeply concerned that Boris Johnson’s government has failed to use this latest lockdown to put a credible health and economic plan in place,” he said.

“We still don’t have a functioning testing system, public health messaging is confused, and businesses across the country are crying out for more effective economic support to get them through the winter months.

“It is short-term government incompetence that is causing long-term damage to the British economy. It is imperative that the government gets control of the virus so that our NHS can be protected and our economy recovers faster.” 

The Lib Dems also said they would refuse to back the new system, calling it “arbitrary, confused and chaotic”.

A No 10 spokesman said Labour were abstaining on one of the biggest challenges facing the country. He said: “Keir Starmer is playing politics in the middle of a global pandemic instead of working with the government to find a way through this difficult time for the British people. We will continue to engage, listen and work with MPs who have concerns.” 

Johnson and other cabinet ministers phoned rebellious Tory MPs on Monday, highlighting that the government had met many of the demands from the Covid Recovery Group of lockdown-sceptic MPs, including reopening retail and outdoor sports and publishing the impact assessment.

However, many remain concerned about the effect on hospitality in the run-up to Christmas, with nearly 99% of the country heading into tiers 2 or 3.

Under the new tier 3 measures, pubs, bars and restaurants must close entirely or function as takeaways. Under tier 2, indoor service must be restricted to meals within household groups, with separate households only allowed to meet for a meal outdoors. Alcohol can only be served with a substantial meal.

A government source said the new hospitality package would support pubs that could not open. “This is an additional pot of money for wet pubs, to acknowledge this is a busy time of year for them and they have been among the hardest hit by the restrictions,” the source said.

In its impact assessment of the new tier system, the government said the complexities of the spread of Covid and any actions to mitigate it meant it was “not possible to know” exactly what would happen in different circumstances, adding: “Any assessment of a given change to restrictions is therefore unavoidably only partial in nature.”

The 48-page document cited modelling by the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) from last week suggesting that the top tier of restrictions lasting to the spring would cause an 11.3% drop in real GDP over 2020.

Arguing that the new tiers were needed to get the R number below 1, the document noted that limited restrictions would “allow many people and businesses to operate as normal, if they chose to do so”.

It added: “On the other hand, more widespread infections and the consequences of pressure on the NHS would affect spending in the economy due to voluntary social distancing, effects to confidence and impacts on businesses, including through high levels of employee sickness.

“Given the unprecedented nature of both the virus and the restrictions that have been required to mitigate it, it is not possible to assess the balance of these effects.”

The Conservative Mark Harper, who chairs the Covid Recovery Group, said he was disappointed at the delay in publishing the data. MPs mulling whether to vote against the tiers plan would decide on Tuesday before the vote, he said.

He said: “Even with so little time, the government’s analysis seems to be collapsing under the glare of scrutiny.

“Before the current lockdown, incorrect death and hospital capacity modelling was leaked into the public domain to justify it. We asked for full details. We have asked repeatedly for the information that vindicates these hospital projections and they have not been forthcoming.

“We are now seeing that, once again, the wheels are coming off the government’s arguments.”

Stride said he had repeatedly requested more comprehensive analysis of the economic impact of restrictions. “With little over 24 hours until MPs vote on the new tiered system, this rehashed document offers very little further in economic terms other than that which the OBR published last week,” he said.

“It’s frustrating that there is little here that sets out how the different tiers might impact on the specific sectors and regions across the country. Those looking for additional economic analysis of the new tiered system will struggle to find it in this document.”

While Downing Street faces the task of persuading wavering Tory MPs to back its strengthened tier measures ahead of a Commons showdown, it has outlined the road ahead for Covid-19 restrictions. Here are some of the key dates

On Tuesday, MPs will vote on whether to approve the three-tier system replacing the national lockdown in England.

The current lockdown ends on Wednesday and the new strengthened tier system, if approved, comes into force with nearly 99% of England headed for the strictest two tiers. Only the Isle of Wight, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly are set to go into tier 1, with more than 32 million people in tier 2 and more than 23 million in the toughest tier 3.

In a letter to MPs on Saturday, the prime minister explained that the joint biosecurity centre and ministers will consider data weekly throughout the tiers period, while legislation requires a formal review of tiering allocations every fortnight. The first review point is 16 December, with new tier allocations announced the following day – decided by a cabinet committee chaired by the prime minister. They will come into effect on Saturday 19 December, Boris Johnson said.

For five days over Christmas there will be a UK-wide relaxation of rules to let up to three households form a 'bubble' so they can mix socially indoors and stay overnight to enjoy the festive period together. In Scotland, a maximum of eight people will be allowed but that does not include under-12s. In Northern Ireland, the window has been extended to 22-28 December to allow for additional travel time between countries.

Johnson has announced a “sunset” clause on the tiered restrictions, meaning they will expire on 3 February and require MPs’ approval if they are to be extended into March.

Torsten Bell, chief executive of the Resolution Foundation thinktank, said the analysis was “really strange” because it seemed the government did not want to make the economic argument for its own policy of imposing tiered restrictions. Bell said: “[There is a] clear case that allowing the virus to get our of control leads to more economic damage either from later/harder lockdown and/or total chaos. But they don’t say it.”

One MP argued the analysis was “thin” and unlikely to convince many colleagues, but said the Treasury support for businesses would be likely to have more of an impact.

Speaking at a press conference on Monday, Matt Hancock, the health secretary, said the UK now had the virus under control, but added: “While we can let up a little, we can’t afford to let up a lot.

“I would urge all MPs right across the house to vote for the tiered system. The tiered system has a lower set of restrictions than the national lockdown in all three tiers.”Gen Sir Gordon Messenger, the head of operations for the community testing programme, said that testing capabilities for all those in tier 3 restrictions would “sequence over time”.

“I don’t know how many of those 23 million [in tier 3] we’ll be able to reach, because planning is still very much under way. And as I said, the nature of this will vary from region to region and from area to area,” he said.





No.6 article:
Experts warn of coronavirus surge after widespread Thanksgiving travel

In New York, Governor Andrew Cuomo warned of “a problem in the hospitals … a serious situation”, and appealed for retired physicians to return to the frontlines.

The number of new cases reported in the US topped 200,000 for the first time on Friday, according to Johns Hopkins University. Since January, when the first US infections were reported, more than 13m cases have been recorded and more than 265,000 people have died.

There was some good news on Monday, as Moderna said it would apply for US authorisation to use its coronavirus vaccine. The company announced final results from its trial, which it said confirmed 94% efficacy.

Moderna’s data will be weighed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on 17 December. The company said it expected to have doses for 10 million people ready for the US by the end of December. Pfizer and BioNTech submitted an application for emergency use on 20 November.

The news came as the number of hospitalisations in the US reached a record high. According to the Covid Tracking Project, 93,238 patients were in hospital on Sunday, a steady climb from 47,531 at the start of November, straining workers and resources as winter approaches.

“Hospital capacity is the top concern,” Cuomo told reporters on Monday, after ordering all elective surgeries to cease in one county and urging hospitals statewide to ready plans to increase capacity by 50% or set up field hospitals.

In Rhode Island, hospitals reached Covid-19 capacity on Monday, the same day a two-week pause meant to control the rise in new cases took effect. A state alert to phones read: “Hospitals at capacity due to Covid. Help the front line by staying home as much as possible for the next two weeks.”

Under restrictions announced earlier in November by the Democratic governor, Gina Raimondo, some businesses will be required to shut down for two weeks while others are restricted.

Recreational businesses including bowling alleys, theaters and casinos, as well as indoor sporting facilities and gyms, must close. Bars and bar areas in restaurants are also required to close, while restaurants are limited to 33% indoor capacity. Residents are also asked to close their social circles to only people in their own household.

“This will not be easy but I am pleading with you to take it seriously,” Raimondo said. “Choosing to gather with those outside your household will have ripple effects that will increase the strain on our hospitals and put lives at risk.”

Raimondo did not rule out another shutdown.

In New Jersey, Governor Phil Murphy said he was re-tightening the limit on outdoor gatherings to 25 people, effective 7 December, with exceptions for funerals, memorials, weddings, religious and political activities such as protests. Murphy also said all indoor youth and adult sports will be put on hold from 5 December to 2 January, also with exemptions.

“As you start to make your holiday plans, please recognise that the gathering limits are back to what they were in May and June – when we all came together and crushed the curve as much as any state in the nation,” the Democrat wrote on Twitter, looking ahead to Christmas. “Keep gatherings as small as possible.”

In South Dakota, a Republican-run state which has seen surging case numbers, the Rapid City council was set to consider a mask mandate. One ordinance would require face coverings in certain situations but would have no penalties for violators. It also includes exemptions, including young children, law enforcement and religious services.

The Republican governor, Kristi Noem, opposes mask mandates or other interventions. Cities across the state have passed their own mask requirements. State health officials on Sunday reported 700 new cases with 544 hospitalised.

Counties across California have enacted stricter restrictions after the state broke a record with more than 7,700 hospitalisations. With 59% of all hospital beds in use within the state’s healthcare system, total hospitalisations have increased by 89%, said Gavin Newsom, California’s governor, who is in quarantine after three of his children came in contact with a California highway patrol officer who tested positive for coronavirus. Public health officials project that without any intervention, hospitalisations could increase to 78% by Christmas Eve. 

The state is averaging 14,657 cases a day. During the peak of the pandemic in July, California reported a seven-day average of just 9,881 cases a day.

Los Angeles county, the most populous in the US, has asked its 10 million residents to stay home as much as possible. San Francisco and San Mateo counties moved to the most restrictive tier in the state’s pandemic blueprint, forcing most indoor activities to close and putting residents under curfew from Monday.

Despite dire warnings from authorities including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), millions traveled over the weekend, as Thanksgiving drew to a close. Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said that could cause a spike in cases and warned that the level of infection in the US would not “all of a sudden turn around”.

“What we expect, unfortunately, as we go for the next couple of weeks into December, is that we might see a surge superimposed on the surge we are already in,” Fauci told NBC on Sunday.

Fauci said it was “not too late” for people to help curb the virus by wearing masks, staying distant from others and avoiding large groups.

Between 800,000 and more than a million travelers made their way through US airport checkpoints each day in the past week, according to the Transportation Security Administration, as airports recorded their highest travel numbers since the pandemic began.

Wednesday was the busiest such day since mid-March, with 1,070,967 clearing airport security, the Washington Post reported. In the early days of the pandemic, daily totals fell below 100,000.

The impact of mass travel and Thanksgiving gatherings could mean a flood of new cases just before Christmas.

“When you look at people who are hospitalised today, they were infected two weeks ago, maybe more,” Dr Jonathan Reiner, a professor of medicine at George Washington University, told CNN. “And then it takes usually another week for folks to succumb to the illness.”

Vivian Ho contributed reporting





No.7 article:
Cairo and Rome give conflicting statements in Giulio Regeni case

Egypt to suspend investigation as Italy moves towards bringing five Egyptian security officials to trial

Egypt’s public prosecutor has said the killer of the Italian student Giulio Regeni remains unknown as prosecutors in Italy prepare to close the case and move towards bringing at least five Egyptian security officials to trial in Rome.

Egyptian prosecutors said on Monday they would temporarily close their investigation into the murder of Regeni, whose body was found in a ditch on the side of a highway on the outskirts of Cairo in February 2016.

“The Egyptian public prosecution affirms that the perpetrator of the murder of the Italian student is still unknown,” they said, in what they described as a joint statement from both Egyptian and Italian prosecution teams.

Regeni’s parents, Paola and Claudio, and their lawyer Alessandra Ballerini, issued a joint statement in which they urged the Italian government to “acknowledge this outrage” by recalling its ambassador to Cairo. 

The Egyptian announcement was also challenged by Italian prosecutors. “The Egyptian prosecutor has expressed reservations about the solidity of the evidence collected, which he believes are insufficient to support the accusation in court,” a statement said. “However, the public prosecutor of Egypt said he respects the decision that will be taken by the Rome’s public prosecution office.”

Regeni’s body was found with signs of torture, which observers say bore the hallmark of Egypt’s security services. Egyptian authorities have consistently rebuffed any suggestion of responsibility, offering a variety of other theories.

Italian prosecutors have previously named five security officers as suspects and said in October 2020 that they were about to conclude their investigation. An official announcement is expected later this week, even as Cairo continued stonewalling Italy’s efforts to investigate, according to the Italian side.

In their statement, Regeni’s parents and their lawyer wrote: “In these five years we are overcome with indignation by the countless injustices on the part of the Egyptian authorities. They kidnapped, tortured and murdered a son, they sullied his reputation and discredited him, they lied and cheated not only us, his parents, but all Italians.

“Today, Egyptian prosecutors have the gall to express ‘reservations’ toward our magistrates and investigators, and to consider the evidence presented thus far as ‘insufficient’. This is the ultimate lack of respect toward our magistrature and our collective intelligence.

“Prosecutors in both countries have never been so divided. We believe that our government must acknowledge this outrage and recall our ambassador. We must reclaim our dignity so that no country can vilify another’s citizen while remaining not only ‘friendly’, but also unpunished. We owe this to Giulio and to all other men and women like him, as we continue to fight for truth and justice.” 

The media in Italy reported that investigators in Rome have collected multiple testimonies from witnesses, alleging that Regeni was picked up by members of the Egyptian security services.

The witnesses, who have deemed reliable by the prosecutors, say the 28-year-old Cambridge doctoral researcher was abducted by agents of the Egyptian National Security Agency on 25 January 2016 and taken to at least two different police stations in the subsequent hours.

Italian prosecutors informed their Egyptian counterparts about these witness statements at a meeting on 5 November.

Matteo Renzi, who was Italy’s prime minister at the time of the murder, told a parliamentary inquiry last week that his government was only informed of the abduction on 31 January 2016. “If we had known before we could have acted before,” he said.

Italy’s foreign ministry has dismissed his statements, saying: “Italian government institutions and our secret services were informed from the first hours following Giulio’s disappearance on 25 January 2016.”





No.8 article:
Merriam-Webster and Dictionary.com choose same word of the year: pandemic

John Kelly, senior research editor at Dictionary.com, said searches for ‘pandemic’ spiked more than 13,500% in March

For the first time, two US dictionary companies on Monday declared the same word their word of the year: “pandemic”.

Merriam-Webster and Dictionary.com made their choices after Oxford Languages issued a 16-page report which said a number of once-specialized terms had entered the mainstream during the Covid-19 crisis.

The challenges of 2020, Oxford Languages said, “brought a new immediacy and urgency to the role of the lexicographer. In almost real-time, lexicographers were able to monitor and analyze seismic shifts in language data and precipitous frequency rises in new coinages”.

Because the coronavirus pandemic brought on gargantuan language changes, the report said, “2020 is a year which cannot be neatly accommodated in one single ‘word of the year’.”

Merriam-Webster and Dictionary.com disagreed, though both also noted enormous shifts toward other related words.

Pandemic “probably isn’t a big shock”, said Peter Sokolowski, editor at large for Merriam-Webster.

“Often the big news story has a technical word that’s associated with it and in this case, the word pandemic is not just technical but has become general. It’s probably the word by which we’ll refer to this period in the future.”

John Kelly, senior research editor at Dictionary.com, said searches for “pandemic” spiked more than 13,500% on 11 March, the day the World Health Organization declared an outbreak of the novel coronavirus a global health emergency.

The spike, he said, was “massive, but even more telling is how high [pandemic] has sustained significant search volumes throughout the entire year”.

Month over month, lookups for pandemic were up more than 1,000%. For about half the year, the word was in the top 10% of all lookups on Dictionary.com, Kelly said.

At Merriam-Webster.com, searches for “pandemic” on 11 March were 115,806% higher than spikes experienced on the same date last year, Sokolowski said.

Pandemic, with roots in Latin and Greek, is a combination of “pan”, for all, and “demos”, for people or population, Sokolowski said, adding that the latter is also the root of “democracy”.

The word “pandemic” dates to the mid-1600s, used broadly for “universal” and more specifically to disease in a medical text in the 1660s, after the plagues of the Middle Ages, Sokolowski said.

“We see that the word ‘love’ is looked up around Valentine’s Day and the word ‘cornucopia’ is looked up at Thanksgiving. We see a word like ‘surreal’ spiking when a moment of national tragedy or shock occurs. It’s the idea of dictionaries being the beginning of putting your thoughts in order.”

The pandemic, Kelly said, also saw searches grow for words including “aerosols”, “contact tracing”, “social distancing” and “herd immunity”, along with the intricacies of therapeutic drugs, tests and vaccines that can help save lives.

“These were all part of a new shared vocabulary we needed to stay safe and informed. It’s incredible,” said Kelly.

Merriam-Webster began designating a word of the year in 2008, with “bailout”. Its word of 2019 was “they”, after lookups increased by 313%.

Dictionary.com has been in the game since 2010, when it went with “change”. Its word of the year in 2019 was “existential”, in a year that climate change, gun violence, the nature of democracy and Forky from Disney’s Toy Story 4 helped propel search.

Oxford Languages went with two words last year: “climate emergency”.

Kelly, Sokolowski and Oxford Languages noted other search trends in 2020. After the death in May of George Floyd under the knee of a Minneapolis police officer, words around racial justice experienced spikes, including “fascism”, “anti-fascism”, “defund” and “white fragility”, Kelly said.

“There was no way for us to leave that out of the conversation this year,” he said.

Oxford included a range in its report, from “karen” to “QAnon”.





No.9 article:
Laverne Cox targeted by transphobic attack in Los Angeles

Orange is the New Black star speaks of shock, saying: ‘You’re not safe if you are a trans person’

Laverne Cox, a star of Netflix’s Orange is the New Black, has spoken of her shock after she and a friend were targeted in a transphobic attack in Los Angeles.

In a 10-minute video posted on Instagram, Cox said she had been out for a walk with her friend when a man “aggressively” asked them for the time. As the friend was looking at their watch, Cox said the man asked her if she was a “guy or girl”.

The friend, whom Cox wished to keep anonymous, told the man to “fuck off” and was then attacked by the man.

“I’m kind of in shock,” Cox said in the Instagram video. “I’m walking, I’m hearing all of this is happening like in a split second and then all of a sudden the guy is attacking my friend.

“I pull out my phone and call 911 … All of a sudden it’s over and the guy is gone. I put my phone away and I’m like: ‘What just happened?’”

Cox told her followers that the attack, though shocking, did not surprise her. “I have a long history of harassment,” she said. “It’s not safe in the world and I don’t like to think about that a lot but it is the truth. It’s the truth, you’re not safe if you are a trans person. Obviously, I know this well.”

She added: “The guy really wanted me to answer so that he could spook whether I’m trans or not. I don’t know why it matters. At the end of the day, it’s like who cares?

“I’m in a hoodie and yoga pants, I’m completely covered up, I’ve got my mask on. Who cares if I’m trans? How does this affect your life?”

She said she was very lucky and grateful that her friend was with her. “It doesn’t matter who you are. You can be Laverne Cox, you know, or whatever that means. If you’re trans, you’re going to experience stuff like this. Luckily my friend is safe, luckily I’m safe.”

Cox became the first transgender person to be nominated for an Emmy award for her role as Sophia Burset in Orange is the New Black, the Netflix series about inmates at a US women’s prison.

This year Cox released Disclosure, a Netflix documentary on trans representation. The documentary criticised Hollywood’s history of transgender stereotypes and tropes. “We need more trans folks working behind the scenes – directing, producing, below the line positions, just more,” she told the Guardian in June. “And more representation in positions of power.”





No.10 article:
Gendarmes to scale down search for British hiker Esther Dingley in Pyrenees

Chances of finding Dingley, travelling in Europe since 2014, narrow as bad weather sets in

French mountain gendarmes say they will scale down the search for missing British hiker Esther Dingley after finding no trace of her in the Pyrenees.

As Dingley’s partner, Dan Colegate, continued to retrace her steps, rescue teams warned that forecasts of rain and snowfall in the next 36 hours could force them to wind down the search operation.

“We have looked all over our side and our colleagues in Spain have been doing the same,” Pierre Gaillard, the deputy commander of the high-mountain gendarmerie platoon told the Guardian.

“Today, we sent a helicopter up over the high ranges, but this is an area we have already searched. It’s complicated to find someone up there because part of the area is under snow. The Spanish are doing the same on their side.

“The weather is good today and it’s not possible that she went missing because she was caught up in bad weather, because the only time it was bad was the night of Thursday to Friday when there was snowfall and ice, but we were already looking for her by then.”

Dingley, 37, from Durham, who has been travelling with Colegate around Europe in a camper van for the last six years, had set off on a solo trip, leaving the vehicle in Spain where she started walking on 21 November. She was due to return to Gascony in France to meet Coleman on Wednesday but failed to make contact. Alarmed at being unable to reach her, he reported Dingley missing.

Dingley was on the Chemin de l’Impératrice (Empress Path) hiking route via Port de Venasque before heading for Porte de la Glère in the Luchon valley, along mountain corridors at altitudes of up to 2,738 metres (8,990ft) on the French-Spanish border.

Gaillard said the gendarmes had not been able to ascertain where Dingley had gone missing. Her last contact with Colegate was via a WhatsApp call on Sunday 22 November, when she indicated she was on the Pic de Sauvegarde.

“After that she put her phone on airplane mode to save the battery and there is no data use or GPS trace since then. Theoretically her itinerary meant she should have done the loop and crossed into France before returning, but we cannot say for sure. We have no indication of whether she crossed the border or not,” Gaillard said.

Since then, Spanish and French mountain rescue teams using helicopters have repeatedly swept the area either side of the border.

“If she stayed on the paths she shouldn’t have had a problem, but sometimes with the snow and ice at altitude it’s difficult to follow the paths,” Gaillard said, adding that Dingley was wearing dark clothes and carrying a grey rucksack, which added to the difficulties in finding her. He said there was no sign of her yellow tent to suggest she had been camping out.

He said that Colegate, also from Durham, was also searching the mountain and had retraced Dingley’s route but was not with the rescue teams.

“He prefers to walk on his own,” the gendarme said.

Gaillard said investigators had not ruled out any theory, including that she might have encountered another person and died in suspicious circumstances.

“We are not just mountain rescuers, we also investigate so we are keeping all lines of inquiry open.” He said the chances of finding her were now “extremely slim”.

He added: “We will be sending a smaller team out to search tomorrow but after that, bad weather is forecast including heavy snowfall.”.

On Saturday, Colegate wrote on the couple’s Facebook page: “I’m broken. Shattered to report that my beloved Esther, the person who taught me how to feel, is missing. Search and rescue teams have so far found no trace of her.”

On its Facebook Page the Peleton de Gendarmerie de Haute Montagne has put out a research alert and appeal for witnesses which reportedly prompted some negative responses, over lockdown rules in France banning hiking.

The appeal insists: “This message is aimed at saving a human life. Even if we understand the emotions raised by this behaviour during a period of lockdown, please do not comment on this subject. We are faced with an emergency here.”

“I haven’t been following the social media, but I understand there were people who complained about this, but the lockdown rules are different in Spain where she set off so perhaps she didn’t know,” Gaillard said.





No.11 article:
Owner of French restaurant in Mexico City murdered &#x27;while delivering fine wine&#x27;

Police investigating claims killers of Baptiste Lormand stole bottles worth £20,000

The grisly killing of a prominent French restaurateur has shaken Mexico City’s foreign community and raised fresh questions over a nationwide murder crisis that has already claimed more than 29,000 lives this year.

Baptiste Lormand, a 45-year-old Parisian, disappeared last Thursday evening in Polanco, an upmarket corner of Mexico’s capital that is home to many of its best eateries as well as many foreign diplomats, businesspeople and journalists.

His body was found in the early hours of Saturday, dumped on a dirt road to the city’s south, along with that of a colleague called Luis Orozco. Both men had reportedly been beaten and had their hands bound. One report in the newspaper Milenio claimed the men had also been shot once in the head.

The murders sparked an immediate outcry among Mexico City’s large expat community, many of whom knew Lormand and his lucha libre-themed Mexican restaurant, Surtidora Don Batiz, in the Polanquito dining hub.

“Just like everyone in our community I feel very shocked by the murder of our fellow countryman. My heart is with his family and friends,” tweeted France’s ambassador to Mexico, Jean-Pierre Asvazadourian.

On Monday morning Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, said he lamented the crime and admitted that “violent incidents” continued to blight the capital. But López Obrador, who came to power in 2018 promising to bring peace to his violence-stricken country with a controversial strategy of “hugs, not bullets”, insisted authorities were battling to “pacify” the city and blamed the level of violence on previous governments.

“We profoundly regret these murders,” said Claudia Sheinbaum, Mexico City’s mayor. “Our solidarity to the families.”

Members of Mexico City’s European community were set to march down Presidente Masaryk, one of Mexico City’s most upmarket avenues, on Monday afternoon in protest. Between January and November this year at least 29,182 homicides have been registered in Mexico putting Latin America’s number two economy on course for another year of record-setting bloodshed. Last year a record 35,588 lives were lost.

Mystery surrounds the murder of the French restaurateur, who had reportedly lived in Mexico for two decades and held Mexican citizenship.

At a press conference on Sunday Mexico City’s police chief, Omar García Harfuch, claimed there was no indication the murders were the result of organised criminals demanding extortion payments or that there had been any demand for ransom payments from the victim’s relatives.

Harfuch, who in June survived a spectacular assassination attempt not far from Lormand’s restaurant, said investigators were examining whether the killers were thieves who had been trying to steal a shipment of high-end wines they claimed Lormand had been delivering when he vanished.

One friend told El País that Lormand had recently purchased wine worth about 500,000 Mexican pesos (£18,600) from a restaurant that had shut down and had been in the process of reselling it.

“There’s no law, no authorities, no nothing in this country,” the friend, who was not named, complained.

But some observers spotted inconsistencies in Harfuch’s account of Lormand’s supposed final movements after he was last seen on Thursday.

“There’s something that doesn’t stack up about García Harfuch’s version of events, and it’s not the first time,” the columnist Ricardo Raphael wrote in the newspaper Milenio.

Raphael said he could not understand the police chief’s apparent assertion that the victim might have been in a notoriously rough neighbourhood to the city’s north in the hours after he went missing.

“Why would Baptiste Lormand have taken a fortune in high-end wine bottles to a small and dangerous neighbourhood behind the Reclusorio Norte [prison]?” Raphael asked.

Speaking on the condition of anonymity, one Mexico City restaurateur told the newspaper El País that authorities “almost always sought to treat murders as isolated facts” rather than digging into possible connections to organised crime.

The brazen attempt to kill Harfuch was blamed on members of a group now considered Mexico’s most powerful organised crime group, the Jalisco New Generation cartel.

Last week Mexican security forces arrested a local cartel boss who was allegedly responsible for a 2019 massacre of nine women and children with dual US/Mexican citizenship near the US border.

That case also caused an international outcry with President Donald Trump urging López Obrador to “wage WAR on the drug cartels”.





No.12 article:
Mass testing for Covid-19 and a messy Brexit

Dr Simon Warne says Boris Johnson’s Liverpool experiment needs to be evaluated properly, while Stephen Bates is wondering what will happen when the crises of Covid and Brexit coincide

We should not unquestioningly accept the government’s line that mass testing has played a crucial role in bringing infection rates down in Liverpool (A tale of two cities: Manchester, Liverpool and the journey of Covid tiers, 26 November). When the infection rate in Liverpool was high, so were the rates in the neighbouring boroughs of Sefton, Knowsley, Halton and Wirral. In the last few weeks, while mass testing has been restricted to Liverpool, the infection rates have tracked down not only in the city but also these four neighbouring boroughs. Boris Johnson is not a scientist. His Liverpool experiment needs to be evaluated properly. Dr Simon Warne Sefton, Merseyside

• As we hobbits in tier 3 Kent are told to isolate ourselves and not leave the county, has anyone in government given any thought to what will happen on 1 January when the crises of Covid and Brexit coincide? The Covid rates in Dover and Ramsgate are among the highest in the country, so what is to happen to all the thousands of lorry drivers crossing in both directions? Are they allowed no comfort stops? And if they are delayed, will they be required to lock themselves in their cabs? Stephen Bates Deal, Kent





No.13 article:
Role reversals for British aristocrats

Vaccine pioneers | The Queen’s falling fortunes | The Crown | Showering | Funny placenames

How times have changed! In 1798, my ancestor William Summers was one of 20 farm labourers’ children who were the first to be vaccinated by Edward Jenner against smallpox. Only after they survived did the Earl of Berkeley submit his family to the process. Now, celebrities and the royal family will show us that the vaccine is safe (NHS to enlist ‘sensible’ celebrities to persuade people to take coronavirus vaccine, 29 November).Margaret ThorpeShrewsbury, Shropshire

• On top of dealing with Covid-19 and Brexit, we now learn that the Queen is no longer the richest woman in the UK (Huge wealth of Rishi Sunak’s family not declared in ministerial register, 27 November. Should we start a crowdfunding page?Marion NevilleBrighton

• Following Oliver Dowden’s latest intervention (Culture secretary to ask Netflix to play ‘health warning’ that The Crown is fictional, 29 November), will he be requiring the National Gallery to explain that its exhibits are not in fact photographs?Jem WhiteleyOxford

• We use too much water; cleaning products are highly polluting. Washing your entire body wasn’t deemed necessary 50 years ago, so why is it essential now (One in four Britons don’t shower every day. And the rest aren’t doing it right, 27 November)? What’s wrong with smelling like a human being? Michael HeatonWarminster, Wiltshire

• I hope that the Pennsylvania village of Intercourse is still thriving (Fugging hell: tired of mockery, Austrian village changes name, 26 November).Alasdair GibsonLedbury, Herefordshire





No.14 article:
Footage of attack on Michel Zecler, who alleges racial abuse, has led to political fallout

Four French police officers have been charged in connection with the beating of a black music producer that was caught on video, as Emmanuel Macron sought to contain the political fallout from a case that has scandalised the country.

Footage last week showed police punching, kicking and using a truncheon on Michel Zecler, who alleged that they also racially abused him several times. Before the video came to light, the officers had accused Zecler, 41, of resisting arrest and attacking them.

The charges came shortly before the French government announced it would rewrite a contested clause in new security legislation that critics said could have prevented similar films and pictures from coming to light.

Article 24 of the global security law has sparked angry protests from journalists, press freedom campaigners and human rights organisations. The government U-turn came after a crisis meeting with Macron at the Élysée on Monday and is reported to have gone against the wishes of the hardline interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, who supported the legislation. 

Three of the officers have been mis en examen – the nearest thing to being formally charged in France – with “deliberate violence by a person in public authority, in a group and with an arm”, and with “falsifying statements”. The fourth officer, who fired a teargas canister, has been accused of “deliberate violence”.

Two of the officers – a 44-year-old brigadier with 19 years of reportedly exemplary service and a 23-year-old – are being held in custody, while two have been given conditional release.

At a press conference on Sunday, the Paris public prosecutor, Rémy Heitz, said the three officers seen in the video said they had “panicked” but admitted “their blows were not justified and they had mainly acted out of fear”.

“They have denied any racist insults,” Heitz added. He suggested three of the officers should remain in custody “to avoid the perpetrators communicating or pressure on witnesses”.

The officers said they had approached Zecler because he was not wearing a mask and because there was a strong smell of cannabis coming from his bag. After searching the bag, police found only 0.5g of cannabis, Heitz said.

The case has again raised fears that a new law that French MPs approved last week restricting the right to publish or broadcast images of police and gendarmes on duty in certain circumstances will be used to cover up alleged wrongdoing.

Critics of article 24 of the global security law, which is awaiting approval from the senate, say the video of the Zecler attack could not have been made public under the legislation. The government says it would criminalise the publication of such images only with “intent to harm the physical or psychological wellbeing” of the officers.

The prime minister, Jean Castex, had originally promised that an independent commission would look at article 24 with a view to rewriting it. Zecler, who was held in custody for 48 hours, said that without the film “I would be in prison now”.

On Monday the former interior minister Christophe Castaner, the president of the governing centrist party LREM in the Assemblée Nationale, told media that the rewriting of article 24 would be carried out by LREM and two of its coalition parties, the centrist MoDem and centre-right Agir.

Article 24 had been drawn up, he said, to “better protect the forces of law and order … and to completely preserve the freedom of the press and the freedom to inform … essential pillars of our democracy.”

Castaner added; “It seems necessary to clarify the legal position … we are going to propose a completely new version of the article. The legal choice that we made has created a worry, if not a conviction among the population, that the right to information is threatened. The balance that we were looking for has not been unanimously accepted … by journalists, by the French and even at the heart of our governing party.”

The former minister insisted that while “article 24 would have in no way prevented the broadcast of the images we have seen in the last few days” the perception of the legislation meant “too many questions remain”.

On Saturday a protest against the law in central Paris degenerated into violence with vehicles and a brasserie torched, banks, shop and offices vandalised and paving stones and fireworks aimed at security forces, who responded with teargas and anti-riot tactics.

Among those hurt was Ameer Alhalbi, a Syrian photojournalist who has worked for Agence France-Press (AFP), who was unable to get to hospital for several hours. Alhalbi, 24, said he was reminded of being in the Syrian civil war. “It was Aleppo that came back to me,” he said.

Phil Chetwynd, AFP’s global news director, demanded that police investigate the incident. “We are shocked by the injuries suffered by our colleague Ameer Alhalbi and condemn the unprovoked violence,” Chetwynd said.

Police reported that 81 people were arrested. Darmanin said 98 police officers were hurt. “Those behind the violence will be pursued,” he said.

The attack on Zecler was the third incident involving alleged police violence caught on film last week. While dismantling a makeshift migrant camp in central Paris last Monday, one officer was filmed deliberately tripping up a fleeing migrant. Another is accused of targeting a French journalist three times. The police force’s own disciplinary unit is investigating these incidents.

A critical report on the arrest of a young black man in 2017 who suffered lifelong injuries after being allegedly sodomised with a police baton was also released last week. Le Monde described the report on the arrest of Théodore Luhaka as an “implacable demonstration of a string of police failures”. The police officers involved avoided disciplinary action but could now face a criminal trial.

In September a French journalist who infiltrated a Paris police station described a culture of racism and violence in which officers acted with impunity.





No.15 article:
Why the penguin post office is desperate for some non-feathered customers

Based in Port Lockroy, Antarctica, it’s the post office at the bottom of the world. Now Ranulph Fiennes is calling for action to ensure it survives

Name: Penguin post office.

Age: Built in 1944.

Appearance: A black shack surrounded by snow and penguins.

Location: Port Lockroy, Antarctica.

Funny place for a post office. That’s sort of the point. Cruise ships disembark tourists there so they can send postcards from the bottom of the world.

From the bottom of the world to where? To anywhere else in the world, although they can take weeks or even months to arrive.

Wouldn’t it be quicker to take the postcard home with you and mail it from there? Then it wouldn’t have a stamp with a penguin on it.

Do a lot of tourists make this pilgrimage? About 18,000 annually – that’s two cruise ships a day at the height of the season.

When is the season? Normally it would start about now – the beginning of the austral summer – but thanks to Covid there is no season: no cruise ships, no tourists, no postcards.

And no penguins. The penguins are still there, but they don’t buy much.

A post office with no customers? I think I just found my dream job. Where do I sign up? Normally there’s a fairly arduous application process to select workers for the annual four-month stint, but it got cancelled because of Covid.

So there’s nothing going on down there. And that’s a problem. Proceeds from the post office and the gift shop help to fund the maintenance of Port Lockroy, a former British base now run by the UK Antarctic Heritage Trust (UKAHT).

How much are we talking about? A potential shortfall of £1m.

From postcards? The minimum spend at the shop is US$10. And it’s not as if there’s a better shop next door.

Well, I’d love to help, but I’m miles away. Can I send them a postcard asking to buy a postcard? They would prefer it if you just gave money – UKAHT has secured the help of Sir Ranulph Fiennes in a campaign to raise donations.

The peerless explorer who once cut off his own frostbitten fingertips with a fretsaw? That’s him. He’s worried even a temporary halt to the ongoing repair of the historic outpost will lead to irreparable damage. “It’s hugely important that these sites, which signify the best of human endeavour, are maintained and that UKAHT continues its work,” he says.

Do I get a postcard? No, but you can buy a mug with penguins on it from the online shop.

Do say: “Weather cold, lots to tell, but I expect I’ll see you before you get this.”

Don’t say: “I’m a penguin – put it on my account.”





No.16 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

George Eustice says dish/snack can constitute substantial meal as long as there is table service

A Cornish pasty isn’t, unless it’s with chips.

A single slice of pizza wasn’t, but then it was.

And now, the environment secretary, George Eustice, has decreed, a scotch egg probably is, because it’s a starter, apparently.

The question, of course, is what constitutes a substantial meal: once a dilemma for dieters looking for an excuse for that mid-afternoon pork pie, now a matter of national importance.

Pubs in tier 2 areas will only be allowed to serve drinks if they come alongside a proper feed, the government has said, leading to some confusion over where, exactly, the line is between a bar snack and a feast. For pork scratchings or a Sunday roast, the answer is obvious. So, Eustice was asked on LBC on Monday, what of the scotch egg?

“I think a Scotch egg probably would count as a substantial meal if there were table service,” Eustice improvised. “Often that might be as a starter, but yes, I think it would.” But, of course, it’s not as simple as that.

“It depends on how they’re made,” said David Laing, co-owner of North Yorkshire-based specialists The Clucking Pig.

“A lot of them are very quick, very commercial, cheap stuff. But the likes of ours are a proper meal. You get a large free-range egg, 90g of rare breed Berkshire pork, fresh breadcrumbs, it’s probably a three-and-a-half inch circumference. The royal family have had ours – they’re very filling. A lot of people have to halve them.”

If the image of the Queen being so stuffed she has to hand Philip her leftovers doesn’t persuade you, Laing adds that many of his deli and pub customers serve theirs with sweet potato fries and salad. Plus, “you can definitely eat it with a knife and fork. I would recommend a serrated knife.”

Adam Coghlan, editor of food and restaurant news website Eater London, is less convinced of the sit-down credentials of a classically handheld foodstuff. “Of course it isn’t a meal,” he said.

“I mean, I suppose there are some people who might have a scotch egg for lunch sometimes, but that’s not really the rule, is it? Pubs are really annoyed they can’t open, and anything they can do that allows them to they’re going to attempt.”

callout-coronavirus

Yes, there might be some places where a gastro-egg comes as a main, “but those places will be opening anyway. It’s the places with scampi fries and peanuts that are going to use this as an excuse to serve loads of pints of Foster’s. It’s a perfect example of how difficult all of this is going to be to enforce or police.”

For Oisin Rogers, landlord of the Windmill and the Guinea Grill pubs in Mayfair, London and founder of the hotly contested Scotch Egg Challenge, an attempt at definition leads to a kind of philosophical limbo. “I can’t answer that question, I just can’t,” he said.

“The brilliant thing about them is you can have a pint in one hand and the egg in the other. But it can be a meal too. You get a softboiled egg and you put it inside a sausage, who doesn’t want that?”

Even before the scotch egg question arose, ministers and officials were having a hard time providing clarity on the wider point.

It was the housing secretary, Robert Jenrick, who declared that a pasty counted only if it came with sides, which is a frankly bizarre way to eat a pasty; the pizza dilemma, meanwhile, left police in Manchester in knots when they stopped local favourite Common from serving single slices that the venue described as “fucking massive”, only to eventually back down.

In the end, Rogers views the question as a sideshow. “Rather than going down this rabbit hole, the real point of the guidance is to stop people having a casual drink without eating.

“We will make sure that people sit down in a safe environment, well spaced out, servers in masks. If you take those precautions, it’s perfectly safe to have something off a plate.”





No.17 article:
Rio voters inflict humiliating electoral wipeout on mayor

Bolsonaro ally Marcelo Crivella lost in all of Brazilian city’s 49 constituencies

Rio de Janeiro is rejoicing after voters inflicted a humiliating electoral defeat on a widely loathed neo-Pentecostal bishop considered by some to be the worst mayor in the city’s history.

Marcelo Crivella, a gospel-singing preacher who has branded homosexuality a “terrible evil” and had shunned Rio’s annual carnival, lost in every one of the city’s 49 constituencies in Sunday’s run-off vote.

Observers called the result a triumph for diversity and a blow to Brazil’s far-right president, Jair Bolsonaro, who had backed Crivella’s campaign.

“Rio is free of the worst government in its history – of its most negligent, most unprepared, most prejudiced government,” the victor, Eduardo Paes, proclaimed after his landslide win.

“I want to tell all cariocas [Rio citizens] that today – whatever your faith, orientation or skin colour – you are free,” added Paes, a samba-loving centre-right politician who was mayor from 2009 until 2016.

Many voters have misgivings about Paes but there was widespread jubilation on Monday as news of Crivella’s catastrophe sank in.

“He was probably our most incompetent mayor in more than 100 years and at the same time the least carioca of them all. So it’s a major, major, major relief to be rid of him,” said Pedro Doria, a Rio-based author and editor of the political newsletter Meio. “This guy was a major reactionary in a city that is driven by such a freewheeling spirit.”

Rio newspapers united to gloat over the demise of the former missionary who is the nephew of the founder of the controversial Universal Church of the Kingdom of God.

Extra declared the bishop’s thrashing a “Universal defeat” while O Dia celebrated Crivella’s “hiding”. “Not even President Bolsonaro’s support was enough to help Crivella’s campaign take off,” the newspaper said, claiming voters had “chased him out” of the mayoral palace.

O Dia’s columnist and owner, Nuno Vasconcellos, hailed voters for snubbing the evangelical mayor’s “false preaching” and said: “[Rio] has rejected the wolf in lamb’s clothing incarnated by Marcelo Crivella”.

O Globo’s political commentator Bernardo Mello Franco said the defeat “had a hint of exorcism about it” and enthused: “2020 will be remembered as the year cariocas freed themselves from Crivella.”

“Not even the city’s greatest party escaped the bishop’s holy war,” Mello Franco complained of the mayor’s hostility towards Rio’s carnival parade, which Crivella never attended.

Mello Franco called Crivella’s “fiasco” a setback to the Universal Church’s project to tighten its already considerable grip on Brazilian politics by packing the corridors of power with believers.

It is also a reverse for Bolsonaro, who publicly endorsed Crivella as a way of thwarting the “poisonous” left.

In one campaign ad, Crivella – who critics claim governed for cronies and churchgoers, not the city as a whole – clutched Bolsonaro’s hand and declared: “The president of Brazil has given me a mission and I will fulfil it.”

“God is with us,” Bolsonaro replied.

“Amen,” said Crivella.

Rio was not the only city to reject Bolsonarian chauvinism in Sunday’s second-round vote amid growing signs some Brazilians are tiring of their president’s incendiary style.

São Paulo elected Bruno Covas, a centre-right member of one of the city’s most famous political dynasties.

“The days of denialism and obscurantism are numbered. São Paulo has said ‘Yes’ to science and moderation,” Covas told supporters in an unmistakable reference to Bolsonaro’s anti-scientific handling of the Covid-19 epidemic. More than 172,000 Brazilians have been killed by a disease Bolsonaro has dismissed as a “bit of a cold”.

Pro-Bolsonaro candidates were also defeated in the cities of Belém and Fortaleza. In the election’s first round a fortnight ago, Bolsonaro-backed candidates lost in cities including Manaus, Recife and Belo Horizonte.

The Workers’ party (PT) of Bolsonaro’s leftwing nemisis, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, also fared badly, failing to win control of a single state capital for the first time since democracy returned in 1985.

Another leftwing force, the Socialist and Liberty party (Psol), appears to be filling part of the void, with its 38-year-old candidate, Guilherme Boulos, picking up more than 2m votes in São Paulo.

“This wasn’t our election,” Boulos told supporters from the rooftop of his home, where he is recovering from Covid-19, “but we will prevail.”





No.18 article:
Indian farmers march on Delhi in protest against agriculture laws

More than 300,000 farmers head to capital for ‘decisive battle’ with government

Hundreds of thousands of Indian farmers have marched upon Delhi and set up vast camps blocking entry to the city in protest at agriculture laws they say will destroy livelihoods.

More than 300,000 farmers marched from the states of Punjab and Haryana – on foot and in convoys of tractors – at the weekend to reach the Indian capital for what they described as a “decisive battle” with the central government. 

As the farmers reached Delhi, some managed to enter but the majority were stopped by barricades and barbed wire erected by police on major roads into the city. The farmers set up camps along five major roads, building makeshift tents and setting up fires with a view to staying for months if their demands are not met.

Police had used tear gas and water cannons against the marching farmers and ripped up highways to stop tractors and protesters moving forward. However, the Delhi government denied police permission to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails for farmers. “Farmers are not criminals,” the city government said.

The farmers are protesting against a series of agricultural laws that see the deregulation of crop pricing which farmers say will leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has argued that the laws are necessary reforms that give farmers more autonomy over the selling of their crops and will break big unfair monopolies.

Though farmers’ unions have been protesting in Punjab for the past two months, holding marches and blocking roads and train lines, they said they were organising the march to Delhi to force the government’s hand. Unions want to repeal the laws, which they say are anti-farmer and pro-corporate interests.

Farming is one of the biggest employers in India, with more than 40% of the population working in agriculture.

Among the farmers who marched to the border was Ratam Mann Singh, 61, from Haryana, who is president of the Indian Farmers Association for the state. He said: “I took part in this protest to the Delhi border because the central government has sold out the farmers with these new laws, which did not have any consultation or input from farmers. If they are passed then the farmers’ rights will be finished.”

Singh said many of the farmers had brought enough food, supplies and blankets to last for up to three months. “We are prepared to stay here for as long as it takes, even in the cold winter, we are ready for that. The farmers of India have been betrayed,” he said.

On Saturday, the union minister, Amit Shah, said the government was willing to deliberate on “every problem and demand” of the farmers. Talks have been scheduled for 3 December.

The farmers’ demands have proved contentious. Among them is the demand to remove a fine for stubble burning, the practice of setting fields alight to remove the old crop. While farmers say it is unavoidable, stubble burning is a major contributor to the toxic air pollution that engulfs Delhi and northern India in the winter months and has been made illegal as a result.

The farmers’ cause has garnered support from across the world, including from the cricketer Monty Panesar and Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, the UK MP for Slough, who tweeted: “I stand with farmers of the Punjab and other parts of India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against the encroaching privatisation of Farmers Bill 2020.”





No.19 article:
Exclusive: Local leaders say government ‘vastly underestimated’ demand for one-off £500 payments

More than half of people applying for financial support to self-isolate are being rejected in some coronavirus hotspots in England as councils report running out of cash and loopholes leave low-income families ineligible.

Thousands of people are being excluded from accessing the £500 one-off payments due to gaps in the policy announced by Boris Johnson two months ago, according to council leaders and charities.

People who are told to self-isolate by the NHS test and trace app are not eligible for the payments. Neither are the parents of children who have been told to self-isolate. Small business owners, sole traders and self-employed workers also appear to be excluded.

Councils also say the government “vastly underestimated” demand for the payments, which were introduced in September to support those who cannot afford to take time off work to self-isolate, and has provided insufficient funding.

The scheme is critical to the government’s coronavirus strategy because the disease will continue to spread unless infectious people and their close contacts go into quarantine for between 10 and 14 days.

Figures shared with the Guardian show that nearly 7,000 people who have applied for the money in Yorkshire and Humber have been turned down – 60% of the total – while in Oldham half of people are being rejected.

Leaders say the high number of rejections is mainly due to strict eligibility rules, rather than people applying for the fund fraudulently. Alistair Cromwell, the acting chief executive of Citizens Advice, said gaps in the safety net meant people were facing an “impossible choice” between obeying the law to self-isolate or paying the bills.

Several councils told the Guardian the government is refusing to increase their allowance of “discretionary” funds, which were made available for people on low incomes who did not receive universal credit or other benefits.

This means that in practice only people who receive benefits will be eligible for the scheme in some areas, creating what local leaders in Yorkshire and Humber believe is a “postcode lottery”.

Judith Blake, the leader of Leeds city council, said: “It’s clear that demand for this type of support is currently out stripping supply, and with many councils already in financial crisis, we need the government to urgently provide more funding to address this.”

Oldham council, which has had one of England’s highest infection rates for months, has paid out £210,000 to 421 people – almost double its allocation from the government.

Arooj Shah, the deputy leader of Oldham council, urged the government to expand the scheme to include parents whose children have to self-isolate. She said: “As a society we cannot make people choose between paying their bills and putting food on the table and following government guidance.”

Eamonn O’Brien, the Labour leader of Bury council, which also has one of England’s highest case rates, said it had used up the allocation provided by the government and was having to transfer money from a hardship fund to cover the cost. He described it as “short-sighted penny-pinching from government”.

Susan Hinchcliffe, the leader of Bradford council, said it had paid out £420,000 in support payments by 25 November, far more than its government allocation of £311,500. It had paid out a further £184,000 in discretionary payments, £500 short of its allocation, she said, adding that the government had refused to increase the “meagre” funding.

Alice Wiseman, the director of public health at Gateshead council, said the £500 payment “doesn’t meet the needs of real humans” and that its eligibility should be widened. “Behavioural science says if we want people to do what we ask them to do we need to ensure that they are not financially penalised as a result. I don’t think we’re there yet,” she said.

A Department of Health and Social Care spokesman said: “We have given local authorities an initial £50m to cover the costs of the scheme which includes money for discretionary payments to people told to self-isolate who fall outside the scope of the main scheme but who may still face hardship as a result of having to self-isolate. This is in addition to other support that people may be able to access when they are required to self-isolate, such as statutory sick pay. ”





No.20 article:
Minister urges people across country to behave responsibly amid second coronavirus wave

The Spanish government has called on people to behave responsibly and use their “common sense” after pictures over the weekend showed the streets of Madrid and other big cities heaving with crowds despite the country’s ongoing struggle with the second wave of the coronavirus.

Spain has been in a state of emergency since the end of October and is subject to an overnight curfew. The prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, has asked people to drastically curtail their social lives and limit their movements for the common good.

However, a combination of Black Friday, seasonal shopping and the switching on of Christmas lights appears to have brought large numbers of people out on to the streets of Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia and Málaga over the weekend.

On Monday, Silvia Calzón, Spain’s secretary of state for health, urged people to act wisely and avoid large crowds.

“We’d like to appeal to people’s sense of prudence and responsibility,” Calzón said in an interview with Canal Sur radio, adding: “If we really like Christmas, let’s try to make sure we’re all here for next Christmas”.

She pointed out that huge sacrifices had been made to “flatten the curve” and that many families – especially those with vulnerable members – had suffered greatly.

“If we can do things outdoors and avoid crowds, so much the better because we expose ourselves less [to infection] and that means we reduce exposure to the people we love,” said Calzón.

Ignacio Aguado, the vice-president of the Madrid region, played down the crowds, which he described as normal. “I’d rather they were in the streets than [in large groups] at home,” he told LaSexta TV.

Madrid’s mayor, José Luis Martínez-Almeida, said he would not discourage people from heading into the centre of the city, adding that police had a plan for avoiding large build-ups of people.

“As long as people are in the street and sufficiently distanced – and not in enclosed areas – there’s no problem,” Martínez-Almeida told ABC.

However, he urged people to follow the health and safety guidelines and, where possible, to avoid big concentrations of people.

The Spanish government is hoping to avoid another surge in Covid cases early next year by suggesting that Christmas and new year gatherings be limited to six people, and that a 1am-6am curfew be in force on Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve.

“We’re working on a specific plan for a Christmas that will be different but safe,” Sánchez said last week. “This year, we will need to stay at a distance from our loved ones, instead of embracing them.”

The regional government of Madrid is proposing to allow groups of up to 10 people to gather on Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Year’s Eve, New Year’s Day and the feast of the Epiphany (6 January). The number of different households allowed to mix would be capped at three.

To date, Spain has logged 1,628,208 cases of Covid-19 and recorded 44,668 deaths.





No.21 article:
Iran says nuclear scientist killed by remote-controlled device

Official says no one was present at scene, and blames Israel and an exiled opposition group

A senior Iranian security official has accused Israel of using “electronic devices” to carry out a remote assassination of Iran’s top nuclear scientist.

Ali Shamkhani, the secretary of the country’s supreme national security council, made the comments at the funeral for Mohsen Fakhrizadeh.

“The operation was very complex and took place using electronic devices, and no one was present at the scene,” he told Iranian media. He blamed Israel, which has not commented on the killing, and said an Iranian opposition group in exile, called Mujahedeen-e-Khalq, had also played a role. He did not provide evidence to back up the claims.

His comments on Friday’s attack differ significantly from initial accounts by authorities stating that Fakhrizadeh was killed in an assault carried out by gunmen using machine guns and explosives.

The Fars news agency reported more detailed claims on Sunday evening, saying the attack involved the use of a remote-controlled weapon mounted on a car. It said no attackers were present at the time of the assassination.

A report said Fakhrizadeh and his wife were travelling in a bulletproof car along with three vehicles for bodyguards when gunfire hit his car. Fakhrizadeh exited the car to check the damage, the report said, speculating that he may have thought he had hit something.

“At this moment, from a Nissan car that was stopped 150 metres away from the martyr’s car, several shots were fired at the martyr from an automatic remote-controlled machine gun,” the report said, adding that one bullet hit his back.

“Moments later, the same stopped Nissan exploded,” it said, adding that the owner of the car, which it did not identify, had left the country a month ago. It said the weapons may have been controlled by satellite.

The Iranian state-owned broadcaster Press TV cited unidentified “informed sources” as saying remnants from the attack showed Israeli arms had been used to kill Fakhrizadeh.

The Guardian could not independently verify either report, which did not provide evidence, though the technology behind remote-controlled gun stations is established.

Israel has not claimed responsibility or officially commented on the attack.

A retired Israeli intelligence officer said he could not speculate on the feasibility of technology that could carry out a satellite-controlled remote kill, by Israel or any other country.

“I’m no longer in the business,” said Yossi Kuperwasser, a former brigadier general who ran the country’s strategic affairs ministry. He said reports from Iran, which were not backed up by photos, suggested authorities were “wandering around in the dark” in the investigation. 

“They have to show that they are making some progress – that they have some beginnings that they can follow or that they have the upper hand,” he said.

During the past decade, Iran has accused Israel of killing at least five of its nuclear scientists. Fakhrizadeh is considered the most senior and high-profile. Western and Israeli intelligence services had described him for years as the leader of a covert atomic bomb programme halted in 2003.

Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, painted Fakhrizadeh as a central figure in the programme during a 2018 public presentation, accusing Iran of continuing to seek nuclear weapons.

On Monday, Shamkhani, the Iranian official, said there had been so many intelligence reports of a possible attack against Fakhrizadeh that an accurate prediction of Friday’s attack had been ignored.

He said: “Due to the frequency of news during these 20 years, unfortunately, the required seriousness was not applied, and this time they succeeded.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report





No.22 article:
Fears that inquiry into UK race disparities will be a ‘tool for inaction’

Equality groups respond to call for evidence but are sceptical commission will bring change

Equality campaigners have said they do not have confidence in the UK government’s Commission on Race and Ethnic Disparities to deliver changes needed by black, Asian and other minority ethnic communities.

Responding to the commission’s call for evidence, which ends at 11.45pm on Monday, the Coalition of Race Equality organisations (Core) expressed fears that the commission may be a fig leaf for inaction.

In its submission, Core, whose members include Runnymede Trust, Race on the Agenda and Operation Black Vote, states: “In the past, public inquiries and commissions have failed to result in any real systemic change for BME [black and minority ethnic] communities.

“We have raised our concerns from the outset of this commission that it must show a commitment to address issues of structural and systemic racism and should not act as a tool to distract the public from inaction on race equality.”

The commission was set up in response to Black Lives Matters protests but prompted questions as to whether another review was necessary.

Core’s submission says the implementation of recommendations from the McGregor-Smith report into race in the workplace, the Lammy review into bias in the criminal justice system, the Angiolini review into deaths in custody and advancing the rights of GRT (Gypsy, Roma, Traveller) communities would have been a better use of resources.

On announcing the commission, Boris Johnson came in for criticism for saying he wanted to end “the sense of victimisation”. The head of his policy unit, Munira Mirza, who has previously criticised the concept of structural racism, was given the job of setting up the panel. The appointment of Tony Sewell to chair the commission has generated controversy because he has previously warned against the sense of “victimhood” that he believes is engendered by the notion of institutional racism.

The Core submission states: “The government has failed to listen to our concerns about the commission’s terms of reference, its make-up and chair, or our calls to concentrate on issues of structural and systemic racism.”

Despite its reservations, Core has submitted a wide range of suggested solutions to ethnic disparities, covering health, education, crime and policing, economic inequality, democracy and the problems faced by GRT communities,

They include everything from abolishing no recourse to public funds to broadening the national curriculum and scrapping section 163 of the Road Traffic Act, which allows police to stop any vehicle without reason.

A government spokesperson said: “We are confident that the work of the commission will have a positive impact on this country. While a great deal has been learnt from previous reviews, this is the first work of its kind commissioned by the current administration.

“To criticise the work of the commission without any knowledge of what it might find is incredibly counter-productive, particularly when individual Coalition on Race Equality organisations have already engaged with its work.”





No.23 article:
Spain dismantles &#x27;deplorable&#x27; migrant camp in Gran Canaria

Authorities in Canary Islands move hundreds of people from Arguineguín camp

Spanish authorities on the island of Gran Canaria have emptied and begun dismantling the much-criticised dockside camp that was used to house thousands of migrants and refugees, as the Canary Islands continue to struggle with a huge rise in migration.

The makeshift camp was set up in the town of Arguineguín in August amid a surge in the number of people making the dangerous Atlantic journey from Africa to Europe. So far this year, about 20,000 people have arrived by sea in the Canary Islands – 8,000 of them in November alone.

The large volume of people put the archipelago’s reception infrastructure under severe strain and had left the Arguineguín camp accommodating up to 2,600 people in cramped and unsanitary conditions.

On Friday, Spain’s public ombudsman called for the camp to be shut down at once on the grounds that it could be violating people’s basic rights. A judge described conditions in the camp as “deplorable”, while Human Rights Watch said they were “pretty awful”.

Ángel Victor Torres, the regional president of the Canaries, announced that the “unsustainable” camp had been emptied on Sunday and was being taken down.

The people accommodated there were moved to a new a camp in a former military base and to tourist hotels.

“I celebrate [the dismantling], but there’s a lot left to do,” Torres wrote on Twitter. “It’s very important that we make sure these people who have risked their lives on the dangerous Atlantic crossing receive dignified and humane treatment. There also need to be controls in their countries of origin, and we need to fight the mafias and speed up transfers and repatriations.”

The presence of the migrants and refugees had angered some residents, but Torres called for people on the archipelago to think about the islands’ own long history of migration, adding: “There’s no room for racism in the Canaries.”

The mayor of Mogán, the municipality of which Arguineguín is part, said local people’s patience was running out and that the central government needed to move the 6,000 migrants and refugees who are currently being put up in hotels before the end of the year.

Txema Santana, of the Spanish Commission for Refugee Aid, welcomed the closing of the camp but said much more needed to be done.

“EU islands can’t only be a reception area where there are thousands of places [for migrants and refugees],” he said on Monday.

“The plan for the Canaries will fail unless it includes quick, transparent and regular transfers to the Spanish mainland.”

Earlier this month, Judith Sunderland, Human Rights Watch’s acting deputy director for Europe and central Asia, visited the camp and spoke to some people who had been housed on the dock for more than two weeks.

“There are two systemic problems, which are the lack of sufficient reception spaces on the islands and then the failure of the central government to systematically, routinely, and in significant numbers, transfer people to the mainland,” she told the Guardian. “Those are two very clear solutions.”

According to the International Organization for Migration, at least 563 people have died on the Atlantic route in 2020. Eight people died last week when their boat ran into rocks as they attempted to land on Lanzarote.

The UN refugee agency, UNHCR, says the Atlantic route is having a resurgence in popularity because of enduring conflicts, land border closures due to coronavirus and increased controls in some north African countries.





No.24 article:
US company submits data to start approval process with regulators around the world

Final results from the trials of Moderna’s vaccine against Covid-19 confirm it has 94% efficacy and nobody who was vaccinated with it developed severe disease, said the company, kickstarting the approval process with regulators around the world.

The US company is submitting the data to the regulators in the US, Europe and the UK for an emergency licence. It expects the Food and Drug Administration in the US to consider it at its meeting on 17 December, Moderna said.

The UK has bought 7m doses of the vaccine, 5m on the day Moderna announced its interim result of 94.5% efficacy, and a further 2m last week. But supplies of the vaccine to the UK are not expected until March. Moderna, based in Massachusetts, has received $2.48bn in US federal funds and was a key part of the Trump administration’s Operation Warp Speed.

Although the firm has done deals around the world, the US will get access first. Moderna said it expected to have 20m doses of its vaccine ready for use in the US by the end of this year. In August, the US bought 100m doses with an option on 400m more. Moderna says it is on track to manufacture 500m to 1bn doses globally in 2021.

Like Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna has used novel mRNA (messenger RNA) technology to develop its vaccine, involving the genetic code of the virus rather than any killed or weakened part of it. The two companies have announced remarkable and very similar results. Pfizer’s final data analysis gave its vaccine 95% efficacy.

Moderna becomes the third company to pass its data to the regulators for approval, after Pfizer and then Oxford University/AstraZeneca. The UK vaccine has 70% efficacy overall, although among a subset of volunteers given a lower dose, the efficacy surprisingly rose to 90%. That finding will now be trialled in the US, amid concerns that it may be linked to the younger age of the volunteers, who were all under 55 in that arm of the trial.

However, 70% efficacy is enough to be very useful in a pandemic, particularly in countries without the ultra-cold freezers, at -70C to -80C, that are necessary for the Pfizer vaccine. Moderna’s vaccine is said to be stable for a month at ordinary fridge temperatures once out of the freezer, but the cost will be prohibitive in many parts of the world. In August, the company said it was charging $32 (£24) to $37 a dose and defended its right to make commercial returns. The Oxford vaccine will cost less than £3 ($4) a dose. The UK has bought 100m doses of the Oxford vaccine, which will be a core part of its mass immunisation plans.

Moderna’s phase 3 analysis involved 30,000 people in the US, half given the vaccine and half a placebo, and 196 of them became ill. Thirty people became severely ill and one died, but none of those had been given Moderna’s vaccine. The trials included substantial numbers of people in the most at-risk groups, with 7,000 people over 65 and more than 5,000 younger people with chronic diseases, such as diabetes, severe obesity and cardiac disease.

The study included 11,000 people from black, Asian and minority ethnic communities, the company said, which is 37%, the same proportion as in the US population. There were 33 older adults and 42 people from BAME backgrounds in the final analysis. The company said there were no serious side-effects. The most common included sore arms, headaches and fatigue.

The full trial data has not been released, but would be published in a peer-reviewed journal in due course, Moderna said.

“This positive primary analysis confirms the ability of our vaccine to prevent Covid-19 disease with 94.1% efficacy and, importantly, the ability to prevent severe Covid-19 disease. We believe that our vaccine will provide a new and powerful tool that may change the course of this pandemic and help prevent severe disease, hospitalisations and death,” said Stéphane Bancel, chief executive officer of Moderna.

Stephen Evans, professor of pharmacoepidemiology, London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine, said it was important not to pay too much attention to the exact percentage value of the efficacy.

“While the best estimate is 94.1% against all Covid-19 disease, the statistical uncertainty in this is such that the data are compatible with a true efficacy of about 87%,” he said. “This is, of course, still a very good efficacy. Similarly, the 100% efficacy against more severe disease is compatible with an efficacy of 90%, again, this is very good and is some evidence that severe as well as mild disease is prevented.”

There was no evidence the vaccine performed worse in older adults, he said, which was encouraging.

Azra Ghani, professor of infectious disease epidemiology at Imperial College London, said it was good news that nobody given the vaccine developed severe disease. “Whilst this does not exclude some risk of severe disease after vaccination given the relatively small number of severe cases, these results suggest very high efficacy (&gt;85%) against this endpoint,” she said.

She looked forward to the full results, which would include some data on whether the vaccine prevents asymptomatic infections. “Efficacy against this would be very welcome as it would give the first indication of the broader indirect impact that widespread vaccination could have in reducing onward spread,” she said.





No.25 article:
Beavers build first dam in Exmoor in more than 400 years

National Trust footage shows animals collecting vegetation to create ‘instant wetland’

Beavers have built their first dam in Exmoor in more than 400 years after river restoration work by the National Trust.

The semi-aquatic rodents, which constructed the dam at the Holnicote estate near Minehead, are the first to be released into the wild by the trust in its 125-year history.

Footage captured on wildlife cameras shows the animals gnawing trees and collecting vegetation to create the structure across small channels that run through the Somerset estate.

Rangers described the beavers as “ecosystem engineers” because nine months after they were introduced to slow the flow of water through the landscape and improve river quality, they have created an “instant wetland”.

Their construction allows for deep pools of water that offer animals shelter from predators and a place to store food while turning the surrounding land into a mosaic of nature-rich habitats. Beaver dams, ponds and channels help human communities too – by preventing flooding through slowing, storing and filtering water as it flows downstream.

Ben Eardley, the project manager at the National Trust, said: “It might look modest, but this beaver dam is incredibly special – it’s the first to appear on Exmoor for almost half a millennium and marks a step change in how we manage the landscape. What’s amazing is that it’s only been here a few weeks but has created an instant wetland.

“We’ve already spotted kingfishers at the site and, over time, as the beavers extend their network of dams and pools, we should see increased opportunities for other wildlife, including amphibians, insects, bats and birds.”

He said recent rainfall was reminder of the significant role beavers play in engineering the landscape. “As we face the effects of climate change and more frequent extreme weather events, natural interventions like this need to be part of the solution,” Eardley said.

Beavers became extinct in Britain in the 16th century after they were hunted for their meat, fur and scent glands, but since the early 2000s, they have been reintroduced at several sites.

The nature group Rewilding Britain said a big increase in restoring and connecting habitats was needed to help save wildlife forced to move because of climate change, and the reintroduction of beavers was key to helping with this.

The beavers at Holnicote were relocated from wild populations on the River Tay catchment in Scotland, under licence from Scottish Natural Heritage. They settled into a specially built 2.7-acre enclosure on the estate in January and have been monitored by National Trust and Exeter University staff and volunteers.

The project is part of the trust’s Riverlands programme, which aims to revive UK rivers by boosting wildlife, water quality, community engagement and tackling the effects of climate change.

A separate five-year trial on the River Otter in Devon has been hailed a success by the government, which is considering a national strategy for the reintroduction of beavers.





No.26 article:
Is Iran likely to retaliate over assassination of top nuclear scientist?

Analysis: Despite calls to attack Israel, Iran may decide that avoiding conflict is wisest

The assassination of the top Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh in a suspected Israeli operation raises questions over what, if anything, Iran may do to retaliate. 

Iran has had a very long and well-established history of avoiding direct conflict in the region since the end of the Iran-Iraq war in 1988. It is happy, however, to support or operate through proxies, such as Hezbollah, to push its interests and undermine rivals.

What Iran says for domestic consumption in statements by political and military figures and in the Iranian media – calling for Haifa to be bombed, for instance – is usually not reflected by its actions. 

Tehran will see Donald Trump’s time in the White House is limping to an end and may hold out hopes that Joe Biden will want to go back to the nuclear agreement and the easing of crippling sanctions – potentially the bigger prize for Iran. It may well have come to the same conclusion as many US analysts that Fakhrizadeh’s killing was a spoiler aimed at Biden’s new foreign policy.

While it would be foolish to rule it out completely, Iran avoided a major escalation following the US assassination earlier this year of the revered Quds forces commander Qassem Suleimani – arguably a more important figure – with a limited missile strike at bases housing US forces in Iraq

The US has long said an Iranian attack on Israel would trigger a military response from it and Tehran knows this. There is not much evidence on the ground in terms of US naval deployments or Israel moving anti-missile batteries that anyone is anticipating a rapid escalation.

The Trump administration’s recent decision to draw down troops from Iraq and Afghanistan is not indicative of a great appetite for a fresh entanglement in the Middle East, even if Trump has reportedly asked about bombing Iran.

Iran could retaliate via a proxy such as Hezbollah on Israel’s northern border in Syria and Lebanon, perhaps targeting Israeli troops. As with the response to the killing of Suleimani at Baghdad airport, this is may be very limited. A retaliatory assassination is also a possibility down the line.

But while a small-scale retaliation is a possibility, Biden’s inauguration in a matter of weeks may limit it to just that.





No.27 article:
Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh given martyr status

Tehran holds state funeral for Fakhrizadeh, who it says was killed remotely using ‘electronic devices’

Iran has bestowed martyr status on the nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh at a full state funeral in Tehran, vowing to redouble his work after an assassination blamed on its arch-foe Israel.

In footage carried by state TV, Fakhrizadeh’s casket was shown surrounded by flowers and pictures of him, alongside portraits of Qassem Suleimani, the commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps killed by a US drone strike in Baghdad in January.

An honour guard carried Fakhrizadeh’s body to a podium, where reciters read the Qur’an and other religious verses in an outdoor area of the defence ministry.

Officials, including the defence minister, Gen Amir Hatami, attended the ceremony, sitting apart from each other and wearing masks because of the coronavirus pandemic. Owing to the scale of the pandemic in Iran, the crowds were kept largely socially distanced and relatively small.

Fakhrizadeh died after an elaborately planned ambush on Friday on the outskirts of Tehran.

Ali Shamkhani, the secretary of the country’s supreme national security council, accused Israel on Monday of using “electronic devices” in the attack. “Unfortunately, the operation was a very complicated operation and was carried out by using electronic devices. No individual was present at the site,” he said.

The semi-official Fars news agency also claimed that were no assailants at the scene and that Fakhrizadeh was fired on by an automatic remote-controlled machine-gun, placed in a pickup car 150 metres away. Two bullets hit him in the side and one in the back, Fars claimed, and a bodyguard that came to cover him was also shot multiple times.

Fars said the entire operation lasted no more than three minutes, and ended with the pickup car exploding. Other news sites claimed the weapons were activated by satellites.

The claims drastically change the story of Fakhrizadeh’s killing. Authorities initially said a lorry exploded and then gunmen opened fire on the scientist, killing him. State TV even interviewed a man on the night of the attack who described seeing gunmen open fire.

Iranian state TV claimed on Monday, without providing evidence, that a weapon recovered from the scene bore “the logo and specifications of the Israeli military industry”.

None of the outlets offered evidence supporting their claims, which also give authorities a way to explain why no one was reportedly arrested at the scene, or how a foreign backed hit squad could operate on Iranian soil.

Iranian intelligence agencies have come under pressure to explain how such a prominent figure could have been assassinated in broad daylight on a highway so close to the capital. 

Officials have tried to put a lid on the debate by urging political parties not to use the scientist’s death as an opportunity to settle factional scores or jockey for position ahead of the presidential elections next year.

The killing of Fakhrizadeh – described by Israel as the “father” of Iran’s nuclear weapons programme – has once more heightened tensions between Tehran and its foes, with Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, accusing Israel of acting as Washington’s “mercenary”.

Israel, long suspected of killing Iranian nuclear scientists over the last decade, has declined to comment on the killing.

Iran has always denied it has any interest in developing nuclear weapons, saying its research was for peaceful purposes. This claim was reiterated by Hatami on Monday, who also vowed: “No crime, no assassination and no stupid act will go unanswered by the Iranian people. They must know that they will be punished for their actions.”

As a symbol of Iran’s defiance, Hatami said the defence ministry’s research and innovation budget had been doubled next year. Fakhrizadeh had led the research department.

Rouhani has stressed his country would seek its revenge for the assassination in “due time” and not be rushed into a “trap”, with less than two months to go before the US president, Donald Trump, leaves office after four hawkish years at the White House.

The US president-elect, Joe Biden, has promised a return to diplomacy with Iran, after Trump unilaterally withdrew from the Iran nuclear deal in 2018 and began reimposing crippling sanctions.

The Iranian parliament has said all future UN inspections of Iran’s nuclear sites should be ended as a result of the assassination.

The response suggests the nuclear deal, already breached by Iran by breaking the agreed limits on enriched uranium stockpiles, is going to come under severe pressure in the coming weeks as Iran responds to the attack. 

The parliament said Iran should withdraw from so-called additional protocol – the measure that gives the UN weapons inspectors from the IAEA access to Iran’s nuclear sites. The existing signatories to the nuclear deal – Iran, France, Germany the UK, Russia and China – will meet in Vienna on 16 December to discuss how to preserve the deal, and whether Europe can pave the way for the US to rejoin the deal.

Donald Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, is visiting the Middle East this week, reportedly in an attempt to persuade Saudi Arabia and Qatar to end their three-year geopolitical dispute, which has split the Gulf Cooperation Council, and shown Arab states pointing in different foreign policy directions.

Kushner is to meet the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, in the Saudi city of Neom, and the emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani in that country in the coming days. The assassination has so far been condemned by Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Kuwait, but not by Saudi Arabia.





No.28 article:
US star joined campaign for Kaavan to be moved from Islamabad zoo accused of substandard care

An elephant described as the “world’s loneliest” has landed in Cambodia after a seven-hour flight from Pakistan, receiving a warm welcome from Cher, who will accompany him to a sanctuary housing potential mates.

The case of Kaavan – an overweight, 36-year-old bull elephant – prompted global uproar from animal rights groups, who petitioned for him to be moved from an Islamabad zoo accused of substandard care and conditions.

His cause was boosted by a social media campaign from Cher, who travelled to Pakistan to see him off.

Wearing a black face mask, the singer was on hand at Siem Reap airport and waved excitedly at the plane after it landed at about 2.30pm (0730 GMT) on Monday.

“I am so proud he is here,” she told AFP, after greeting Kaavan through an opening at the base of the crate. “He’s going to be really happy here,” added Cher, saying she was hopeful his ordeal was now over.

Kaavan’s much-anticipated journey was “uneventful”, said Amir Khalil, a veterinarian from the animal welfare group Four Paws, adding he behaved “like a frequent flyer”. “Kaavan was eating, was not stressed – he was even a little bit sleeping, standing, leaning at the crate wall,” he said.

Once the sole Asian elephant in Pakistan, Kaavan will be transported from Siem Reap to the neighbouring province of Oddar Meanchey, where a wildlife sanctuary with about 600 other elephants will be his new home.

“Cambodia is pleased to welcome Kaavan. No longer will he be ‘the world’s loneliest elephant,’” the country’s deputy environment minister, Neth Pheaktra, said. “We expect to breed Kaavan with local elephants – this is an effort to conserve the genetic fold.”

Before Kaavan was transported to the sanctuary, monks offered him bananas and watermelon, chanting prayers and sprinkling holy water on his crate to bless him.

His journey is the culmination of years of campaigning from animal rights groups, which say the animal’s behaviour in captivity demonstrated “a kind of mental illness” likely due to the zoo’s woeful conditions.

In May, a Pakistani judge ordered that all the animals at the zoo be moved.

Upon hearing about Kaavan’s freedom, Cher had tweeted that the decision marked “one of the greatest moments” of her life.

A team of vets and experts from the Austria-based Four Paws spent months working with Kaavan to get him ready for the trip – a complicated process due to his size and the amount of food needed en route. The elephant also had to be taught to enter the massive metal crate that was placed in a cargo plane for the seven-hour flight.

Four Paws, along with Islamabad authorities, also safely moved three wolves and some monkeys from the zoo. Only two Himalayan brown bears, one deer and one monkey remain.





No.29 article:
Morrison government’s updated Covidsafe app unlikely to improve results, experts say

Tech community has criticised government for failing to engage on new changes given app’s poor track record

Technology experts have criticised the federal government for not using Apple and Google’s contact-tracing system in an overhaul of the Covidsafe app it announced on Monday, with one cryptographer saying they would be “astounded” if the upgrade performs as well as the framework being used in other countries.

Experts have also criticised the government for not engaging with the tech community before announcing the app’s central change – which largely focuses on using a new Bluetooth protocol – given the app’s poor track record since its release.

On Monday, health minister Greg Hunt and government services minister Stuart Robert announced the Covidsafe app will incorporate a Bluetooth protocol called Herald to improve performance and help better identify potential close contacts of positive Covid-19 cases.

The government made the code for the update publicly available on Github on Monday to allow feedback to be provided before it is released for Apple and Google devices.

However Dr Vanessa Teague, a cryptography academic at the Australian National University, accused the government of “dumping” the central change on the tech community “without engaging on a fact-based discussion about what the options are”.

Teague said that while previously Covidsafe appeared to struggle detecting and recording some interactions, especially between different phone operating systems when the app was running in the background, the government’s update does not use an Apple and Google API which moves Bluetooth communication between devices to the operating system layer.

“I don’t know whether this will improve interaction detection, it might do so a bit, but I’d be astounded if it improved recording of interactions as much as the Apple and Google option,” she said.

Teague, who is also chief executive of independent research group Thinking Cybersecurity, said it is “getting harder and harder to continue with the argument” for Australia to not adopt the Apple and Google model that has been taken up in the British, Swiss and other governments’ apps.

Teague said it was still unclear what had been causing the problems with Australia’s Covidsafe app, and while the Herald Bluetooth protocol could improve some device to device issues, there may also be server problems.

Teague noted the existing Covidsafe app framework might continue to appeal to the government because the Apple and Google approach doesn’t build a central database of close contacts of confirmed cases.

A spokesman for Robert told Guardian Australia “the Apple/Google platform puts health information in the hands of the IT companies, and is not covered by the current privacy legislation – which received bipartisan support”.

The spokesman also said the the Apple Google platform “offers less device compatibility compared to Covidsafe”.

Jim Mussared, a researcher who alerted the government’s Digital Transformation Agency to flaws he discovered in the Covidsafe app earlier in the year when the code was released online, said there wasn’t “conclusive” evidence the Herald changes would be more effective than using the Apple and Google system.

“Australia is continuing to do their own thing when so many other countries have seen the light and gone with the Apple-Google system,” he said.

Mussared said while the new Herald protocol appears to be better designed, the app “still has this approach of trying to fight against the phone’s operating system”.

“The approach is not designed to work in the first place, with our sophisticated way of tricking the operating system to do things you want. It’s especially frustrating as Apple and Google have given us a way of solving this problem.”

Mussared said the government-released code on Monday didn’t have accompanying documentation explaining the changes, and that “just publishing code and saying ‘have at it’ is not how you get feedback form the tech community”.

Dr Alwen Tiu, an associate professor at ANU’s College of Engineering and Computer Science, said while the Herald protocol appeared to improve the information recorded about Bluetooth signal strength – a measure of distance between users – he “absolutely” supports using the Apple-Google framework.

In announcing the upgrade, Robert said the code would also be made available internationally so other countries could use it.

Federal officials last month told Senate estimates the app had identified just 17 people not picked up through manual contact tracing.

Labor’s health spokesman, Chris Bowen, said the app had delivered “bugger all” over the past six months.

“After months of arrogantly telling us the CovidSafe app was working just fine, and rejecting all suggestions for improvements, now the Morrison government is starting again,” he said.

With Australian Associated Press





No.30 article:
Pandemic-related unrest has been growing in country’s overcrowded prisons

At least eight inmates were killed and 71 others injured when guards opened fire to control a riot over coronavirus conditions at a prison on the outskirts of Sri Lanka’s capital, officials have said.

Two guards were critically injured.

Pandemic-related unrest has been growing in Sri Lanka’s overcrowded prisons. Inmates at several prisons have staged protests in recent weeks as the number of coronavirus cases surges inside the facilities.

The police spokesman Ajith Rohana said inmates created “unrest” on Sunday at Mahara prison, about 10 miles (15km) north of Colombo. “The unrest situation turned into a prison riot,” he said, adding that prisoners tried to take control of the prison and hundreds attempted to escape.

The prison reforms minister, Sudarshini Fernandopulle, told parliament that guards had no choice to open fire to prevent a break-out. “Unfortunately, eight inmates have been killed,” she said. “Prison authorities have moved in and taken full control, but the inmates have caused extensive damage to property.”

Medical sources said 71 inmates were admitted to the nearby Ragama military hospital, most with gunshot wounds.

The riot at the overcrowded jail, holding nearly 10,000 prisoners, began when inmates broke out of their cells to protest after the number of coronavirus infections passed 180.

An inmate was killed in similar unrest at another prison last week, trying to scale the wall of a jail in the central Bogambara region. Another died in March.

More than a thousand inmates in five prisons have tested positive for coronavirus and at least two have died. About 50 prison guards have also tested positive.

Senaka Perera, a lawyer with the Committee for Protecting Rights of Prisoners, said the inmates at Mahara prison had been frustrated because their pleas for coronavirus testing and separation of infected prisoners had been ignored by officials for more than a month.

On Monday, about 500 relatives of inmates gathered in front of the prison and urged the authorities to provide information about the prisoners and ensure their safety. Sujeewa Silva said her son has been detained at the facility for seven months after being arrested on drug charges. “I want to know whether he is safe. I asked the officer: please tell me the condition of my son,” she said.

Sri Lankan prisons are highly congested with more than 26,000 inmates crowded into facilities with a capacity of 10,000.

Sri Lanka has experienced a surge in the coronavirus since last month when two clusters – one centred at a garment factory and another at a fish market – emerged in Colombo and its suburbs. Confirmed cases from the two clusters have reached 19,449. Sri Lanka has reported a total number of 22,988 coronavirus cases, including 109 deaths.

The Associated Press and Agence France-Presse contributed to this report





No.31 article:
Australian MPs unite to condemn &#x27;grossly insulting&#x27; Chinese government tweet

Inflammatory image posted by foreign ministry spokesman draws revulsion across political spectrum but disagreement on Australia’s response

An inflammatory tweet by China’s foreign ministry spokesman about alleged war crimes in Afghanistan has emboldened hawkish Australian politicians who are pushing for Canberra to take an even stronger stand against Beijing.

One human rights campaigner accused the Chinese government of being “breathtakingly, gobsmackingly hypocritical” given its own record in places including Xinjiang and Hong Kong.

Other analysts said Zhao Lijian, the spokesman of China’s foreign ministry, was “one of the first voices of wolf warrior diplomacy” and Beijing was unlikely to apologise.

Zhao’s tweet, posted on Monday, seized on a report from a four-year-long official investigation into the conduct of Australian special forces soldiers in Afghanistan, saying he was “shocked by murder of Afghan civilians &amp; prisoners by Australian soldiers”.

The tweet was accompanied by a faked image that appears to depict an Australian soldier cutting the throat of a young civilian holding a sheep, together with the words: “Don’t be afraid, we are coming to bring you peace!”

Scott Morrison’s government swiftly demanded an apology from the Chinese government and for the “repugnant” post to be pulled down.

That request was communicated through a snap press conference by the Australian prime minister, along with a phone call from the foreign affairs department chief to the Chinese ambassador in Australia. Australian diplomats were asked to make representations to their counterparts in Beijing.

The independent South Australian senator, Rex Patrick, called on the Morrison government to go further and to expel about two-thirds of China’s 143 diplomats and consular staff, saying its presence was considerably more than any other country had in Australia.

Patrick described the tweet as a “grossly insulting attack” and said it left “little doubt that the Chinese Communist regime has no interest in improving relations with Australia at this time”.

He said cutting the diplomatic presence would send “an unambiguous message to the Chinese foreign ministry that we won’t accept their outrageous behaviour and we’re prepared to match words with action that directly impacts on their interests”.

“China’s ‘diplomacy’ is now little more than abuse and Australian ministers are ignored by their Chinese counterparts,” Patrick said. “China’s diplomats are not working to build good relations – quite the contrary.

“While China could be expected to retaliate against Australia’s diplomatic presence in China, the current state of bilateral relations is such that Australia’s diplomats are effectively excluded from Chinese government decision makers anyway.”

The New South Wales Coalition backbencher Concetta Fierravanti-Wells pushed for a radical move to try to extricate Australia from its economic reliance on China – which remains the country’s largest trading partner, even as a series of trade actions has strained ties.

“The tweet was appalling but not surprising given Beijing’s history of bellicose and illegal actions across many fronts,” she said. “It reinforces my warnings against the CCP over a long period of time and my calls for us to decouple from China.”

Others sought a more measured response. Trent Zimmerman, an MP from the Liberal party’s moderate wing, said the tweet would appal Australians and shock the international community. He told Sky News the tweet would likely “end up being an own goal for China”.

Labor’s foreign affairs spokeswoman, Penny Wong, joined the government in condemning the action by the Chinese government as “gratuitous, inflammatory and deeply offensive”.

Wong – who has previously called on the Morrison government to take a stronger leadership role in handling the China relationship – said the tweet was “not the behaviour of a responsible, mature international power”.

She said the allegations in the Brereton report about special forces in Afghanistan had “horrified Australia”, but added: “What sets us apart is the dignified, transparent and accountable manner of our response. That is what happens within the Australian democracy.”

Analysts noted Zhao’s record of using Twitter “to mock and troll governments and researchers outside of China”. Natasha Kassam, a research fellow at the Sydney-based Lowy Institute, described Zhao as an original voice of wolf warrior diplomacy.

“In March he tried to blame the Covid-19 pandemic on the United States army, and is yet to apologise or delete that tweet, although it has been labelled by Twitter,” Kassam said. “In China today, this kind of signalling is often aimed at an audience of one – Xi Jinping.”

Kassam said Zhao’s “vile tweet” about Australians soldiers accused of war crimes was not likely to be official government policy but there had been an ongoing push from Beijing to publicise human rights abuses abroad in an attempt to expose hypocrisy of those who dared to criticise China’s policies.

She noted that China was unlikely to back down and Morrison was “likely to be waiting a long time” for the apology he was requesting.

The controversy about the tweet had served to sideline discussion about the significant wine tariffs announced by China late last week, Kassam said.

Elaine Pearson, the director of Human Rights Watch in Australia, told Guardian Australia the tweet was “breathtakingly, gobsmackingly hypocritical”.

“Obviously war crimes are a very serious matter but the Australian government has taken steps to make that public and hold perpetrators to account,” Pearson said.

“Meanwhile you have the Chinese government engaged in widespread, systematic human rights violations that have been repeatedly raised by UN experts, from dismantling democracy in Hong Kong, to arbitrarily detaining 1 million of its citizens in Xinjiang. What steps is the Chinese government taking?”

Pearson said if China “wants to play the game of calling out human rights concerns publicly”, it needs to accept that foreign governments are “quite rightly raising their own concerns with China”.

Comment has been sought from the Chinese embassy in Australia. Hu Xijin, the editor-in-chief of China’s nationalistic state media outlet the Global Times, tweeted that Morrison had no right to feel angry over “the use of this cartoon” and the calls for an apology were “ridiculous and shameless”.

The Australian government reaffirmed on Monday its push for a return to ministerial and leader-level talks to resolve the tensions between the two countries.





No.32 article:
The rubber duck revolution – in pictures

Ducks have become a symbol of Thailand’s pro-democracy protests in Bangkok after demonstrators used them as shields against police water cannon and teargas 





No.33 article:
Monday briefing: 'Worst is over,' Johnson tells MPs

PM tries to stave off tier rebellion as NHS plans celebrity vaccine blitz … farming in England faces historic shake-up … and Joe Biden’s dog mishap 

by  Martin Farrer

Morning everyone. I’m Martin Farrer and these are the top stories you need to get up to speed this morning.

Boris Johnson will today set out an impact assessment of coronavirus restrictions in an effort to convince his backbenchers to support the introduction of a new tier system in a crucial Commons vote tomorrow. The prime minister has written to the Covid Recovery Group of MPs to allay concerns about the economic impact of the new tier restrictions structure planned for England when the national lockdown ends this week, telling them that he believes the “worst is over”. He will point to data showing that infections in England have fallen by a third during the lockdown, with new cases in the north-west halving. However, dozens of MPs are still expected to abstain or vote against the measures, which will see 99% of the population placed under the top two tiers of restrictions. In order to prepare the country for mass vaccination against Covid-19, the NHS is planning to enlist “sensible” celebrities to make the case for having the jab amid concerns of a low take-up. Marcus Rashford, the Manchester United footballer who has championed the extension of free school meals in holiday time, could be one of the faces of the campaign, along with members of the royal family.

In the US, Dr Anthony Fauci, the country’s top infectious diseases expert, warned that Americans faced “surge upon surge” of new cases in the wake of the Thanksgiving holiday. More than 4 million Americans contracted Covid in November. In Australia, food waste has skyrocketed thanks to pandemic-related panic buying, a report claims, with households throwing away 13% of their food. Follow all the overnight developments in the pandemic at our live blog here.

Sunak questions – The wife of the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, owns 5% of a restaurant business that funnelled investments through the tax haven of Mauritius, in a structure that could allow its backers to avoid taxes in India. International Market Management is hoping to build a chain of dozens of restaurants across India via franchise agreements with Jamie Oliver and the American fast food brand Wendy’s. The involvement of Akshata Murty has emerged from an investigation by the Guardian into a range of financial assets held by Sunak and his close family, many of which have not been declared in the official register of ministers’ interests. The government ethics watchdog has been asked to assess whether Sunak has breached the ministerial code.

Pastures new – Farming in England faces its biggest shake-up in 50 years under plans laid out by the government today as it prepares for post-Brexit agricultural policy. The £1.6bn subsidy farmers receive every year for simply owning land will be phased out by 2028, with the funds used instead to pay them to restore wild habitats, create new woodlands, boost soils and cut pesticide use. The wealthiest landowners will face the sharpest cuts, starting with 25% in 2021.

Arcadia threat – Sir Philip Green, boss of the Arcadia retail empire, has been urged by MPs to dip into his personal fortune to plug a gap in the company’s pension fund ahead of the group’s expected collapse into administration. The group that includes high street fixtures such as Topshop, Miss Selfridge, Dorothy Perkins and Burton is expected to enter administration today after the failure to secure a rescue deal at the weekend. The collapse of the business, with the potential loss of 13,000 jobs, would be the biggest corporate failure of the pandemic and a huge personal blow for Green, one of Britain’s most controversial business chiefs.

Pyrenees search – Police are searching the French Pyrenees for a British woman who has gone missing after going for a solo hike in the mountaisn along the Spanish border. Esther Dingley, 37, who has been travelling around the continent for six years with her partner, Dan Colegate, was last heard from a week ago. Colegate had stayed in the French region of Gascony while she went on the trek. “I need her back. I can’t face the alternative,” he wrote on Facebook on Saturday.

Major problem – US president-elect Joe Biden has broken his foot while playing with his dog. It was initially reported that Biden, who is 78, had only suffered a sprain after the incident on Saturday, but later tests revealed a fracture. The dog, a German shepherd called Major, was adopted by Biden and his wife in 2018. Despite the drama, Biden named an all-female media team as he prepares to receive his first presidential intelligence briefing later today. Kate Bedingfield, the communications director of Biden’s successful run for the White House, will be White House communications director, and Jen Psaki, a longtime Democratic spokeswoman, will be his press secretary. The outgoing president, Donald Trump, has lashed out at judges after another court setback in his legal attempts to reverse the election result.

Guardian US reporter Sam Levin has been speaking to Bounchan Keola, who is being detained by US immigration authorities and is facing deportation to Laos, a country he left when he was four, despite having risked his life to fight wildfires in California this year

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/27-67006-20201130tiffires.mp3 

She hit the big time playing the high-powered political fixer Olivia Pope in Scandal. Kerry Washington tells Ellen E Jones about her real political activism on the campaign trail for Kamala Harris and her fellow Democrats, begging the question of what someone who lives and breathes politics is doing in Ryan Murphy’s musical The Prom.

Romain Grosjean’s remarkable escape from a violent, high-speed accident at the Bahrain Grand Prix, won by Lewis Hamilton, has been hailed as a testament to Formula One’s pursuit of safety. Daniel Ricciardo, the Renault driver, blasted the “Hollywood” coverage of the crash and said he was disgusted by Formula One showing endless replays while drivers were waiting for the race to restart. Edinson Cavani, who came on at the break, struck twice as Manchester United came from two goals down at half-time to win 3-2 at Southampton. But the Uruguayan could face a three-game ban if the FA deems that he used discriminatory or racist language in an Instagram story shared from his account after the match. José Mourinho said Tottenham were “just a pony” and not a horse in the Premier League title race despite his side moving back to the top of the table with a 0-0 at Chelsea. Striker Raúl Jiménez was conscious and responding to treatment by the time he reached hospital after a sickening collision with David Luiz during Wolves’ 2-1 win at Arsenal.

Dawid Malan returned to the scene of his first-class debut to help England claim a low-scoring four-wicket win over South Africa, sealing the Twenty20 series with one match to spare and further underlining his own value to the side. England’s Autumn Nations Cup final against France on Sunday is in danger of descending into farce after Les Bleus named a desperately depleted squad for the Twickenham showdown. Wales’ Nick Tompkins has apologised to supporters for the lack of attacking rugby in the tournament. Diego Maradona’s personal physician has denied responsibility for the former footballer’s death after police raided his home and surgery on Sunday, seizing laptops, medical records and mobile devices. And Papa Bouba Diop, the former Senegal midfielder who scored the first goal of the 2002 World Cup against France, has died at the age of 42.

Telecoms firms have been told they must stop installing Huawei equipment in the UK’s 5G networks from next September. The digital secretary, Oliver Dowden, has set out a roadmap to remove what the government deems to be high-risk vendors such as the Chinese technology conglomerate ahead of the telecommunications (security) bill coming before parliament. The FTSE100 will open down around 0.3% this morning, according to futures trade. The pound is worth $1.334 and €1.114.

The Guardian leads with “NHS to use celebrities in drive to encourage Covid vaccine take-up” while the Telegraph takes a different Covid-related line – “Cash for restaurants and pubs to quell revolt”. The Express splashes on Boris Johnson’s latest attempts to rally the nation – “PM: ‘Unity and resolve’ will help beat virus” – and the Star reports how military intelligence officers will be deployed to counter anti-vaccine propaganda on social media. “Army to smash vaccine bandits”, it claims. 

The Mail claims victory in its campaign to raise money for hospitals – “How you made Britain proud”– and the Mirror exhorts the nation to go on a spending spree: “Go shop for Britain”. The FT leads with “Brussels pitches sweeping reboot of US relations in post-Trump era”, while the Times plumps for the farming shakeup: “Brexit will transform our fields and farms”.

The Guardian morning briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.34 article:
Exclusive: Akshata Murty owns 5% of IMM, which used structure that could reduce taxes payable in India 

The wife of the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, is a shareholder in a restaurants business that funnelled investments through a letterbox company in the tax haven of Mauritius, in a structure that could allow its backers to avoid taxes in India.

The business, International Market Management (IMM), is hoping to build a chain of dozens of restaurants across India, via franchise agreements with the celebrity chef Jamie Oliver and the American fast food brand Wendy’s.

The involvement of Sunak’s wife, Akshata Murty, has emerged from an investigation by the Guardian into a range of financial assets held by Sunak and his close family, many of which have not been declared in the official register of ministers’ interests.

Murty invested in IMM, which was set up in 2014, alongside some of the best-known names in UK hedge fund circles. Before entering parliament, Sunak worked in hedge funds, eventually co-founding the US arm of the Cayman Islands registered Thélème Partners.

IMM is chaired by David Stewart, who was previously chief executive of the fund headed by Crispin Odey, a leading backer of a no-deal Brexit.

Stewart raised financing for the venture from a group of wealthy friends and acquaintances, with Odey Asset Management taking 20% of the shares and Hugh Sloane, a founder of the Sloane Robinson fund, taking a 30% share. Murty, the daughter of one of India’s best-known entrepreneurs, spent £500,000 on a 5% share, according to documents seen by the Guardian.

Each of the investors holds shares in IMM, which is a UK-registered company. Instead of investing directly in the two Indian subsidiaries that operate the restaurants, IMM funnelled the money raised from its shareholders through an intermediary company in Mauritius.

After reviewing the IMM structure, experts from the Indian Revenue Service and the Independent Commission for the Reform of International Corporate Taxation, a campaign group, concluded the arrangement could reduce the taxes payable on any profits in India.

If the business is sold, there will be no tax on any capital gain in India. Had IMM invested directly, it would have been liable to pay the Indian government 20% on any capital gain, at current rates. The setup also reduces the amount of tax payable on dividends in India, from 10% to 5%.

It seems IMM’s administrators were aware of the tax advantages when they set up their intermediary company, IMMASSOCIATES Mauritius, according to papers seen by the Guardian. A form filled in for the offshore services firm that acted for them asked: “Will the company be seeking to take advantage of Mauritius’ network of double taxation agreements?” IMM’s administrators ticked the box for “yes”, and the box for “India”.

The IMM chief executive, Jasper Reid, who manages the venture from New Delhi, said: “This is a standard approach to companies investing in India and is nothing out of the ordinary.” Murty and Odey Asset Management declined to comment. Sloane did not respond to a request for comment.

“If the minimising of Indian tax revenues is ‘standard’ for British investors, that’s not a justification, it’s a condemnation,” said Alex Cobham, the chief executive of the campaign group Tax Justice Network. “India needs its tax revenues for schools and hospitals. We must hope that the chancellor himself is committed to the progressive taxation of wealth and top incomes, or the UK will only see the deepening of the stark individual, racial, gender and regional inequalities that the pandemic has laid bare.”

IMM’s tax structure is legal, but controversial. The use of Mauritius as a conduit for capital into India has become notorious. A collection of islands in the Indian Ocean, with a population of 1.3 million, the small state is one of the largest sources of foreign investment into India.

By setting up letterbox companies in Mauritius – essentially shell companies with no staff and no trading activity – investors can channel money from Indian businesses to the tax haven. Investments routed through Mauritius are estimated to have cost India between $10bn and $15bn over the last 20 years in lost capital gains tax, dividends tax, and tax on interest and royalty payments.

The system has been used by foreign investors, but also by Indian nationals, who essentially send their funds on a round trip. There is no suggestion Murty was round-tripping her investment.

Murty’s family fortune comes from India, where her father co-founded the IT company Infosys. She is now resident in the UK.

“The Mauritian route to investing in India had been a reason for concern for the Indian government and civil society for decades,” said Neeti Biyani, of the non-profit Centre for Budget and Government Accountability. “This trend has caused developing countries like India to lose out on crucial revenue, that could have been used for realising human rights, funding public services and financing development.”

Tax revenues lost thanks to offshore arrangements are said to have hampered India’s ability to meet its child rights obligations. In an effort to shut down the loophole, the Indian government renegotiated its tax treaty with Mauritius last year. However, because IMM invested before 2017, it should still benefit from the terms of the previous treaty, experts said.

Any tax advantage is theoretical at the moment, as the latest company filings in India show IMM’s restaurants have yet to make a profit. The investors would also be liable for personal taxes on any income earned. In the UK, these could be as high as 38% for top-bracket earners receiving dividends.

However, the owners are optimistic. According to the latest accounts, the subsidiary operating the Wendy’s burger bars is “poised for rapid expansion”, and plans to grow to 50 outlets over the next five years.





No.35 article:
New Zealand media giant Stuff apologises for &#x27;racist&#x27; past reporting

Outlet promises to ‘do better in the future’, admitting that it seldom treated Māori fairly

New Zealand media giant Stuff has issued a public apology for its portrayal of Māori it says has ranged from blinkered to racist, from its first editions until now.

Its mea culpa follows an investigation by 20 of its journalists into its journalism throughout its history.

“The media often talks about its role in holding the powerful to account. That includes ourselves,” tweeted Stuff chief executive, Sinead Boucher, who in May bought the company for $1 from Australia’s Nine Entertainment.

Boucher said this was not an exercise in political correctness or about being “woke” but imperative for the company “to be a trusted partner for tangata whenua [people of the land] for generations to come”.

The monocultural nature of Stuff’s journalism meant it was seldom fair to Māori, Stuff’s editorial director, Mark Stevens, said in an editorial: “Our coverage of Māori issues over the last 160 years ranged from racist to blinkered.”

“We are sorry. But apologies are hollow without a commitment to do better in the future.

A banner headline – No matou te he [We are sorry] – appeared on its website and front page of its daily newspapers which includes The Dominion Post in Wellington and The Press in Christchurch, the second and third-highest circulation dailies.

The race relations commissioner, Meng Foon, called Stuff’s apology “courageous” and a “unique moment”. 

Stuff’s reports meant thousands of New Zealanders were seeing for the first time how media reports distorted, or negatively shaped, Pākehā views of Māori, Foon said.

“I will be asking other media to look at what Stuff is doing. All traditional media and social media companies have obligations and responsibilities to mitigate against racism.”

NZME, owner of numerous radio stations and news titles including the New Zealand Herald, has been open about challenges in reporting on issues facing Māori, managing editor Shayne Currie said. This included an article which explored the Herald’s failure to properly examine how racism plays a role in the organisation.

It has since appointed a head of diversity and partnered with Māori Television to share content and development opportunities. “While we have been open regarding the challenges we are facing and accepted criticism … there’s a lot more for us to do,” Currie said.

Television New Zealand management didn’t have an immediate response to Stuff’s investigation but a spokeswoman said it was working on a “Rautaki [strategy] Māori which will underpin how we reflect Māori perspectives, language and culture”.

Foon said a lack of knowledge about the country’s colonial history had hamstrung Māori-Pākehā race relations and he was pleased the government has mandated the teaching of Aotearoa’s history in schools from 2022.

Media commentator Dr Gavin Ellis applauded Stuff’s initiative. Retrospection and introspection was healthy, if uncommon in the media, said Ellis, a former editor in chief of the New Zealand Herald.

“However, they need to be seen as learning experiences and not as self-flagellation.

“Journalism is practiced in the historical context of the time and we should not see our journalistic forebears as monsters out of step with their society,” Ellis said.

Ellis said Stuff’s investigation would help all journalists turn a new page: “This comprehensive investigation and bi-lingual apology made me sad for the many misdeeds but proud that these journalists have held themselves to account and committed to a different future.”

Stuff’s project, Tā Mātou Pono, Our Truth, examined all digital and all print publications as well as letters to the editor.

It found its outlets had “been racist, contributed to stigma, marginalisation and stereotypes against Māori”.

In the 1800s there were references to an “inferior race” but Stuff’s reporting has marginalised Māori this century too and treated them as “other”.

“Our language often split New Zealand into two – Kiwis and Māori … us and them,” Stevens said.

The company said Stuff, which has begun to translate its stories into te reo Māori, was planning a second part to the investigation which will “focus on Aotearoa and how our racist past has made us who we are today”.

There has long been criticism that schoolchildren are not taught a balanced or thorough history of their country.

The Waitangi Tribunal was set up in 1975 to provide a legal process by which Māori claims of breaches of the country’s founding document, the Treaty of Waitangi, could be investigated and findings contribute to the resolution of outstanding issues between Māori and the Crown.





No.36 article:
White Island volcano: New Zealand authorities charge 13 parties over disaster

Ten parties charged under health and safety laws and three charged as directors or individuals over Whakaari explosion which killed 22

New Zealand’s workplace safety watchdog has charged 13 parties as part of its investigation into last December’s White Island/Whakaari volcano eruption. Twenty two people died in the disaster and almost one year on, several survivors are still undergoing treatment for their injuries.

The volcano erupted while 47 people were on the island – including several tour groups and their guides. The 22 victims were from Australia, New Zealand, Germany, China, Britain and Malaysia.

Ten parties face charges under the Health and Safety at Work Act which carries a maximum fine of $1.5m (US$1.06m).

Three individuals are charged as directors or individuals who were required to exercise due diligence to ensure the company meets its health and safety obligations. These charges each carry a maximum fine of $300,000. The charges have been laid by WorkSafe, the country’s workplace health and safety regulator.

“This was an unexpected event, but that does not mean it was unforeseeable and there is a duty on operators to protect those in their care,” WorkSafe chief executive Phil Parkes said during a press conference on Monday.

“We investigated whether those with any involvement in taking tourists to the island were meeting their obligations under the Health and Safety at Work Act 2015. We consider that these 13 parties did not meet those obligations.

“Those who went to the island, did so with the reasonable expectation that there were appropriate systems in place to ensure they made it home healthy and safe,” Parkes said.

He said New Zealand must ensure that “our mothers, fathers, children and friends come home to us healthy and safe at the end of each day.”

Parkes said he could not respond to the question of whether tourists should have been visiting the island at all as that would be covered in the court case.

Two Government agencies, GNS Science, which is responsible for monitoring volcanic activity, and the National Emergency Management Agency, which provides leadership in reducing risk, being ready for, responding to and recovering from emergencies, have volunteered that they are among those charged.

In a statement on its website, GNS Science said it had yet to learn details of the charges it faces but “we stand by our people and our science”.

“We will continue to cooperate fully with the authorities, while carrying on with the crucial role GNS Science has in monitoring and sharing scientific information about Aotearoa New Zealand’s geo-hazards, including volcanoes.”

The principals of White Island Tours and Volcanic Air have reportedly also acknowledged that they were among those charged.

The parties were not named in the report because under New Zealand law, they have the right to seek suppression of their names in their first court appearance on December 15.

Twenty-two people lost their lives and a further 22 were seriously injured in the 9 December disaster. The tragedy occurred when the live volcano, a popular destination for day-trippers, erupted while guided groups were on the island. Most were tourists from visiting cruise ship Ovation of the Seas.

WorkSafe said in a letter to victims it was not naming the parties it had charged as they may seek suppression on their first appearance in court, Television New Zealand reported.

The prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, welcomed the transparency from the government agencies, but said she would leave the case to the courts.

“We need this to be an independent process that people can have trust confidence and faith in,” she said.

Parkes said the investigation was the largest and most complex investigation in WorkSafe’s history.

The probe was looking only at organisations involved in the tourism operations, rather than the rescue operation.

White Island/Whakaari in New Zealand’s northeastern Bay of Plenty region and is regularly visited by the public on guided tours.

The volcano had been showing signs of unrest for several weeks before the 2019 eruption and three weeks before was rated at Volcanic Alert Level 2 indicating “moderate to heightened volcanic unrest”, due to increased activity.

Soon after the tragedy, the prime minister, Ardern, said official inquiries into the eruption and New Zealand’s response would take up to a year to conclude.

The WorkSafe investigation focused on the organisations that took the tourists to the island and did not cover the rescue and recovery of the dead and injured. Those actions may be the subject of other proceedings, such as a coronial inquest.

The investigation report would not be released because it was central to the criminal proceedings. Parkes said Worksafe, which also does safety audits of adventure tourism organisations, would review how it goes about its own work.





No.37 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

R number now stands below 1 after 30% drop in cases across country over almost a fortnight

Coronavirus infections in England have fallen by nearly a third since the country entered its second lockdown, swab tests on 105,000 volunteers have shown.

There was a 30% drop in cases across the country over almost a fortnight this month, with 96 people infected per 10,000 between 13-24 November, down from 132 per 10,000 between 26 October and 2 November.

The R number, which shows the level of transmission, is now 0.88. Any figure above 1 means the virus is growing exponentially.

The findings, from the government-funded React mass surveillance study, have been welcomed as proof that both the England-wide lockdown that began on 5 November, and the system of different tiered restrictions that preceded it, succeeded in reducing transmission of the virus.

The proportion of people infected in the English areas worst affected in the pandemic’s second wave – the north-west, north-east, and Yorkshire and the Humber – have fallen dramatically.

The study found the percentage of the population infected has more than halved in both the north-west – down from 2.53% to 1.08% – and in the north-east, down from 1.88% to 0.72%. In Yorkshire and the Humber, it fell from 1.8% to 1.17%.

The study, undertaken by Imperial College London and polling experts Ipsos Mori, has produced regular reports during the pandemic on infection rates in England.

“Our robust data offers encouraging signs for England’s epidemic, where we’re seeing a fall in infections at the national level and in particular across regions that were previously worst affected,” said Prof Paul Elliott, the director of the real-time assessment of community transmission programme at Imperial.

“These trends suggest that the tiered approach helped to curb infections in these areas and that lockdown has added to this effect.”

callout-coronavirus

Infections remain high in the Midlands, however. The West Midlands has the highest proportion of infections of any region in England, at 1.55% – down just 0.01 percentage points since the previous React study.

The fall in the east Midlands was also small, from 1.31% to just 1.27%. That means 155 people and 127 people respectively per 10,000 of population are infected in those regions.

On 29 October, the React study underlined the extent of the second wave then unfolding when its results showed infections were rising in every part of England and that 96,000 people a day were getting the virus.

Responding to the latest findings, Matt Hancock, the health secretary, said: “Thanks to the huge efforts of the public over the last few weeks, we have been able to get the virus more under control.

“This latest data shows we must keep our resolve and we cannot take our foot off the pedal just yet, despite the encouraging fall in cases and progress on vaccines.”






