No.1 article:
Who Will Succeed Mayor de Blasio? New York’s Future May Ride on the Answer

The pandemic has reshaped the 2021 mayoral race, with the city’s economic and health challenges casting a shadow over social justice issues.

As much of New York City was consumed by the presidential election, a campaign for another critical race was already underway.

Several mayoral candidates made a pilgrimage to Richard Ravitch, seeking his support and advice on confronting the city’s economic crisis. Mr. Ravitch, who helped save the city from bankruptcy in the 1970s, has made no endorsement, but Raymond J. McGuire, a Citigroup executive, seemed to have the inside track.

Many more mayoral hopefuls are barraging labor leaders for their support, with one key union already committed: Scott M. Stringer, the city comptroller, landed an early endorsement from a union representing 45,000 retail workers.

Nearly a dozen Democratic candidates are set to compete in June’s mayoral primary, a free-for-all that may be the city’s most consequential in a generation.

The next mayor will confront enormous challenges in guiding the city out of the pandemic, and battling an economic crisis that has ravaged the city’s finances and left more than a half-million residents out of work.

The race has already been transformed by the coronavirus and massive Black Lives Matter protests this year. Now the city is struggling to fend off a second wave of the virus, with schools closed again and further shutdowns threatened.

For voters, the contest may boil down to a test of priorities: Do they want a mayor best suited to advance the city’s embrace of progressive policies, or someone best qualified to confront its dire economic concerns?

It will be only the fourth time in roughly a half century that the ballot will not include an incumbent mayor seeking re-election: Mayor Bill de Blasio, who is in his seventh year in office, is barred by term limits from running again.

Several candidates have worked in the de Blasio administration, yet the mayor’s residual unpopularity has given rise to an unusual trend: Most mayoral hopefuls are not necessarily running to the left or right of him, but just far, far away.

The mayor was roundly criticized over his decision this week to close public schools after the rate of positive tests in the city hit 3 percent, the most conservative threshold of any big school district in the country. The positivity rate was far lower in schools though, and many of the candidates have faulted Mr. de Blasio for how he has handled the situation.

Eric Adams, the Brooklyn borough president who is running for mayor, said the mayor’s decision would hurt Black and Latino children and low-income families the most.

“New Yorkers deserve better than this confusing, unscientific approach to public education and public health,” Mr. Adams said.

At a recent forum for mayoral candidates, almost all the candidates said they would not accept Mr. de Blasio’s endorsement.

Three candidates are women who worked in Mr. de Blasio’s administration and are critical of their former boss — Maya Wiley, who served as his lawyer; Loree K. Sutton, who ran the Department of Veterans’ Services; and Kathryn Garcia, who recently stepped down as sanitation commissioner.

“I saw firsthand a mayor who was unprepared to deal with this crisis, who responds to headlines and who made budget cuts that hurt our city,” Ms. Garcia said at the forum.

Ms. Garcia and Mr. Stringer are both pitching themselves as proven managers who can get the city back on track. For Mr. Stringer, a motto has emerged: “I’m going to manage the hell out of this city!”

Like the open elections that brought Michael R. Bloomberg into office in 2001 and Abraham Beame in 1973, the city is facing a fiscal crisis. Mr. de Blasio has said he might lay off 22,000 workers if the city cannot secure federal stimulus money or long-term borrowing capacity from state lawmakers.

“The person who emerges in this campaign will have the toughest job that I can remember,” said Sid Davidoff, a former aide to Mayor John V. Lindsay who has worked in and around city government since the 1970s.

While the general election will take place next November, the primary is likely to decide the winner in a city where Democratic voters outnumber Republicans by more than six to one. And with several prominent women and Black candidates in the race, voters could elect the city’s first female mayor or only the second Black mayor.

A recent birthday celebration for the Rev. Al Sharpton became a must-attend event, with at least five Democratic mayoral hopefuls visiting Harlem to pay their respects. Three were Black candidates: Ms. Wiley, Mr. McGuire and Mr. Adams, who officially launched his mayoral campaign on Wednesday.

Six months ago, Mr. Adams, Mr. Stringer and a third candidate, Corey Johnson, the City Council speaker, were considered the early favorites to become mayor. Mr. Johnson has since dropped his mayoral bid after facing criticism over his handling of budget cuts for the police.

He has, however, emerged as a popular adviser: Since his exit from the race, Mr. Johnson has met with several candidates, including Ms. Wiley in Midtown Manhattan and Mr. McGuire in TriBeCa, and Shaun Donovan, a former housing secretary under President Barack Obama. Mr. Donovan and Mr. Johnson spoke about their Irish heritage, and Mr. Donovan asked Mr. Johnson, who is gay, about outreach to L.G.B.T.Q. voters.

Most of the mayoral hopefuls are currently focused on raising money, securing endorsements, establishing their progressive bona fides,  and trying to convince voters that they have the ability to steer the city out of the economic crisis.

Mr. McGuire’s campaign has received $2 million since he announced his departure from Citigroup to prepare for a long-rumored run. He is thought to have support from some of the business community, and is looking to widen his base.

“I was impressed by his intelligence, his eagerness to learn and his acknowledgment about what he didn’t know,” Mr. Ravitch said in a recent interview, adding that of the crop of mayoral candidates, he believed that Mr. McGuire was the best suited to revive the city’s economy.

Mr. Ravitch connected Mr. McGuire to Vincent Alvarez, a key union leader, and Andrew Rein, a prominent budget expert, and has been sending him a barrage of budget documents.

Like other candidates, Mr. McGuire’s fund-raising efforts have been done virtually; one such event was attended by Vernon Jordan, the civil rights leader, investment banker, lawyer and political power broker, and Henry Louis Gates Jr., a professor at Harvard University. Donors include the former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and the philanthropist Laurie M. Tisch.

But while Mr. McGuire’s business background may win some votes, it may not play as well with progressive-minded Democrats who are looking to expand on a vision for the city that they believe Mr. de Blasio failed to deliver.

If not for the pandemic, the mayor’s race would likely have been a contest of progressive ideals, as many recent New York City elections, from House races to legislative contests, have been won by progressive-minded candidates like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Representative-elect Jamaal Bowman, who each defeated longtime Democratic incumbents in the primary.

That Democratic faction has also secured several major victories in New York in recent years, including killing a deal to bring an Amazon headquarters to Queens, and scuttling a proposal to rezone Industry City in Brooklyn.

Many of the candidates are still vying to be the choice of progressive voters. Mr. Stringer has announced a string of endorsements from rising stars in the party and has pledged not to take donations from the real estate industry — a group he once relied on.

Ms. Wiley is also expected to be a popular choice among left-leaning voters; her work as a political analyst on MSNBC has made her a celebrity among the network’s viewership, an important demographic in a Democratic primary in New York. She is also a civil rights lawyer whose father was a well-known civil rights leader.

External factors may yet change the race’s dynamics, including when a coronavirus vaccine might get developed and distributed, and when a sense of normalcy begins to return to the city.

So, too, may a new voting mechanism: The use of ranked-choice voting, which will, for the first time in a mayoral election in New York, allow voters to choose a first, second and third choice.

If no candidate receives a majority of first-choice votes, the last-place candidate is eliminated and those who marked that candidate as their first choice get their second choice counted instead. That process continues until a candidate emerges with a majority.

“I must get three calls a week from smart people who still can’t figure out how it works,” Mr. Davidoff, who is now a prominent lobbyist, said of ranked-choice voting.

Some candidates are incorporating ranked-choice voting into their strategy. Mr. Donovan is highlighting his connection to the former president to demonstrate his viability as a potential top three candidate.

“Shaun’s broad appeal makes him a natural second and third choice for voters, even when they are already committed to another candidate,” according to an “electability” slide show making the rounds.

Mr. Adams, a former police officer, has focused on criminal justice issues and exhibits a work ethic that many find lacking in Mr. de Blasio. Mr. Adams slept on a mattress at his office for months during the pandemic and recently held a “Back to Work” subway ride to encourage New Yorkers to return to the transit system.

In his campaign launch video, Mr. Adams stood outside a police station in Queens where he said that as a teenager, he was once arrested and then beaten by an officer. He said he joined the police force to fight “systemic racism from within,” and vowed as mayor to focus on public safety and the city’s recovery.

“With the right leadership, we will rise up again,” he said.

Dianne Morales, a nonprofit executive who wants to defund the police, and Carlos Menchaca, a Brooklyn councilman known for killing the Industry City rezoning, say they are also focused on regular New Yorkers.

“It is my lived experiences as a single mother, my lived experiences as a woman of color, my lived experiences as a first-generation college graduate,” Ms. Morales said in an interview. “Those are the people that I think this campaign is resonating with.”

The candidates must also navigate new fund-raising rules. Mr. de Blasio fought for changes that lowered maximum contributions from $5,100 to $2,000, but increased the power of small-dollar donations, which are now matched eight to one for the first $250 given to a campaign by a New York City resident.

Some candidates like Mr. Donovan have chosen to run under the old system. Mr. Donovan raised about $670,000 during the first half of the year, including donations from key real estate figures like Rafael Cestero and Daniel Brodsky, and Obama administration veterans like Anthony Foxx, Mr. Obama’s transportation secretary, and Janet Napolitano, the former secretary of Homeland Security. Mr. Adams and Mr. Stringer are using the new system and had more than $2 million available in July, according to campaign filings.

More candidates could still jump in. The latest entrant is Zach Iscol, a former Marine whose family has ties to the Clintons; Arthur Chang, a J.P. Morgan executive who led NYC Votes, the Campaign Finance Board’s voter outreach program, has created a mayoral campaign fund.

A more familiar name may lurk: Christine Quinn, the former City Council speaker who now runs a homeless services organization, is also seriously considering a run, according to a friend who was not authorized to publicly discuss her plans.

Ms. Quinn was an early front-runner in 2013 and won the support of two powerful unions — Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union and the Hotel Trades Council — while Mr. de Blasio had the backing of Local 1199.

Since the summer, the current and former leaders of the hotel union, Richard Maroko and Peter Ward, have met with Mr. Stringer, Mr. Adams and Ms. Wiley over lunch, via videoconference and at the union’s 44th Street headquarters, according to someone involved in the union’s deliberations. The union has yet to make an endorsement.

Mr. Stringer was recently endorsed by the retail workers’ union at Macy’s flagship store in Herald Square. The union’s president, Stuart Appelbaum, said the race was the most important in decades.

“We have to get it right,” Mr. Appelbaum said. “Our city is hurting.”





No.2 article:
Georgia and Michigan Deliver Blows to Trump’s Efforts to Undo the Election 

Joseph R. Biden Jr. was certified as the winner in Georgia, and Michigan Republicans said they had no information that would change the tally in a state Mr. Biden also won. 

ATLANTA — President Trump’s attempt to undo the election results was undercut twice by fellow Republicans on Friday, as Georgia became the first contested state to certify Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory and Michigan lawmakers — after meeting with the president — said they would not intervene in their state’s election certification process.

After steady complaints by Mr. Trump about the Georgia vote count and a methodical hand recount, Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, bluntly declared on Friday, “I live by the motto that numbers don’t lie,” and made official the final tally showing Mr. Biden had defeated Mr. Trump by 12,670 votes, out of roughly five million cast. Gov. Brian Kemp, also a Republican, tersely stated that he would sign the certification.

Hours later, a delegation of seven Michigan Republicans, who had met with Mr. Trump at the White House at his request, said they had no information “that would change the outcome of the election in Michigan.” Mr. Biden beat Mr. Trump in the state by nearly three percentage points.

“We will follow the law and follow the normal process regarding Michigan’s electors, just as we have said throughout this election,” the state’s top two Republican leaders said in a statement issued by the State Legislature.

“The candidates who win the most votes win elections and Michigan’s electoral votes,” the statement said. Mr. Trump’s outreach to state Republicans amid the ongoing vote certification process was condemned by Democrats and election law experts as a dangerous intrusion into the election process.

White House aides declined to respond to questions about the meeting.

Though Mr. Trump has tried mightily to stymie the process with ineffective lawsuits and false claims of fraud, his failure to bend lawmakers in Georgia and Michigan to his will signals a rapidly vanishing path for his corrosive efforts to subvert the nation’s election system.

Georgia’s certification is the leading edge of a series of battlegrounds that over the next five days could officially declare Mr. Biden the winner, with Michigan and Pennsylvania facing a deadline of Monday and Nevada scheduled to certify on Tuesday.

While the president met with Michigan lawmakers at the White House, Mr. Biden’s transition marched forward, despite the Trump administration’s refusal to cooperate with the transfer of power. The president-elect met with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, and announced more senior staff appointments for his administration.

“In my Oval Office, me casa, you casa,” Mr. Biden said to the two Democratic congressional leaders. “I hope we’re going to spend a lot of time together.”

His campaign held a briefing with its senior adviser, Bob Bauer, who called Mr. Trump’s apparent efforts to influence Michigan officials into helping him overturn the state’s results “an abuse of office” and “absolutely appalling.”

Echoing election experts, Mr. Bauer said Mr. Trump had “no chance whatsoever&quot; to change the outcome.

On Thursday Mr. Biden issued his most forceful condemnation yet of Mr. Trump’s obstruction. “Incredibly damaging messages are being sent to the rest of the world about how democracy functions,” Mr. Biden said in remarks in Wilmington, Del.

While Democrats and legal experts have denounced Mr. Trump’s attempt to overturn the results of the election, the vast majority of elected Republicans in Congress and statehouses around the country have either remained largely silent or have offered explicit support. Some, including Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, have even joined the effort to advance Mr. Trump’s cause.

But on Friday, a few more Republicans broke with the president. Representative Kay Granger, a senior Texas Republican and ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, told CNN that she had “great concerns” about Mr. Trump’s actions and that “I think it’s time for him to really realize and be very clear about what’s going on.”

Senator Lamar Alexander, a retiring senator from Tennessee, said in a statement that the Trump administration needed to start participating in the transition process.

“If there is any chance whatsoever that Joe Biden will be the next president, and it looks like he has a very good chance, the Trump Administration should provide the Biden team with all transition materials, resources and meetings necessary to ensure a smooth transition so that both sides are ready on day one,” Mr. Alexander said. “That especially should be true, for example, on vaccine distribution.”

Their comments follow those of other Republicans who were more forceful in their criticism of the president on Thursday. Senator Mitt Romney of Utah said the president was trying to “subvert the will of the people,” and Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland said it was “bad for the country and our standing in the world.”

Mr. Trump has continued to look for ways to reverse the election result even though there is still no likely legal path for him to succeed. He has discussed with aides a dubious theory that if certification were delayed in states with Republican-controlled legislatures, the lawmakers might then name a new slate of electors more favorable to him.

But in Michigan, for instance, that appears nearly impossible. While the state canvassing board process is considered perfunctory once all 83 counties certify the results, at least one of the Republican members, Norm Shinkle, has indicated he may ask for an investigation. Any deadlock will most likely be taken to the state Court of Appeals, seeking an order to force the canvassing board to certify the election results.

If the board still refuses to certify after the court order, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, could remove the members who refuse to certify, after a hearing, said Steve Liedel, an election law attorney from the Dykema Gossett firm in Lansing.

The delegation of seven Michigan lawmakers said in a statement by Mike Shirkey, the State Senate majority leader, and Lee Chatfield, the speaker of the Michigan House, that they had accepted the invitation from the president to push for additional federal funds to help in the fight against the coronavirus. But they also sent a message about what they stand for, at a moment when Michigan Republican officials are facing pressure from all sides on the vote count.

“Michigan’s certification process should be a deliberate process free from threats and intimidation,’’ the statement said. “Allegations of fraudulent behavior should be taken seriously, thoroughly investigated, and if proven, prosecuted to the full extent of the law. And the candidates who win the most votes win elections and Michigan’s electoral votes. These are simple truths that should provide confidence in our elections.”

Mr. Trump’s legal challenges have so far produced mostly losses and embarrassing missteps. An affidavit filed by Mr. Trump’s legal team intended to prove voter fraud in Michigan apparently used data taken from counties in Minnesota, the latest in a series of embarrassments that have made the president’s uphill legal fight even steeper.

In Wisconsin this week, the president turned to a reality-warping tactic he has used more commonly in attacks against news organizations, falsely describing a routine meeting of the state elections commission about recount rules and manuals as a shadowy, back-room ploy against him. The event, a standard step in the electoral process, was livestreamed.

During the recount in Dane County, Wis., on Friday, which was also livestreamed, the Trump campaign tried to object to every single ballot individually as it was brought up, forcing the three-member board of election officials there to simply accept that they were challenging all ballots en masse so as to speed up the process.

While the certification in Georgia signified a significant moment in securing the will of the state’s voters, it was not without some public hiccups. News of the certification was announced prematurely in a news release early on Friday, leading the secretary of state to have to issue a corrective statement.

Mr. Biden was able to flip Georgia, a state that had not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since 1992, by winning with large margins in Atlanta and Savannah and performing significantly better than other recent Democratic candidates for president in the affluent and fast-growing suburban ring around Atlanta. But with a margin of victory within 0.25 percent, the state undertook a full, manual hand recount of the election, which it completed earlier this week.

The recount reaffirmed that Mr. Biden received more votes, but more than 5,000 ballots went uncounted or unreported, somewhat diminishing his lead.

Nonetheless, Mr. Raffensperger faced enormous pressure from prominent Republicans, including the president and Mr. Graham, to look hard for potential electoral fraud. The state’s two G.O.P. senators, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, staunch Trump allies who are engaged in tight runoff elections, called on Mr. Raffensperger to resign; they said his management of the process was  an “embarrassment’’ and that he ‘‘failed to deliver honest and transparent elections.’’ 

But Mr. Raffensperger pushed back and defended the state’s electoral system, and issued his certification on Friday afternoon.

Soon afterward, Mr. Kemp indicated he would sign off on the certification, saying that “as governor I have a solemn responsibility to follow the law, and that is what I’ll continue to do.”

He added that signing the certification “paves the way for the Trump campaign to pursue other legal options in a separate recount if they choose.”

As of Friday night, the Trump campaign had not issued any formal indication about future challenges in Georgia. It has two business days to do so.





No.3 article:
After Trump’s Embrace, Saudis Brace for a Chillier Tone From Biden

Saudi Arabia’s leaders counted on President Trump’s unwavering support, but President-elect Biden has vowed to take away the kingdom’s “dangerous blank check.”

BEIRUT, Lebanon — For the last four years, President Trump’s close relationship with Saudi Arabia meant that there was seemingly nothing its de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, could do to earn a rebuke from the White House.

Saudi bombs killed civilians in Yemen, Saudi activists went to jail, and Saudi agents dismembered the dissident Saudi writer Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul. None of it shook Mr. Trump’s commitment to the kingdom as a reliable partner against Iran and an important purchaser of American weapons.

Now Saudi Arabia is bracing for a new American leader who has vowed to end support for the Yemen war, penalize human rights violations and treat Saudi Arabia like “the pariah that they are.”

“It is past time to restore a sense of balance, perspective and fidelity to our values in our relationships in the Middle East,” President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. told the Council on Foreign Relations last year when asked about Saudi Arabia. “We will make clear that America will never again check its principles at the door just to buy oil or sell weapons.”

The difference in tone is stark, and Prince Mohammed may have to accept that unless he changes his ways he is unlikely to be as welcome at the White House as he was under Mr. Trump. Experts said they did not expect a break with the kingdom, but pressure from a Biden administration could push Riyadh to temper its more reckless behavior.

“There are a lot of reasons for this relationship to continue — it has a lot of value for both sides — but it simply cannot continue in the way it has for the last four years,” said Tamara Cofman Wittes, a senior fellow in the Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. “There have been a series of violations of the rules between friendly governments, a violation of norms.”

Saudi officials have played down the exceptional ties between Mr. Trump and the kingdom, instead emphasizing the nearly eight decades of cooperation between countries.

“Our relationship is far deeper than just one Saudi leader or one American president,” Princess Reema bint Bandar al-Saud, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said in a video address to the National Council on U.S.-Arab Relations on Wednesday.

Saudi Arabia’s regional power and its growing global prominence — it will host the virtual Group of 20 summit in Riyadh this weekend — make it an important American partner, she said.

“As our economic, social and cultural reforms strengthen the kingdom, we’ll be even better positioned as the most dependable U.S. ally in the region,” she said.

Mr. Biden could find that he needs Saudi Arabia to help build regional support for a new Iran strategy, to stabilize oil markets or to help restart peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians. A Saudi offer to normalize relations with Israel could provide leverage to get concessions for the Palestinians and raise the kingdom’s standing in Washington, although Saudi and Israeli officials have said such a step is not imminent.

Mr. Trump’s presidency has tracked closely with the rise of Prince Mohammed, 35, whose father, King Salman, ascended the Saudi throne in 2015 and gave his son oversight of the government’s most important portfolios, including defense, oil and economic policies.

Prince Mohammed became crown prince in 2017 and cultivated a close relationship with Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, often meeting him privately in Saudi Arabia and exchanging messages on WhatsApp.

Prince Mohammed has overseen a turbulent period, pushing for vast social and economic changes at home while plunging Saudi forces into Yemen’s civil war, joining a blockade on Qatar, forcing the resignation of Lebanon’s prime minister and locking up businessmen, clerics and activists.

His international standing took a beating when Saudi agents killed Mr. Khashoggi inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in 2018, a crime the C.I.A. said Prince Mohammed had likely ordered. Prince Mohammed has denied ordering the killing or having any prior knowledge of it.

Last year, the Justice Department accused two Saudi men of spying for the Saudi government as employees of Twitter.

Through it all, Mr. Trump refrained from criticizing Saudi Arabia while supporting it in ways that alarmed officials in other branches of government. He applauded the blockade of Qatar, which hosts a large American air base; vetoed a bipartisan resolution that would have ended American support for the Yemen war; and said it did not matter whether Prince Mohammed had ordered Mr. Khashoggi’s killing because the Saudis opposed Iran and bought lots of American weapons.

Analysts said Mr. Trump’s support had enabled Prince Mohammed’s riskier moves, and that a new tone from the White House could have the opposite effect.

“I think the support from Washington emboldened him and took away many of the guardrails that ought to have been there,” said Rob Malley, the president of the International Crisis Group. “Biden has been very clear about Yemen, Iran and human rights. Those are three areas where you are likely to see a shift from the present.”

Officials on Mr. Biden’s transition team declined to comment, not wanting to appear to conduct foreign policy while another president was still in charge.

In Yemen, the United States has helped Saudi Arabia and its allies with aerial refueling of jets, intelligence and billions of dollars in arms sales. United Nations officials have called the war the world’s worst humanitarian crisis, and Saudi airstrikes have killed large numbers of civilians and destroyed key infrastructure.

The Saudis blame Yemen’s Houthi rebels, who are backed by Iran, for causing the crisis and for blocking efforts to end the war.

“We’ll continue to support a political solution in Yemen, but always defend our national security,” Princess Reema said.

Saudi Arabia shared Mr. Trump’s deep animosity toward Iran and supported his withdrawal from the international nuclear deal brokered under President Obama.

Mr. Biden has said he would rejoin the agreement as long as Iran also comes back into compliance, although Iranian and American political realities could make it impossible to restore the original deal.

Princess Reema called for international pressure to get Iran to return to negotiations, but said the goal should be a more sweeping deal that prevents Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, stops its support for militant groups and ends “its destabilizing behavior in the region and the world.”

While Mr. Trump chose not to punish American partners for human rights violations, Mr. Biden has said that Saudi Arabia would no longer have a “dangerous blank check” and that the United States would “insist on responsible Saudi actions and impose consequences for reckless ones.”

That position has raised hopes among associates of the clerics, activists, businessmen and members of the royal family who have been detained during Prince Mohammed’s rise that Mr. Biden could press the kingdom for their release.

“I hope that Saudi officials realize that they need to restore their image and do things without waiting for anyone to pressure them,” said Alia al-Hathloul, whose sister, Loujain al-Hathloul, is on trial in Saudi Arabia on charges that human rights groups say are meant to punish her for her activism.

But Ali Shihabi, a Saudi writer and analyst, said United States pressure on issues inside the kingdom would likely hit a wall with Prince Mohammed.

“In Saudi Arabia, he has to be seen as strong and not buckling to Western pressure, otherwise that will weaken him on other fronts, where he is pushing through difficult reforms,” Mr. Shihabi said. “Obviously, Saudi would like to repair the relationship, but Riyadh understands that it may take time.”





No.4 article:
Business and World Leaders Move On as Trump Fights to Reverse Election

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is seizing the moment, not to aggressively confront the president he defeated, but to act presidential in his stead.

WASHINGTON — Inside the wrought-iron fences that surround the 18-acre White House complex, the 2020 election rages on, with President Trump angrily refusing to concede. But the rest of the world — and President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. — is moving on.

The leaders of Western Europe have called Mr. Biden, while the world’s rising superpower, China, has congratulated him. PayPal’s chief executive extended his “warmest congratulations to President-Elect Joe Biden, who will become the 46th president of the U.S.A.” The Boeing Corporation, which benefited from Mr. Trump’s demands for big-ticket defense items, issued a statement on Friday saying, “We look forward to working with the Biden administration.”

It is as if the vast machinery of diplomacy, business and lobbying has suddenly been recalibrated for the Biden era. Mr. Trump, by far the dominant world figure for the past four years, is increasingly treated as irrelevant.

Bank trade groups have begun meeting with Biden aides in anticipation of new fights over regulation. Foreign diplomats assuming a sharp turn in American foreign policy are retooling their agendas. Corporate executives, who are usually allergic to political statements, are saying out loud what most of Mr. Trump’s supporters have so far refused to acknowledge.

“Vice President Biden was fairly elected as our next president, and it’s time for the transition to proceed,” said Larry Merlo, the chief executive of CVS Health.

Mr. Biden is seizing the moment, not to aggressively confront the president he defeated, but to act presidential in his stead. Even as he demands that an orderly transfer of power be allowed to begin, the president-elect is proceeding as if the political drama created by Mr. Trump amounts to little more than noise — or what his new chief of staff called the “hysterics” of a lame-duck president.

 A senior Biden official called Mr. Trump’s intransigence irritating, but aides said they were not alarmed. They have become resigned to the president’s denialism, have no expectation he will ever admit he lost and are willing to employ all legal options to ensure the transition goes forward.

But they are also preparing for the possibility that he will not allow the gears of a formal transition to engage because that would amount to an acknowledgment that he lost.

Directing his sprawling transition remotely from his home in Delaware, Mr. Biden and his aides are moving swiftly to set up the next administration by announcing senior members of his White House staff and moving on to nominating cabinet secretaries next week. Policy experts are developing plans for what Mr. Biden can do as soon as he is inaugurated.

The growing acceptance that there will be a new president is taking place against the backdrop of a pandemic that has hit the United States particularly hard, killing more than 253,000 people on Mr. Trump’s watch. But it is Mr. Biden, not the sitting president, who is determined to keep the focus on the threat from the coronavirus.

On Friday, Mr. Trump made a brief public announcement about efforts to lower drug prices, ranted on Twitter about the election and met with Republican state lawmakers from Michigan as he desperately sought to strong-arm local officials who he believes are his last hope of closing his Electoral College deficit.

Mr. Biden continued to press his case for more aggressive action to confront the health crisis, meeting with the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate to begin discussing negotiations on another stimulus package to help businesses recover and to provide additional funding for states and local governments struggling with the cost of the nearly yearlong response.

On Thursday, the president-elect hosted a virtual meeting with five Democratic governors and five Republican governors in an effort to demonstrate the need for bipartisan cooperation, especially on the pandemic. After the meeting, Mr. Biden said he was encouraged that the Republican state leaders seemed eager to work together.

Even as Mr. Biden has repeatedly expressed frustration at what he calls the “embarrassment” of Mr. Trump’s refusal to accept defeat, the president-elect’s aides have assiduously sought to avoid being distracted by the outgoing president’s daily eruptions.

But they are more than happy to draw the contrast between an outgoing president who has been consumed with political survival schemes and an incoming president determined to deal with the growing crisis of record coronavirus infections.

“You’ve seen, over the last several days, Donald Trump holed up in the White House consulting with people like Rudy Giuliani and, you know, basically hatching conspiracy theories about Venezuela and China,” said Bob Bauer, the lawyer overseeing the election challenges for Mr. Biden’s campaign. “And you’ve seen President-elect Biden meeting on a bipartisan basis with governors, addressing the public health emergency and acting like the president-elect that he is.”

The swing from Mr. Trump to Mr. Biden is particularly obvious on the world stage, where both allies and adversaries are doing an about-face.

In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who took office hoping to exploit his rapport with Mr. Trump, pivoted immediately. Cheered by an early phone call with the president-elect, Mr. Johnson this week rolled out ambitious initiatives in military spending and climate policy that seemed calculated to please Mr. Biden, and dovetail with his priorities.

The Iranians have begun to put out statements clearly meant to lure the new Biden administration into a conversation about returning to the fundamentals, if not the letter, of the 2015 nuclear accord.

And the German foreign minister, Heiko Maas, said this week that his government was preparing proposals for Mr. Biden and welcomed the new president’s enthusiasm for the NATO alliance, which Mr. Trump frequently threatened to abandon. Every foreign ministry across Europe is doing the same, said François Heisbourg, a French defense analyst.

“People are assuming that the U.S. is a constitutional democracy,” he said. Europeans are watching the court challenges and the efforts to throw the election into Congress, but most have no idea what happened in 1800 or 1876, when the presidency was decided there. “But if you do,” said Mr. Heisbourg, a student of American history, “you wonder a little — just a little.”

There are exceptions. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel exulted in Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s recent visit to a Jewish settlement on the West Bank — a powerful American endorsement of an Israeli occupation that runs counter to international law and counter to American policy before Mr. Trump. Mr. Netanyahu knows that the American embrace of those settlements will soon change, but he is doing what he can to use the visit to cement facts on the ground and make it harder for Mr. Biden to openly reverse course.

Closer to home, corporate America has also rapidly come to the conclusion that it should adjust its focus.

On Nov. 7, the day most major news organizations called the race, several major companies and trade groups recognized Mr. Biden’s victory.

Scott Kirby, the chief executive of United Airlines, reached out to the Biden campaign that evening and offered to work with the new administration to combat the pandemic and kick-start the economy. “While there will always be differences in any country as large and diverse as the United States, I continue to believe that there is far more that unites us than divides us,” Mr. Kirby said in a letter to Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.

In the days after the election, Goldman Sachs began preparing its clients for an expected Biden administration. A client call on Nov. 5, held to discuss Mr. Biden’s likely win, drew thousands.

David M. Solomon, the firm’s chief executive, has not yet spoken with the president-elect, a Goldman spokesman said, but senior officials at the firm, including the regulatory affairs head, Kathryn Ruemmler, and the communications head, Jake Siewert, both of whom worked in the Obama administration, have been in contact with members of Mr. Biden’s transition team.

Since then, Michael Gonda, a McDonald’s spokesman, has reaffirmed in a statement the company’s belief that Mr. Biden has won the election, saying, “We have been in touch with the transition team to let them know we would like to be helpful on a number of fronts, including on Covid response by sharing our safety and hygiene protocols.”

JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon, has said it bluntly: “We had an election. We have a new president. We should have unity to that.”

And Doug McMillon, Walmart’s chief executive, said Tuesday on the company’s earnings call: “We look forward to working with the administration in both houses of Congress to move the country forward and solve issues on behalf of our associates, customers and other stakeholders.”

Meetings have already taken place between Mr. Biden’s teams and the American Bankers Association as well as the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. No one dreamed of delaying those meetings until Mr. Trump conceded, said one banking lobbyist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to detail closed-door discussions. They are uniformly confident that Mr. Biden will take over as president on Jan. 20, the lobbyist said.

Business executives have also united around a call for Mr. Trump to accept his fate and allow his administration to begin the formal transition, freeing career officials — especially in public health agencies — to coordinate with the incoming team.

“President-elect Biden and the team around him have a wealth of executive branch experience that should allow them to hit the ground running,” Thomas Donohue, the chief executive of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement to Axios. “While the Trump administration can continue litigating to confirm election outcomes, for the sake of Americans’ safety and well-being, it should not delay the transition a moment longer.”

That demand was echoed by the National Association of Manufacturers, which called on Wednesday on the Trump administration to work with Mr. Biden.

 “It is highly appropriate that the Trump administration allow key individuals from the Biden team to access critical government personnel and information now,” the trade group, which represents many of the country’s largest companies, said in a statement.

This week, Brad Karp, the chairman of the law firm Paul, Weiss, hosted a webinar for 1,000 of the firm’s clients that was called “Transition to a Biden Administration, Strategies and Insights.”

“Neither we, nor my partners, nor anyone in attendance,” Mr. Karp said on the video call, “has any doubt as to the outcome of this election.”





No.5 article:
Who Postpones Black Friday? This Year, the French

Spurred by small retailers’ anger over Amazon’s grip on sales, especially during lockdown, France has delayed the start of holiday discounts.

PARIS — The French government on Friday declared it was postponing Black Friday, as it moved to quell a nationwide rebellion by shopkeepers who say that Amazon has been stealing business from them during France’s coronavirus lockdown.

Black Friday, the U.S. import that has been embraced by European retailers as the quasi-official kickoff to the Christmas shopping season, will be delayed by a week in France, to Dec. 4, after the government wrested an agreement from Amazon and the country’s biggest retailers to delay their discounts.

The move is intended to level the playing field for booksellers, clothing shops and “nonessential” businesses that were forced to close their doors on Oct. 30 after a second national lockdown was imposed, propelling consumers to online sites, including Amazon.

Under the accord, big retailers agreed to put off their Black Friday sales promotions on the condition that the government reauthorizes the reopening of small retailers by then. Shopkeepers have agitated since the new lockdown orders took effect to be able to restart business.

“Let us open or we will die,” Yohann Petiot, the director general of France’s Alliance du Commerce, a trade group for businesses, told government officials this week.

But the finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, did not say on Friday when shops and other nonessential businesses would be allowed to resume operations. While the current lockdown has helped curb an alarming new outbreak of coronavirus cases, French health authorities have cautioned that any reopenings must meet strict safety protocols.

Stores “will be able to open as soon as health indicators improve,” Prime Minister Jean Castex said Friday.

The spectacle of one of Europe’s most powerful countries scrambling to protect its retailers from Amazon highlights the difficulties governments are facing as they try to strike a balance between enforcing a second round of shutdowns amid pandemic fatigue, and preventing businesses that don’t have the same deep pockets as big corporations from collapsing into mass bankruptcies.

In France, the episode has ignited a fresh backlash against the American online giant. Since it arrived in 2000, Amazon has become a favorite in France, capturing nearly half of online spending in 2019. During the most recent lockdown, sales in France jumped nearly 50 percent from a year ago, the company said.

But rapid growth has turned Amazon into a symbol of a dominant multinational that detractors say is importing unwanted American-style consumerism, as well as job instability and environmental degradation, to the eurozone’s second-largest economy.

In the lead-up to the announcement, Mr. Le Maire and other politicians urged shoppers not to give Amazon their business.

The mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, and environmental organizations and trade groups, circulated an online petition titled “Noël Sans Amazon” (“An Amazon-free Christmas”). Addressed to Santa Claus, it commits signatories to a “#ChristmasWithoutAmazon,” which is described as a tax-dodging Grinch that destroys small businesses, jobs and the environment.

The virtual call to arms, however, quickly fell victim to an online hack that overloaded the website with fake signatures sent from over 200 different servers, including hundreds in the name of Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, with the comment “Sorry, not sorry, Jeff.”

But Amazon’s continuing influence in France — in the third quarter it held more than 20 percent of the French e-commerce market, the biggest share of any online seller, according to Kanter Group — is such that other big retailers held back from agreeing to postpone their Black Friday sales until Amazon did.

After Mr. Le Maire told the French Senate Wednesday that it made sense to help small retailers by postponing Black Friday, Frédéric Duval, general manager of Amazon France, told a French radio station on Thursday  that Amazon was “listening to the recommendations of the government” and would put off its online sales until Dec. 4, paving the way for a broad accord.

Still, the scramble by French politicians to soothe the ire of small businesses has reopened a broader controversy over Black Friday itself, which wasn’t even an event in Europe until a few years ago. It was ushered in mainly by Amazon, which began promoting major sales in lock step with those in the United States.

While the American Thanksgiving is just another Thursday in Europe, Black Friday has thrived. In Britain, Spain and other countries, Amazon and other big retailers already started offering Black Friday discounts online earlier this month.

France has been slower than other European countries to join the trend, and politicians have discouraged shoppers from participating, warning of “a frenzy of consumption” in which people are encouraged to buy products they don’t need. The fact that Amazon is not a French company did not help, either.

Yet Black Friday has been a crucial tool for retailers to top up sales. Last year, retailers in France raked in an estimated 6 billion euros in revenue around Black Friday.

Those sales are more critical than ever this year as retailers faced unprecedented losses from lockdowns linked to the coronavirus pandemic. Though stores reopened from June through September, it was not enough to fully compensate for France’s first lockdown: year-to-date sales are still, on average, 10 percent below their 2019 levels, according to an analysis by the German bank Allianz.

Restrictions on nonessential stores in France have already cast a shadow over the nearly €18 billion in retail sales that retailers normally make in November and December, Allianz said.

Whether pushing back Black Friday will help small retailers remains to be seen. The pandemic has rocked the economy, and the government is spending billions of euros to keep small businesses afloat, offering cheap state-backed loans and government subsidies for payrolls.

In one sense, the Black Friday delay has given small retailers a leg up. Several big chains that were allowed to remain open, including supermarkets like Carrefour and electronics giants including Fnac and Darty, had already printed promotional materials that may now have to be discarded.

Some bigger retailers had started offering discounts this week. Others have contracts with suppliers for deliveries in time for Nov. 27 promotions that may now need to be delayed.

Small retailers have used the lockdown to speed up the creation of websites and infrastructure to enable online ordering. The government has tried to encourage a transition to online sales, pushing “click and collect” activity, where customers can order online and come collect their own package.

Many shops, though, still don’t have the resources to compete with organized bigger retailers that have a pickup and delivery infrastructures in place. In some cases, the government has stepped in with even more subsidies: Recently, it announced it would pay postage for booksellers to send  orders through the mail as a way of encouraging the French to buy locally rather than on Amazon.

The online giant, however, will likely continue to be a big winner in the pandemic. Global sales surged 35 percent in the first nine months of the year, to $260 billion.

It is expected to rake in billions more with global Black Friday sales, which are now being carried out on Nov. 27 everywhere in the world where it operates — except France.





No.6 article:
Mnuchin Cites Principles in Clawing Back Fed Money. Democrats See Politics.

Trump’s Treasury secretary said Congress wanted key economic supports to end by Dec. 31, a view he expressed only after the vote count in the presidential election.

WASHINGTON — Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin broke sharply with the Federal Reserve this week, choosing to end a variety of programs aimed at helping markets, businesses and municipalities weather the pandemic and asking the central bank to return the funds earmarked to support those efforts.

Mr. Mnuchin said his decision was driven by a deference to what he believed was Congress’s intent when it allocated the funding, a desire to repurpose the money toward better uses and a belief that markets no longer needed them. But his actions, which will limit the incoming Biden administration’s ability to use those programs at scale, seem driven by politics.

“The law is very clear,” Mr. Mnuchin said in an interview on CNBC Friday. He defended his decision and suggested that the programs were no longer needed, because market conditions “are in great shape.”

But that view is not shared by the Fed, which quickly issued a statement expressing disappointment with the decision, calling the economy “still-strained and vulnerable.” It is worth noting that Mr. Mnuchin only publicly took the position that Congress meant for the programs to end after Dec. 31 once it became clear that President Trump had lost the election to Joseph R. Biden Jr.

By ending the programs — which have been funneling loans to medium-sized businesses and backstopping municipal and corporate bond markets — Mr. Mnuchin is taking away a source of economic support just as the new administration comes into office and as rising virus cases dog the recovery. By asking the Fed to return the money that enables the emergency efforts, he could make it harder for Democrats to restart them at a large scale and on more generous terms.

Chair Jerome H. Powell indicated the Fed would return the funds, in a letter to Mr. Mnuchin on Friday afternoon.

“It’s not just closing the store down for Biden,” said Ernie Tedeschi, a policy economist at Evercore ISI. “It’s burning the store down.”

Mr. Biden’s transition team criticized the move as trying to hamstring his ability to help the economy.

“The Treasury Department’s attempt to prematurely end support that could be used for small businesses across the country when they are facing the prospect of new shutdowns is deeply irresponsible,” Kate Bedingfield, a spokeswoman for the transition, said in a statement.

Mr. Mnuchin’s decision came as a surprise to Mr. Trump, who was alerted to the decision shortly before Mr. Mnuchin’s letter was released on Thursday and who, on Friday morning, expressed some concern that the move could have a negative impact on the stock market, according to a person familiar with the matter who was not authorized to speak publicly. Asked if Mr. Trump had instructed Mr. Mnuchin to end the programs, Mr. Mnuchin’s spokeswoman said that it was “solely a Treasury decision based on what the law and congressional intent required.”

Here is a rundown of how these programs work, why Mr. Mnuchin says he is killing them, and why his arguments leave unanswered questions.

Mr. Mnuchin is pulling the plug on a set of Fed emergency lending programs, which the central bank can use to keep credit flowing in times of crisis. After the 2008 recession, Congress insisted that the Treasury secretary sign off on such efforts.

The Fed is loath to take credit losses, so Treasury has been providing a layer of money to cover any loans or purchases that go bad. It initially used the Exchange Stabilization Fund, a pot of unused money. But in March, Congress beefed up the Treasury’s capacity.

Mr. Mnuchin and lawmakers earmarked $454 billion to support Fed lending when they cut a deal on a government pandemic response package. The Fed can make money out of thin air, and it only needs a little bit of backing — $1 of insurance can be turned into as much as $10 in bond buying or business loans. The programs offered a big potential bang for the government’s buck.

Mr. Mnuchin ultimately earmarked $195 billion for specific loan programs. Not much of that capacity has been used. Some programs calmed market conditions merely by reassuring investors. The small and medium-sized business loan program had restrictive terms.

When Mr. Mnuchin said Thursday that he would end the five appropriation-backed programs at the end of 2020, he asked the Fed to give back all but $25 billion, which he is leaving to support already-made loans and bond purchases.

Mr. Mnuchin has said “it is very clear in the law” that the allocation-backed programs must end Dec. 31. That is not true.

The law states that the Treasury should not hand out money from its $454 billion pot after the end of 2020 — but it allows already-dedicated funds to remain available. Because the Treasury had handed hundreds of billions of dollars in insurance money to the Fed, the central bank theoretically has lots of capacity left to make loans and buy bonds.

The Fed’s lawyers have interpreted the law to mean that they can keep the programs running into 2021, supported by the existing Treasury backstop, as the central bank’s statement on Thursday indicated.

Mr. Mnuchin himself had previously suggested that the programs could be extended past the end of the year, writing in an October letter that the decision would hinge on market conditions.

A Treasury spokeswoman said on Friday that Mr. Mnuchin had always believed Congress meant for the funding to sunset, and had planned to use Exchange Stabilization Fund money — plus the $25 billion that he is leaving with the Fed to cover existing loans — to extend the programs if needed.

That logic is hard to follow given Mr. Mnuchin’s belief that the law prevents new Fed lending backed by Congress’s money after Dec. 31. If that’s the case, it should also prevent new lending against the $25 billion, which comes from the same congressional pot, said Peter Conti-Brown, a lawyer and Fed historian at the University of Pennsylvania.

Mr. Mnuchin also suggested that taking back the earmarked money would allow Congress to reroute it to other purposes in ways that “won’t cost taxpayers any more money.”

But the Congressional Budget Office, in assessing the budget impact of the money dedicated to Fed programs, found it to be nearly free of cost. The idea was that the loans the money backed would eventually be returned, and fees and interest earnings would cover any expenses. So if the money is clawed back and repurposed for spending — not lending — it would add toward the deficit for accounting purposes.

Top Republicans have suggested that leaving the programs operational for too long could distort markets, which is a genuine concern with such backstops. In his letter announcing his intent to close the programs, Mr. Mnuchin noted that normal market conditions prevail.

It’s true that corporate bond issuance has been rapid and states and localities are able to fund themselves at low rates. But virus cases are also spiking, suggesting that conditions could worsen and Fed backstops might again be needed.

Over the summer, Mr. Mnuchin agreed to extend the programs until Dec. 31 at a time when coronavirus infections were much lower than they are today, markets were functioning well, and companies were issuing bonds at breakneck speed.

Treasury’s move to claw back the funding limits Mr. Biden. The Fed and the next Treasury secretary can use the Exchange Stabilization Fund to back up bond purchases and business lending.

But it contains much less money than the government would have had with the congressional appropriation. That could hamper a goal that had been percolating among Democrats: to restart the programs, make them more generous and use them as a backup option if additional stimulus was tough to get through Congress.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said the request to end the programs and return the money was “fully aligned with the letter of the law and the intent of the Congress.”

Democrats reacted with outrage.

“It is clear that Trump and Mnuchin are willing to spitefully destroy the economy and make it as difficult as possible for the incoming Biden Administration to turn this crisis around and lead the nation to a recovery,” Representative Maxine Waters of California said in a letter.





No.7 article:
Meeting With Schumer and Pelosi, Biden Keeps Focus on Virus and Economy

On his 78th birthday, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. ignored President Trump&#x27;s continued efforts to subvert the election results.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Friday announced new staff appointments and met with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, maintaining his focus on the economy and the coronavirus pandemic while ignoring President Trump’s continued efforts to subvert the election results.

The Democratic leaders gathered in Wilmington, Del., for their first in-person meeting since the election to “discuss their shared priorities to provide immediate help to struggling working families and small businesses,” they said in a joint statement.

In a brief photo opportunity with reporters, Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris were seated with Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer at a large rectangular table, all wearing masks and distanced several feet from one another.

“In my Oval Office, me casa, you casa,” Mr. Biden joked, drawing chuckles from the others. “I hope we’re going to spend a lot of time together.”

Friday was Mr. Biden’s 78th birthday, and Ms. Pelosi gave the president-elect a white orchid in celebration, according to an aide.

None of the Democrats said anything more of substance to reporters, but in a joint statement afterward they said they “agreed that Congress needed to pass a bipartisan emergency aid package in the lame duck session,” including money to fight the coronavirus and to support struggling families, businesses and state and local governments.

Mr. Biden had discussed his agenda for the first 100 days of his presidency, including to “contain” the coronavirus and restore the economy, in what the statement called “the American people’s mandate for action.”

The statement made no reference to Mr. Trump’s false claims about the election, a day after Mr. Biden called them “totally irresponsible.” Jen Psaki and Yohannes Abraham, speaking for the Biden-Harris transition, were measured on the subject during a briefing for reporters, saying that they were “moving full speed ahead” but avoiding provocative language that would escalate tensions.

The message of discipline appeared in keeping with the Biden campaign’s winning strategy of declining to engage with Mr. Trump’s theatrics and presenting the president-elect as a steady figure focused on the pandemic.

But underscoring the strange limbo Mr. Trump has created, Mr. Biden on Friday posted on Twitter a plea for private donations to fund his transition activities. “Here’s the deal: Because President Trump refuses to concede and is delaying the transition, we have to fund it ourselves and need your help,” he wrote. Clicking the link leads to a form hosted by ActBlue, a Democratic network, which suggests donations of $15 to $5,000, though users can give any amount.

Ms. Psaki and Mr. Abraham reiterated calls for the head of the General Services Administration, Emily W. Murphy, to approve paperwork that would begin an official presidential transition and provide Mr. Biden and his staff members with access to federal resources, data and personnel.

“This isn’t a game,” Mr. Abraham said, noting that a growing number of business groups and leaders, such as the heads of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers, had recently called for the transition process to begin.

Asked whether the Biden team has had contact with Trump administration officials, as some reports have indicated, Ms. Psaki said, “We certainly would love to have that engagement.”

But, she added, the transition team “has been very careful, of course, about following those rules and guidelines, and we’ll have to abide by that until ascertainment happens.”

Ascertainment is the term for when the General Services Administration concludes that the election has produced a winner and a transition can begin.

Mr. Biden has spoken repeatedly in recent days about the urgent need for Congress to agree on a new stimulus spending package, saying that Senate Republicans should drop their opposition to a measure that House Democrats passed last month. He has made no public suggestion that Democrats should change their position and offer new compromise legislation.

Ms. Psaki said that Mr. Biden had also spoken with “elected officials from both sides of the aisle.” When asked whether that included congressional Republicans, whom Mr. Biden has said he hopes will break ranks to challenge Mr. Trump’s election claims and compromise on stimulus spending, she did not offer more specifics.

Mr. Biden also announced four more appointments to his White House staff.

Catherine M. Russell will be the director of the White House Office of Presidential Personnel. During the Obama administration, Ms. Russell served as the chief of staff to Jill Biden, then the second lady, and was U.S. ambassador for global women’s issues at the State Department. She is married to former President Barack Obama’s former national security adviser, Tom Donilon, who is the brother of Mr. Biden’s chief political strategist, Mike Donilon, and who may also land a big administration job.

Taking over the White House Office of Legislative Affairs will be Louisa Terrell, a former special assistant for legislative affairs to Mr. Obama and a former Capitol Hill aide whose jobs included chief of staff to Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey.

The policy director for Ms. Biden will be Mala Adiga, a lawyer who served in a similar role in the Biden-Harris campaign and handled women’s and human rights issues at the State Department and National Security Council under Mr. Obama.

The White House’s social secretary will be Carlos Elizondo, who was the social secretary to the Bidens during the Obama administration and the first Hispanic American to hold that job. The position involves planning and managing official White House events, including state dinners.

Transition officials offered no specifics about when the team might announce further personnel appointments, including Mr. Biden’s first cabinet nominees.





No.8 article:
Len Barry, 78, Dies; Soulful Voice of ‘Bristol Stomp’ and ‘1-2-3’

He had success as the lead singer of the Dovells and later as a solo artist. But he was always a reluctant performer, most comfortable as a songwriter and producer.

Len Barry, the lead singer of the Dovells on their danceable early-1960s hits “Bristol Stomp” and “You Can’t Sit Down” and later a solo artist whose career peaked with his infectious love song “1-2-3,” died on Nov. 5 in a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 78.

His son Spencer Borisoff said the cause was myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disease.

The Dovells were a doo-wop group whose members had all sung lead at various times. When the group auditioned for Cameo-Parkway Records in Philadelphia in late 1960, Mr. Barry sang lead on “No, No, No,” a song he had written. They got the deal, and his strong, soulful voice secured his role with the group.

“Lenny had a great voice,” Jerry Gross, one of the Dovells, said in a phone interview. “He had the sound they wanted.”

The back cover of the group’s first album, “Bristol Stomp,” featured brief biographies of each singer. Mr. Barry’s said, “His hobbies include rock an’ roll, basketball and, naturally, girls.”

“Bristol Stomp” — about teenagers dancing a new step in Bristol, Pa. — rose to No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in 1961. The group performed the song in the 1962 film “Don’t Knock the Twist,” with Mr. Barry displaying a commanding stage presence.

After several modest hits (including “Bristol Twistin’ Annie” and “The Jitterbug”), the Dovells returned to the Top 10 in 1963 with the infectious “You Can’t Sit Down,” which peaked at No. 3.

Later that year, Mr. Barry left the group in a dispute over its direction. He wanted the Dovells to move further into rhythm and blues, Mr. Gross said, but the others wanted to become a nightclub act.

“Lenny came over and he said: ‘I’m free. I want to be a solo artist,’” John Madara, a producer and songwriter, said in an interview in 2014 on the online series “Tom TV.”

Mr. Madara and his partner, David White, an original member of the group Danny and the Juniors, began producing songs for Mr. Barry at Decca Records, including “At the Hop ’65” and “Lip Sync (to the Tongue Twisters).”

“1-2-3” — written by Mr. Madara and Mr. White, with lyrics in the bridge contributed by Mr. Barry — rose to No. 2 on the Billboard chart in 1965. Mr. Barry never had a bigger hit.

Mr. Madara said he had the idea for “1-2-3,” but Mr. Barry said he did. He told The Albany Herald in 2012 that he had been inspired by the Marvelettes’ song “Beachwood 4-5789,” and by his interracial relationship with one of the group’s members, to which her family objected.

“The song really was about interracial relations that were as easy as ‘1-2-3,’” he said.

Leonard Warren Borisoff was born on June 12, 1942, in Philadelphia. His mother, Bernice (Goldsmith) Borisoff, sold men’s clothing. His father, Joe, managed a bar.

A passionate and talented basketball player, Len was on the Overbrook High School team that won the Philadelphia city title in 1959. His teammates included two future N.B.A. players, Walt Hazzard and Wally (later known as Wali) Jones.

While in high school he also sang with a doo-wop group, the Brooktones, some of whose members were later in the Dovells. He would continue to perform with the Dovells and on his own through the early 1970s — but only occasionally afterward.

Mr. Barry was a reluctant performer who disliked being onstage. He also disliked being called a “blue-eyed soul singer,” a term he considered an insult.

“He boisterously objected to the term,” Mr. Borisoff said of his father. “He felt it was racist, like people were saying, ‘Oh, for a white guy that’s good soul.’”

Singing gave way to writing, co-writing and producing songs in various genres for Fat Larry’s Band (“Zoom”), Blue Magic (“Freak-n-Stein”), Brandi Wells (“S”), Sylvester (“Someone Like You”), Slick (“Space Bass”) and Booker Newberry III (“Love Town”).

He still sang occasionally, but he spurned Mr. Gross’s requests to reunite with the other Dovells until the opportunity presented itself in 1994. Mr. Barry was booked on an oldies tour separately from the Dovells (who by then were down to two members, Mr. Gross and Mark Stevens, who still perform together).

“I saw Len in Syracuse and said, ‘Come out and do the “Bristol Stomp” with us,’” Mr. Gross said. “I said, ‘We’ll share the lead, we’ll do whatever you want.’” Mr. Barry agreed, somewhat reluctantly. “We had a lot of fun,” Mr. Gross said, and they got together again to sing “Bristol Stomp” at the next tour stop, in Hartford, Conn. But it was their last time together.

In addition to his son, Mr. Barry is survived by his daughter, Bia Gerngross, and two grandchildren. His marriage to Elaine Uniman ended in divorce.

In 2008, Mr. Barry shifted to writing fiction. He collaborated with his son on “Black-Like-Me,” about two young white youths growing up in a Black neighborhood. The novel was a reflection of Mr. Barry’s experiences attending an integrated high school, performing on the same bill with Black artists and having a voice that was sometimes mistaken for a Black singer’s.

“I was always very grateful for the life that music gave me,” Mr. Barry said in a promotional video for the book. “And if my later life can be rewarded to me by the literary industry, that would be magnificent.” With a smile, he added, “I don’t know what I’m going to do with the rest of my life if you don’t like my writing.”





No.9 article:
When New York City Schools Reopen, About 700,000 Students Won’t Be There

It is unclear when in-person instruction will restart, but the number of children who will return to classrooms has fallen short of the mayor’s predictions.

Several weeks before Mayor Bill de Blasio shut New York City’s school system, the nation’s largest, amid a surge in coronavirus cases, he handed parents a daunting deadline: They had only a few weeks to decide if their children would return to classrooms this school year, and likely until at least next fall.

This week, New Yorkers returned their verdict: Only about 35,000 children who had been learning remotely at the start of the school year asked to switch into some in-person learning whenever city schools reopen.

The number of families choosing to return to classrooms represents both a major disappointment and surprise for the mayor, who has said he has a mandate from parents to reopen schools. Parents were asked to make the wrenching decision about how their children would learn for the rest of the school year while the threat of systemwide closure loomed. All city schools closed for in-person learning indefinitely on Thursday, though the mayor has vowed to reopen them as soon as possible.

When schools do reopen, only about 335,000 students — nearly a third of the city’s roughly 1.1 million public schoolchildren — could learn in the school buildings that Mr. de Blasio spent months fighting to reopen.

But that number could actually be lower when classrooms reopen. Students can switch from in-person to online learning at any time this school year, but the mayor has said they can no longer sign up for classroom instruction.

The latest numbers came as many parents, educators and elected officials were mired in an intense debate about whether the city’s schools should had been closed at all. Yet the figures demonstrate that the conflict over in-person instruction is relevant for a minority of city families.

That highlights a harsh reality for Mr. de Blasio’s administration, which has put schools at the center of the push to revive New York City and its economy after it became a global epicenter of the virus in the spring.

And the fact that just under half of Black and Latino families have chosen to keep their children learning at home undermines the mayor’s argument that public school parents, who are overwhelmingly low-income parents of color, demanded open classrooms.

The mayor had expected most children to return to school buildings because of the widely acknowledged inferiority of remote learning compared with in-person classes, and the enormous child care challenge that remote learning has created for working families.

“I think if you went from March 2020 theoretically all the way to September 2021 and a kid never got into a classroom with an educator and caring adults that can help them, it would’ve been a massive mistake,” Mr. de Blasio said in a radio interview on Friday morning, before the new numbers were released.

Now the mayor is presiding over a school system in which white children, who make up just 15 percent of the public school population, have had a disproportionate presence in classrooms during the pandemic. The most recent survey of parents indicated that white families were choosing remote learning at the lowest rates of any racial group.

New York stands apart from the rest of the country for the enormous size of its public school system: The number of children set to return to classrooms is roughly equivalent to the total enrollment of Miami’s public school district, the nation’s fourth-largest.

Still, the numbers fell far short of the mayor’s predictions.

In July, Mr. de Blasio said he expected only about a quarter of parents to keep their children learning at home when schools reopened. It was clear by October that the city would fall significantly short of that goal, but the mayor still called the preliminary enrollment number “a work in progress” when he announced it.

Now that figure appears to be more final.

After originally promising that children learning remotely would be able to choose in-person classes once a quarter, the mayor said last month that parents would have only one opportunity to opt back in for the rest of the school year.

He justified the change by explaining that the city needed a better sense of who was actually showing up to classrooms. Since the number was so much lower than anticipated, principals could not properly plan school schedules. It is likely that when schools do reopen, at least some schools will be able to accommodate more students on more days because of the relatively low enrollment.

The results raised urgent questions about why the city had spent so many months rushing to prepare school buildings while spending relatively little time focusing on improving remote learning. Almost all children will spend much of their time learning remotely, and about 700,000 students will spend their entire week taking online classes.

Those numbers may send a concerning signal to other large districts across the country about parents’ willingness to send their children back into classrooms.

Despite the fact that schools have reported very few virus cases, and that everyone from the president of the teachers’ union to the city’s top public health experts agree that schools are generally safe, most families simply do not want to return while the pandemic is still raging.

At the same time, hundreds of thousands of Black, Latino and Asian-American children — including many students with disabilities and children living in homeless shelters or in public housing — will learn from home full time.

About 60,000 children who have requested devices from the city fore remote learning have not received them, and others are still struggling to connect to Wi-Fi.

There is no single reason so many families have not sent their children back into schools, and it would be a vast oversimplification to say that any one racial or ethnic group has a consensus view on in-person learning.

And there are still many thousands of children of all racial and ethnic backgrounds who are back in classrooms. But the demographic differences between those who have chosen to return to classrooms and those who have not are striking — and so far, the mayor has resisted directly addressing those disparities.

Nonwhite families in New York have experienced significantly worse health outcomes from the virus than their white peers, and many city students live in multigenerational households where it would be particularly dangerous to bring the virus home.

The mayor’s halting approach to reopening schools also did not help. The multiple delays to in-person classes prompted some parents to wonder if the city was truly ready, or if it was safe.

For some families, the consistency of full-time remote learning was preferable to just a few days in the classroom a week, and to the ever-looming threat of a shut down. Other parents had said they would not consider sending their children back until there was a vaccine, even if the city had implemented its reopening plan flawlessly.

Most families agree that remote learning is a poor substitute for in-person classes, but some have said that despite the limitations of online instruction, the risk of illness is just too great.

Even some parents who initially sent their children back into classrooms this fall have since decided to keep them home.

Krystal Jordan, who lives with her son in a homeless shelter in Queens, decided to switch to all-remote instruction after her son said school felt overly restrictive, like a “prison.” But remote learning has not been a success either, she said.

“It’s overwhelming,” Ms. Jordan said. “He logs on to school and the teacher tries to make it like a real class the best she can, but sometimes the device doesn’t work and the WiFi’s slow.”

She did not know whether her son’s schedule would change with in-person classes shut down. “There’s so much uneasiness in general,” Ms. Jordan said, “that it’s hard to focus on the school work.”

Many parents said their children had been overjoyed to be back in the classroom, and some parents of students with disabilities said that in-person instruction had been nothing short of transformational for their children.

But parents who chose hybrid learning also said the limitations of part-time instruction were discouraging.

An agreement this summer between the city and the teachers’ union has created a significant staffing shortage that is not yet entirely resolved. Many large high schools had asked every student who could to learn from home in order for those schools to offer all their elective courses, which drove down enrollment figures considerably.

Still, many parents who chose hybrid instruction said their children’s happiness about being back in school buildings had outweighed the problems with part-time instruction.

Many of them are devastated that schools are now closed, including many parents of children with disabilities.

Kristin Giantris, a single working mother who lives in Manhattan’s Washington Heights neighborhood, said she was dreading the return to full-time remote instruction.

The services her son needs, Ms. Giantris said, “don’t translate on the computer.”

“My child is losing his self esteem, his people’s skills,” she added. “He doesn’t feel like he’s smart enough. I am physically watching him fade in terms of personality.”





No.10 article:
A Quick End to a Dangerous War

The feud between Armenia and Azerbaijan has only been put on hold.

The cease-fire brokered by Russia in Nagorno-Karabakh has silenced the guns and driven off the drones. That is good. But the deep-rooted feud between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the remote South Caucasus enclave has only been updated for an altered balance of power, not resolved. The burning houses of fleeing Armenians promise that it will erupt again. And in the demonic logic of conflicts which touch on elemental religious and cultural narratives, every eruption of violence adds another layer of mortal grievances, pushing a lasting peace further beyond the pale.

Like other “frozen conflicts” left behind in the decomposition of the Soviet empire — Transnistria, Crimea, Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Donbass — Nagorno-Karabakh is a legacy of a Soviet policies that distributed territory according to the imperatives of politics and central control, and not necessarily the identity of the inhabitants. The ethnic-Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh ended up in Azerbaijan, and remained an internationally recognized part of Azerbaijan, while the Azerbaijani enclave of Nakhichevan ended up stranded on the western side of Armenia.

Nagorno-Karabakh exploded in ethnic violence even before the Soviet Union was fully dead, and by the time the fighting was finally stopped in 1994, 20,000 had been killed and ethnic Armenians were in control of Nagorno-Karabakh itself and a broad surrounding zone, all thoroughly cleansed of ethnic Azerbaijanis. The Armenians proclaimed a republic in Nagorno-Karabakh that no one, not even Armenia, recognized, while hundreds of thousands of Azerbaijani refugees became a smoldering symbol of national shame and humiliation in Azerbaijan.

In the ensuing quarter century, as Azerbaijan grew wealthy on oil and built up its military, the lost lands remained an open national wound. So on Sept. 27, backed by an increasingly aggressive Turkey (much of whose population is of the same Turkic ethnic group as the Azeris) and armed, among other weapons, with Israeli drones, Azerbaijan charged back. Threatened with total defeat after a few weeks, Armenia agreed to a Russian-proposed cease-fire that entailed relinquishing much of the territory it had taken in the 1990s but retaining Nagorno-Karabakh itself. The arrangement also called for Russian peacekeepers to patrol corridors linking Armenian and Azerbaijani populations through each other’s territory, and to reopen a transportation route between Nakhichevan and Azerbaijan proper.

Before long, as Carlotta Gall and Anton Troianovski wrote in The Times, the Armenians were in flight, burning their homes and taking what they could. Azerbaijan erupted in wild celebrations. In Armenia, whose population was told until the end that they were heading for victory, furious mobs ransacked the Parliament and demanded the ouster of Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan. It was their turn to write a narrative of humiliation and shame, made all the more bitter because of the powerful national memory of the genocide Armenians suffered at Turkish hands between 1914 and 1923.

It is tempting, given the current Western animus toward Vladimir Putin, to paint Russia’s actions as a fallen imperial lord trying to restore a measure of its control over former fiefs, as it has done in eastern Ukraine or northern Georgia. Yet the fact is that Russia was the only power capable of putting an end to what could have become a dangerous regional clash.

After the last round of fighting, the United States and France — countries with large and influential populations of Armenian expatriates — teamed up with Russia in the “Minsk Group” charged with seeking a long-term solution. They did not reach one, and when the current fighting broke out, the United States was occupied by the presidential contest and France, without America, lacked the clout to achieve a cease-fire.

Russia, by contrast, had serious reasons to stop the fight. It is a supplier of arms to both sides and bound by alliance with Armenia. Azerbaijan was actively and materially supported in the attack by Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and Mr. Putin had little interest in another confrontation with Turkey after their agendas clashed in Syria. The deal Russia pushed through was, in its broad parameters, the only one possible, effectively recognizing Azerbaijan’s victory while preventing it from overrunning Nagorno-Karabakh or drawing Russian forces into the fray.

Beyond putting out a dangerous fire and demonstrating its continuing clout in its former lands, Russia could not claim an unqualified triumph. Moscow is now committed to maintaining a nearly 2,000-strong peacekeeping force in a volatile corner of what Russians call their “near abroad” for at least five years, and it must deal with a Turkey increasingly prepared to throw its weight around, especially on behalf of its Turkic (and oil-rich) cousins in Azerbaijan.

The United States also has little to celebrate. Given that Turkey is a NATO ally, and the importance of Azerbaijan’s oil, the oil pipelines running near the conflict zone, the proximity of Iran, the large Armenian diaspora in America, the use of Israeli drones in the conflict and the need to balance Russia’s influence beyond its borders, the United States should have been at the forefront of peacemaking with its European allies. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did summon both sides to Washington, but it was a measure of the Trump administration’s lost standing in the world that the cease-fire he announced promptly collapsed.

The fighting has stopped. But the new geopolitical configuration in the region makes a negotiated peace all the more imperative, and an American involvement all the more important. This is not a region the United States can abandon to the machinations of Mr. Putin or Mr. Erdogan.The “Minsk Group” still has a mandate from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to find a peaceful solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. This time, it would be wise not to wait for the next round of violence.





No.11 article:
Wisconsin Medical Examiner Prepared for the Worst. It Wasn’t Enough.

The pandemic was a faraway nightmare — a catastrophe on the coasts — when Patty Schachtner, the medical examiner in St. Croix County, Wis., began preparing.

In March, she counted up all of her county’s hospitals, ventilators and nursing homes, including the one where her beloved 88-year-old father lived. If the coronavirus reached this mostly rural place on Wisconsin’s western edge, full of dairy farms and snowmobile trails, would residents be ready? She had spent 31 years working in public health — the last nine as the county’s chief medical examiner — but she could not be sure. So she kept going.

She delivered masks to funeral homes, hoping they would help protect the staff from the virus and slow its spread. She installed showers in an unused warehouse for sheriff’s deputies and other front-line workers who might need to clean off before heading home to their families.

And in the grim chance that the virus did come, and that there were more deaths than the county could handle, she dropped off body bags at nursing homes. Part of the warehouse was turned into a morgue.

Even this might not be enough, she knew — not with a team of five death investigators to cover a county of more than 700 square miles. So she did what few other medical examiners were doing and rented a refrigerated truck to store even more bodies.

“I pray that I never have to use it,” Ms. Schachtner, who also is a state senator, said in March. “But this Covid can get out of control really quick.”

To some people, the preparations might have seemed like a bit much, especially in a county that had seen five virus cases by the end of March. But to Ms. Schachtner, it was her job as medical examiner to worry about worst-case scenarios, to take care of the unpleasant, pragmatic details that other people would rather not think about or see.

Ms. Schachtner, a motorcycle enthusiast who canceled a trip to Sturgis, S.D., this summer because of the pandemic, is unfussy, practical and plain-spoken. She is also a hugger, a grandmother and a careful thinker about respect, death and its attendant rituals. Once she gave a TEDx Talk on the subject.

And all summer long, the coronavirus barely rose above a trickle in St. Croix County. Then came fall.

Now dozens of her neighbors in St. Croix County are contracting the virus each day. The local health department has abandoned efforts to contain the spread with contact tracing, saying it is too busy simply notifying all the people who test positive. The nightmare scenario unfolded not just for the county, but for Ms. Schachtner. In October, her sister-in-law got it — then, in quick succession, her brother-in-law and her sister.

And then, two weeks ago, her father.

The outbreak in Wisconsin spiraled beyond control weeks ago, with rates of new cases that are consistently among the country’s worst. Tests are often scarce, the governor has begged people to stay home and all but one of Wisconsin’s 72 counties faced “critically high” case activity on Thursday, the state’s highest level of concern.

Week after week, the state shatters records for cases, hospitalizations and deaths, said Dr. Ben Weston, the director of medical services for the Milwaukee County Office of Emergency Management. Desperate pleas from officials, even as the United States surpassed 250,000 deaths from the virus, do little to stop the spread.

“Wisconsin is in a tough place right now,” Dr. Weston said. “Despite much talk, we are not turning the corner, nor are we flattening the curve. In fact, our curve is steepening with no end in sight.”

Ms. Schachtner, whose family has lived, farmed, camped and hunted in St. Croix County for generations, has seen public health from more than one angle. She was a longtime emergency medical technician, a job that sent her out on an ambulance and racing urgently into people’s most difficult moments. When she began as a death investigator in 2003, she was struck by parallels in the work.

“When the bad stuff happens, people are going to expect you to have all the answers,” she said. “You have to be prepared for that. Collectively, they’re all saying, ‘What didn’t you do for my person?’ You try to make sure you have done everything.”

When the pandemic took hold in the United States in March, Ms. Schachtner already had a wide network of connections in public health — people who were thinking the same thing she was: What can we do to protect the community?

But in St. Croix County, a mostly conservative area that President Trump won decisively in 2016 and 2020, Ms. Schachtner endured some criticism about the refrigerated truck, which mostly stood empty. Ms. Schachtner’s role as appointed medical examiner is nonpartisan, but she won her seat in the State Senate as a Democrat in a low-turnout special election in 2018. “Oh, I got it from both sides,” she said of the refrigerated truck. “I mean, some people thought it was overreacting and other people were very grateful.”

There was public resistance to masks, social distancing and a stay-at-home order from Gov. Tony Evers, a Democrat, from the beginning.

Ann Hall, who owns a bistro in New Richmond, Wis., closed the dining room of her restaurant early in the pandemic. She still serves takeout through a drive-up window but has yet to reopen inside service.

Her regular customers are respectful. But others saunter inside without masks, she said, despite the three signs warning that they are required. And she has heard complaints about her decision to keep the dining room closed.

“They believe it’s within their rights to force me to be open,” she said. “It’s been astonishing. It puts me between a rock and a hard place.”

Paulette Anderson of Hammond, Wis., a member of the St. Croix County Board of Supervisors, said that tensions over the pandemic response have been mounting in the county, especially in recent months. This week, the board considered an ordinance that would have tightened restrictions on businesses and made masks mandatory in indoor public places. It was rejected, nine votes to 10.

“It’s really become divisive,” Ms. Anderson said. “I believe in mask wearing and social distancing. I believe that you shouldn’t go into a business without masks. But lots of people don’t feel that way, and those folks don’t want to be told what to do.”

As more people in St. Croix County became sick from the coronavirus this fall, Ms. Schachtner was struggling with the demands on her staff. The five death investigators now work 12-hour shifts four days a week and spend 36 hours a week on backup. One staff member had to quarantine because of a spouse who was sick with the coronavirus.

Her own State Senate re-election bid was coming up in November, but Ms. Schachtner did not hold campaign events or knock on doors, worried that it was not a safe practice; her Republican opponent won easily.

Last week, Ms. Schachtner sent a memo to local funeral homes, some of which were at capacity, telling them they could use the refrigerated truck for their dead. The number of infections and virus deaths in the county was rapidly turning bleak.

“It was like a snowball,” she said. “Just all of a sudden the reality of what everyone said was going to happen was happening. And I feel like it was almost like people were like, ‘I never thought this was going to happen and this is actually happening.’”

Then the virus reached her own family.

Ms. Schachtner’s sister-in-law, about to have surgery, took a routine coronavirus test that came back positive. In the following weeks, more family followed: a brother-in-law, a sister and a niece, who was an aide in the nursing home where her father, Richard Rivard, lived.

Two weeks ago, her father tested positive. “It was really our biggest fear,” she said.

In his final days, the family showed up outside his window, as they have faithfully done throughout the pandemic. Their mother, in a mask and gloves, was allowed inside to say goodbye to her husband, an Air Force veteran, farmer and outdoorsman who had Alzheimer’s disease at the end of his life but never forgot the faces of his family.

Last Saturday, the morning her father died, Ms. Schachtner huddled with her siblings in the cold, peering at their father one last time through the glass. “He was not supposed to die from Covid,” she said. “He was supposed to die from something else.”

“Covid robbed us of time with our dad and with my mom, her husband,” she said. “There’s so many families that are going through the same thing we are. And it’s hard now. It’s hard not to be angry.”





No.12 article:
Soumitra Chatterjee, Globally Acclaimed Indian Film Star, Dies at 85

His roles in classic movies directed by Satyajit Ray won him admiration from cinephiles and made him a hero to his fellow Bengalis.

Soumitra Chatterjee, an Indian actor who incarnated the beauty and fragility of youthful idealism in films by the director Satyajit Ray and helped solidify Mr. Ray’s place in cinematic history, died on Sunday at a hospital in Kolkata, India. He was 85.

His daughter, Poulami Bose, said the cause was brain damage and organ failure brought on by Covid-19.

Mr. Chatterjee, who appeared in more than 350 movies, rose to fame playing the title character in “The World of Apu” (1959). The film, the third in Mr. Ray’s famous “Apu&quot; trilogy, cast Mr. Chatterjee in an epic role familiar from canonical works of literature: A young man imagines a glorious literary career from a shabby garret apartment in a capital city but then encounters the hard realities of adult life, which he struggles to transcend.

The role was Mr. Chatterjee’s film debut, and it catapulted him to critical notice abroad and celebrity in India.

In one memorable scene, while delivering a monologue about the novel he plans to write, Mr. Chatterjee furrows his brow with intellectual severity, strikes the faraway look of an imagination at work, pauses and points for emphasis as he narrates the plot, and finally, with arms raised in triumph, smiles with joy at the act of creation. The sequence appears to have the naturalness of improvisation, but it was actually the product of laborious preparation.

Mr. Ray’s son, Sandip, said he saw the work that Mr. Chatterjee put into his roles when he peeked at one of the actor’s scripts. “It was full of handwritten notes,” he told The Telegraph, Kolkata’s English-language daily, in a recent interview. “Every minute detail of voice modulation, pause, look, movement and whatnot was in there.”

For “The World of Apu,” Mr. Chatterjee kept a diary in which he specified what Apu was doing every moment he was offscreen. He brought the same intensity to “Charulata” (1964), a Ray movie about tensions in an upper-class family set in 1879, in which Mr. Chatterjee plays an aspiring poet and essayist. He spent six months mastering the 19th-century style of Bengali handwriting so that the scenes that depicted him in the act of composition could appear authentic.

The young writers Mr. Chatterjee played in “The World of Apu” and “Charulata” set a template for other characters he became known for. In Mr. Ray’s “The Golden Fortress” (1974), about kidnappers looking for a long-forgotten treasure, Mr. Chatterjee plays a private eye whose ambition is softened by high-mindedness and impracticality. In “Days and Nights in the Forest” (1969), which follows young friends on a vacation, Mr. Chatterjee’s businessman character is sardonic and self-confident but, like the aspiring writers, yearns for a different life.

His characters often wore a shabby-chic outfit of sport coats and scarves — even when, in one movie, he briefly appeared as an ash-covered coal miner.

Mr. Chatterjee had the ability to project guilelessness, sometimes as a naïf but on other occasions as a selfless hero. His performance as Feluda, Mr. Ray’s riff on Sherlock Holmes, enshrined the character as a standard-bearer of Bengali cultural values. For a crime-fighting detective, Feluda was unusually intellectual, the sort of sleuth who would blow open a case by discovering, as he does in “The Golden Fortress,” a spelling mistake in a hotel register.

Mr. Ray invented Feluda as a character in a series of children’s stories he began writing in the 1960s, which he adapted into two movies starring Mr. Chatterjee, “The Golden Fortress” and “The Elephant God” (1978). Since Mr. Ray’s death in 1992 at 70, there have been more than a dozen new Feluda movies with a succession of new stars, but none have come close to supplanting Mr. Chatterjee’s portrayal of Feluda in the hearts of fans.

Internationally, Mr. Chatterjee attracted an admiring audience, but it was composed mainly of critics and connoisseurs who followed Mr. Ray’s work and lived near theaters that showed foreign movies.

The New Yorker film critic Pauline Kael praised Mr. Chatterjee as Mr. Ray’s “one-man stock company” and wrote in 1973 that Mr. Chatterjee and his frequent co-star, Sharmila Tagore, were “modern figures with overtones of ancient deities.”

When some of Mr. Ray’s early films were first released in the United States in the 1960s, New York Times critics called Mr. Chatterjee’s performances “strikingly sensitive” and “timid, tender, sad, serene, superb.” American filmmakers like Martin Scorsese and Wes Anderson have cited as inspirations some of the Ray movies that starred Mr. Chatterjee.

In 2015, “The World of Apu” returned to theaters across the United States as part of a restoration of the trilogy. American outlets like Criterion have made subtitled copies of movies by Mr. Ray starring Mr. Chatterjee available for streaming online.

Despite the success of their partnership, Mr. Chatterjee spoke later in life about not wanting to be seen as “a Satyajit Ray puppet.”

And yet the line between the two men sometimes blurred. While looking at Mr. Ray’s early drawings of Feluda, Mr. Chatterjee remarked that the character resembled Mr. Ray himself. “Really?” Mr. Ray replied. “Several people have told me that I’ve drawn him with you in mind.”

Soumitra Chatterjee was born on Jan. 19, 1935, in Krishnanagar, a small town in what was then the British province of Bengal. His father, Mohit Kumar Chatterjee, was a lawyer and a member of the Indian Independence Movement; his mother, Ashalata, was a homemaker. She named Soumitra after a character from Bengali literature and would, rather than sing him lullabies, recite poems by the Bengali polymath Rabindranath Tagore.

Soumitra starred in plays held in the family’s courtyard, where bedsheets had been transformed into curtains and the aluminum foil of his parents’ cigarette packets became crowns for him and his young relatives to wear as part of their costumes.

He avoided schoolbooks, but he was reading Tolstoy at 14. He skipped class to watch movies not meant for children, but got caught when he overheard a conversation between his parents about a particular scene and chimed in.

Mr. Chatterjee moved to Kolkata to attend City College and graduated with a degree in Bengali literature. He was inspired to become a professional actor after coming under the tutelage of the Bengali actor and director Sisir Bhaduri, who advised him to understand the roles he was assigned by scanning a script for subtext like a detective searching for clues.

In 1960 he married Deepa Chatterjee, his childhood sweetheart.

After Mr. Ray launched Mr. Chatterjee to Bengali superstardom and international art-house renown, Mr. Chatterjee’s artistic ambitions expanded. He founded, with a college friend, a literary magazine, Ekkhon (Bengali for “Now”), which published the work of eminent writers like Mahasweta Devi and illustrations and scripts by Mr. Ray.

Mr. Chatterjee also wrote more than a dozen books of poems and wrote, translated, directed, produced and starred in plays. He exhibited his watercolor paintings across India.

Later in his film career, he became typecast as a genial grandpa who upheld the noble values of a bygone era in roles that were, by his own admission, “hackneyed” or even “detestable.” “One feels sad for Soumitra,” one Bengali reviewer wrote.

In addition to Ms. Bose and his wife, Mr. Chatterjee is survived by his son, Sougata, and two grandchildren.

Mr. Chatterjee, who was 14 years younger than Mr. Ray, regarded him as a mentor and paid him a visit at his home every Sunday morning.

His admiration was not “based on external considerations, like how successful he was, how many awards he got or how wild people were about him,” Mr. Chatterjee said in a video interview. “I could see his artistic vision right before my eyes. It was a vast, universal vision. He had an ability to understand all of life.”





No.13 article:
Mnuchin’s Inglorious Endgame

The Trump administration’s abrupt decision to curtail the Federal Reserve’s emergency lending programs is a gamble with no upside.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is spending his last few months in office trying to undermine President-elect Joe Biden and the American economy.

Witness Thursday’s decision to end a set of Federal Reserve lending programs established early this year to contain the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic.

The programs are emergency backstops for various kinds of borrowing. The central bank, for example, stands ready to buy state and local debt, but only at rates significantly higher than current market rates. If private lenders retreat, the Fed would take their place.

The Fed, and many independent experts, say the programs are still valuable. Indeed, the Fed publicly opposed Mr. Mnuchin’s decision — a remarkable departure from the central bank’s almost invariable policy of publicly maintaining a united front with the Treasury.

Jerome Powell, the Fed chair, said this week that the programs should end when they are no longer needed, “and I don’t think that time is yet or very soon.”

The programs have been lightly used, but like the safety nets stretched beneath tightrope walkers, the number of people in the net isn’t really the point.

Coronavirus case counts are surging, and there are signs that economic activity is faltering. Moreover, ending the backstops could itself unsettle markets.

Perhaps most important, Mr. Mnuchin is foreclosing any expansion of the Fed programs.

In creating the programs, the Fed insisted that the Treasury absorb any losses, and Congress provided $454 billion for that purpose. The programs were initially set up to run through the end of the year, and Mr. Mnuchin on Thursday said he would not extend that deadline. He also said that he wanted the Fed to return any money it hadn’t used.

That last point is critical. The law allows the Fed to keep lending next year, but it does not allow the Treasury to provide more money to the Fed. By requesting the return of the money, Mr. Mnuchin is preventing the next Treasury secretary from easily reversing his decision.

The Fed could have used the money to mount a more aggressive effort to reduce borrowing costs for state and local governments and for small businesses. Democrats frustrated by the refusal of Senate Republicans to approve another round of fiscal stimulus were eyeing the Fed programs as a source of aid if economic conditions deteriorated.

A new Treasury secretary still could authorize an expansion of Fed lending backed by money from other pots. The Fed could revisit its insistence that its lending programs require a Treasury backstop. Congress could provide more money. But the chance that the Fed might be able to escape from its handcuffs is not a good reason for putting on the handcuffs.

The more generous view of Mr. Mnuchin’s decision is that he is impelled by ideological motives to constrain federal support for the private sector. By limiting the tools available to the incoming Biden administration, however, he is substituting his own political preferences for those of the majority of Americans who just elected Mr. Biden.

Mr. Mnuchin’s behavior contrasts sharply and shamefully with the Bush administration’s conduct during the similar period of economic crisis after the 2008 presidential election.

Then, outgoing Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson sought to preserve the incoming Obama administration’s room to maneuver, and to involve the incoming administration in important decisions. When the government announced a bailout for Bank of America in January 2009, officials made clear that both the outgoing and incoming presidents had approved the rescue plan.

The less generous reading of Mr. Mnuchin’s behavior is that he is engaged in an act of sabotage with the simple goal of punishing President Trump’s political enemies.

Whatever the motive, the decision is misguided. Mr. Mnuchin can serve the public interest, and avoid further damage to his own reputation, by maintaining the lending programs.





No.14 article:
Josh O’Connor Didn’t Care About the Crown Until He Became a Prince

Much has been made of the royal proportions of Josh O’Connor’s ears: Like those of Prince Charles, whom he plays in “The Crown,” they stick out.

But ears do not a king-in-waiting make. Rather, the actor concluded, it’s his posture.

Mostly upright when he debuted in Season 3, playing Charles as a Cambridge student, O’Connor has since charted the prince’s emotional state through a progressively pronounced stoop, inching his neck forward as expectations from the House of Windsor gnawed at Charles’s contentment. By the time Mummy — Queen Elizabeth II, played by Olivia Colman — places the coronet upon her son’s head at his investiture as the Prince of Wales, you wonder if he has the strength to support it.

“It has to do with the more weight on his shoulders, the more it brings him down, the more his neck comes out,” O’Connor said. “By the end he’s pathetic, sort of like a crumpled man.”

It gets even worse in Season 4 of “The Crown,” now on Netflix, which brings a less sympathetic Charles, surly and sniveling as he bridles at his marriage to the limelight-stealing Princess Diana (Emma Corrin) while not so secretly yearning for Camilla Parker Bowles (Emerald Fennell), the love that never quite got away. (And who will presumably marry Charles in some future season, as she did in real-life in 2005.)

For O’Connor, 30, this season is the end of his run in a role he never really sought. A self-described liberal left-winger, the actor declined to read for Charles when he was initially asked. “I thought, I can’t add anything to this,” he said in a video call from London. “I’m a republican — I’m not interested in the royal family.”

But he eventually acquiesced, and Peter Morgan, the show’s creator and writer, presented him with a scene. In it, Charles compares himself to a character in Saul Bellow’s “Dangling Man,” waiting to be drafted because going to war will give his life meaning.

“And then he says, ‘I’m essentially waiting for my mother to die in order for my life to take meaning,’” O’Connor said. “I read that line and I was like, ‘Well, that’s enough to get your teeth into.’”

The current season finds the prince increasingly exasperated with these circumstances, in terms of both the unhappy marriage that was thrust upon him and his continuing insignificance within the realm.

“We were telling a kind of unheard, voiceless Charles,” O’Connor said. “But that’s the beauty of it, that’s where he struggles: He doesn’t feel listened to.”

Charles isn’t imagining things. As his mother icily informs him in one gutting encounter, no one wants to hear his voice. No one.

O’Connor and Colman had a running joke that all of their scenes together were variations on the same sad theme. “Charles comes in, says, ‘Mummy, I need to talk to you,’ and she says, ‘No,’ and then he leaves,” he explained. Over and over.

As the queen, Colman said, “my job was to be quite strong, but I found it quite hard not to give him a cuddle.” Method actors they were not. “The second they’d say cut, we’d go: ‘Should we have a cup of tea? There are biscuits on the craft table!’ We’d much rather have a giggle.”

“He’s one of the most beautiful actors to work opposite,” she added. “He’s out there with the greats, in my mind.”

O’Connor grew up happily as the middle of three brothers in Cheltenham, a spa town on the edge of the Cotswolds. He trained at the Bristol Old Vic Theater School, whose alums include two of his idols, Pete Postlethwaite and Daniel Day-Lewis.

“Maybe it was a match made in heaven, I don’t know,” he said. “But I did love it.”

Not long after graduation, small TV roles in “Peaky Blinders” and “Ripper Street” trickled in. Eventually he snagged a lead as the oldest son in “The Durrells in Corfu,” a period drama by ITV and “Masterpiece” about a British family’s move to the titular Greek island in the 1930s.

But his real breakthrough came in Francis Lee’s 2017 feature debut, “God’s Own Country.” O’Connor is scarcely recognizable as Johnny Saxby, a gay, brooding binge drinker toiling on his family’s Yorkshire farm, whose calcified heart is pried open by a Romanian migrant worker.

Lee had invited O’Connor to audition based on a photograph. “I liked his ears a lot,” he said. But the tape O’Connor sent was worrisome.

“He delivered this incredibly brilliant portrayal of an emotionally repressed and difficult man, and I thought he must just be playing himself,” he said. “And that concerned me slightly.”

When the two finally met, Lee was shocked “because in walks this incredibly funny, upbeat, polite, middle-class boy, which was a million miles away from the character that he was going to play,” he said. “He’s one of those rare actors that is a real shape-shifter.”

O’Connor prepared by immersion, working for a month on a farm close to the West Yorkshire homestead where Lee grew up and birthing lambs between takes.

“We’d be doing a scene, and then they’d call, ‘Cut,’ and a van would come in and the real farmer, John, would say, ‘Josh, we got a lamb to come out,’” O’Connor recalled. “You’d deliver a lamb, send it on its way, wash your hands, ‘Action,’ and you’d be acting again.” By his count, he delivered around 150 in all.

“I started out a rubbish farmer,” he added, “and by the end I don’t know that I was a very good farmer. But farmer John, who’s still a very good friend of mine, said that he might employ me one day.”

“God’s Own Country” earned O’Connor a British Independent Film Award for best actor in 2017. Two years later, he won another for “Only You,” about a couple struggling with infertility.

O’Connor debuted in “The Crown” in late 2019. Morgan can’t recall having considered anyone else for this iteration of Charles — or noticing O’Connor’s ears, though he imagines he must have.

Rather, “I was drawn to his sensitivity and the fact that he was complex but likable, and I just felt instantly intrigued,” Morgan said. “And the minute he started doing some readings for us, it was a no-brainer. He was a list of one.”

O’Connor had watched “The Crown” in support of his good friend Vanessa Kirby, who played Princess Margaret in Seasons 1 and 2. “And then I became a loyal fan,” he said. While he has difficulty aligning his belief in a classless society with the royal family, he doesn’t think “The Crown” glamorizes them, despite its pageantry and splendor.

“What Peter does is he strips all that back,” he said. “It’s about humans who struggle and have very odd relationships with their parents and power and politics. That’s the juice.

“But I think you can have those beliefs and have great respect and affection and love even for these people. I think the queen is an extraordinary woman. Time after time, lots of men have failed, and this one woman in power has been consistent and remained dutiful and generally apolitical.

“In that sense, I have huge respect for her — and for Charles, to be honest. I mean, Charles is another level of someone who’s literally been waiting his entire life for this moment that still hasn’t come.”

O’Connor’s, however, seems to be at hand.

He recently wrapped Eva Husson’s “Mothering Sunday,” based on the Graham Swift novella, alongside Colman, Colin Firth and Odessa Young. And he’s currently in rehearsals opposite Jessie Buckley (“I’m Thinking of Ending Things”) for a National Theater film production of “Romeo &amp; Juliet,” set to air in the spring on PBS and Sky Arts.

“He’s a rogue,” Buckley said. “He comes with a twinkle and just the right amount of danger. You feel safe, but you know that we’re both going to be daring each other to jump off the cliff.”

In the Season 4 finale of “The Crown,” O’Connor does just that: Dared in a way by Morgan, he drops Charles’s polished facade and furiously rips into Diana about Camilla.

“A lot of these Windsors have famously shocking tempers,” Morgan said. “And I said, ‘Look, just really, really go for it and show your anger and show your heart.’”

He added: “It’s crushingly painful, and this goes to the duality of how one feels about Charles. At the same time as he’s being unbelievably cruel to the woman he married, he’s being incredibly loyal and steadfast to the woman he loves. I think Josh captured that brilliantly.”

The scene is O’Connor’s favorite of the season.

“If the beginning was the investiture,” he said, “then the end was always going to be the breakdown of the marriage, where he says” — bellows, really, his neck straining — “‘I refuse to be blamed any longer for this grotesque misalliance.’”

“That line to me is everything,” O’Connor added. “And it was my closure to Charles. It was my way of saying: ‘Cool. Done my job. Goodbye.’”





No.15 article:
A Cal Football Player Opted Out Because of the Virus. Then Came the Tuition Bill.

A committee found that the athletic department broke an N.C.A.A. rule by revoking Henry Bazakas’s summer scholarship. His fight to get it back showed the cutthroat side of college football.

Henry Bazakas embodied everything the University of California wants in a football player.

A third-generation Cal student who grew up in Berkeley, Bazakas arrived on campus five years ago as a walk-on offensive lineman. Three times he earned an award for having the team’s highest grade-point average. He and a teammate spearheaded a summer reading program at local elementary schools. He won another award, for his commitment to strength and conditioning while recovering from a torn knee ligament. And last season, after he finally earned an athletic scholarship, he started three games at left tackle.

But none of that counted for much in June, when Bazakas called the Cal football coach, Justin Wilcox, to say that he was opting out of his final season because of health concerns related to the coronavirus pandemic.

The call was the beginning of an odyssey that illustrates the normally unseen, cutthroat side of the business of college football, with tensions that have been magnified for athletes by the determined push to play during the pandemic.

Nine days later, Bazakas found his scholarship had been cut off, and he was then billed more than $24,000 halfway through his summer term because the athletic department had revoked the financial aid that it had already paid.

The summer school aid was ultimately reinstated by a university appeals committee, which said the school had violated N.C.A.A. rules by abruptly pulling Bazakas’s aid before giving him an opportunity for a hearing.

Bazakas also asked for his scholarship back for the fall semester, but the appeals panel sided with the athletic department’s decision to not renew it. While most of his teammates arrived at Cal with scholarships pledged for four years, walk-ons, like Bazakas, who eventually earn scholarships may not get them in subsequent years, and Cal had met an N.C.A.A. deadline in July not to renew his.

“It feels like the second I was done playing football, the program was done with me,” said Bazakas, who waited nearly three months for his summer aid to be restored through appeal.

Wilcox, the football coach, and Jay Larson, the senior associate athletic director who administers the football program and directed its arguments against Bazakas’s appeal, declined interview requests about the case. Herb Benenson, an athletic department spokesman, said Bazakas knew that he had not been offered a scholarship for the 2020-21 academic year when he left the team.

This is true, but only partly so. Bazakas had asked his coach several times over six months whether the scholarship would be renewed. He got no firm answer. Wilcox’s decision came through an email from the financial aid office on June 25.

Benenson said the athletic department, even though it argued against Bazakas, agreed with the university’s decision to restore the player’s summer aid. Benenson said the aid was mistakenly canceled because of a clerical error that did not come to light until an inquiry by The New York Times in mid-October, a month after the committee’s ruling.

Bazakas said neither Wilcox nor Larson, nor anyone else from Cal, had contacted him to acknowledge what Benenson characterized as “an honest mistake.”

As major college football has lurched through the pandemic in pursuit of billions in television revenue — Cal had its first two scheduled games canceled, then lost Sunday to U.C.L.A. in a game arranged two days before kickoff — not even mandated protections for players have been ironclad.

In August, Washington State receiver Kassidy Woods, who opted out because he has the sickle cell trait, was allowed to keep his scholarship but removed from the team when Coach Nick Rolovich told Woods it would be “an issue” that he was aligned with a player rights’ movement. Utah State Coach Gary Andersen, before he was fired after an 0-3 start, said there was a reason none of his players had opted out. “It’s not an option,” he told reporters. “If you opt out, you’re not with us.”

As players weigh their health risks, an unstated pressure urges them to continue competing to maintain their places in the pecking order for playing time. For those who arrived as walk-ons, a missed season heightens the uncertainty about whether a scholarship will be renewed.

“The way we use our voice, how we play or practice — that’s what determines if we keep our scholarship,” said Gabe Siemieniec, a former walk-on kicker at Cal who transferred to Louisiana Tech before the season in part because he was not sure whether his scholarship would be renewed. “It’s kind of interesting. All the power is in the coach’s hands — you can’t negotiate.”

Programs at the top level of college football may offer up to 85 football scholarships each year with the remainder of a 120-player roster filled by non-scholarship players, or walk-ons.

Walk-ons can be indispensable to even the best programs. In practices, they mimic opposing players to help the starters prepare for the next game. They often lift the team grade-point average and sometimes compensate for recruiting mistakes when they blossom into contributors. The patron saint of walk-ons is Hunter Renfrow, who caught a last-second touchdown to win the national championship for Clemson in 2017.

For walk-ons, a scholarship is not just a financial reward.

It is a stamp of legitimacy earned through sweat and sacrifice in the weight room and on the practice field, and through their play on Saturdays. Scholarships are often conferred in front of teammates in elaborate presentations, which the schools happily promote on social media.

Bazakas recalled the immense pride he felt when Wilcox informed him that he would be on scholarship last year. Bazakas grew up sitting in the stands at Memorial Stadium rooting for Cal. His late grandfather, a Cal graduate, was a season-ticket holder. His father, a financial officer at a tech company, and his mother, an educator, graduated from Cal. His affinity runs so deep that he rejected his mother’s suggestion that he apply to Cal’s archrival, Stanford.

Though Bazakas — who started playing football in high school — drew interest from Ivy League schools and Weber State, he jumped at an offer from Sonny Dykes, then the coach at Cal, to join the Golden Bears as a walk-on.

“That was a dream come true,” Bazakas said.

Bazakas quickly realized how far he was from playing in a game. But he got stronger and improved his technique. By his third season, he had worked his way up to the 70-player travel squad. The next season was cut short by a torn knee ligament.

Last year, after being awarded a scholarship, Bazakas was thrust into the conference opener because of a teammate’s injury and helped the team drive the length of the field for a late field goal to beat Washington. He started three games and also played in a victory over Stanford that ended Cal’s eight-game losing streak in the rivalry.

“It was my proudest moment,” Bazakas said.

Bazakas had hoped for more highlights this season. He wanted to compete for a starting position. But he is grateful for the experiences he has had.

“I didn’t want it to end the way it did, but in the scale of 2020, most things aren’t going the way people wanted them to go,” Bazakas said.

Bazakas opted out at a moment of great uncertainty for college football players. Some schools were requiring athletes to sign liability waivers upon returning to campus for summer workouts, and it was weeks before conferences like the Big Ten, the Pac-12 and the Southeastern Conferences said they would honor scholarships for athletes who opted out. The N.C.A.A. did not make it a blanket policy until August. (The standard scholarship agreement says that athletes can have their aid canceled if they withdraw from a team.)

“You’re supposed to make every decision for the team and that’s what you want, but at some point, you’re an individual,” Bazakas said. “You’re not really allowed to advocate for yourself. You don’t realize you can until you’re out of the system.”

Around the time Bazakas opted out, two close friends on the team — offensive linemen Valentino Daltoso and Jake Curhan — were at the center of a movement by Pac-12 players that pushed for more rights for players, including say on health protocols and protections for athletes who chose to sit out a season.

Andrew Cooper, who ran cross-country at Washington State and Cal and has been an organizer in the athletes’ rights movement, said Bazakas’s case was one of many that were discussed as hundreds of players around the country had group conversations over the summer through videoconferencing. (Daltoso and Curhan did not respond to interview requests.)

“Ninety-nine percent of college athletes stay silent about the injustices they experience,” Cooper said. “We’re told, ‘Just be grateful.’” He added: “When it comes down to it, no one is there to protect us, because athletic departments’ financial interests do not align with athletes’ interests.”

Bazakas was among six walk-ons who received scholarships last season and were eligible to return in 2020. Wilcox made it clear that the aid was for one year and that subsequent years could be awarded if Cal had scholarships available.

Two of those players were certain to have their scholarships renewed because of their strong play. Shortly after last season ended, the four others were called into Wilcox’s office, one by one, and left with a similar impression: that their aid was very much uncertain for the next season. Some of their spots, for example, could be taken by transfers who would fill more urgent needs.

The former walk-ons viewed spring practices as their best chance to prove to the coaches they deserved to have their scholarships renewed. But after four sessions, football was shut down because of the virus.

“Everything was up in the air,” Siemieniec said.

The three other players besides Bazakas entered the transfer portal to seek scholarship offers elsewhere. Two transferred, and one, tight end Collin Moore, had his scholarship renewed.

Bazakas, though, was already deep into a master’s program for information and data science, so leaving did not make sense.

But by June, as teams planned for summer workouts, Bazakas began to question whether returning to campus was a good idea.

Bazakas, who stands 6-foot-6, weighed 330 pounds at the time, putting him in a high-risk category if he contracted the virus. His parents are in their 50s, so they could be vulnerable, too. He worried about catching the virus while working out with his teammates, then bringing it home or to people in his neighborhood.

“The thought of going back scared me a lot,” said Bazakas, who had repeated conversations with his teammates, his girlfriend and his family over several months.

Finally, on June 16, the day before Cal announced players could return to campus to prepare for voluntary workouts, Bazakas called Wilcox.

“He was pretty understanding,” Bazakas said. “He said the world is crazy and everyone has to make a choice. He asked, ‘Is there a chance I can talk you out of this or have you made up your mind?’ I told him I had made up my mind. He said, ‘OK, I respect that.’ It wasn’t a long conversation.”

Bazakas said his scholarship was not discussed.

When he called his coach, Bazakas did not know about the key date of July 1, when the N.C.A.A. requires schools to notify athletes of any roster reduction for the next academic year. The date was not mentioned in the financial aid agreement that Bazakas signed for 2019-20. Benenson, the athletic department spokesman, acknowledged that Bazakas had not been notified of Cal’s deadline, but he said Wilcox had told the player not to expect a renewal.

As for summer aid, each school makes its own decisions. This summer Cal tightened its financial belt. The athletic department, which was facing a $55 million deficit if there were no fall sports, largely restricted athletes to one summer class because of virus-related budget constraints, Benenson said.

Bazakas appeared to be an exception. He received a text on May 18 from Joel Derechinsky, the team’s academic coordinator, who asked if Bazakas needed to take all three classes he had registered for during the summer semester.

Bazakas, who earned his bachelor’s degree in business administration, replied that he wanted to leave his final two classes for the fall semester during the season. Derechinsky said that would be OK. (Derechinsky declined to be interviewed.)

A month later, Bazakas received notice that he would no longer be on scholarship. One night as he considered whether to appeal, Bazakas checked his student account portal before he went to bed.

He blinked.

It carried two new charges on July 1: $23,506 for summer fees and $631 for the summer stipend. “I was pretty shook,” Bazakas said. “I thought, ‘Man, I’m going to have to explain this to my parents.’”

As September approached, Bazakas filed the final paperwork in his appeal with the help of several family friends, including a lawyer.

The athletic department countered Bazakas’s plea for restoring his summer aid by offering part of it back. Larson, in a Sept. 3 letter to the appeals committee, wrote: “Although we are not required to do so by NCAA rules, we have decided to provide summer aid to cover tuition and fees for one of Mr. Bazakas’ courses.”

The three-person committee sided with Bazakas. It said the athletic department failed to provide a hearing before his aid was revoked, which is required by N.C.A.A. rules.

But Bob Jacobsen, an undergraduate dean who was on the committee, said Bazakas’s summer aid was restored because Cal’s policy does not allow aid to be revoked during a term. When asked why that was not written in the ruling, he said: “This is not a Supreme Court decision where we have to cite it. If the document doesn’t make sense as a public relations document, so be it.” He added: “We didn’t expect anybody would be reading it.”

Benenson said the athletic department learned more recently that its error occurred because Bazakas’s courses were incorrectly classified as beginning in late July rather than in May.

The case for a fall scholarship, Bazakas knew, was more difficult to make. He is spending $15,000 to take his last two classes and he will graduate in December.

“I understand the business of football — if you don’t need a lineman as bad as you need a receiver and you take it away,” Bazakas said of the scholarship. “But I never got an answer; I never heard a yes or no. When I talked to Coach Wilcox the last time, I said if I hadn’t stepped away, would I have still gotten my aid? He didn’t answer.”

He added: “That’s the biggest what-if. If I hadn’t opted out, what would have happened?”

Bazakas — who signed off on his appeal letters with “Go Bears!” — said his experience had not soured him on Cal. He has followed the myriad twists his old teammates have endured — in August the Pac-12 postponed football, only to later decide to play after all, albeit with a truncated schedule. Practices have been interrupted and schedules upended. He feels for his teammates.

Last weekend Bazakas — 50 pounds lighter, having shed some of his football girth — sat in front of the TV and did what he had always done. He rooted for the Bears to win.





No.16 article:
Abolitionist Is Earliest Black Londoner Honored With Blue Plaque

Ottobah Cugoano, who became a writer and campaigner after surviving slavery in the West Indies, has been honored by a heritage program that long focused on white men.

LONDON — An 18th-century antislavery campaigner and author, Ottobah Cugoano, has become the earliest Black figure to be honored with one of London’s iconic blue plaques, the heritage organization that manages the program said on Friday.

The plaques, dotted on buildings around the city for the past 154 years, offer tiny tributes to the men and women who have made the British capital what it is. But more often than not, they have been dominated by the tales of white men.

In recent years, English Heritage, which manages what is now a nationwide program to celebrate notable figures and the places they lived and worked, has been trying to change that.

Mr. Cugoano, considered a hero of the antislavery movement in Britain, was enslaved as a teenager and later became a prominent campaigner and writer, denouncing the evils of slavery and making arguments against the slave trade that were considered radical for the time.

The historian David Olusoga, who serves on the panel that commissions new plaques, called Mr. Cugoano a “remarkable man” who had known and survived the horrors of slavery and then “used words and arguments to fight against the slave trade and slavery.”

“Cugoano was a true pioneer — the first African to demand the total abolition of slavery and one of the leaders” of London’s Black community, Mr. Olusoga said in a statement. “I am delighted that English Heritage is celebrating his life with a blue plaque.”

Mr. Cugoano was born in what is now Ghana, but described in his writing being kidnapped by fellow Africans while playing in a field with other children and then sold to Europeans. He was transported to the West Indies, where he was enslaved on a plantation in Grenada.

In 1772, he was taken to England by a prominent slave owner, and eventually became free, though the historical record on how exactly that happened remains murky.

The plaque honoring him was affixed to the 17th-century Schomberg House in Westminster in central London, where Mr. Cugoano worked as a servant from 1784 to 1791 while writing and campaigning.

While living there, he wrote the book, “Thoughts and Sentiments on the Evil and Wicked Traffic of the Slavery and Commerce of the Human Species, Humbly Submitted to the Inhabitants of Great-Britain.” It is believed to be the first antislavery book written by a Black person and published in Britain.

The blue plaque program’s long list of honorees was dominated by white men from the start — while plaques have been given out since 1866, it wasn’t until 1954 that the first plaque honoring a notable person of minority ethnic origin was installed, in honor of Mohandas K. Gandhi.

More than 950 of the plaques adorn London’s buildings, but just 4 percent of them are dedicated to Black or Asian figures. That doesn’t reflect the city’s diversity now or in the past. About 3.9 million current residents of London — some 43 percent of the city’s population — are from Black, Asian, and other minority ethnic groups.

Just 14 percent of London’s blue plaques honor women.

English Heritage set up working groups in 2016 seeking to ensure more racial diversity and gender equality.

The organization said that the low representation of people of color was partly explained by the long list of criteria for plaques — including that they should only be placed on the original building where someone lived or worked — “and by the all-too-frequent lack of historic records to establish a definitive link between the person in question and the building in which they lived.”

In the case of Mr. Cugoano, there were clear records and the historic building he lived in survives intact, offering “a very rare opportunity to honor a Black Londoner of the 18th century,” the organization said.

“To see those sort of individuals actually getting the recognition they deserve through these incredible blue plaques is important and timely,” said Augustus Casely-Hayford, a cultural historian who is the director of V&amp;A East, a new branch of the Victoria and Albert museum in London.

He said Mr. Cugoano, was “absolutely the perfect person” to represent the city “because of both his contributions and his personal story, the sacrifices he made, this incredible life of actual indefatigability.”

This summer, after Black Lives Matter protests swelled on the streets of London, with some protesters demanding the removal of public tributes to figures with links to the slave trade, London’s mayor ordered a citywide review of diversity in public spaces.

English Heritage said its plaques were part of that review, but that it had no plans to remove any of them from the streets and buildings of the capital.

“Our priority is to add more information online about many of the people who have blue plaques, in particular those whose actions are contested or seen today as negative,” it said in a statement at the time. “Our aim is to provide online as full a picture of their lives and legacies as possible.”





No.17 article:
This Is How the Outbreak Is Resurging Across New York City

The positive test rates have gone up in the city in the last month, leading to what many experts say is a second wave.

At first, New York officials tracked the resurgence of the coronavirus to a few neighborhoods in the city with large populations of Orthodox Jewish residents.

Then, those hot spots began to expand, leading to restrictions. But now, the coronavirus is spreading through the entire city, with cases surging in beachfront communities in Staten Island and corners of the Bronx, and seeding new outbreaks in parts of Queens that were among the hardest hit areas during the peak of the virus in the spring.

The number of new cases has climbed to the point where officials are struggling to untangle chains of transmission and make sense of how the virus is spreading. Now they are facing the reality that they are dealing with a surge that will linger for weeks, if not months.

“Just a matter of time,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said of new restrictions on indoor activities and businesses at his news conference on Thursday.

After a summer of dwindling transmission, New York City is in the grips of a second wave.

On Wednesday, after the seven-day rolling average positivity rate in the city hit 3 percent, Mr. de Blasio ordered the closing of public schools and hinted that other changes were coming. On the same day, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo warned that citywide restrictions on mass gatherings, indoor dining and houses of worship could follow in the coming weeks if the numbers continued to worsen.

They do each day.

More than 10,000 new cases of the coronavirus have been diagnosed this past week. At hospitals, doctors who worked through the surge in the spring are growing anxious once again, as more than 700 people in the city are hospitalized with the virus. Over the last week, there have been 59 deaths in the city.

In numbers released on Friday, 40 ZIP codes in the city had a seven-day average positive test rate of more than 4 percent. Thirteen had rates above 5 percent.

Queens has been averaging 325 cases a day in the past week, the most of any borough, according to the city’s data, in areas as varied as Elmhurst and Corona, which have a large number of Latino residents and were struck hard during the outbreak, and Breezy Point, a private beachfront community that is more than 90 percent white.

While cases are surging, epidemiologists and public health experts do not expect the second wave to be as bad as the first, when ambulance sirens filled the air, emergency rooms overflowed with patients, and more than 20,000 New York City residents died. But there is growing concern.

Last week, a group of health organizations and doctors sent a letter to Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Cuomo warning that they were waiting too long to impose new restrictions “to reverse the tide of new infections.”

The group, which calls itself the Covid-19 Working Group-New York, had urged Mayor de Blasio in early March to impose social distancing measures and restrictions, only to see the city wait, possibly costing thousands of lives. Now the group sees the current hesitancy for new restrictions — including the closures of indoor dining and gyms, which are both thought to give rise to a disproportionate number of infections — as a repeat of the spring.

“As we warned in our previous letter, non-pharmaceutical interventions can only save lives and preserve hospital capacity if the city acts early,” the letter read. “If we wait too long to implement these interventions, as the city did in March, we will suffer the same economic and social costs, but many more New Yorkers will die.”

Over the last two weeks, city health officials have put a number of options before the mayor and his aides, according to one city official familiar with the discussions, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.

Options included closures of gyms and indoor dining at restaurants and other indoor gathering spots. Another has been for the mayor to simply drastically change his public tone and to encourage people to work from home and avoid indoor dining at restaurants, the official said.

But days kept passing without the mayor taking action. The mayor has largely acquiesced to the idea that restrictions on businesses must come from the governor. Mr. Cuomo has stuck to his plan to wait to impose restrictions until the city hits certain statistical thresholds.

Even the one big decision the mayor has made, to close schools, has caused consternation among many parents and some epidemiologists and public health officials who believe public schools should be one of the last institutions to close, not the first.

Little evidence has emerged to suggest that schools in New York City were driving much transmission, which the mayor and his top health officials readily acknowledge. In fact, cases detected among adult staff members at schools have outnumbered those detected among students, easing fears that the city’s public schools would play a major role in spreading the virus.

As recently as mid-August, the city was averaging under 250 cases a day. Rising transmission in a few corners of the city — the Borough Park neighborhood of Brooklyn and Far Rockaway, Queens, for instance — led to a rising case count throughout September, prompting Mr. Cuomo to impose localized restrictions. Those hot spots, many coinciding with Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods, seemed to improve in October.

But then the situation began worsening across the entire city. At the end of October and into early November, the case count surged at an accelerating rate, alarming city health officials.

On Friday, Mr. de Blasio said that an average of 1,307 new cases a day had been detected over a recent seven-day stretch.

And the numbers that the city releases appear to be an undercount, as New York City’s statistics only include cases diagnosed with a polymerase chain reaction, or P.C.R., test — considered the gold standard.

Increasingly many people are getting antigen tests, which tend to be faster but are less likely to detect low levels of the virus. New York City does not yet include people who received a positive result through an antigen test in its official counts, contributing to a disparity with the figures released by the state.

New York State, which includes antigen tests in their count, has said that the new case count in New York City has climbed above 1,800 on some days over the last two weeks. The city’s daily count hasn’t surpassed 1,500 this month.

So far, officials have provided only the faintest description about what they have learned about what locations or activities are driving current transmission.

About 10 percent of cases of late seem to originate with travel outside of New York, the mayor has said. Another 5 to 10 percent of cases have been linked through contact tracing “back to gatherings or small events,” said Dr. Ted Long, a senior official with New York City’s Test and Trace program, adding that contact tracing has not turned up any “superspreader events” of late.

Another 5 or so percent are linked to nursing homes and other group homes, said Dr. Jay Varma, a senior adviser to the mayor.

But officials say they have little sense of where most other infections originated.

The percentage of cases that contact tracers cannot link to a particular event or place has been increasing as the numbers get worse, officials say.

There is hardly unanimity from outside experts about how to respond to the spread, although most agree it’s time for action.

“We need to be ahead of the curve and not be quite so slow in acting on our information,” said Dr. Jessica Justman, an epidemiology professor at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University.

In interviews, epidemiologists proposed a range of options the city should be considering, from shutting down gyms and tightening up quarantines for travelers to more comprehensive public health advice that went beyond exhortations to wear masks and wash hands.

Denis Nash, a former health department official and professor of epidemiology at the City University of New York’s School of Public Health, said that it was time for the public health advice to grow more nuanced.

“I’ve been struck by the lack of harm-reduction language,” he said.

Another epidemiologist, Kitaw Demissie, who is dean of the School of Public Health at SUNY Downstate Medical Center, in Brooklyn, said that many infections seemed tied to small group gatherings of friends and family — and that reducing transmission required finding ways to convince people to wear masks indoors more often.

“Changing behavior is very, very challenging,” he said, but added that public health officials could be offering more nuanced advice. If people were going to gather for Thanksgiving, for instance, there was no need to eat together at the table — why not encourage them to spread out around the kitchen and living room?

“I’m shocked that City Hall seems to have learned so little from what happened in March,” said James Krellenstein, an H.I.V. activist and member of the Covid-19 working group who helped organize the Working Group-New York letters. “We don’t have time in an epidemic to dither.”





No.18 article:
Tracey Davis, Chronicler of Ups and Downs With Her Famous Father, Dies at 59

In two books, she described Sammy Davis Jr.’s negligent parenting but also celebrated the intimate moments she shared with him toward the end of his life.

Tracey Davis, who turned her often painful experience as the child of  the entertainer Sammy Davis Jr. into a tale of reconciliation across two memoirs, died on Nov. 2 at her home in central Tennessee. She was 59.

Her ex-husband Guy Garner confirmed the death but said he did not know the cause.

In “Sammy Davis Jr.: My Father,” written with Dolores A. Barclay and published in 1996, Ms. Davis described growing up with a frequently absent father well known for his workaholism and his nightlife exploits; the anger she felt over the years when reflecting on her childhood; and the ability she gained, toward the end of Mr. Davis’s life, to forgive him and reconnect.

Mr. Davis died in 1990 at 64.

“I said things like, ‘Dad, I always loved you, but I didn’t like you that much,’” Ms. Davis told The Los Angeles Times in 2014. “He said, ‘Well, I didn’t like you that much either.’ It turned out the air needed to be cleared.”

Her second book, “Sammy Davis Jr.: A Personal Journey With My Father” — written with Nina Bunche Pierce and published in 2014 — quoted from conversations the two had during that period, when, Ms. Davis wrote, “my father became particularly nostalgic about the past.”

In addition to attaining fame as a singer, dancer and actor, Mr. Davis led a much-scrutinized social life. He belonged to the crew of rakish midcentury celebrities known as the Rat Pack, which included his longtime pal Frank Sinatra, who was the best man at Mr. Davis’s wedding in 1960, when he married Tracey’s mother, the actress May Britt. Mr. Davis was Black and Ms. Britt was white, and their union brought applause from supporters of interracial marriage and bomb threats from others.

MGM announced plans last month to make a movie about Mr. Davis based on Ms. Davis’s first book.

“I am thrilled to know my father’s life, both private and public, will be brought to the big screen with this team of storytellers,” Ms. Davis said in a statement when the deal was announced. “He and my mother, May Britt, took on the world, choosing love and compassion over hatred and bigotry, and I am a product of that decision.”

Tracey Hillevi Davis was born on July 5, 1961, in Los Angeles. She grew up in Nevada in the region around Lake Tahoe, where her mother moved after her parents divorced. She graduated from California State University, Northridge, in the mid-1980s and married Mr. Garner in 1986. They divorced in 2001. Another marriage, to Jim Cotta, also ended in divorce.

Ms. Davis worked in advertising.

In addition to her mother, May Britt Ringquist, she is survived by two brothers, Mark and Jeff Davis; two children from her first marriage, Sam and Montana Garner; and two children from her second marriage, Greer and Chase Cotta.





No.19 article:
In ‘Small Axe,’ Letitia Wright Plays a Real-Life Black Panther

The actress takes on the role of the British activist Altheia Jones-LeCointe in Steve McQueen’s series for Amazon. The experience has proved to be an education.

Letitia Wright broke onto the international stage with her performance as Shuri, the spirited, no-nonsense princess of Wakanda in “Black Panther.”

Four years later, Wright channels similar characteristics to play Altheia Jones-LeCointe, a leader of the British Black Panther movement, in Steve McQueen’s “Mangrove,” the first feature-length installment in his anthology series “Small Axe” on Amazon Prime Video.

Jones-LeCointe left Trinidad in 1965 to study for a doctorate in biochemistry at University College London, then became involved in anti-racist activism and education before helping to shape the British Black Panthers. In “Mangrove,” Wright’s Jones-LeCointe is a fierce agent of self-determination and political engagement.

The five films in “Small Axe,” all directed by McQueen, explore various aspects of London’s West Indian community, set between the late 1960s and the mid-1980s. “Mangrove” focuses on the 1971 trial of a group of nine Black activists accused of inciting a riot during a protest against the targeted police harassment of patrons at The Mangrove, a Caribbean restaurant in the Notting Hill district of West London. Several defendants — including Jones-LeCointe — represented themselves in court, and they beat the rioting charge.

In a phone interview, Wright discussed her introduction to the “Small Axe” project, the layered nature of racism in British society and the importance of telling stories about Black life in Britain on a grand scale. These are edited excerpts from that conversation.

How did you first come to be involved in “Small Axe?”

In 2015, I saw a listing on IMDb for an upcoming project that would look at the lives of the Caribbean community in England. I thought, “Wow, this is me!” I’m from Guyana. [Wright was born in Georgetown, and moved to London at the age of 7.] Geographically it’s in South America, but our culture is very influenced by the Caribbean, and we are considered Caribbean. I asked my agent to keep track of it, and thank God she did.

In 2018 I was on holiday in Trinidad and Tobago, and I got an email saying that Steve McQueen and Gary [Davy, casting director] wanted to meet me about what was now titled “Small Axe.” I was like, “Wow, cool, so they are still making it!”

I know Steve is a great artist, but I wanted to pick his brain a bit. Why this story, why now? He said: “The window for our elders’ stories to be told is closing. We can’t allow them to pass away and become our ancestors without them seeing themselves, their culture and everything they’ve contributed to the country represented onscreen.” I was sold, so, at the end of the meeting, I said “When do I audition?” He looked at me, then at Gary, and said: “You just did your audition. It was all the work you’ve been doing and creating in the world.” He trusted me from the get go, and I will always keep that experience very dear to me.

How much did you know about the Mangrove story coming into the project?

I grew up with my dad giving me books about Egypt, teaching me about African kings and queens and Mansa Musa, and educating me that, as a people, we weren’t slaves but we were enslaved. But, strangely enough, I didn’t know about the different aspects of our history in Britain.

So I did a bunch of digging. Some of it, about our culture, was beautiful to find. But some of it was heart-wrenching, I couldn’t sleep at night. I read about the New Cross Fire of 1981 and the kids that died there. Even before Stephen Lawrence [a Black teenager who was murdered in a racially motivated attack in London in 1993], there were lots of names that came up in my research of Black men who were just walking home, and they ended up dead or dead in custody. I’m so used to researching about America, and my heart is always pained in that way. But the British stuff was like: damn, I’m here, on the ground, and it’s so hidden. It’s not talked about, it’s an undercurrent of our existence, and it was shocking to me. But it fueled me to be able to know what I was standing for, and why I was doing the project.

I was struck by the skillful way “Mangrove” portrays institutional racism.

In Britain there are a lot of layers. A lot of institutional and psychological stuff, where someone might not call you a certain derogatory name outright, but the way they treat you is different. I think the “Mangrove” script does a great job of showing the different layers of racism at play in British society. For Police Constable Frank Pulley [the Mangrove’s main antagonist, played by Sam Spruell], it’s obvious that the Black people he targets have done nothing wrong, it’s an underlying hatred. And then in the courts, they’re going to find a way to maneuver, weave and sneakily get what they want, break you down bit by bit. The judge is at the top, he is friends with the lawyers, and the lawyers are friends with everybody else.

Did you meet Jones-LeCointe in preparation for the role?

I met her, and I made it very clear that I didn’t want to be her, I wanted to represent her spirit: the spirit of a young Black woman who came to Britain at the age of 19 to study biochemistry, and had to deal with her teachers telling her that she came from monkeys. We would talk about the history of the U.K., why her fellow activists did what they did, and why they were standing up for people.

We just sat there and held hands and cried. She said: “We were all about organizing the people, and do you see what’s happened when we haven’t organized? Look at where we are now.” Hearing her say that, as an elder, is a little bit heartbreaking, because she expected more from us as young people, to organize and have a proper community. We still love and care about each other today, but there’s a little bit of a separation there.

There’s been at least one occasion where the role of Black women in the British Black Power movement has been minimized in onscreen portrayals. How important was it for you to have Jones-LeCointe front and center in this telling of the Mangrove story?

It was extremely important. As Black women we’ve always been a part of history in every sector, but these achievements have been overlooked. So with Steve bringing stories like the Mangrove Nine to the forefront, and focusing on Black women like Altheia and Barbara Beese [another member of the Mangrove Nine], it’s honorable and beautiful. It’s much needed because it shows young Black women where we’ve been, where we are and where we need to go, and how we need to continue to grow and develop.

There’s an electrifying scene near the end of the film where you deliver an impassioned speech in court. Can you tell me about filming that?

Man, Glory of God over that scene, because we didn’t have many takes. Steve trusted his cinematographer, he trusted us. We didn’t have marks. It was: get the spirit of what she’s saying, and let’s go. For me that scene is so important because it represents a message for us as a people: Don’t give up, let’s keep collectively working together and fighting the good fight for peace, for justice, for love, for goodness! Because if we drop the ball, then how can we tell our kids to pick it up?

If I don’t fight for what I believe in, my morals, my values, then how can I expect my little son or my little daughter to do that? It was beautiful to be given the opportunity to be a vessel for the words that were in that script. I’m praying that those words will touch the hearts of people, so that as a community — not only as Black people, but as humanity — we fight for godly values and can continue to be a beautiful light to our kids and the generation coming after us.





No.20 article:
In the Wake of Ferguson, a Style-Blurring Album

Protests over police brutality inspired the composer Joseph C. Phillips Jr. to write “The Grey Land,” a mono-opera.

On his last album, “Changing Same,” the composer and bandleader Joseph C. Phillips Jr. took up a challenge that had once been extended by the writer Amiri Baraka.

Combining elements of Schoenberg’s atonality with aspects of funk frisson, indebted to Curtis Mayfield, Mr. Phillips embraced what Baraka called “the digging of everything.” That meant doing away with hard distinctions between the experimental and the popular, as artists like Sun Ra and Albert Ayler had done.

While Mr. Phillips was finalizing plans for “Changing Same,” in 2014, Michael Brown, an 18-year-old Black man, was shot in Ferguson, Mo., by a white police officer.

As a Black man, Mr. Phillips was unsurprised. But as a soon-to-be father, he was newly disturbed. “There’s this beautiful thing, waiting for this change to happen,” he recalled in a recent interview. “Then, when you hear about what was going on with Ferguson, and Michael Brown, it’s like, what are we bringing this child into?”

The intensity of the protests that followed the shooting prompted Mr. Phillips, 53, who teaches music to kindergartners in Brooklyn as his day job, to consider work that spoke directly to the moment: a new opera for a single soprano, joined by the members of his ensemble, Numinous. The results can be heard on “The Grey Land,” which was released last week on the New Amsterdam label. On it, you can hear Mr. Phillips’s newly expanded approach to “the digging of everything.”

At various points, this mono-opera (with Rebecca L. Hargrove on the recording and Kenneth Browning as narrator) nods to Samuel Barber and to Kendrick Lamar. One of the track titles comes from a line of dialogue in Quentin Tarantino’s film “Kill Bill.” In “Legion of Boom,” a reference to the Seattle Seahawks’s powerful defensive backfield, the early music of Philip Glass is easy to spot as an influence.

The longest movement of this operatic work is “Ferguson: Summer of 2014.” While the 19-minute piece includes breaking-news-style recitation of the events surrounding the shooting, it is not singularly focused on rebroadcasting previously reported facts. Crucially, these news-ticker sections alternate with a world of private pleasures (and private nervousness) experienced by a couple expecting a child amid the blasts of reportage.

The libretto for “Ferguson,” by the writer Isaac Butler, starts with a quotation from the James Agee text Barber used in “Knoxville: Summer of 1915” — “It has become that time of evening” — before relating the story of a couple with a child on the way. This section is, in large part, winningly melodic, even if harmonies occasionally suggest troubling vistas just over the horizon.

When the breaking news hits, in the 10th minute of the track, what has been a largely acoustic sound world is interrupted by dramatic and distorted electric guitar riffing. Yet the distinction proposed by this sonic shift — from pleasure to anguish, from chamber-music privacy to a loudly amplified public arena — is never completely binary. In that passage of harried guitar, you can also hear acoustic, Minimalist-style writing, helping connect the new music to some of the textures earlier in the piece.

Later in the track, those Minimalist lines come back, in a different guise. When the couple imagines leaving their phones and computers unplugged, and thus remaining disconnected from the news, the repeating figures reappear. This time, the motifs are delivered via heavily processed electronic tones. It’s as if digital signals from the world are hovering around the couple, waiting for them to log back on and face the latest grim news from Ferguson.

But you don’t have to be an expectant parent to appreciate the effect; many Americans are likely familiar with breaking news intruding on private joys. Without sacrificing the specificity of Mr. Phillips’s life and reactions, his piece has a capaciousness that can sometimes elude politically inspired works. This music dramatizes the effort involved in seeking and safeguarding individual satisfactions, without closing yourself off to the outside world.

The role of mothers takes on a steadily more prominent role as the “The Grey Land” proceeds. Mr. Phillips samples public comments made by women whose children were killed by police (“One Side Losing Slowly”). At other points, the character of the Black mother becomes more universal — as on “Don’t,” its lyrics by Mr. Phillips. Here, in list-poem format, we hear a series of cautions: “Don’t sit on the stoop, don’t play with toy guns, don’t listen to loud music.”

The music rebels against such well-intended limitations with a guitar part that Mr. Phillips compares to the ecstatic rhythms of Mr. Lamar’s lyrics for “Alright,” a song which was claimed as a protest anthem, after Ferguson. Sly humor is also on offer, as in “Agnus Bey,” a portmanteau of “Agnus Dei” from the Catholic Mass and a nickname bestowed on Beyoncé; Mr. Phillips is cheekily highlighting the catechisms of contemporary pop idolatry. His lyrics, rendered in Latin, translate this way: “Behold the Lamb of Bey. Behold the One, who slays the world. Blessed are thee, that receives the word of Bey.”

Throughout the album, Mr. Phillips can be heard rendering these varied cultural signals into a heterogenous work of art — but one that has a coherence the world often lacks. And this, in the end, seems like his latest understanding of “the digging of everything.” Sometimes that digging may involve appreciation; at other points, it is simply a process of documentation, or of profitably trying to sort one’s own complex feelings.

“New Black Music is expression,” Baraka once wrote, “and expression of reflection as well.” A work like “The Grey Land” serves as contemporary proof.





No.21 article:
She Helped South Korea in Its Time of Need. In the Pandemic, It Repaid Her. 

Decades ago, a young American woman served an impoverished South Korea as a Peace Corps volunteer. Now the country is an economic powerhouse, and it decided to send her a token of its gratitude. ​

SEOUL, South Korea — Sandra Nathan spent 1966 to 1968 in a South Korean town as a young Peace Corps volunteer, teaching English to high school girls. Fifty-two years later, Ms. Nathan, now back in the United States, received a care package from South Korea that nearly brought her to tears.

Ms. Nathan, 75, had been feeling increasingly isolated at home in Stephentown, N.Y. Reports about the exploding number of Covid-19 cases in the United States had made her anxious about going outside, where experts warned of second and third waves of infection.

Then, early this month, she received a packaged labeled “Covid-19 Survival Box.” It was a gift from the South Korean government that contained ​100 ​masks and other items “as a token of our gratitude for your dedication to Korea.”

“It was as if this box had been traveling to me since 1968,” s​aid Ms. Nathan, a retired civil rights and labor lawyer. “​There was something magical about the box. Some people, Korean people, very far away wanted to make sure that I was OK; that I had what I needed to fight a bad disease. They behaved as though they cared and were responsible for me.”​

Decades ago, ​South Koreans felt similarly toward Ms. Nathan and 2,000 other Peace Corps volunteers. When the young Americans served as teachers and health care workers between 1966 and 1981, ​South Korea was a third-world country stricken by disease​​​, a dictatorship, poverty and destruction left by the Korean War.

South Korea is now one of the richest countries in the world, and its response to the coronavirus pandemic has been held up as an example for other nations, even as it deals with a small uptick in cases. In October, to pay back some of its debt, the government-run Korea Foundation said it was sending its Covid-19 Survival Box​es​ to 514 former Peace Corps volunteers.

“Thanks in no small part to the help received from the Peace Corps,” the Korea Foundation’s president, Lee Geun, said in a letter ​in the box​, “Korea has since achieved an economic breakthrough.”

Ms. Nathan joined the Peace Corps after graduating from the University of Chicago. She was among the first volunteers to arrive in South Korea and was assigned to Chunchon, in the north, where she taught English at a local high school. She was 21.

The country around Chunchon was beautiful​. Its pine trees were graceful, and azaleas covered its hills in spring. ​But most of the streets were dirt roads. Children went outside without shoes. After dark, ​Ms. Nathan could hear rats running across ceilings. Plumbing was generally nonexistent.

“An ongoing debate among volunteers was whether Time or Newsweek was more absorbent,” Ms. Nathan said​ in an email interview. “Toilet paper was unavailable.”​

Both magazines came with pages blacked out by ​government censors. Crude anti-communist propaganda was everywhere. During her stay in South Korea, North Korea captured a U.S. Navy ship, the Pueblo, off its coast and sent armed commandos across the border to attack the South Korean presidential palace.

On winter mornings, Ms. Nathan broke the ice in a plastic container in order to wash. Her school was a sad and drafty place where classrooms were heated by a single charcoal stove.

​“I began to feel uncomfortably cold so that when I was not teaching, I regularly followed the circling sun as it flooded through the windows around the school building,” she said. “Even when it was very cold, students did not wear coats to school or to morning assemblies, and probably no one had a coat.”

But Ms. Nathan developed strong emotional ties with her students, who were eager to learn English. She once took a poor and sickly girl to an American military doctor for treatment for intestinal parasites, a common problem in Korea back then. The girl’s mother later arrived at the school and presented Ms. Nathan with several warm eggs, soft gray feathers still attached.

“The eggs, which I am sure my student and her mother themselves needed, expressed such gratitude that I was close to tears,” she said.

The irony of the reversal of fortunes during the pandemic did not escape her.

South Korea continues to keep the coronavirus largely under control, thanks in part to its aggressive contact tracing. Although it has recently faced a small rise in infections, it is nothing compared to what is happening in the United States, where Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York has announced harsh new restrictions in Ms. Nathan’s home state.

In August, she received the offer from the Korean Foundation to send her the gift box​. She accepted, wondering​ if it was merely a public relations stunt for the Korean government.

“I did not think much about it until the box arrived on Saturday, November 7, ironically the day that the U.S. presidential election was called for Joe Biden,” she wrote.

Ms. Nathan said she delayed opening the package for about a week because she wanted to preserve the wonderful feeling that it gave her. ​

In addition to the masks, the box also included gloves, skin-care products, ginseng candies, a silk fan and two sets of silver chopsticks and spoons with the traditional Korean turtle design.

“I am a practical person, not usually given to ideas unfounded by fact,” wrote Ms. Nathan. “But there was definitely something magical about the box.” 





No.22 article:
What 635 Epidemiologists Are Doing for Thanksgiving

Those who are gathering with family or friends are taking precautions or rethinking their holiday rituals altogether. Most are staying home.

The family of one epidemiologist plans to celebrate Thanksgiving in a garage, with tables 10 feet apart and the doors rolled up. Another epidemiologist’s family is forgoing a traditional meal for an outdoor hot cider toast with neighbors. A third is dining in an outdoor tent, with a heater, humidifier and air purifier running.

And, according to an informal survey of 635 epidemiologists by The New York Times, the large majority are not celebrating with people outside their household. Public health experts from a range of backgrounds answered our questionnaire. Not all of them study Covid-19, but all have professional training about how to think about disease spread and risk.

Seventy-nine percent said they were having Thanksgiving dinner with members of their household or not at all. Just 21 percent said they would be dining with people outside their household — and in most cases, they described going to great lengths to do so in a safe way. Their answers were similar for the other winter holidays, like Christmas and Hanukkah.

About 8,000 epidemiologists were invited to participate in our survey, which was circulated by email to the membership of the Society for Epidemiologic Research and to individual scientists.

The holiday season is arriving as the coronavirus spreads with renewed strength across the United States, with cases up 77 percent and deaths up 52 percent in the last 14 days. On Thursday, officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urged Americans to avoid travel and celebrate the holiday only with members of their household. Epidemiologists are making these same personal decisions, with added expertise.

“As difficult as it is not to be together for such occasions, we respect the virus and know that no system or level of personal protection is perfect,” said Bruce Copley, an epidemiologist who works as a private consultant and is not celebrating with anyone outside his household.

Another epidemiologist, Kendra Sims, a doctoral student at Oregon State University, is eschewing any special Thanksgiving dinner this year. “Nothing tastes as good as safety feels,” she said.

Some have coordinated with family or friends to cook side dishes, then exchange them and return home to dine alone. Some are quarantining, having no contact with others, for two or more weeks before the holiday, and getting multiple tests. Others are inviting only members of their quarantine pods — one said her pod had written “a constitution of allowable activities” to ensure they all followed the same rules. Many are resorting to a Zoom-giving.

“It’s just me, and while I usually have a place to go, this year I intend to stay home and just Skype or Zoom with family and friends instead,” said Bill Strohsnitter, an affiliate associate professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. “I guess that’s why the N.F.L. gave us Turkey Day football.”

Epidemiologists stressed that their decisions depended on many factors, including the level of virus spread in their area; the degree of isolation of the people they may join; and whether they’re able to have the meal in safer ways, like outdoors.

“We will be celebrating Thanksgiving outside, using portable tables and heaters,” said Erin C. Dunn, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School. “In Maine. Enough said.”

Epidemiologists are also considering personal circumstances. Several said they were inviting people who were single for dinner, or including college students returning home or relatives who were recently widowed. Some said they were trying to find a safe way to gather for their own mental health.

“Ph.D.s are lonely,” said Nina Masters, a doctoral student at the University of Michigan, who plans to travel from Ann Arbor to New York to see her parents. “I will quarantine for three full weeks — an extra, for good measure.”

In other cases, they said their own health concerns or their relatives’ age or underlying conditions were driving their decision.

“Seeing family is restorative and a source of joy,” said Danielle Gartner, a research associate at Michigan State University. But she is pregnant and said she was also weighing the risks to her health and her baby’s. “Given the spikes in cases in Michigan, we decided it best to cancel our plans to gather in person. The same is true for the Christmas holiday.”

Jennifer Kelsey, an emeritus professor of epidemiology at Stanford University, who is 78, does not plan to have a special dinner: “There is no way I would attend a holiday gathering, as I am not suicidal.”

Some said that instead of trying to recreate a traditional Thanksgiving or mourning the loss of it, they planned to do something entirely different.

“I live alone with my 5-year-old,” said Alicia Allen, an assistant professor at the University of Arizona. “We’re going to skip the normal Thanksgiving plans, which for us means a road trip, and go on a hike and picnic locally instead, just the two of us.”

Hannah Maier, a doctoral student at the University of Michigan, has devised an alternate meal. She is having a few friends over outside, and serving fall cocktails and individual savory and sweet mini pies: “Maybe we’ll incorporate some hopscotch or sprints down the block to stay warm.”

Others said that as experts in public health, with deep knowledge of how an individual’s actions can put the broader community at risk, they felt it was their responsibility to cancel plans, or else they never made them in the first place.

“Each individual has to do their part for the greater good and public health of our family, neighbors, strangers and, most importantly, the health care workers and first responders who must continue to care for the public,” said Anna Gorczyca, an assistant research professor at the University of Kansas Medical Center.

Several are focusing on the fact that it’s a short-term sacrifice, because the recent news about highly effective vaccines suggests it will be safe to gather next holiday season, if not sooner.

Mollie Wood, an assistant professor of epidemiology at the University of Cincinnati, considered driving nine hours to see her mother, but decided to wait.

“I miss her so much, but I just couldn’t convince myself there was a safe way to do it,” she said. “So we’re going to have a video chat on the holiday this year, and plan for a big party next year.”

“I would like to see my family. Thanksgiving is one of my favorite holidays. It’s my birthday and my dad’s, too. But I’d also really like to celebrate many future Thanksgivings with my family and birthdays with my dad. I assume others would appreciate the same. So we have absolutely no holiday celebrations with people from outside our household this year.”

“We were planning to celebrate with my parents, as usual, but my mother phoned last night and said that because Dr. Fauci was canceling Thanksgiving dinner with his daughters, she was canceling ours.”

“Thanksgiving has the strong potential to be the start of a period of bleakness around Covid-19 the likes of which we haven’t seen yet, and we have seen some really grim times already. I am terrified of the ramifications of decisions the population as a whole is making around Thanksgiving.”

“I feel incredibly depressed to not see my extended family this year. My newborn won’t get to see his grandparents for his first Thanksgiving. At this stage, he will spend his entire life without knowing other family members. Even as a professional, I sometimes find it hard to take. Given that as an epidemiologist, I understand the need for social distancing, I can only imagine how the general public feels.”

“My elderly mother lives alone in isolation. The rest of my household will isolate for about two weeks before and be tested directly before getting together. The total number of people is six.”

“We formed a pod with another family several months ago after writing up a ‘constitution’ of allowable activities. We are all working from home and limit in-person shopping or visits with others outside the pod.”

“My husband and I are welcoming a new puppy into our household over Thanksgiving weekend! With no family close to us, this is a different but a great way for our family to celebrate Thanksgiving this year.”

“Planning to go camping and fishing with my partner.”

“My household has strict quarantine plans in place and will be tested multiple times before driving to our families’ homes, where we will quarantine and test again.”

“Santa had better wear a mask.”

“Children will interact with other neighborhood children, but adults will not interact outside the household.”

“It will be a tough year, but my household will not be spending it indoors with family or friends, since the worst gift we could give would be to spread Covid-19.”





No.23 article:
Climate Change Is Making Winter Ice More Dangerous

A new study has found that cold-weather drownings are increasing sharply in warmer parts of the Northern Hemisphere.

New research on the connection between climate change and winter drownings has found that reported drowning deaths are increasing exponentially in areas with warmer winters.

The study, published on Wednesday in the journal PLoS One, looked at drownings in 10 countries in the Northern Hemisphere. The largest number of drownings occurred when air temperatures were just below the freezing point, between minus 5 degrees Celsius and 0 Celsius (between 23 degrees Fahrenheit and 32 Fahrenheit).

Some of the sharpest increases were in areas where Indigenous customs and livelihood require extended time on ice. Across the countries studied, children under the age of 9 and teenagers and adults between 15 and 39 were the most vulnerable to winter drowning accidents.

Dr. Sapna Sharma, an associate professor of biology at York University in Toronto and a lead author of the study, said that people did not always realize how global warming is increasing the risks that come with winter traditions like skating, ice fishing and snowmobiling.

“I think there’s a disconnect between climate change and the local, everyday impacts,” Dr. Sharma said. “If you think about climate change in winter, you’re thinking about polar bears and ice sheets, but not about these activities that are just ingrained in our culture.”

Those ingrained habits can lead to a false sense of security, Dr. Sharma said.

“It might be minus 20 Celsius today and tomorrow and the weekend, but last week it was 15 Celsius,” she said. “Well, we might have forgotten as individuals that it was warm and sunny last week on a Tuesday, but the ice didn’t forget.”

The lack of sustained cold, which leads to more freeze-thaw events, is crucial. Each time ice thaws and refreezes, it gets a little weaker — and it can stay that way for the remainder of the cold season.

“Milder temperatures mean that the ice is not as thick, or not as solid as it would otherwise be,” said Robert McLeman, a professor of geography and environmental studies at Wilfrid Laurier University who was not involved in the study. “And so people are going out onto it and not realizing that the ice is rotten.”

The authors compared death records and temperature data in Canada, Estonia, Germany, Latvia, Finland, Russia, Sweden, Italy, Japan and the northern United States. They analyzed about 4,000 total records over a span of 26 years, though the time period varied depending on the available data in each country.

The researchers found that more cold-weather drownings occur in spring, when daily low temperatures increase too much to support stable ice structures. At the same time, those warmer temperatures make it more enjoyable to spend time outdoors, meaning more people are spending time on ice.

Northern Canada and Alaska have higher rates of drowning, even in very cold temperatures. Dr. Sharma says that is probably because people there simply spend more time on the ice. Indigenous communities close to the Arctic rely on waterways for food and transportation, which means more time on the ice in winter and an increased risk of drowning.

The coronavirus pandemic could also put more people at risk.

“If this winter is anything like this summer was,” Dr. Sharma said, “a lot of people spent time in cottage country in Ontario because we just can’t go anywhere.”

She said that ice with sitting water, slush or holes in the surface was generally unsafe. “Snow cover is when it gets tricky,” Dr. Sharma said. “People think there’s so much snow on the ice, the ice must be thick,” but snow can also act as insulation, melting the ice more quickly.

“We need to, as individuals, adapt our decision-making,” she added, and focus on how changing winters affect local rivers, lakes and streams. “It may not be as safe now as it was 30 years or 40 years ago.”





No.24 article:
Jan Morris, Celebrated Writer of Place and History, Is Dead at 94

In more than four dozen books, Morris explored foreign lands, her own Britain and her experience as a transgender woman.

Jan Morris, the acclaimed British journalist, travel writer and historian who wrote about history’s sweep and the details of place with equal eloquence and chronicled her life as a transgender woman, died on Friday in Wales. She was 94. 

Her son Twm Morys said in an email that she died in a hospital near the village of Llanystumdwy, where she lived. He did not give the cause.

As James Morris she was a military officer in one of Britain’s most renowned cavalry regiments and then a daring journalist who climbed three-quarters of the way up Mount Everest for an exclusive series of dispatches from the first conquest of that mountain, the world’s highest.

She continued a brilliant writing career with reports on wars and revolutions from a score of countries, and with much-admired books like “Pax Britannica,” the first of a three-volume history of the British Empire. Ms. Morris also married and had five children.

But she became increasingly despondent over the issue of gender identity. At age 46, she underwent transition surgery, explaining the reasoning in a well-received 1974 memoir, “Conundrum,” which was written two years after the operation under a new byline, Jan Morris.

“I was three or perhaps four years old when I realized that I had been born into the wrong body, and should really be a girl,” the book began, a riveting narrative of being transgender, which was misunderstood at the time and rarely discussed.

“I thought of public success itself, I suppose, as part of maleness, and I deliberately turned my back on it, as I set my face against manhood,” she wrote.

In all, Ms. Morris wrote some four dozen books. Among the best-known early titles were “The Hashemite Kings” (1959) and “Heaven’s Command: An Imperial Progress” (1973).

In a 1957 review of “Islam Inflamed: A Middle East Picture,” Phoebe-Lou Adams of The Atlantic wrote that Ms. Morris’s “descriptions of cities and countrysides are equally vivid” and that her writing conveyed “the emotional tone of a place as sharply as its shape and color.”

“Venice” (1960) won Britain’s prestigious Heinemann Award for Literature. In The New York Times Book Review, the Italian author Carlo Beuf called the book “one of the most satisfactory and delightful works on the City of the Lagoons to appear in recent years.”

In 1968, The Times Literary Supplement in London hailed “Pax Britannica” as “a tour de force, offering a vast amount of information and description, with a style full of sensuality.” And in The New York Times Book Review, the British biographer Philip Magnus called it “a successful portrayal of what the Empire looked and felt like in a variety of places at the end of the 19th Century — how it ticked, who pulled the strings, and the practical ends and ideals it served.”

Another two dozen books came after Ms. Morris’s transition. Besides “Conundrum,” they included “Destinations” (1980), a collection of travel essays; “Last Letters From Hav” (1985), a deadpan exploration of an imaginary city that was a finalist for the Booker Prize; and “Fisher’s Face, or, Getting to Know the Admiral” (1995), a biography of the British naval reformer John Arbuthnot Fisher.

Ms. Morris excelled as a travel writer, drawing literary portraits of places like Manhattan, Hong Kong, her beloved Wales (she was a dedicated Welsh nationalist), Oxford in England and Trieste in Italy.

In a 1984 Times review of “Journeys,” a collection of articles written mostly in the 1980s, Anatole Broyard extolled Ms. Morris’s travel books as “oddly reassuring, showing us that there are more ways of experiencing cultures than most of us supposed.” He took note of her insights, citing her descriptions of Las Vegas (“the acrid smell of fun”), the booming Scottish oil town of Aberdeen (“the brio of capitalism in the raw”) and the English cathedral town of Wells (where “the cathedral’s chief function was its own repair”).

Ms. Morris continued writing into her later years, including the essayistic “In My Mind’s Eye: A Thought Diary,” published in 2018. A final work, “Allegorizings,” is to be published posthumously. She told The Guardian in 2015 that it would go to press “the minute I kick the bucket,” saying the book is “loosely governed by my growing conviction that almost nothing in life is only what it seems. It contains nothing revelatory at all.”

Ms. Morris was born on Oct. 2, 1926, in Clevedon, a town in Somerset, England. Her father, Walter, was gassed during World War I and died when Ms. Morris was 12. Her mother, Enid Payne, was a concert pianist.

Ms. Morris enlisted in the elite Ninth Queen’s Royal Lancers in 1944 and served in Italy during World War II as an intelligence officer. After two more years of military service in Palestine, then a British protectorate, she was discharged as an army lieutenant and enrolled at Oxford University, receiving a bachelor’s degree in English literature in 1951.

Ms. Morris joined The Times of London that same year, becoming a roving correspondent in Europe, the Middle East and the United States. But it was her coverage of the first ascent of Mount Everest in 1953 that established a reputation as one of the shining journalists of a generation.

The Times secured the exclusive rights to cover the Everest expedition, which was led by Col. John Hunt (Sir Edmund Hillary, a New Zealand explorer, and Tenzing Norgay, a Sherpa guide from Nepal, were the climbers who reached the summit), and picked Ms. Morris — 5-foot-9 and a sinewy 140 pounds — to join the team.

Filing dispatches by using guides as relays between the expedition’s overnight camps and the city of Kathmandu in Nepal, she wrote of deep snow dragging at the explorers’ feet, sweat trickling down their backs, their faces burning from cold, ice and wind. But Ms. Morris stopped short of the summit, allowing the expedition leaders to claim the limelight.

“I think for sheer exuberance the best day of my life was my last on Everest,” she wrote in “Conundrum.” “The mountain had been climbed, and I had already begun my race down the glacier toward Katmandu, leaving the expedition to pack its gear behind me.”

She continued: “I heard from the radio that my news had reached London providentially on the eve of Queen Elizabeth’s coronation. I felt as though I had been crowned myself.” For a Britain that was fast losing its empire, the conquest of Everest was greeted with nationalistic euphoria.

As a correspondent with The Times and later with The Guardian, Ms. Morris wrote about wars, famines and earthquakes and reported on the trial in Israel of Adolph Eichmann, the Nazi war criminal who was convicted and executed for his leading role in the extermination of millions of Jews.

She also covered the trial in Moscow of Francis Gary Powers, the United States spy plane pilot who was shot down over the Soviet Union. She traveled to Havana to interview Che Guevara, the revolutionary leader, who was described in “Conundrum” as “sharp as a cat,” and to Moscow again to meet with the British intelligence defector Guy Burgess, who was “swollen with drink and self-reproach.”

It was in the early 1960s that Ms. Morris met with a prominent New York endocrinologist, Dr. Harry Benjamin, an early researcher on transgender people.

He advised her on a slow process of transition that began with heavy doses of female hormones — some 12,000 pills from 1964 to 1972, according to the writer’s own calculations. Ms. Morris wrote, “I was about to change my form and apparency — my status, too, perhaps my place among my peers, my attitudes no doubt, the reactions I would evoke, my reputation, my manner of life, my prospects, my emotions, possibly my abilities.”

From the very beginning of her marriage, Ms. Morris had confided her feelings about her gender identity to her wife, Elizabeth Tuckniss, the daughter of a tea planter.

“I told her that though each year my every instinct seemed to become more feminine and my entombment within the male physique more terrible to me, still the mechanism of my body was complete and functional, and for what it is worth was hers,” Ms. Morris wrote. 

They would have three sons and two daughters, one of whom died in infancy. In addition to her son Twm, a Welsh poet and musician, she is survived by Ms. Tuckniss; two other sons, Mark and Henry; a daughter, Suki; and nine grandchildren.

“Conundrum” describes Ms. Morris’s relationship with Ms. Tuckniss, even before the surgery, as an “open marriage, in which the partners were explicitly free to lead their own separate lives, choose their own friends if they wish, have their own lovers perhaps, restrained only by an agreement of superior affection and common concern.”

Ms. Tuckniss and later their children, with some discomfort, supported Ms. Morris’s initial hormone treatments.

She finally decided on an operation to complete her transition in 1972, choosing a clinic in Casablanca, Morocco.

Ms. Morris asserted that every aspect of existence changed with her transition. The more she was treated as a woman, the more she behaved — in her own estimation — as a woman.

“If I was assumed to be incompetent at reversing cars, or opening bottles, oddly incompetent I found myself becoming,” she wrote. “If a case was thought too heavy for me, inexplicably I found it so myself.” She added, “I discovered that even now men prefer women to be less informed, less able, less talkative, and certainly less self-centered than they are themselves; so I generally obliged them.”

Reaction to her transition, and her chronicling of it, included shock and disparagement, and gave rise to critical debate about the nature of her writing voice and how she depicted what it means to be a woman. Female writers were troubled by Ms. Morris’s value judgments on the differences between the sexes, which were especially controversial in an era when the feminist movement was reaching its apogee.

“She sounds not like a woman, but like a man’s idea of a woman, and curiously enough, the idea of a man not nearly so intelligent as James Morris used to be,” Rebecca West wrote in a 1974 appraisal of “Conundrum” in The Times Book Review.

But Bernard Levin, writing in The London Observer that same year, noted that “as a communication of the uncommunicable, ‘Conundrum’ is very good indeed.” It is also, he said, “in many ways, a straightforward autobiography rippling with humor.”

And Auberon Waugh, the British columnist and critic, asserted in a 1976 article in The Times Book Review on “Travels,” a collection of essays by Morris, that “she now writes in a fine, robust, self-confident style.”

Ms. Morris herself asserted that her transition had changed her view of life so profoundly that it was bound to affect her writing style.

“My scale of vision seemed to contract, and I looked less for the grand sweep than for the telling detail,” she wrote in “Conundrum.” “The emphasis changed in my writing, from places to people.”

She complained that her transition had distracted from her writing accomplishments. “I do object to it being dragged in, for example, when I write a book about the British Empire,” she said on “CBS Sunday Morning” in 2000. Nonetheless, she repeated on the program her prediction that the headlines on her obituaries would read: “Sex-change author dies.”

By her early 90s, Ms. Morris said the matter seemed remote.

“I’ve never believed it to be quite as important as everyone made it out to be,” she told The Times in 2019. “I believe in the soul and the spirit more than the body.”

Although she divorced her wife just before her operation, the two remained close, often traveling and living together, even after Ms. Tuckniss began struggling with dementia. In their house, Ms. Morris kept a gravestone that bore the inscription — both in Welsh and English — that was meant to be their future epitaph: “Here are two friends, Jan and Elizabeth, at the end of one life.”





No.25 article:
Jonathan Pollard, Convicted Spy, Completes Parole and May Move to Israel

The former Navy intelligence analyst served 30 years in prison for stealing American secrets during the Cold War.

WASHINGTON — Jonathan J. Pollard, the American convicted of spying for Israel in one of the most notorious espionage cases of the late Cold War, completed his parole on Friday, the Justice Department said, freeing him to go to Israel as he has said he intends to do.

The Justice Department’s decision to let his parole restrictions expire may be one of the final gifts from the Trump administration to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. Mr. Pollard’s case had long been an irritant in the relations between the two countries, and both sides at times had used him as a diplomatic bargaining chip.

A U.S. Navy intelligence analyst, Mr. Pollard gave a range of classified documents to Israel starting in 1984. His disclosures exposed the abilities of the American spy agencies, potentially damaged intelligence collection efforts and risked exposing secrets, C.I.A. and Defense Department officials said in classified documents prepared after his arrest. He was arrested in 1985, and was convicted and served 30 years in prison before being released in 2015.

American national security officials had long objected to any easing of Mr. Pollard’s punishment, highlighting the damage Mr. Pollard did to American intelligence collection. But objections from intelligence officers have largely become muted, with some acknowledging that Mr. Pollard has both served his time and fulfilled his parole obligations.

The United States Parole Commission, the arm of the Justice Department that supervises the releases of federal prisoners, decided Friday not to extend the travel restrictions it had placed on Mr. Pollard when he was released from a federal prison five years ago.

“After a review of Mr. Pollard’s case, the U.S. Parole Commission has found that there is no evidence to conclude that he is likely to violate the law,” said Nicole Navas Oxman, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department. “Thus, in accordance with the statute, the commission has ordered that, as of today, his parole supervision is terminated and he is no longer subject to the conditions of parole.”

Mr. Pollard, now 66, was given Israeli citizenship in 1995 and has said he would move there if allowed. His lawyers, Eliot Lauer and Jacques Semmelman, said in a statement that he was free now to travel to Israel and that they looked forward to seeing him there, though they did not say when he would go.

Mr. Pollard, who is in ill health, wants to live out his life and be buried in Israel, said Alan M. Dershowitz, a professor emeritus at Harvard Law School who has advocated on behalf of Mr. Pollard.

“He would love to go to Israel; that’s been his dream, his wish, his hope,” Mr. Dershowitz said. “That would be good for Israel, it would be good for America, it would be good for the rule of law, so I hope it will happen.”

In Israel, Mr. Pollard still is viewed as a hero, who sacrificed much for the country’s security. But even if time has blunted the outrage, the American government continues to view him as a traitor who did huge amounts of damage.

Still, intelligence officials in the United States and Israel are eager to forget Mr. Pollard and the contentious era he represented when the countries’ intelligence relationship was marked as much by spying and suspicion as it was by cooperation.

Some former American intelligence officials noted that the threat of Israel spying on the United States remains, even as cooperation has deepened. In just the past year, the countries have worked closely together on the assassinations of Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, Iran’s security mastermind, and Abu Muhammad al-Masri, a senior Qaeda operative living in Tehran.

After his arrest in 1985, Mr. Pollard eventually pleaded guilty in a deal with prosecutors who agreed to seek a yearslong sentence. But the judge, relying on a once-classified damage assessment written by Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger, sentenced him to life in prison. Mr. Pollard ultimately served three decades behind bars, the longest stretch in prison for an American who illegally gave material to an allied government.

In October 1987, the C.I.A., with Mr. Pollard’s cooperation, began working on a damage assessment. Though a redacted version of the document has been made public, much remains classified. Intelligence officials identified a large number of documents on varied topics that Mr. Pollard shared with Israeli officials.

The report found that while the Israelis did not request information on American military plans or some of the most delicate topics, the “sheer quantity” of disclosures posed a risk to intelligence sources and collection methods. “Pollard’s operation has few parallels among known U.S. espionage cases,” the C.I.A. report said.

Mr. Pollard was released from prison in November 2015, leaving a federal penitentiary in North Carolina to live in New York. The conditions of his parole, unsuccessfully contested by his lawyer and the Israeli government, did not allow him to travel outside the United States for five years without permission.

Attorney General William P. Barr could have asked the parole commission to extend the restrictions on Mr. Pollard, a request that would most likely have been granted. But no request was made, according to the Justice Department. The commission announced Friday that it had decided not to extend the restrictions.

Over the years, Israeli leaders have sought his release, only to encounter stiff resistance from American intelligence and defense officials, including George Tenet, the former C.I.A. director, and Donald H. Rumsfeld, the former defense secretary.

Mr. Netanyahu repeatedly pressed President Bill Clinton to commute Mr. Pollard’s sentence so he could move to Israel, arguing that his release was key to winning over right-wing support for any Israeli-Palestinian peace deal pushed by the White House.

But the spy agencies balked, citing the damage Mr. Pollard’s spying had done to American military intelligence.

“The Navy program was really shaken by what he had done right under their noses,” said Jim Townsend, a former senior Pentagon official who joined Navy intelligence as a reservist around the time of Mr. Pollard’s arrest.

The damage that Mr. Pollard did in particular to the National Security Agency’s collection efforts was too great, intelligence officials said, to allow any early release, pardon or commutation. In 1999, as the Clinton administration was considering a pardon, intelligence officials leaked information about the damage they believed his spying caused.

Over the years, Mr. Pollard’s release had come up in conversations between Israel and the United States in the context of peace talks with the Palestinians. But during the Trump administration, a number of moves that other presidents held in reserve as incentives to prod Israel to make a deal with the Palestinians were done unilaterally, including recognizing annexation of the Golan Heights and moving the American Embassy to Jerusalem.

Allowing Mr. Pollard to move to Israel may be a similar gesture as the Trump administration has continued to focus on Israel in its final weeks. This week, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visited an Israeli settlement in the West Bank and a community in the annexed Golan Heights.

Now that Mr. Pollard has served his sentence and fulfilled the terms of his parole, the internal opposition to allowing him to go to Israel has eased. No longer are intelligence chiefs threatening to resign in protest — or even taking much notice of the impending end of Mr. Pollard’s parole restrictions.

“If he’s served his time and finished parole, I would see no damage in letting him go to Israel,” said Gregory F. Treverton, a former National Intelligence Council chairman. “Any secrets he knows are now out or old.”





No.26 article:
Toronto Raptors Will Play Home Games in Florida Because of Pandemic

The Raptors will begin the season based out of Tampa, Fla., amid concerns about the coronavirus in Canada. The team’s president suggested they could return at some point.

The Toronto Raptors are heading south for the winter — at least for the start of it.

The Raptors announced Friday that they would begin the 2020-21 season based in Tampa, Fla., amid concerns about the coronavirus pandemic’s impact in Canada. 

In a statement, Masai Ujiri, the Raptors’ president of basketball operations, left open the possibility that the team could return to Toronto at some point this season. The Raptors are the only N.B.A. team based outside of the United States, and Canada has imposed strict measures about travel between the two countries. Cases of the coronavirus in the U.S. continue to skyrocket.

“So we’ll be away from our home and our fans for now,” Ujiri said in the statement. “They say absence makes the heart grow fonder. I’m not sure that’s possible for us — we love Toronto and Canada, and we know we have the best fans in the N.B.A. For now, I’ll ask you to cheer for us from afar, and we’ll look forward to the day we are all together again.”

The team had been trying to work out a deal with the Canadian government so that it could play its home games in Toronto. But a spokesman for Patty Hajdu, Canada’s health minister, said “a decision was made to not allow the Raptors to play in Toronto at this time” based on advice from the federal public health agency.

“We are going to continue our dialogue with the Raptors and look forward to the safe return of N.B.A. basketball in the future,” Cole Davidson, the spokesman, said in an email.

The Toronto Blue Jays faced a similar predicament this summer ahead of the start of the Major League Baseball season, ultimately opting to play the majority of their home games in Buffalo, N.Y.

The N.B.A. season begins Dec. 22, with players arriving for training camps on Dec. 1.

The Raptors had been working with government officials for weeks to try to find a way to play games in Toronto this season. Ujiri even wrote an op-ed for the Toronto Star last week to make a public plea for his case. He referred to the lessons the team — and the rest of the league — had learned from playing out the remainder of last season in a bubble at Walt Disney World outside of Orlando, Fla.

“We’ve provided detailed proposals to governments about how we, and the teams that visit us, could play safely in Toronto,” he wrote.

For now, though, the Raptors will be based in the U.S.





No.27 article:
Donald Trump Is Leaving Behind Blueprints to End Democracy

And I fear there’s no going back.

Just when we thought we could sleep again. Just when we thought his malevolent reign was over, his poison bottled, that the sun was coming out tomorrow. Just when nearly 80 million Americans could shout the words of Dr. Seuss to Marvin K. Mooney: “Please go now!”

Then, this: a shameless attempt to reject the will of hundreds of thousands of voters in the most populous county in Michigan and ultimately hand a state that Joe Biden won by some 157,000 votes over Donald Trump.

And this: In Nevada and Pennsylvania, Trump’s campaign asked courts to thwart the choice of a majority of voters and award their states’ Electoral College votes to the first president since the 19th century to lose the popular vote twice. It promised evidence of fraud but produced none. It was a blunt, raw, purely Trumpian move. Try to stop me.

And this: Trump invited Michigan legislators to the White House in a last-ditch — and legally dubious — effort to subvert the election.

What’s unfolding now is an attempted coup by a con. It’s a bigger political scandal than Russian interference four years ago. And yes, it is likely to fail, and the system is likely to prevail. But the American majority cannot rest, nor rely on its sense of decency, until the election hooligans are beaten back.

Failing in court, this most authoritarian of presidents is pressuring Little Trumpers everywhere to overturn an election that Trump’s own cybersecurity chief, Christopher Krebs, said was “the most secure in American history.” He’s trying to force canvassers, certifiers, election board referees and state legislators to create enough chaos so that he can steal a win.

The good news is that a decent majority of Americans think the election was conducted freely and fairly, a belief that has the added benefit of being true. Krebs, a Trump appointee who oversaw defense of the election for the Department of Homeland Security, issued a statement saying, “There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised.” That assessment got him fired by the president on Tuesday.

The bad news is that an indecent majority of Trump voters think Biden won because of fraud. The Big Lie — that the election was rigged unless Trump is declared the winner — thrives in a disinformation ecosystem.

Since the election, I’ve been trying to remain open-minded about what moved more than 73 million Americans to vote for Trump, knowing that he’s an awful human being and a nation-wrecker, trying to soil every institutional value we hold sacred.

I understand the tribalism, the urge to push back against condescending libs and the suffocating ubiquity of political correctness, the sense that only Trump can save a certain way of life.

But then Trump unleashed his flying monkeys to try to take back the office he lost by nearly six million in the popular vote.

Consider just how openly racist and undemocratic the Michigan debacle was. Two white Republican canvassers refused to certify the results of the state’s most populous Democratic county, which contains Black-majority Detroit. Was there evidence of fraud? No. The fig leaf was the routine clerical and counting errors found throughout Michigan — and certainly not enough votes to overturn the result.

One of those canvassers, Monica Palmer, suggested that the white-majority areas of the county could be certified, while the Black-majority city of Detroit could not. The pro-Trump canvassers relented only after being buried under an avalanche of outrage and threats. But after the president called at least one of them, both Republicans again attempted to keep Wayne County’s votes from counting, although by then it was too late.

This was a racial disenfranchisement move so blatant it would make Jim Crow blush. Michigan Republican leaders applauded this, and Trump tweeted, “Flip Michigan back to TRUMP.” Among the national Republican leaders, those with a conscience, a group that could fit in a broom closet, have been quiet. Humor him, they said. He’ll eventually sulk away.

It wasn’t just the Black majority in Detroit that Republicans tried to render powerless. The votes of veterans and first responders, the sick and disabled, first-time voters and longtime voters were headed for a garbage bin to please a loser crying for a do-over.

“American democracy cracked last night, but it didn’t break,” said Mayor Mike Duggan of Detroit, on the morning after the certification back-and-forth. “We are seeing a real threat to everything we believe in.”

One of those beliefs is the idea that honorable people will put aside partisan passions to keep the machinery of democracy moving forward.

But it’s pretty hard to do that when the routine act of ballot counting has become a life-threatening job. Arizona’s secretary of state, Katie Hobbs, described “ongoing and escalating threats of violence” against her and her family for trying to perform her duty.

This is Trump’s legacy: an attempt to blow up an election, from Wayne County, Mich., to Maricopa County, Ariz. For Trump the failed businessman, cheating and suing were a way of life. For Trump the failed president, cheating and suing are a blueprint for his followers into the future. And I fear there’s no going back.





No.28 article:
A Push Emerges for the First Native American Interior Secretary

WASHINGTON — A coalition of Democrats, Native Americans and liberal activists is urging President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. to nominate one of Congress’s first Native American women to head the Interior Department, putting an American Indian in control of vast swaths of the continent and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

The nomination of Representative Deb Haaland, Democrat of New Mexico, as Interior secretary would have undeniable symbolic power. If confirmed, a Native American for the first time would oversee 500 million acres of public lands, including national parks, oil and gas drilling sites, and endangered species habitat, and control the federal agencies most responsible for the well-being of the nation’s 1.9 million Indigenous people.

Ms Haaland and Sharice Davids of Kansas made history in 2018 as the first two Native American women elected to Congress, and Ms. Haaland would do so again as the first Native American cabinet secretary. But her lack of policy experience worries some Biden advisers, who have suggested another Native American candidate: Michael L. Connor, a deputy Interior secretary in the Obama administration, whose experience is unquestioned, even if he lacks the star power of Ms. Haaland.

Ms. Haaland is a citizen of the Laguna Pueblo, and Mr. Connor is from the Taos Pueblo, sovereign nations near Albuquerque and Taos that are among the country’s 574 federally recognized tribes.

For either candidate, a nomination would hold enormous power for Native Americans. The Interior Department has for much of the nation’s history governed federal lands and often dislodged and abused Native Americans. In 1972, about 500 Native American activists took over the department’s headquarters in Washington, protesting living standards and broken treaties.

The next Interior Secretary also will be entrusted to restore environmental protections to the millions of acres of public lands that the Trump administration has opened up to drilling, mining, logging and construction.

Historians and Native American leaders said that appointing a Native American to head the Interior Department would be a profound moment in American history.

“The Department of Interior was the driving force of modern day genocide against the Native American peoples,” said Elizabeth Kronk Warner, dean and professor of law at the University of Utah, and a citizen of the Sault Ste. Marie tribe of Chippewa Indians. “We would be moving from the shadows of perpetuated genocide to a chair at the table, from being classified as a group of people that the federal government was trying to destroy to having a president say, ‘I see you and value you to the point that I will raise you to the highest level of decision-making in the country.’”  

A spokesman for the Biden transition team, Sean Savett, said that no personnel decisions regarding the Interior Department have been made. But Mr. Biden’s campaign promises included detailed proposals to improve equality for Native Americans, including a promise that “Biden will ensure tribes have a seat at the table at the highest levels of the federal government.”

Tribal and environmental activists are pushing him to follow through.

The Lakota People’s Law Action Center has launched a petition, supported by more than 120 tribal leaders, in support of Ms. Haaland.

“Like no year prior, 2020 has shown us what happens when we fail to see the importance of putting proper leaders in position to safeguard society,” the petition reads.

A separate petition launched by liberal activists and signed by at least 25,000 people also calls on Mr. Biden to name a Native American Interior secretary.

Actor and environmental advocate Mark Ruffalo posted a video on Twitter with tribal leaders speaking in support of Ms. Haaland.

“It’s time for the first ever Native American to serve in the president’s cabinet to uphold tribal sovereignty and to protect our public lands as secretary of Interior,” said Brandon Yellowbird-Stevens, vice chairman of the Oneida nation, in the video.

Representative Raúl Grijalva, the Arizona Democrat who chairs the committee that oversees the Interior Department, sent a letter to Mr. Biden signed by at least 50 colleagues urging the nomination of Ms. Haaland, who has served on Mr. Grijalva’s Natural Resources Committee since her arrival in Congress last year.

“The Department of Interior was essentially set up not to take care of Indigenous people — it was set up to tear them down and disenfranchise them,” Mr. Grijalva said in an interview. “To come full circle, historically, and to put an Indigenous person in front of Interior who can do the job — you don’t often get that kind of opportunity to make history.”

Mr. Grijalva pushed back at the suggestion that Ms. Haaland was unqualified for the job.

“She’s not window dressing,” he said. “She’s competent. She’s a pro, both politically and in terms of policy, and as a member of the Resources Committee and chair of the Public Lands subcommittee she has had to endure the Trump administration’s abuse of the Interior Department.”

Ms. Haaland has made clear that she wants the job.

“It would be an honor to move the Biden-Harris climate agenda forward, help repair the government to government relationship with Tribes that the Trump Administration has ruined, and serve as the first Native American cabinet secretary in our nation’s history,” she said in a statement.

Ms. Haaland campaigned in 2018 against the Trump administration’s hard-line immigration policies and promoted Indigenous sovereignty as a “35th-generation New Mexican.” She argues that many of the issues affecting native communities — such as low-wage jobs and violence against women — afflict other groups as well.

In 2015, she became the head of the state Democratic Party and helped to flip the New Mexico state house to Democratic control.

A child of military veterans, she attended 13 public schools before graduating from high school, then started a salsa company and worked as a cake decorator before putting herself through college and law school using both food stamps and student loans.

But some people advising Mr. Biden are concerned about management at one of the federal government’s most sprawling agencies, which oversees conservation and oil and gas drilling on public lands and off the nation’s coastline; a vast network of dams and reservoirs across the West; the Fish and Wildlife Service, a major federal science agency; the U.S. Geological Survey; and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Bureau of Indian Education and the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration, which manages the financial assets of American Indians held in trust.

They also worry that the confirmation of Ms. Haaland to a cabinet post would temporarily diminish Democrats’ already narrow majority in the House — until a special election could be held in her  Democratic district.

Those people back the appointment of Mr. Connor.

In an emailed statement, Mr. Connor wrote, “It would be an honor to serve in the Biden-Harris Administration and carry out the important work necessary to address the country’s most pressing challenges.”

Mr. Connor worked in the agency throughout the Clinton administration, including four years as director of the Secretary’s Indian Water Rights Office, managing negotiations between tribes and the federal government on water issues. He later worked for former Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, on land, water, energy and Native American issues before returning to Interior during the Obama administration, where he became the first Native American to hold the No. 2 post.

“It’s more about who has the qualifications than who is the public face,” said Sianna Lieb, a progressive activist who co-launched the petition urging Mr. Biden to name a Native American as Interior secretary. “Having been in the Interior Department is a good start — the qualifications are knowing how to run the department.”





No.29 article:
Arecibo Observatory, a Great Eye on the Cosmos, Is Going Dark

The radio telescope in Puerto Rico has to come down before it collapses.

One of the great icons of human curiosity, the Arecibo radio telescope, is going to be torn down, the National Science Foundation, its owner, announced today. From its perch in the mountains of Puerto Rico, the observatory has served for decades as the vanguard of the search for alien civilizations and guarded the planet against killer asteroids.

The telescope, with an antenna 1,000 feet across nestled in a sinkhole valley and a 900-ton constellation of girders and electronics hanging in the air above it, was long the largest single antenna in the world, a destination for astronomers as well as a location for Hollywood movies like “Contact.” Like the rest of the island commonwealth, it has been lashed and damaged by hurricanes in recent years and under financial duress, raising questions about the observatory’s future.

Trouble began on Aug. 10 when an auxiliary cable slipped out of its socket and gashed the antenna dish below. The University of Central Florida, which manages the observatory for the N.S.F. hired three different sets of engineers to assess the situation.

The observatory had already ordered a replacement and engineers were still trying to figure out what had happened and how to proceed when, on Nov. 6, one of the main cables that support the receiver platform snapped. Both of the cables that failed were attached to the same support tower and the engineers, according to Ralph Gaume, director of the astronomy division of the National Science Foundation, said that one more cable breakage from that tower would cause the whole telescope to collapse.

The engineers concluded that all the cables were suspect and might not be capable of carrying the loads they were designed to support. Any repair effort would only endanger workers and the rest of the observatory and would probably not prevent an “uncontrolled catastrophic collapse” in the words of Dr. Gaume during Thursday’s telephone news conference, at some time in the future.

The result, he said, was that the telescope could not be safely repaired. Dr. Gaume commended the observatory’s leadership in its work to assess whether the observatory could be saved.

“Until these assessments came in, our question was not if the observatory should be repaired but how,” he said. “But in the end, a preponderance of data showed that we simply could not do this safely. ”

Kevin Ortiz Ceballos, a physics student and aspiring astronomer at the University of Puerto Rico, said in an email that it had always been his dream to work at Arecibo.

Now he said, “It feels like the rug has been pulled out from under us and our dreams to work in astronomy in Puerto Rico has vanished.”

The N.S.F. staff said they did not know how long the decommissioning would take or how much it would cost. Some facilities at the observatory would be preserved, they said, including a visitor center and a lidar, or laser radar, which is used to probe the atmosphere and ionosphere.

The loss to the world’s astronomers is devastating, and the internet filled with tributes and calls to “build it back better,” in the words of Denton Ebel of the American Museum of Natural History in New York. Many people with connections to the island and the observatory shared their memories and thoughts to a hashtag on Twitter called #WhatAreciboMeansToMe.

Ed Rivera-Valentín, a planetary scientist based in Houston, said that the hashtag showed that, “Arecibo’s value is much deeper than science, it is cultural.”

The place was also loved by visiting astronomers who came there to do research.

Jill Tarter, perhaps the world’s leading seeker of aliens, now retired from the SETI Institute in Mountain View, Calif., rhapsodized in an email about “the constant croaking of the coquis, the perfumes of the tropical forest,” as well as the jogging path underneath the dish ringed with orchids and Orion rising over the treetops. But she said the thing she missed most was “the staff and the resident scientists who were very close knit, offered us superb technical support, and threw wonderful parties with lots of dancing.”

Dan Wertheimer of the University of California, Berkeley, a leader in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, wrote in an email, “Arecibo has made profound discoveries, helping Earthlings understand our planet and the universe.”

He added, “I hope Congress can help the Puerto Ricans in some other way.”

The Arecibo facility was originally built in 1963 and run by Cornell University under contract to the Air Force Research Laboratory, partly out of a desire to understand the properties of objects like nuclear warheads tumbling through the upper atmosphere. As a result, it was built to be both a telescope and a planetary radar, and many astronomers have used it to map dangerous asteroids as they buzzed past Earth.

For years, it hosted the largest single radio antenna on the planet, only surpassed in 2016 by a new telescope in China that is 1,600 feet in diameter.

One of its early feats, in 1967, was to discover that the planet Mercury rotates in 59 days, not 88 as astronomers had originally thought.

Over time, Arecibo became the flagship for the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, or SETI, the optimistic quest for radio signals from alien civilizations.

One of its directors was astronomer Frank Drake, then at Cornell, now retired from the University of California, Santa Cruz. He was famous for first pointing a radio telescope at another star for indications of friendly aliens, then for an equation, still in use today, that tries to predict how many of “them” are out there.

On Nov. 16, 1974, Dr. Drake beamed the equivalent of a 20-trillion-watt message toward M13, a cloud of about 300,000 stars some 25,000 light-years from Earth, as part of a celebration of an upgrade to the antenna.

The message consisted of 1,679 zeros and ones. Arranged in 73 rows and 23 columns, the bits formed pictures of a stick man, the radio telescope, a DNA helix, the solar system, the numbers 1 through 10 and more.

Before Dr. Drake sent it off, he tried out the message on his Cornell colleagues, including Carl Sagan, the author and proselytizer of the search for life in the cosmos. None of them could decode all of it. Maybe E.T. would be smarter when the signal finally reached somewhere, but the real point of such messages, Dr. Drake and Dr. Sagan always admitted, was to raise the consciousness of those of us back here on Earth and an awareness of our own status as cosmic travelers in an unknown and obviously weird universe.

In 1974, the same year that the first SETI message was sent, astronomers Joseph Taylor and Russell Hulse, both now at Princeton, used the Arecibo telescope to discover a pair of pulsars orbiting each other.

By timing the pulses over several years, the astronomers determined that the system was losing energy at the exact rate it would occur if the pulsars were radiating gravitational waves — the ripples in space-time that Einstein predicted to exist but which were not directly detected until 2016, by the LIGO gravitational wave observatories. In 1993 Dr. Taylor and Dr. Hulse won the Nobel Prize in Physics for their observation.

In 1990 a Polish astronomer, Aleksander Wolszczan, made another landmark discovery with Arecibo: PSR B1257+12, a pulsar with an irregular heartbeat. Further investigation revealed that the pulsar was orbited by three planets — the first planets ever discovered orbiting a star other than the sun. Today hundreds of such exoplanets are known, and their study is the fastest-growing field in astronomy.

The observatory also cemented a place in popular culture, with starring roles in movies like “Contact,” starring Jodie Foster, the James Bond film “Goldeneye” and episodes of the “X-Files” television show.

The future of Arecibo became precarious earlier this century. In 2007, the National Science Foundation, which has run the observatory since the early 1970s on an increasingly tight budget, said it might have to close if a partner could not be found to take on some of the financial load.

Since 2016, it has been managed by the University of Central Florida under a cooperative agreement with Universidad Ana G. Méndez and Yang Enterprises. The annual budget is about $12 million, including funds from NASA and the National Science Foundation, according to the University of Central Florida.

As Dr. Tarter said in her email, “it is very sad to witness the passing of this scientific Queen. She withstood powerful hurricanes, but age appears to have gotten the upper hand.”





No.30 article:
Economic Policy Has Become a Partisan Game. That Could Do Long-Term Harm.

Mnuchin’s move and Shelton’s near-confirmation suggest a future of greater risks each time party control changes.

Imagine a divorced couple that simply can’t get along. They share custody of the children, but have completely different visions of how to raise them.

It is not an ideal situation, but this couple realizes that, despite mutual resentments, raising healthy, happy children is a shared goal. Each parent may get annoyed at the other now and again, but they know they need to maintain some continuity in how the children are raised and not let disputes ruin their lives.

That, in recent decades, has been how economic policy has worked in the United States. Republicans and Democrats might have had different agendas and philosophies, but both fundamentally wanted a vibrant United States economy and, when the time came for one party to hand over control to the other, both ensured a smooth transition of economic policy.

No transition is perfect, but this was broadly true when the George H.W. Bush administration handed over control to Bill Clinton’s team, when the Clinton administration gave way to George W. Bush, and most notably when the Bush team handed the reins to Barack Obama’s administration in the midst of a deep economic crisis. The Obama-to-Trump transition was similarly smooth.

This week, there are clear signs that tradition is breaking down — that the outgoing Trump administration is seeking to deprive President-elect Joe Biden of crucial tools to sustain and revitalize the economy. It suggests a future in which there is less continuity in economic policy and more abrupt risk of crisis or downturn every time party control changes.

The most startling example was a decision on Thursday by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin not to extend beyond the end of the year several joint Treasury-Federal Reserve lending programs that started in the early weeks of the Covid pandemic. The decision to end them went against Fed officials’ wishes, and he asked the Fed to return to the Treasury funds already provided for those programs.

Mr. Mnuchin said Friday that the move was not driven by politics and reflected the wishes of Congress. But the effect would be to give Mr. Biden’s Treasury secretary less flexibility to expand the programs that worked wonders to prop up financial markets through the spring and summer — just as a new wave of coronavirus infections creates deep economic risks for the winter.

The other big piece of Federal Reserve news this week fits the pattern as well.

When President Trump nominated Judy Shelton to be a Fed governor, she quickly encountered strong opposition from Democrats and misgivings by a handful of Republican senators. One important reason for the reservations: After a career as a commentator who advocated restricting the amount of money in the economy and the now-fringe idea of tying the value of the dollar to gold, she pivoted when Mr. Trump began pressuring the Fed to cut rates, aligning herself with the president’s easy-money preferences.

It created the appearance that she was a partisan actor who, rather than apply a consistent philosophy to try to make the American economy as healthy as it can be, would pivot on a dime to try to strengthen the economy during a Republican administration and slow it in a Democratic one.

On Tuesday, in a dramatic moment, with Senator Kamala Harris (now also the vice president-elect) racing to Washington and two Republican senators rendered unavailable for coronavirus-related reasons, Ms. Shelton fell just short of the votes to put her on track to join the Fed’s board of governors.

There is no modern precedent for a president to try to fill Fed governor seats while a lame duck, and if confirmed Ms. Shelton would be the first Fed governor to take office without confirmation votes from the opposite party. (The Senate still has time to confirm her, but the math is tenuous.)

To Democrats, the last-ditch effort to confirm Ms. Shelton implied not only that Mr. Biden would have one less important economic policy appointment to make, but also that he might have to deal with a policymaker seeking to undermine his administration from within the central bank. (Mr. Trump has also nominated a second Fed governor, Christopher Waller, who may well be confirmed before Mr. Biden takes office — though he falls more squarely in the tradition of Fed governors with technocratic independence, and has attracted some Democratic support.)

Only a dozen years ago, consider what happened during the transition from George W. Bush to President Obama. The economy was in the worst phase of the global financial crisis, and President Bush had secured a $700 billion financial rescue package from Congress just before the election.

That bank rescue, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, was divided into two $350 billion tranches, with the president required to ask Congress for the second tranche to obtain it. Not only did President Bush not try to block the Obama team from having access to the bailout money upon taking office, but at Mr. Obama’s request he also took the politically unpopular step of requesting the second tranche in January 2009, days before Mr. Obama was inaugurated.

That step helped keep a bipartisan gloss on the financial rescue, gave the Obama administration access to the funds sooner rather than later, and enabled Mr. Obama to take office without making one of his first actions the politically toxic act of asking for more bank bailout money.

One problem with the more partisan economic policy transition underway now is that it tends to fuel tit-for-tat reciprocity. If President Biden is handing over power to a Republican in the winter of 2025 or 2029, will his team seek the same partisan advantage by salting the earth on the way out? If this is the new normal, is it possible to go back to the old normal?

If not, it puts at risk the steady continuity that has helped make the United States the richest nation on earth — the sense among officials at the Treasury and the Federal Reserve that they are all ultimately on the same team, rather than partisan actors trying to seize short-term advantages for their team.

Sometimes, even when a divorce is bitter, everyone needs to take a deep breath and think about what’s best for the children.





No.31 article:
Corrections: Nov. 21, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Saturday, Nov. 21, 2020.

An article on Friday about the political system in Bosnia 25 years after the Dayton Accords misspelled the given name of a woman whose husband was killed during the fighting in Prijedor. She is Zdravka Karlica, not Zvadka.

An article on Friday about the certification process for the U.S. election misstated the final certification deadlines in Nevada and Ohio. The deadline in Nevada is Nov. 24, not Dec. 1, and the deadline in Ohio is Nov. 28, not Nov. 24.

Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about the International Swimming League’s bubble in Budapest misstated the distance of a short-course event in which Caeleb Dressel set a world record. It was 100 meters, not yards.

An article on Friday about the winner of the 2020 Booker Prize misstated Douglas Stuart’s citizenship. It is British and American, not Scottish and American.

An article this weekend on Page 34 about President Trump’s potential legal liabilities misstates the given name of a former secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President Obama. He is Julián Castro, not Raúl. And the article refers incorrectly to the agency that oversees federal campaign law. It is the Federal Election Commission, not the Federal Elections Committee. The article also misstates where Attorney General Eric Holder used the phrase “the criminalization of policy differences.” It was during a 2009 congressional hearing, not during House confirmation hearings.

An article this weekend on Page 22 about N95 masks misstates 3M’s federal contract to expand domestic production of N95 masks. The company received two contracts in April worth $201 million, not a $1 billion contract.

An obituary on Thursday about the South Korean women’s rights activist Lee Hyo-jae misstated her role in the trip a delegation of activists took into North Korea in 2015. She helped organize the group; she did not take part in the crossing.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.32 article:
Republican Resistance Looms in the Senate for Biden’s Nominees

The polarization of the confirmation process, once a matter of giving the president the team he chooses, will present the new administration with a challenge in filling out its upper echelons.

WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders, the progressive Vermont independent, has emerged as a contender for labor secretary in President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s administration, a prospect that would suit his ambitions of being a warrior for working Americans — and one that makes some Senate Republicans very uneasy.

“I think that is somebody who we know is an ideologue and, well, it would be very unlikely he would be confirmed in a Republican-held Senate,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, one of multiple Republicans who said Mr. Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist, would be unlikely to win the chamber’s approval.

It is a testament to the deterioration of the Senate confirmation process that a longtime colleague — even one they vehemently oppose on policy — would face such a Republican roadblock. In the not-too-distant past, fellow senators got considerable leeway from the opposing party if they were selected to join the executive branch.

“The truth is, to the best of my knowledge, there has been a courtesy within the Senate that when a president nominates senators, they have been approved,” Mr. Sanders said in an interview.

The growing senatorial resistance to Mr. Sanders even before any formal action by the new administration reflects the formidable task Mr. Biden faces. Should Republicans hold on to their Senate majority next year, Mr. Biden would be the first president since George Bush in 1989 to enter office without his party controlling the chamber and managing the confirmation process. And that process has grown much more toxic, to the point where senators routinely engage in near-blanket opposition to the picks of a president from the opposite party — if they allow consideration at all.

“It is sort of uncharted waters,” said Lindsay M. Chervinsky, a presidential historian and the author of a book on George Washington’s cabinet. “For most of history, the Senate has given presidents, especially first-term presidents, wide berth. They usually give the president who they want.”

That is no certainty today. Some Republicans, who need to win at least one of two Senate runoff elections in Georgia on Jan. 5 to hold their slim majority, have already made clear that they are not eager to grant much latitude to Mr. Biden when it comes to nominees. They note efforts by Democrats over the past four years to block President Trump’s picks and to force Republicans to clear every time-consuming procedural hurdle even when the final outcome was inevitable.

“I can assure you that there will not be one set of rules for Donald Trump and, should Joe Biden take office, another set of rules for him,” Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, said this week on the radio show of Hugh Hewitt, a conservative host. “What the Democrats have done for the last four years, if it is good for the goose, it is going to be good for the gander as well.”

Other Republicans — including Senators Susan Collins of Maine, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — have indicated they would be willing to back Mr. Biden’s picks as long as they were considered mainstream, acknowledging that a Democratic president is entitled to selections that comport with his views.

They and other Republicans say potential candidates who could meet that test include Senator Doug Jones, the Alabama Democrat who lost his re-election bid this month; Antony Blinken, a longtime Biden foreign policy adviser; and Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware and a Biden confidant.

But the overall attitude appears to be one of skepticism, and Republican senators have signaled that rather than feeling an onus to give the president his team, they believe it is squarely on Mr. Biden to find nominees who can pass muster with them. Besides Mr. Sanders, Republicans have also indicated that they would disapprove of nominations of Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Susan Rice, the former national security adviser to President Barack Obama.

Not just the top slots are at issue. The Senate must also confirm scores of other executive branch nominees to lower-level posts that are critical to running sprawling agencies.

If Republicans hold on, it will be up to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader who refused to even consider Mr. Obama’s Supreme Court nominee in 2016, to put nominations on the floor. He is not one to take action that does not have widespread backing from Republican senators and party voters.

“I would hope McConnell wouldn’t put on the floor somebody who has strong opposition in the Republican caucus and with the Republican base,” said Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama.

Just nine cabinet nominees have been rejected by the Senate, while 15 others were withdrawn when confirmation-threatening problems surfaced. High-profile defeats included John Tower, Mr. Bush’s choice for defense secretary, whose nomination failed at the hands of his onetime Senate colleagues, who cited character flaws. He was the last cabinet nominee to be outright defeated and the first former senator to be turned down.

Despite such rare exceptions, top presidential picks historically won fairly easy and quick approval as new administrations took shape and lawmakers wanted to ensure government continuity, sometimes confirming cabinet secretaries by unanimous agreement without a vote. As recently as Mr. Obama’s first term beginning in 2009, several nominees were approved by voice vote on the day he was inaugurated. Hillary Clinton was confirmed as secretary of state by a 94-2 vote on Mr. Obama’s first full day as president.

But the process has become increasingly ugly, with the partisanship ratcheting up in the past decade. Much of the focus has been on judicial appointments and their lifetime tenures, but executive branch jobs have been caught in the crossfire as well. After taking control of the Senate in 2015, Republicans slow-walked some Obama nominees for executive and ambassadorial posts and grudgingly allowed a 56-43 vote of approval for Loretta Lynch as attorney general after months of delay and debate.

Still simmering over the Republican decision to stonewall the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Merrick B. Garland in 2016 and deeming many of Mr. Trump’s nominees unqualified and unfit, Senate Democrats put up the obstacles they could to register their objections.

During the Democratic presidential primary, candidates from the Senate proudly emphasized the number of Trump administration nominees they had opposed. Similarly, Senate Republicans on the ballot in 2022 or considering a run for the presidency in 2024 might be reluctant to be seen as too cooperative with the Biden administration for fear of angering supporters or prompting primary opposition.

Officials with the Biden transition say they are optimistic that the caliber of the incoming president’s choices, his own knowledge of the Senate and the need to confront the coronavirus pandemic will help them move his picks through the polarized chamber.

“His nominees will be experienced, capable and prepared to hit the ground running on Day 1,” said Kate Bedingfield, a transition spokeswoman. “The American people voted for the Biden-Harris ticket in historic numbers, and they expect the Senate to allow the president-elect to put together the competent team he needs to fight this virus and get the economy back on track.”

They also say they are under no illusions about the potential difficulties ahead. They are assembling a high-powered team to build public support for their nominees, though the case of Judge Garland showed that Republicans do not easily succumb to such pressure.

Some Democrats and their progressive allies say that if Mr. Biden is thwarted on personnel issues, he should circumvent the Senate and name acting agency chiefs, as Mr. Trump often did, or use his power to install appointees when Congress is in recess. But the Supreme Court and Senate procedures have combined to significantly narrow the opportunities for recess appointments, and acting officials do not carry the same clout as those who are confirmed by the Senate.

Members of the incoming administration and Senate Democrats would much prefer to have Mr. Biden’s choices win the full Senate stamp of approval, and that includes any Democratic senators put up for cabinet posts if Mr. Biden decides to proceed in that direction.

“I would hope and expect that there would at least be a number of Republican senators who understand it is the prerogative of the sitting president to nominate candidates of his liking,” Mr. Sanders said. “And that they would respect that.”





No.33 article:
Pfizer Applies for Emergency F.D.A. Approval for Covid-19 Vaccine

A large team of regulators at the agency will take about three weeks to review an application spanning thousands of pages.

The drug maker Pfizer said on Friday that it had submitted an application to the Food and Drug Administration to authorize its coronavirus vaccine for emergency use, setting in motion an accelerated regulatory process that could allow the first Americans to get a vaccine by the middle of December.

Pfizer and its German partner, BioNTech, announced Wednesday that the vaccine was safe and 95 percent effective, and that it also worked well in older people and in preventing severe Covid-19.

Another front-runner, Moderna, said on Monday that its vaccine, which uses similar technology, was 94.5 percent effective and that the company also expected to apply soon for emergency authorization.

The two vaccines use a synthetic version of coronavirus genetic material, called mRNA, to program a person’s cells to churn out many copies of a fragment of the virus.

An emergency authorization would allow limited groups of Americans to get the vaccines before the F.D.A. has completed the typical monthslong approval process, but agency officials have made clear through new guidelines that their bar for emergency authorization will be high.

In a video message Friday, Pfizer’s chief executive, Dr. Albert Bourla, called it a “historic day,” and said: “It is with great pride and joy — and even a little relief — that I can say that our request for emergency use authorization for our Covid-19 vaccine is now in the F.D.A.’s hands.”

Both of the companies’ vaccine candidates began large human trials on the same day, July 27, leading the pack of six vaccines the federal government has invested in through its crash vaccine development program, Operation Warp Speed.

If the two vaccines are authorized for emergency use, federal and company officials have said there could be enough doses to immunize about 20 million Americans before the end of the year, a group that would most likely include health care workers and nursing home residents. There are an estimated 17 million to 20 million health care workers in the United States, and about a million people living in nursing homes.

After lowering expectations for how many millions of vaccines they can produce this year, the companies expect to ramp up their manufacturing early next year. Like with other kinds of vaccines, mass producing them for the coronavirus has proved to be a complex and delicate process requiring sterile conditions and precise control of temperature and humidity. The mRNA technology has also never been commercially manufactured. If other vaccines are also authorized, hundreds of millions of doses could be available by the spring, according to federal officials.

Both Pfizer and Moderna have arranged deals with the government so that the vaccines will be free to Americans and distributed according to plans worked out between the federal government and the states. CVS and Walgreens also have federal deals to begin immunizing nursing home residents. On Tuesday, Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, said that 99 percent of the country’s nursing homes had signed up to be part of the program.

Regulators at the F.D.A. plan to take about three weeks to review Pfizer’s vaccine before an outside panel of experts meets to review the application the second week of December. That meeting has been scheduled for Dec. 10.

The agency typically, though not always, follows the advice of its advisory committees. If committee members reach a consensus about the effectiveness of Pfizer’s vaccine, the company could receive emergency clearance by mid-December.

Because Moderna is also on the verge of submitting its vaccine for review, the outside panel could review the company’s vaccine soon after Pfizer’s.

Pfizer said on Friday that the company has begun regulatory submissions in Australia, Canada, Europe, Japan and Britain, and that it plans to apply in other countries “in the immediate future.”

Inside the F.D.A., Pfizer’s application will be reviewed by the agency’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, which has organized large teams of medical and compliance officers, epidemiologists and statisticians to dig into thousands of pages of data about the safety and effectiveness for each vaccine, as well as information on how companies plan to safely and consistently manufacture large batches of the product.

The process could take longer if the reviewers come across errors, or if they need to ask for additional data. Regulators expect the manufacturing data to spur intense deliberation, as companies have scrambled to turn over that information in time. 





No.34 article:
A Holocaust Survivor Lifts Neighbors in Dark Times

Simon Gronowski escaped the Nazis as a child and went on to write and speak widely about his experiences. In April, he began brightening lives by playing jazz tunes from his apartment window.

BRUSSELS — Simon Gronowski had committed many acts of bravery and generosity in his 89 years of life, and opening a window in April wouldn’t ordinarily have counted among them, but this was no ordinary April.

It was the height of the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which hit Belgium as hard as any place in the world. But as a Holocaust survivor, Mr. Gronowski had faced death more intimately before.

The diminutive lawyer summoned his courage, moved his electric piano to beneath a windowsill and flung the window open, letting in spring sunshine along with the thick, wary quiet of a city terrified of the virus. And he began to tap out a jazz tune.

“I was afraid,” he said. “It’s not normal to just open the window and play.”

But soon, his neighbors popped their heads out of their windows, some even donning masks and walking up to his house to hear better.

One took a black-and-white picture of him playing, printed it and slipped it in his mailbox later, writing, simply, “Merci.”

He began to play regularly, filling the leafy streets with jazz notes and bringing relief to his besieged neighbors throughout the lockdown that lasted into late May.

Amy Edwards Anderson, an English teacher from the United States who has lived in Brussels for 22 years, first heard Mr. Gronowski play while sitting in her back yard with her husband and three children. She was surprised, she said, because it quickly became clear this wasn’t someone practicing the piano. It was someone performing for the block.

The short window concerts burst into her family’s confinement and lifted them up.

“Here was someone who was amplifying music to share with neighbors, for no other reason than to make people feel good during a difficult time,” she said. “A kind of unsolicited gift to the neighborhood.”

Mr. Gronowski had meant for his impromptu concerts to make people happy, but playing for others has also had intrinsic value for him his entire life.

“Music is a means of communication, of connection,” he said on a recent afternoon in his home office, surrounded by piles of documents.

Mr. Gronowski taught himself how to play the piano as a teenager, because he, too, was seeking to communicate, to connect, first and foremost, with his older sister, Ita, who had perished in Auschwitz in 1943, age 19.

“I adored her,” he said. “She was a brilliant pianist.”

Mr. Gronowski’s first act of bravery took place many Aprils ago, when an altogether different kind of calamity was gripping Europe.

On April 19, 1943, when he was 11, Mr. Gronowski jumped out of a speeding train.

He and his mother were packed with dozens of others in a cattle wagon on the deadly route from Mechelen, a town where Belgian Jews were rounded up, to Auschwitz.

Of all the trains to doom, Mr. Gronowski’s became especially etched in Holocaust history. Known as “Convoy 20,” it was disrupted by three resistance fighters soon after departing Mechelen. In the commotion, dozens got a chance to escape into the farmlands of Flanders.

Soon after the train started accelerating again, Mr. Gronowski’s mother, perhaps emboldened by the incident and the glimmer of hope, urged him to jump off.

“I jumped because I listened to my mother’s orders,” Mr. Gronowski said. He leapt for his life. His mother did not follow.

“If I had known she was not going to jump, I would have stayed on the train,” he said, resting his cheek in his palm as if his head was suddenly too heavy.

For the next 17 months the boy was hidden in the attics of some Catholic families. After Brussels was liberated in September 1944, he reunited with his ailing father, who had been in and out of the hospital for years, and eventually succumbed — to a broken heart, Mr. Gronowski believes — leaving the boy an orphan the following year.

Mr. Gronowski drew on the memories of prolonged confinement, the fear and desperate sadness of the 1940s, in a newspaper column he wrote as encouragement for fellow Belgians in late March as they struggled to settle into lockdown.

“Currently reduced to forced idleness, conducive to reflection, my thinking wanders and rejoins the confinements that I suffered 75 years ago, from 1942 to 1944, when I was 10-12 years old,” he wrote.

“Today, we can stay with our family or be helped by it, keep in touch, we can do our shopping, stock up on provisions, read the newspapers, watch television, but then we lived in terror, we lacked everything, we were cold, hungry and our families were separated, dislocated,” he added.

The pluckiness on display today was already burning inside the boy who had lost everything by the end of World War II.

After spending three years in foster care, he moved back into the empty family home on his own and took in lodgers to raise funds for his life and schooling.

By the time Mr. Gronowski had turned 23, he held a Ph.D. in law. He became a lawyer, married Marie-Claire Huybrechs, had two daughters, Katia and Isabelle. And for six decades he said little about his perished parents, his beloved sister, Ita, or that day he jumped off a moving train on its way to Auschwitz.

“It was not a secret, but I did not talk about it,” he said, his upbeat mood momentarily darkening. “Why? Because I was feeling guilty. Why are they dead, and I am alive?”

All that changed in 2002, when, pressured by friends who knew his story, he decided to take on the past.

“I needed to bear witness and write my story, so I wrote my first book,” another act of bravery, one that gave Mr. Gronowski an unexpected new life of media appearances and a higher profile to advance progressive goals.

After “L’Enfant du XXe Convoi” (“The Child of the 20th Convoy”) was published and Mr. Gronowski’s story became more widely known in Belgium and beyond, he started giving lectures, especially at schools.

“It was very painful to stir it all up again,” he said. “But now I feel that I am bringing something positive to young people, and it makes me happy, I am liberated.”

His newfound fame led him to another act of bravery and generosity.

A student who listened to him speak at a Belgian school in 2012 called him soon after with a stunning proposal.

A Belgian man named Koenraad Tinel, an artist of similar age to Mr. Gronowski, had written about the guilt of being born into a Nazi family. His brother had been a guard at the Mechelen camp where Mr. Gronowski and his mother had been held before being placed on Convoy 20. Would Mr. Gronowski meet with him?

The two men, both more than 80 years old at the time, met at the humble offices of the Belgian Union of Progressive Jews.

“This is how our friendship was born,” said Mr. Gronowski. “And now Koenraad is more than a friend, he is a brother.”

The two wrote a book, “Finally, Liberated,” and gave lectures together.

When the older Tinel brother, Walter, the camp guard, was on his death bed, he asked to meet Mr. Gronowski and plead for forgiveness.

“I took him in my arms and I forgave him,” he said. “This forgiveness was a relief for him, but it was an even bigger relief for me.”

As Belgium battles a second coronavirus wave with another lockdown, Mr. Gronowski plays his piano with the windows shut this time (“It’s a bit too cold now”) and plots future adventures. “I want to play with this band from New Orleans,” he said brimming with boyish enthusiasm. “They’re called Tuba Skinny, they’re great!”

Most of his school lectures have been put on hold because of the pandemic but they’ll restart soon enough, he says, and that’s what he looks forward to the most.

“When I tell my story at schools, I always finish with a message of hope, I always tell them one important thing: I tell them that life is beautiful,” he said. “But it is also a daily struggle.”





No.35 article:
Why Covid Caused Such Suffering in Italy’s Wealthiest Region

LONDON — Dr. Chiara Lepora had never imagined being deployed in her home country of Italy. As a physician for the international relief agency Doctors Without Borders, she was accustomed to caring for people in countries like Yemen and South Sudan, amid extreme poverty and war.

But early this year, as the novel coronavirus spread from Asia to Europe, Dr. Lepora found herself pressed into service in the northern Italian region of Lombardy, one of the wealthiest places on earth.

Anchored by Milan, Italy’s financial and fashion capital, Lombardy boasts sophisticated industry and world-class medical facilities. Yet it was overwhelmed by the first wave of the global pandemic, forcing doctors to ration ventilators and hospital beds, while having to decide who lived and who died.

The catastrophe in Italy’s most affluent region was in part a consequence of having entrusted much of the public health care system to private, profit-making companies while failing to coordinate their services. Over the previous quarter-century, substantial investment has flowed into lucrative specialties like cardiac surgery and oncology. Areas on the front lines of the pandemic, like family medicine and public health, have been neglected, leaving people excessively reliant on hospitals for care.

As Italy now contends with a brutal second wave, Lombardy is again near the breaking point, with three-fourths of its hospital beds occupied by Covid-19 patients — nearly double the level considered dangerous by the national Health Ministry.

“If you consider profit to be the endgame of health care instead of health, some people are going to be left out,” Dr. Lepora said. “The pandemic exposes all of those weaknesses.”

Unlike the United States, where more than 30 million people lack health insurance, Europe remains a land of universally accessible, government-furnished medical care — Italy included. Yet in Lombardy, the hardest-hit region, the pandemic has revealed the pitfalls of a poorly executed push to open the system to private providers.

“Specializations such as hygiene and prevention, primary health care, outpatient clinics, infectious diseases and epidemiology have been considered not strategic assets, not sexy enough,” said Michele Usuelli, a neonatologist in Milan who holds a seat on the regional assembly, representing the center-left Più Europa party.

“That is why we have a health system very well prepared to treat the most complicated diseases but completely unprepared to fight something like a pandemic,” Dr. Usuelli added.

The same could be said about many wealthy countries, including the United States and Britain, where state-of-the-art medical care has provided no immunity against the pandemic. Only a handful of places — among them Taiwan, South Korea and New Zealand — stand out for their effective responses to the pandemic.

But Lombardy claims distinction as an outlier among the worst-hit places on earth. Italy has suffered more than 760 deaths per million people, according to the World Health Organization, more than the United States and nearly as many as Britain. By mid-October, about half of Italy’s deaths had transpired in Lombardy. The number of the country’s deceased now stands at more than 47,000. 

The roots of Lombardy’s alteration go back to 1995, when a flamboyant politician named Roberto Formigoni became the regional governor. He championed legislation that allowed private providers to serve patients while collecting payment from the taxpayer-financed regional health care system.

Many embraced the change as an innovation that brought competition, forcing public hospitals and clinics to improve. But privatization was laced with corruption.

Mr. Formigoni would serve more than five years in prison for a scheme in which he accepted jaunts on yachts, holidays at lavish Caribbean resorts, and sundry gifts from a lobbyist for private medical providers in exchange for steering the region’s business his way.

The scandal was less an outlier than an indicator of the forces driving privatization, a reality that continued even after Mr. Formigoni left office in 2013, experts say.

Many argue that the problems plaguing the regional health care system are an indictment not of privatization but of the failure of local government leaders to ensure that private companies delivered needed services.

“The problem is in the governance of hospitals and clinics,” said Francesco Paolucci, professor of health economics and policy at the University of Bologna.

Regional officials could have conditioned their willingness to pay for treatments at cutting-edge cancer centers on promises that private providers would furnish less lucrative services like geriatric care. But that mind-set was trumped by the profits to be made.

“They gave permission to the private sector to more or less open whatever they wanted,” Dr. Usuelli said. “It was a complete missed opportunity to hold private companies accountable to their social responsibility.”

The focus on profitable specialties created incentives for doctors to seek jobs in those areas while forsaking general medicine.

In 2016, Lombardy — home to more than 10 million people — saw only 90 medical school graduates go on to pursue specialized studies toward becoming general practitioners. They received annual scholarships of 11,000 euros (nearly $13,000), less than half those secured by people preparing for specialties like cardiology. The numbers have grown in recent years, but not enough to replace retiring general practitioners, medical associations say.

With the best medical minds focused on advanced treatments, Lombardy’s capacity to provide basic medical care and safeguard public health gradually deteriorated. Over the past decade, total health care spending in Lombardy increased 11 percent, while support for primary care was cut 3 percent, according to official data analyzed by Dr. Usuelli.

Lombardy appears to have compounded its problems with a 2015 law that centralized services for chronic diseases like hypertension in hospitals, further diminishing the role of general practitioners in helping keep their patients healthy.

“This was about rationalizing the costs and avoiding waste,” said Marco Cambielli, a gastroenterologist who heads an association of doctors and dentists in the city of Varese. “But it caused the loss of the relationship between patients and their general practitioners.”

In the neighboring region of Veneto, a health care system centered on so-called community care — in which family doctors and nurses made home visits with an eye toward prevention — performed far better. There, primary care physicians and an effective contact tracing effort prevented a surge of people from reaching hospitals.

“Family doctors are a cost,” said Filippo Anelli, president of the national federation of doctors and dentists. “If the mentality is that you need to make money from health care, the investment in community medicine looks clearly less remunerative.”

When the first wave hit, Milan — a city of more than 1.3 million — had only five doctors expert in public health and hygiene, said Roberto Carlo Rossi, president of Milan’s Doctors’ and Dentists’ Guild. They were responsible for setting up a testing and contact tracing regimen.

The region has since hired more. Yet as recently as last month, Lombardy’s health department notified doctors that the agency “can no longer conduct prompt epidemiological investigation.” That notice was as untimely as it was disturbing: Italy’s daily Covid deaths have nearly tripled over the last two weeks, with Lombardy again leading the trend.

Dr. Lepora, the Doctors Without Borders physician, was en route to her base in Dubai in February, returning from a trip to the United States, when she stopped to visit her family in the northern Italian region of Piedmont. The pandemic shut down the airports, leaving her marooned.

Two dozen other Italians working with Doctors Without Borders were similarly stuck. They set up a support unit at a public hospital in the city of Lodi.

The doctors were experienced in disaster zones, and astonished to see that Italy had become one. Their Italian colleagues were venturing into intensive care units full of Covid patients without adequate protective gear.

Dr. Lepora tried to institute a rationing system by limiting the number of people entering the hospital. But she said that plan collided with the operations of private companies that provided meals and cleaning services. They refused to limit their visits, concerned that they could be accused of breaching their contracts.

By the time she returned to the Middle East in June, Dr. Lepora had diagnosed a worrying problem. “The service rather than the patient had been put at the center of attention,” she said.

In Milan, Erika Conforti, 35, opened her own practice as a family doctor in February, just in time for the pandemic. She had taken over a practice from a retired doctor, working out of a private office in an apartment building.

Under the rules governing Lombardy’s health care system, general practitioners were supposed to be responsible for no more than 1,500 patients, but Dr. Conforti initially inherited 1,800, including 500 elderly people.

She had been drawn to general practice out of a desire to help people with everyday ailments. “I love to speak with patients,” she said.

As the pandemic spread, she found herself working 12 hours a day, and still failing to keep up with the barrage of calls and emails. She struggled to visit patients stricken by the coronavirus. The regional system lacked protective gear like masks and gloves, so she bought her own.

As the second wave gathers force, Dr. Conforti frets that the same afflictions are at work. The region has added hospital beds, but lacks nurses and anesthesiologists.

“If there’s not enough people who know how to work in the hospital setting, then increasing the number of beds is pointless,” she said.

At her own practice, 30 of her patients tested positive for Covid-19 on a recent day, while over 50 more were quarantined, awaiting tests that took five and six days to yield results.

“I’d like to be able to contact positive Covid patients at least once a day, but I just don’t have the time,” Dr. Conforti said. “I’m worried that every minor distraction that I have has very serious consequences. I’m scared as I’m working.”





No.36 article:
Players Have Been Kneeling for Months. Now What?

It was the final day of Major League Soccer’s regular season and — right on schedule — the moment for kneeling arrived.

As the messages “MLS Unites Against Racism” and “Black Lives Matter” were displayed on the digital sideline advertising boards, the referee and the players from the Chicago Fire and New York City F.C. dropped to one knee and solemnly bowed their heads. Well, some of them did. Others stood and stared ahead with a steely focus. Two more, just outside the midfield circle, used the moment to have a hushed conversation.

The diversity of displays, four months after a dramatic on-field protest that marked the league’s return to play in Florida amid the pandemic, were neither inherently rebellious or disrespectful. They were, however, a reflection of how easy it can become to overlook gestures, even when surrounded by unequivocal reminders of why they matter.

Across North America, where George Floyd’s killing at the hands of a white police officer in Minneapolis was the spark for a summer of international protests, social justice demonstrations across major professional team sports have been nearly universal: Women’s soccer players took a knee in Utah. So did basketball stars in Florida, hockey players in Canada and baseball and football players in dozens of American cities.

In M.L.S., dozens of the league’s Black players stood on the field before the league’s first rescheduled game for 8 minutes 46 seconds of silence — what had been widely cited as the time a police officer had knelt on Floyd’s neck before he died — and at every game since, dozens of players, coaches and officials still take a knee.

But what started as solemn group gestures have in some places transitioned into just another box to tick on the list of pregame rituals. For an increasingly activist cohort of Black athletes, though, what comes next is paramount.

“Protests are great,” the renowned sociologist and activist Harry Edwards had warned Black M.L.S. players when they called him for advice on how to be heard in their league. “But it comes down to follow through.”

From the start, most of the players kept their focus in the moment. But nearly five months later, and as the league’s postseason opens this weekend, Black soccer players in America are continuing to heed Edwards’s words. Their on-field gestures, they said, are now only part of their mission.

Behind the scenes, players have been pushing to convert their protest currency into tangible, lasting change. They have led voter registration drives in their cities and inside their locker rooms; convinced the league to use its resources to amplify those efforts; created public service announcements to be broadcast during matches; and designed shirts to raise money for racial justice organizations.

The goal, several prominent Black M.L.S. players said in interviews over the past several weeks, was to steer the league into embracing their efforts, and to challenge the way the soccer world engages with Black activism.

Much of the work has been accomplished through organizing — in M.L.S. through Black Players for Change — and by connecting and partnering with Black players’ groups in more prominent sports like the N.B.A. and N.F.L.

The playoffs now offer a bigger stage, and a new opportunity. Justin Morrow, the veteran Toronto F.C. defender and the executive director of Black Players for Change, said his group of about 170 players, coaches and M.L.S. staff members is at a planned transition point in its fight.

“It’s time for us to step back and develop programming and initiatives that are going to affect our local markets and our local communities,” he said. The ultimate goal — the follow through — is not public shows of support but concrete actions to improve access and representation at every level of soccer.

“We’re going to challenge the league every chance we get,” Morrow said, “to make sure that they’re making progress toward racial equality, access and representation within the game.”

Black women’s players have embraced a similar activism. Tziarra King, a Black player for the National Women’s Soccer League’s Utah Royals, said she raised the idea of taking a knee with her mostly white teammates before the league’s Challenge Cup in June. Two months later, King, a 22-year-old rookie, publicly took on her team owner Dell Loy Hansen — also the owner of Real Salt Lake in M.L.S. — after he told a radio interviewer that he had been “personally disrespected” by his team’s decision to boycott a game after the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, in Wisconsin.

“Messages about inclusion and diversity are in complete contradiction with an owner who refuses to understand the relevance of a player strike for racial equality,” King wrote on Twitter. Other more prominent Black players, including several prominent members of the World Cup-winning United States women’s national team and others in the newly established Black Women’s Player Collective, quickly rallied behind her.

Morrow said part of what inspired Black M.L.S. players was a “growing sentiment in Major League Soccer that they weren’t doing enough for the Black community.”

A recent report from Fare, an organization dedicated to fighting discrimination in soccer, highlighted some of the issues the players said needed to be addressed. As of Aug. 1, for example, Black players constituted 25 percent of the 26 M.L.S. clubs’ rosters but had no representation at the ownership level or as club presidents. The league currently has a single Black general manager, Toronto F.C.’s Ali Curtis; one Black sporting director, the Red Bulls’ Denis Hamlett; and only two Black head coaches. (The N.W.S.L. has no Black representation across the board in corresponding positions.)

M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber said the protests, and the realities that are driving them, were a reflection that “as a nation we have to come together and accept that where we are is not good enough.”

“It’s about standing up about what’s right and standing against what is wrong and recognizing this incredible moment in our country’s history where we are accepting that there has been systemic racism for hundreds of years,” Garber said. “As a popular, global sports league we have an important and valuable platform, and at appropriate times, we’ll utilize that platform on matters that we believe are of critical social importance.”

Garber acknowledged the league needs to do better. The league has begun the process of recruiting a head of diversity, equity and inclusion, a senior executive post that will report directly to Garber. And it has assured Black players and administrative employees that they will have seats at the table in developing proactive plans to increase representation, and not just in areas related to diversity and inclusion.

“They wanted to know what the league was doing, how we were going to collectively utilize our platforms to ensure that the league was addressing racism and social injustice,” he said. “They never lost focus on the areas that they felt they could make a difference in.”

Already, several Black M.L.S. players said, there have been small victories. In October, the league announced several new initiatives, in collaboration with Black Players for Change, to address racism and increase Black representation in positions of authority, both in the league office and on its teams.

Edwards warns players to be wary of the participation of any league in racial justice campaigns, and to cautiously suspend cynicism only when they see concrete action. The idea is that initiatives themselves aren’t results, but merely a platform on which to build the actual plans that increase representation. It’s a principle, the M.L.S. players said, they will carry with them.

“Our challenge as an organization is to make sure that Major League Soccer is continuing to take those steps in the right way,” Morrow said, “and use our voice and our influence to hold them to the fire.”




No.1 article:
Coronavirus live news: G20 in global vaccine effort pledge; UK records 341 more deaths

Russia reports record new cases and deaths; South Australia lockdown to end at midnight on Saturday; global cases pass 57.5m. Follow latest updates

That’s where we will leave the global coronavirus liveblog for Saturday. 

The Australian state of Victoria has recorded zero new cases and zero deaths for the 23rd day in a row. 

Victorian premier Daniel Andrews is due to announce the further easing of restrictions this morning. The Sunday newspapers suggest restrictions to be eased will include only having to wear masks when indoors and unable to distance, an increase in visitors to the home of 10 people, outdoor gatherings increasing to 50, pubs and restaurants allowed to have up to 100 patrons indoors and 200 outdoors, and gyms allowed to have up to 100 people. We will know more in a little while.

New South Wales premier Gladys Berejiklian is also due to give a Covid-19 update at 11am.

Focus will also be on South Australia, as the state comes out of its lockdown early after health authorities determined the risk of an outbreak was greatly reduced.

Portugal is to ban domestic travel and close schools around two upcoming holidays in an attempt to halt the spread of coronavirus ahead of Christmas.

In the UK, 341 more people have died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19, bringing the death toll to 54,626.

Rapid Covid-19 tests were offered to hundreds in Merthyr Tydfil in Wales, as part of a pilot scheme of mass coronavirus testing. On Saturday evening, 560 people had attended the testing centre on its first day, with 554 negative tests and six positive ones recorded.

Russia reported a daily record of 24,822 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, bringing the national tally to 2,064,748. The official death toll is now 35,778.

In October, Australians spent more eating out than they had spent over the same month last year, according to research from Restaurant and Catering Australia.

People in every state except Victoria – where dining out was impossible during its strict Covid lockdown – headed to restaurants and cafes for a taste of non-home-made food. 

The Sydney Morning Herald reports that in New South Wales diners spent nearly 10% more at restaurants than last year. 

Conservative rebels are preparing to resist Boris Johnson’s plans for restrictions to replace the national lockdown without extensive evidence they will save more lives than they cost. 

The Covid Recovery Group (CRG), led by former chief whip Mark Harper and ex-Brexit minister Steve Baker, is threatening to withhold support for the prime minister’s measures when the four-week lockdown in England ends on 2 December.

In a letter, understood to have been signed by 70 Tory MPs, the CRG said that “even the tiered system of restrictions infringes deeply upon people’s lives with huge health and economic costs”.

The closure of non-essential retail, outside sport restrictions and care home visits were among the specific concerns raised.

It comes as a new poll reveals most of the public would prefer to have a locked-down Christmas than have another lockdown imposed in January. 

G20 leaders will on Sunday pledge to pay for a fair distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, drugs and tests around the world so that poorer countries are not left out, and to extend debt relief to them, a draft communique shows.

“We will spare no effort to ensure their affordable and equitable access for all people, consistent with members commitments to incentivize innovation,” the leaders said in the draft G20 statement, seen by Reuters. 

“We recognize the role of extensive immunization as a global public good.”

The leaders said the global economy was starting to pick up but the recovery remained “uneven, highly uncertain and subject to elevated downside risks.” 

The number of new coronavirus infections in France rose by 17,881 on Saturday, lower than the 22,882 reported the previous day.

The health ministry also reported 276 new deaths from the virus in hospitals over 24 hours, compared with 386 on Friday. 

On Tuesday, French president Emmanuel Macron will address the nation about the virus situation and may announce a partial relaxation of nationwide lockdown rules which have been in place since 30 October.

Portugal is to ban domestic travel and close schools around two upcoming holidays in a bid to reduce the spread of coronavirus ahead of Christmas, Prime Minister Antonio Costa announced on Saturday.

Travel between municipalities will be banned from 11pm on 27 November to 5am on 2 December, and then again from 11pm on 4 December to 5am on 9 December, to prevent movement around national holidays at the start of next month.

Schools will close on the Mondays before both holidays, while businesses must shut early.

Employers are being encouraged to give workers the day off in order to minimise travel activity.

Hundreds of people in Merthyr Tydfil turned up at the first day of a pilot scheme of mass coronavirus testing, PA Media reports.

Rapid Covid-19 tests are being offered to the area’s residents and workers even if they do not have symptoms, a week after the town registered the highest rate of new cases in the UK.

On Saturday evening, Merthyr Tydfil county borough council said 560 people had attended the testing centre on its first day, with 554 negative tests and six positive ones recorded.

Merthyr Tydfil has since seen the biggest drop in cases in Wales from about 770 cases per 100,000 to now below 260 as the effect of the country’s 17-day firebreak begins to work.

Greece reported 108 Covid-19-related deaths on Saturday, a daily record, with intensive care beds in many hospitals quickly filling due to increasing demand.

Health authorities reported 2,311 confirmed Covid-19 cases, bringing the total since the first case was detected in February to 90,121. The death toll is 1,527. 

After a two-month lockdown in March, which helped contain the spread of infections, a spike since October forced the government to impose a second nationwide lockdown that officially expires at the end of the month.

However, this could be in doubt.

“Lifting the lockdown on 1 December does not seem realistic right now,” government spokesman Stelios Petsas told state TV ERT on Friday. 

149 pupils at a boarding school in Cumbria have tested positive for Covid-19 following an outbreak.

Students at Sedbergh School who tested positive, and those in a bubble with a positive case, have been told to isolate at home – if appropriate to do so.

In a letter to parents, Daniel Harrison, the school’s headmaster, said that none of the results received from staff testing this week have returned positive tests.

The number of Covid-19 cases in the United States surpassed 12 million on Saturday, just days ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday that health experts have warned could fuel the surging spread of infection around the country.

The milestone marks a worsening of the country’s Covid-19 epidemic, which has claimed a quarter of a million lives across America, more than in any other nation.

Reuters data shows the pace of new infections in the United States has quickened, with nearly one million more cases recorded in just the last six days since the country recorded 11 million. 

Turkey on Saturday reported its highest daily number of new coronavirus patients since the outbreak started.

Figures from the health ministry showed that 5,532 people had been diagnosed with Covid-19 symptoms in the previous 24 hours.

Since July, Ankara has only reported symptomatic cases of coronavirus, a move that critics say hides the true scale of the outbreak.

The daily death toll from the coronavirus was 135, bringing the cumulative total to 12,219.

To battle a surge in cases, Turkey this week introduced partial weekend curfews and limited the opening hours of restaurants, cafes and shopping malls.

Labour has warned the government not to let England return to the “shambles” seen before the current national lockdown.

Shadow chancellor Anneliese Dodds said there were 11 days until the lockdown was due to lift on 2 December and no word from ministers on what was going to follow.

She called for clarity about what economic support measures will accompany different types of restrictions after the lockdown ends.

Speaking to the Co-operative party’s local government conference, Dodds said: 

It’s extraordinary that the lockdown is due to lift in just 11 days, and we still haven’t heard a peep from government as to what comes next. We need clarity about what economic support package will go alongside different types of restrictions. We can’t go back to the shambles we had before this lockdown.

Italy registered 34,767 new coronavirus infections in the space of 24 hours on Saturday, slightly down from 37,242 the day before.

The health ministry also reported 692 Covid-19-related deaths after 699 on Friday.

The northern region of Lombardy, centred on Italy’s financial capital Milan, remained the hardest-hit area, as it registered 8,853 new cases.

In the UK, 341 more people have died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19, official figures show. The total official death toll is now 54,626. 

There were 19,875 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday – a drop from Friday’s data which showed a daily rise in cases of 20,252 cases and 511 deaths.

See the official release here.

Police have made 13 arrests following an anti-lockdown protest in Liverpool, which saw crowds gathering in the city centre from about 1pm on Saturday.

Those arrested were held on suspicion of breaches of coronavirus regulations and committing public order offences, said Merseyside police.

Chief Superintendent Ngaire Waine said: 

We have seen infection rates driven down in Merseyside thanks to the commitment of so many people, and already more than 140,000 have taken part in a mass testing pilot here in Merseyside to help the national effort to protect life and get back to normality. They are a credit to this county. So it will be incredibly frustrating for all those people to see that a minority of selfish individuals chose to flout laws brought in to protect the lives of people, putting our communities and themselves at risk. 





No.2 article:
England’s three Covid ‘tsars’: key questions that must be answered

The crucial figures at the heart of the fight against the pandemic are now under intense scrutiny

On 7 May, when the country was still in its first national lockdown and the crisis over shortages of personal protective equipment (PPE) was its height, a Tory peer called Dido Harding was thrust suddenly to the centre of the fight against Covid-19.

Harding was well known in the business community and, partly thanks to her marriage to Conservative MP John Penrose, in top Tory circles too. But her professional reputation had little to do with any great medical knowledge. Since 2017 she had been chair of NHS Improvement, a management post overseeing foundation trusts, but her career heights were as boss at the telecoms firm TalkTalk, and before that she had been in senior roles at the supermarket chains Sainsbury’s and Tesco.

Matt Hancock, the health secretary, knew Harding, however, and shared an interest in horse racing with her. She was also a good friend of former prime minister David Cameron.

With the Covid crisis raging, there was little time to waste. Because of her management abilities and as she was available and willing to serve, Hancock placed her in charge of England’s new Covid-19 NHS test-and-trace system without putting the unpaid position out to open competition.

If Harding’s appointment in May raised some eyebrows at that time, more concerns were expressed in August when, under fire over the performance of the service, she was also appointed to lead the new health body the National Institute for Health Protection (NIHP), which was to be formed as result of a merger between Public Health England and NHS test and trace. Again there was no open competition, as is required in most high-ranking public appointments.

Dr Michael Head, a senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton, said at the time that the second Harding appointment “makes about as much sense as [chief medical officer] Chris Whitty being appointed the Vodafone head of branding and corporate image”.

Harding was not the only one, however. Her arrival was the first of many from well connected Tory circles into senior, unpaid Covid positions. The businesswoman Kate Bingham, who is married to Tory minister Jesse Norman, was appointed as head of the UK’s vaccine taskforce, a little later in May. Again some questioned why someone without apparent experience of vaccines – she had worked a lot in therapeutics – had got the job, which, again, was not put out to open competition.

Then in September a former work colleague of Harding’s, Mike Coupe (a former chief executive of Sainsbury’s), was appointed director of testing at NHS test and trace, again without apparent experience in the field, and without the job going out to full competition.

Last week the not-for-profit Good Law Project (GLP), which has highlighted the separate issue of Tory links to companies winning Covid contracts, lodged a case for a judicial review of the appointments of Harding, Bingham and Coupe.

It is trying to show that the appointments were made illegally, as they were not put out to open competition but were the result of contacts in a small Tory clique which signed one another up in a great hurry to top national jobs at a time of grave emergency.

The GLP is not trying to get rid of these three individuals from their jobs. But it is trying to shine a light on what it sees as a cosy network which has given vital roles to its own, apparently ignored due process and discriminated against the less well connected in so doing.

It is part of a wider battle that has developed around the Covid-19 crisis, which is all to do with how those with connections to power in a time of national emergency have somehow managed to feed off it, while others without them have been left out of the picture.

Were fair and open competitions held for each of these jobs in line with rules on public appointments? Or did the prime minister and health secretary just appoint their chums in a hurry?

The claimants argue in papers submitted to court that “none of these appointments were subject to open competition” as they should have been. Instead it was a case of handing out posts to close acquaintances. Jolyon Maugham, founder of the Good Law Project, says in his submission that the system for making public appointments is set out by the government in its Governance Code for Public Appointments. This makes clear that, whenever possible, roles should be advertised and opened up to all comers. But with these appointments, he argues, this did not happen.

The government does not dispute this in the case of Harding, who was appointed by Hancock, although it says in the case of Coupe that unnamed headhunters were used. 

In its response to the claimants’ pre-action letter, the government’s legal department stresses the “urgent”, “ad hoc” and temporary nature of the appointments which it says had been made necessary by the pandemic. It also points out that those appointed were available to fill crucial posts at short notice and to work unpaid in the public interest.

Were these appointments political?

The claimants note in their submissions that “Ms Bingham and Ms Harding are both the wives of senior Conservative politicians, with no significant experience in public health administration. They appear to have been recruited via informal phone calls from ministers. Mr Coupe is a former colleague of Ms Harding, with a background in running a large grocery business.” Also, and controversially, they note that Harding still sits as a Conservative peer in the House of Lords while holding what is, in effect (if not strictly) a civil service post. Government lawyers, in their pre-action response, stress the high levels of management qualifications of those appointed and their willingness to carry out the important roles at short notice.

Did the government act in a way that was discriminatory?

This is the crux of the claimants’ case on the legality of the appointments. They are inviting the court to find that the government acted “unlawfully”. In their main submission, they state that the process of appointing people to posts without open competition – but among a tight group of acquaintances – discriminates against people outside those groups, and in particular against those “who are not white people and who are disabled”.

“Potential candidates with these characteristics were less likely to be among the exclusive group considered for the positions. They were also less likely to be able to accept an unremunerated position. This exclusionary effect was not objectively justified. While there was, no doubt, some urgency to the appointments, they were not overnight, no-notice appointments.” They also say the way the appointments were made ran contrary to the obligation on government to observe the “equality duty” in making public sector appointments. 

The government’s lawyers dismiss the claims of discrimination on several grounds, saying “you have not identified with any degree of particularity the protected characteristics that you claim are at a particular disadvantage other than a bald assertion that ‘candidates who are not white or who have disabilities are less likely to be among those considered for the position’. Plainly. each role needs to be approached separately and the particular pool and protected characteristics identified.”

Did the nature of the emergency justify the way the appointments were made?

The claimants say that in the case of Bingham there was no time pressure, yet still the government avoided open competition for the post. They say: “There does not seem to have been any open or competitive appointment process for her role either. The appointment came months into the global race for a vaccine. There is no obvious reason why the government did not have time between January and May to run or commission some form of open competition to appoint a person to lead the government’s efforts on the vaccine.” The government responds by saying the emergency justified its actions. “If any fault can be found with the process that was followed, it can undoubtedly be justified. The Covid-19 pandemic presents truly exceptional circumstances where the government has had to respond, with almost unprecedented speed, to a national emergency which threatens the health of the nation. It has properly and justifiably made urgent temporary appointments of highly qualified and specialised individuals to roles which are helping to combat that threat.”

Were those people suitable for the jobs?

The claimants suggest all three lacked experience for the critical roles they were appointed to, and that people with greater expertise could have been asked to apply. They are particularly scathing about Harding’s second appointment. “On the face of it, Baroness Harding is even less suitably qualified for this appointment than she was her first. NIHP (the National Institute for Health Protection) is intended to have far broader function than test and trace, extending across public health.” Government lawyers say that all are highly capable people. Of Harding, they say: “She is a leading expert in management and logistics, possesses highly specialist skills, and was available at short notice to take up this appointment.”





No.3 article:
Boris Johnson under pressure as scientists back tight rules for Christmas

PM set to announce end to lockdown before trying to broker national agreement on family gatherings

Boris Johnson will meet his cabinet remotely on Sunday to decide how people will be able to gather with loved ones at Christmas, before the announcement of a new Covid winter plan.

The prime minister, who is self-isolating, will then confirm by video to parliament on Monday that national restrictions will end on 2 December and be replaced by the three-tier regional system, with even tighter controls in some areas.

The Observer understands that ministers are keen to agree a set of UK-wide rules that can be adopted for the Christmas period in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. Talks with the devolved administrations were also taking place this weekend to try to agree a united approach that will apply for a limited period during the festive season.

Also on Monday the government’s key scientific committee, Sage, is expected to publish further papers setting out its advice that the previous tiers were not strong enough, and that a tougher regional approach is now required.

Downing Street said on Saturday night that “while measures will be similar to those in place previously, the tiers will also be strengthened in some areas in order to safeguard the gains made during the period of national restrictions”.

It is expected that more areas will be placed into the higher tiers in order to keep the virus under control, and ensure further national restrictions are not required.

The new Covid winter plan is being thrashed out amid greater confidence about the use of vaccines and mass testing, and a growing feeling that restrictions can be relaxed substantially by spring. Johnson believes that, provided vaccines are approved by regulators, the first injections can be made next month before being rolled out more widely in the new year.

On Thursday, ministers will announce which areas will be placed into which tiers, based on the latest data. MPs will be able to vote on the tiering system before it comes into force.

No 10 said: “Everyone’s efforts during the current national restrictions have helped bring the virus back under control, slowed its spread and eased pressures on the NHS.

“But the prime minister and his scientific advisers are clear the virus is still present – and without regional restrictions it could quickly run out of control again before vaccines and mass testing have had an effect. That would put in jeopardy the progress the country has made, and once again risk intolerable pressure on the NHS.”

Johnson is, however, still facing competing pressures from, on the one hand, Tory MPs concerned about the severity of a revamped tier system and, on the other, scientists who are increasingly warning that easing the rules over Christmas could lead to a devastating increase in cases.

Last night it emerged that the PM faces a rebellion from Tory MPs over another period under a tiered system that could leave him relying on Labour’s support to pass it through the Commons. It is understood 70 Tory MPs have signed a letter warning that they cannot support localised restrictions next month unless ministers can demonstrate they “will save more lives than they cost”.

The group, led by former chief whip Mark Harper and former Brexit minister Steve Baker, is demanding to see a full cost-benefit analysis of the restrictions.

“We are especially concerned about outside sport, the 10pm curfew, closure of non-essential retail, gyms and personal care businesses, restrictions on worship, care home visits, hospitality and the inclusion of children under 12 in the rule of 6,” they write. “In these areas, we need to be assured of the evidence of their effectiveness.”

Meanwhile, scientists and health experts added their voices to those worried about plans to create a short window in which restrictions could be eased over the Christmas period. Such a move, they argue, could lead to large increases in Covid cases and cause thousands of unnecessary deaths.

Scientists point out that vaccines could be distributed to the public in a few weeks. “We just need to be patient for a little bit longer,” said vaccine expert Prof Brendan Wren of the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine. “A vaccine is just round the corner. We will just have to accept this is going to be a different Christmas and keep the pubs shut until we know we are safe.”

Those opposed to the easing of lockdown also point out that other major religious festivals and public celebrations have been scaled down because of Covid-19. “There are precedents from all around the world,” said Dr Michael Head, senior research fellow in global health at Southampton University.

“Chinese new year was curtailed when the outbreak emerged in January. The Hajj usually attracts over 2 million pilgrims into Saudi Arabia but this year was restricted to just 10,000 visitors aged between 20 and 50. These measures prevented an estimated 127,000 new cases.” Britain needed to act with similar restraint, he added.

Scientists also said the “eat out to help out” scheme – to help the hospitality industry – had shown the dangers of encouraging people to dine out and gather during a respiratory disease pandemic.

“It was a disaster,” said Wren. “It undid months of hard work that had brought case numbers down during the first lockdown. We encouraged people to go inside and mingle during summer when they should have stayed outdoors for as much as possible. Now they want to repeat that. They shouldn’t.”

In addition to the eat out scheme, several scientists told the Observer that the government’s tier system for tackling the disease in England had been badly flawed. “Essentially, tier 1 did not work. It was too slack and allowed cases to continue to rise in places where it was imposed,” said Prof Paul Hunter of the University of East Anglia. “After 2 December, when lockdown ends, we need to return either to tier 2 or tier 3 across the country.”

However, scientists also said they recognised the serious social and emotional risks that faced the public over Christmas. These would also have to tackled. “If we can keep homes as well-ventilated and protect granny and grandad as much as possible, then some sort of limited Christmas may be possible,” said virologist Dr Julian Tang, of the University of Leicester.

Head agreed. “It may be that a restricted bubble could work, with for example two households mixing. However, even this level of restriction will still pose some risk and we would see higher numbers of cases in January as a result.”

Attempts to return to a normal Christmas were also dismissed by Tang. “Very starkly, the virus will inevitably spread over Christmas if there are more frequent contacts, within multigenerational family gatherings, from different households, from different parts of the country, for longer durations, in crowded home environments,” he said.

The answer was to impose stricter restrictions in December, said Hunter. “We need to impose tier 2 or 3 restrictions after 2 December but maybe allow a couple of days of relaxation between Christmas Eve and Boxing Day. If you don’t, then a lot of people are just going to break the law and I think once they’ve done it once, they will be tempted to do it again and again.”





No.4 article:
Jonathann Daval confessed to beating and strangling his wife after first reporting her missing

A French court sentenced Jonathann Daval to 25 years in prison on Saturday for killing his wife and then burning her body, in a case that shocked the country.

The 36-year-old Frenchman was impassive as the verdict was read out. He turned to look at members of his own family who were present. Earlier, he had said “Sorry, Sorry” in the dock, looking towards his wife’s parents.

Daval finally confessed to beating his wife, strangling her and burning her body in the woods after initially reporting her missing.

The charred remains of Alexia Daval were found hidden under branches near their town of Gray-la-Ville in eastern France in October 2017. Daval initially said Alexia, a 29-year-old bank employee, had gone jogging and never came back.

Jean-Pierre Fouillot, Alexia’s father, passed an arm around the shoulders of his wife Isabelle as the court’s decision was delivered. A few minutes later the mother, Isabelle Fouillot, went out to talk to reporters, as she had done throughout the trial.

“It is a very good decision, exactly what I hoped, at the height of our suffering. That will allow us to turn a page,” she said.

Defence lawyer Ornella Spatafora swiftly indicated that there would be no appeal against the sentence. Outside the courthouse dozens of people were pressed against the barriers blocking access. Prosecutors had asked for a life sentence calling the 2017 murder “an almost perfect conjugal crime”.

After his wife’s death, Daval had cut a distraught figure, appearing in tears at a press conference with his in-laws and leading one of several events organised countrywide in her memory.

Three months later, prosecutors said the IT worker confessed to the murder – admitting he had beaten his wife in a heated argument, knocking her face against a concrete wall and strangling her.

He initially denied setting fire to her body, but finally admitted to that too, in June last year. Daval changed his story several times, at one point withdrawing his confession, blaming his brother-in-law and finally admitting to everything all over again.

On Monday, when asked by the judge whether he admitted to “being the only person implicated in the death” of his wife, Daval replied “yes”, appearing close to tears.

The crime deeply shocked France and nearly 10,000 people turned out in the couple’s quiet town for a silent march in her memory.

The murder highlighted the scourge of violence against women at the height of the global #MeToo campaign against sexual abuse and harassment of women.

On Monday, French authorities said 125,840 women were victims of domestic violence in 2019. Another 146 were murdered by their partner or ex-partner – 25 more than the previous year.





No.5 article:
Trump tells G20 leaders he wants to work with them ‘for a long time’

US president delivers boasts and falsehoods while other members focus on dealing with the pandemic

Donald Trump has taken his campaign to deny the results of the US presidential election global, telling leaders at the G20 summit he’s looking forward to going on working with them.

The gathering of leaders of major world economies is being held online this year, but could have been an occasion for Trump to bid his peers goodbye and pledge American support in the battle against Covid-19. Instead, according to audio of his comments obtained by the Observer, he said: “It’s been a great honour to work with you, and I look forward to working with you again for a long time.” 

He went on to boast about the US economy and military, and repeated false claims that his government’s Operation Warp Speed was behind both the first two successful coronavirus vaccines. Warp Speed provided funding for development of the vaccine produced by Moderna, but not the Pfizer vaccine, which was developed without US government help. 

It was in stark contrast to comments from other leaders, which focused on the pandemic. One source said: “His was the anomalous speech. Everyone else talked about global matters of life and death.”

Most national leaders cited the World Health Organization and ACT Accelerator, which aims to speed up treatment and vaccines for Covid-19 and ensure equitable global distribution, a source said. A number also reflected on how countries had failed to help each other during crisis moments of the pandemic. Trump, who pulled the US out of the WHO, did not mention either organisation, but said America would ensure “domestic needs are met” before working on vaccines for the rest of the world.

No speaker made direct reference to Joe Biden’s winning at least 6 million more votes than Trump and the electoral college by 306 votes to Trump’s 232. Trump has refused to concede, instead making baseless claims of voter fraud in an attempt to overturn the result of the presidential election so that he can remain in office – a power grab without precedent in modern American history.

After opening remarks, G20 leaders held a session on pandemic preparedness and response, mostly involving pre-recorded speeches. By then, Trump had left for his golf course in Virginia and no US official spoke on the issue.

The G20 summit is being hosted by Saudi Arabia, which had hoped to use it to showcase changes in the kingdom and rehabilitate the image of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman after the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi by a Saudi hit squad. However, the summit has been overshadowed by concerns about its human rights record, especially the fate of jailed female activists.





No.6 article:
Pompeii dig reveals ‘almost perfect’ remains of a master and his slave

Archaeologists have unearthed two exceptionally well-preserved victims of the eruption of Vesuvius in AD79

The almost perfectly preserved remains of two men have been unearthed in an extraordinary discovery in the ancient Roman city of Pompeii.

The bodies of what are thought to be a wealthy man and his slave, believed to have died as they were fleeing the catastrophic eruption of Mount Vesuvius in AD79, were found during excavations at a villa in the outskirts of the city, Pompeii archaeological park officials said yesterday.

Massimo Osanna, the park’s director, said the find was “truly exceptional”, while culture minister Dario Franceschini said it underlined the importance of Pompeii as a place for study and research.

The two men, lying close together, are believed to have escaped the initial phase of the eruption when the city was blanketed in volcanic ash and pumice, only to then be killed by a blast that happened the following day.

Their remains, for which casts have been created, were discovered in the same location where a stable containing the remains of three harnessed horses were unearthed in 2017.

Experts said the younger man, who was probably aged between 18 and 25, had several compressed vertebrae, which led them to believe that he was a manual labourer or slave. He is thought to have been wearing a pleated tunic, possibly made of wool.

The elder man, aged between 30 and 40, had a stronger bone structure, particularly around his chest area, and was also wearing a tunic. They were found lying in what would have been the corridor of the villa.

Park officials said that further digging over the coming months might reveal where the men were heading and determine the roles they played in the elegant villa.

It is the latest in a series of fascinating discoveries that excavations at Pompeii have yielded in recent years.

The bodies of two women and three children were discovered huddled together in the room of a villa in the Regio V area in October 2018. A week before, the same villa revealed a charcoal inscription that suggested Vesuvius erupted in October AD79, and not in August of that year as previously thought.

The remains of a man, who was also believed to have survived the first part of the explosion, were found in May 2018. His legs and torso were protruding from a large stone block but, rather than being decapitated by it, archaeologists believe he was killed by the lethal gases of the eruption’s later stages. The victim, believed to have been in his mid-30s, was also found with a small sack of 20 silver and two bronze coins, the equivalent of about €500 in today’s money.

The latest dig, part of a €1m project, is continuing despite the coronavirus pandemic. The park, which is currently closed to tourists, usually attracts four million people a year.

The Pompeii ruins were discovered in the 16th century, with the first excavations beginning in 1748. Over 1,500 of the estimated 2,000 victims have been found over the centuries.





No.7 article:
Confidential papers warn that, despite talk of success, army faces heavy resistance and regional stability is at risk

Ethiopian national forces are meeting heavy resistance and face a protracted “war of attrition” in the northern region of Tigray, a confidential United Nations assessment reveals.

Though officials in Addis Ababa, the capital, have repeatedly claimed that key towns have been secured, paramilitaries and militia deployed by the army are still struggling to clear and secure territory. Heavily armed regular troops have continued to advance into Tigray as they rush to reach the capital, Mekelle, the assessment says.

The UN document and more than a dozen interviews with aid workers from other international organisations give the most comprehensive overview so far of the fighting, and will deepen international concerns that the two-week-old conflict threatens to become a long and brutal battle, destabilising one of Africa’s most fragile regions.

Information has been difficult to obtain and confirm with communications cut to Tigray and journalists banned. Hundreds, possibly thousands, of people have been killed so far and many more have been displaced. More than 36,000 have fled into neighbouring Sudan, and large numbers are on the move within Tigray to avoid the fighting.

Abiy Ahmed, the Ethiopian prime minister, said early last week that the Ethiopian Defence Forces (EDF) were poised to make a “final push” to secure Mekelle and oust the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the ruling party in the region. Last Thursday, government spokesman Redwan Hussein told reporters that national forces were “moving forward and closing in on Mekelle” and that a number of towns had fallen.

The UN assessment, interviews and other international aid organisation analyses all suggest any expectation of a rapid and decisive victory is optimistic, and that resistance is likely to stiffen as Tigray troops fall back into mountains east of Mekelle.

“Although Tigray regional forces may have initially been backfooted by the EDF’s swift advances, the terrain in eastern Tigray is easier to defend… and if they make a stand, they have the capability to stall the EDF advance,” one analysis reads, warning that this will then “change the dimension of the conflict from one of rapid movement into one of attrition”.

Documents seen by the Observer report continuing combat in areas which Addis Ababa claims are now controlled by government forces, though their authors admit information is hard to verify.

“After the EDF have reportedly ‘taken’ key towns such as Humera, Dansha, Shiraro, Alamata and Shire, and then pushed on with their advance, fighting has continued to be reported, or has subsequently erupted again in these locations,” one reliable account said.

The documents describe well-trained and heavily armed frontline units from the Ethiopian army bypassing main towns to avoid costly urban fighting as they hurry towards Mekelle. But the militia and paramilitaries deployed in their wake are neither as well-equipped nor as disciplined and so are vulnerable to counter-attack.

One assessment predicted that if Ethiopian forces continue to advance, their supply lines and rear areas will become more vulnerable to guerilla attacks and casualties will mount.

The conflict in north-west Ethiopia is the culmination of months of rising tensions between the TPLF and the ruling coalition in Addis Ababa. When national elections were cancelled because of the pandemic, the TPLF held polls anyway, in a move that aggravated tensions.

Abiy, who is Africa’s youngest leader and won the Nobel peace prize last year, launched his operation after accusing the TPLF of attacking a military camp and trying to seize military hardware.

The African Union said last Friday that it would send a team of mediators to Ethiopia in a bid to resolve the dispute, but few observers see much immediate prospect for peace.

The US ambassador to Ethiopia, Michael Raynor, said recent conversations with Abiy and with Debretsion Gebremichael, the hardline TPLF leader, had convinced him there was “a strong commitment on both sides to see the military conflict through”.

In a statement this week, the TPLF said hardships are part of life in wartime and promised to give Ethiopian troops “hell”on its home turf.

The reports seen by the Observer depict a complex and dynamic conflict across much of Tigray, with major clashes in the west of the region – as Ethiopian forces sought to advance towards the strategic town of Humera – and in the south-west, along the main road to Mekelle. Heavy fighting has also been reported around the town of Alamata, six miles from the border with neighbouring Amhara province which is fiercely loyal to the central government.

Ethiopian planes have launched air strikes, and Tigrayans have fired missiles into Amhara and Eritrea, which has supported the offensive to remove the TPLF. At least one massacre has been reported: it has been blamed on retreating Tigrayan militia targeting a community seen as loyal to the central government, but there is no confirmation of this.

There are concerns that even if Abiy achieves his aim of forcing out the TPLF and imposing federal authority on Tigray, violence will continue.Though they number only 6 million out of a total 110 million people living in Africa’s second most populous country, Tigrayans effectively ruled Ethiopia for decades. Until Abiy took power two years ago, they were the strongest force in a multi-ethnic coalition. Abiy, whose parents are from the larger Oromo and Amhara ethnic groups, freed thousands of political prisoners and pledged to end domination by one ethnic group.

“Even if the EDF are successful in their mission to take Mekelle,” the UN assessment warns, “this will not necessarily end the conflict. It is likely that a protracted asymmetric conflict and insurgency would continue. From a humanitarian perspective, the longer the conflict is drawn out, the more severe the crisis will become.”

Ethiopia has long been a linchpin of US policy in the fragile east African region and so far Washington has supported Abiy.

Tibor Nagy, US assistant secretary for African affairs, told reporters last week: “This is not two sovereign states fighting. This is a faction of the government running a region that has decided to undertake hostilities against the central government, and it has not … had the effect they thought they were going to get.”

On Saturday, Abiy said on Twitter that the safety and wellbeing of the people of Tigray was of paramount importance and the federal government would do everything to “ensure stability prevails in the Tigray region and that our citizens are free from harm and want”.





No.8 article:
João Alberto Silveira Freitas was allegedly attacked by security guards at a Carrefour store in Porto Alegre 

A black man who died after being beaten by supermarket security guards in the city of Porto Alegre on the eve of Black Consciousness Day has sparked outrage across Brazil after videos of the incident circulated on social media.

Footage showed João Alberto Silveira Freitas being punched in the face just outside the doors of a Carrefour supermarket, late on Thursday. Other clips showed Freitas’ being kneeled on. 

Dozens of protesters entered a Carrefour in Brazil’s capital, Brasilia, on Friday morning, chanting “Black lives matter!” One held a sign reading: “Don’t shop at Carrefour. You could die”. Inside another Carrefour in Rio de Janeiro, protesters shouted “Carrefour Killer!” as a black man lay still atop the conveyor belt of a checkout. They forced the store’s closure.

In Sao Paulo, protesters smashed the front window of a Carrefour, scattered goods from shelves all over the store’s floor and set a fire that employees hurried to extinguish.

Carrefour released a statement lamenting Freitas’ “brutal death”, and said it would end its contract with the security company, fire the store manager who was on duty, and close the Porto Alegre store out of respect for the victim.

The two men who allegedly beat Freitas have been detained and are being investigated for homicide due to the victim’s asphyxiation and his inability to defend himself, said Nadine Anflor, the civil police chief for the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul, where Porto Alegre is capital. One of the men was a temporary military police officer who was off-duty, said Rodrigo Mohr, head of the state’s military police.

Black Consciousness Day is observed as a holiday in many parts of Brazil. In Rio on Friday, a group of people participated in a celebration with Afro-Brazilian dance and music in the working-class Santa Marta favela. Members of a samba school performed a ritualistic “washing” of the steps leading up into the hillside neighbourhood.

Black and mixed-race people account for about 57% of Brazil’s population but constitute 74% of victims of lethal violence, according to the Brazilian Forum on Public Safety, a non-governmental organisation. The percentage is even higher, 79%, for those killed by police.

Local online news site G1 reported that the incident at the Carrefour in Porto Alegre followed a confrontation between Freitas and a supermarket employee, who then called security. Both guards were white, G1 reported.





No.9 article:




No.10 article:
US coronavirus cases near 200,000 a day as catastrophic crisis hits new heights

Friday saw 195,500 cases, a record infection rate for a single day, as parts of US imposed restrictions

America’s catastrophic coronavirus crisis hit new heights as the most recent daily total of numbers of new cases neared the grim landmark of 200,000 a day and the overall total of infections burst through 12m. 

Daily numbers of new US cases have almost doubled in less than three weeks after hitting 100,000 for the first time. The record of 195,542 new cases on Friday was the latest of several recent daily highs, a tally by Johns Hopkins University found.

The nation’s total number of confirmed cases reached 12.01m on Saturday, six days after the number had reached 11m – by far the largest total in the world.

Deaths rates are getting closer to the dire numbers seen in the spring. The US daily death toll exceeded 2,000 on Thursday, the first time since early May. On Friday, 1,878 deaths were reported. The US leads the world with more than 255,000 dead.

The news comes as vast swaths of America are imposing restrictions on movement and businesses in a bid to contain the spiraling pandemic, even as the federal government response led by the Trump administration remains largely passive.

On Saturday California will enact a night-time curfew as surging cases threaten to swamp healthcare systems, and the state’s largest county warned that an even more drastic lockdown could be imminent.

The newest restrictions require people not on essential errands to stay home from 10pm to 5am through 21 December, with a possible extension if rapidly worsening trends do not improve. People will be allowed to shop for groceries, pick up food and walk their dogs.

Authorities say the focus is on keeping people from mixing socially and drinking, the kinds of activities that are blamed for causing Covid-19 infections to soar after dipping only a few months ago.

Dr Mark Cullen, an infectious disease expert who recently retired from Stanford University, said the underlying goal was based on a reasonable interpretation of data.

“Large numbers of people getting together oblivious of controls, no masks, no social distancing, often indoors – a lot of those things are in fact occurring at night,” Cullen said. However, he also questioned whether a limited curfew would be effective.

The California move is just one of many local attempts to halt the virus’s spread. On Friday strict restrictions in Philadelphia closed indoor dining, theaters, gyms and other indoor spots for six weeks. In New York City the nation’s largest school system shuttered, outraging many working parents. States such as Oregon, Washington, North Dakota and many others have also introduced crackdowns.

Many experts are also worried about next week’s Thanksgiving holiday, when millions of Americans are likely to travel and gather with family despite top health officials warning of the potential for a super-spreader event that could plunge the ongoing crisis to new depths.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued recommendations not to travel last week as hospitalizations and deaths are surging across the US and the healthcare system is being squeezed by a combination of sick patients filling up beds and medical workers falling ill.

The CDC’s Erin Sauber-Schatz said: “The safest way to celebrate Thanksgiving this year is at home with the people in your household.”





No.11 article:




No.12 article:
Health minister says with regulatory approval some may receive vaccine before Christmas

The NHS could start immunising people against Covid-19 next month, if the medicines regulator approves a vaccine in time, Matt Hancock has said.

The health secretary held out the prospect of the unprecedented vaccination programme starting before Christmas, if the vaccine developed by Pfizer/BioNTech has been given the green light.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

“I’ve asked the NHS to be ready to deploy at the speed at which the vaccine can be produced. What I can say about timing is that if, and it still is an if, if the regulator approves a vaccine, we will be ready to start the vaccination next month, with the bulk of the rollout in the new year”, Hancock told a Downing Street news conference.

His remarks come amid an increased expectation among NHS bosses that at least some people will have the injection before the holiday season begins. Health service sources said there is “intense political pressure” to kickstart the vaccine rollout by then, although one Whitehall official stressed that “the imperative is social, medical and economic, not just political.”

The availability of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine now depends on how long the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency takes to analyse it and decide if it can safely be deployed. Pfizer said this week that its product is 95% effective and works with older people, who are more likely to die if they contract Covid-19. The government has now formally asked the MHRA to assess the Pfizer vaccine’s suitability for authorisation, Hancock added.

The average number of new daily infections being recorded UK-wide has fallen over the last week to 22,287, down from 24,430 the week before. “These figures are promising and show that the second peak is flattening”, the minister said.

However, the number of people in hospital across the UK with Covid has risen again to 16,409, despite the different types of restrictions on normal life that have been in place in all of the four home nations for weeks now and 511 more people died in hospital with it yesterday.

In England the number of hospitalised cases of Covid now stand at 14,470, a rise of 1,800 in a week, said Prof Stephen Powis, NHS England’s medical director.

Meanwhile, the Guardian can disclose new details of how what Hancock called the “massive logistical challenge” of acquiring, storing, distributing and administering the vaccine will work.

If Pfizer’s vaccine is approved it will ship it from its production plant in Puurs in Belgium in freezer boxes containing 195 vials of the vaccine, each of which holds five doses. Dry ice in the double membrane boxes will keep the vaccine at the required -75C temperature.

Once it has reached Britain, it will be taken by truck to a network of 50 medicine storage warehouses at undisclosed locations which already supply 92% of the country’s drugs and deliver medications daily to 16,500 hospitals, pharmacies and primary care health centres.

Martin Sawer, the executive director of the Healthcare Distribution Association, which represents the warehouse owners, said the vaccine will be kept in specially-designed extreme-low temperature freezers acquired by the NHS and lent to warehouses for the duration of the rollout. Once an order is received from vaccination centres, stocks will be moved to “massive fridges the size of small bungalows” to be defrosted over three hours and, once thawed, placed in refrigerated vans immediately for distribution.

The boxes can remain stored at their sub-Arctic temperature for up to six months. But once opened and thawing begins, the NHS will be in a race against time to ensure it is delivered and administered before it expires, to avoid wastage. The government has ordered 40m doses of Pfizer’s vaccine. But with 20m-22m people in 10 priority groups the first to be immunised, and each due to receive two injections three weeks apart, NHS England has told GPs and everyone else involved in giving the jabs that no more than 5% of vaccines must be wasted.

Refrigerated vans will deliver batches of the vaccine to the several thousand sites around England where people will have their jab, at least 1,560 of which will be run by GPs. However, Sawer said that “the van delivery system ... is yet to be finalised” but is likely to be operating 24/7 with a precisely choreographed just-in-time delivery system.

“We’ve got to manage the flow into those outlets, make sure they don’t get flooded with more vials of vaccine than are needed hour by hour,” said Sawer. “It will be about getting information on the demand at the jabbing end and making sure you’re defrosting the right amount at the right time.”

The Pfizer vaccine remains stable for six hours after opening; the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine, which ministers hope will also be approved soon, giving the NHS a choice of two vaccines to dispense, is stable for four hours.

Family doctors will initially play the lead role in immunising members of vulnerable groups, such as the over-80s, care home residents and those who are “shielding” because of their poor underlying health, with most NHS staff being inoculated in “hubs” in their workplaces, notably hospitals. But the NHS also plans to open several dozen mass vaccination centres, once they move into the second phase of the rollout, which will see adults under 50 offered a vaccine.

The NHS will deploy staff from almost every area of care – GP surgeries, hospitals and community services. But the rollout will also involve drug companies, the army, local councils, firms specialising in storage, transport and logistics, thousands of vaccination sites and tens of thousands of volunteers being recruited by St John Ambulance.







No.13 article:
The virus is on the rise so uniformly across the vast landmass of the US, that records are being shattered daily

The Disunited States of America are united once more. After a brutal election that exacerbated bitter partisan divisions and left the country feeling as though it had been torn in two, it has at last been thrown back together.

For all the wrong reasons.

The great leveler is coronavirus. Covid-19 is rampaging across the US as though it were on a personal mission to unify the splintered nation in an unfolding catastrophe. Of the 50 states of the Union, all but one – isolated Hawaii – is seeing alarming surges in new cases. The virus is on the rise so uniformly across the vast landmass of the US, that records are being shattered daily.

Almost 12m cases have been recorded. In just one day the US notched up 184,000 new cases – six times the total number of infections in South Korea since the pandemic began.

Almost 80,000 Americans are currently in hospital fighting for their lives, and the death rate is soaring inexorably towards 2,000 a day – close to the peak reached in April.

This week the country passed the grimmest landmark so far: 250,000 dead Americans. And already the total has gone up significantly beyond that tragic milestone.

As Michael Osterholm, a member of the coronavirus advisory team assembled by Joe Biden, put it: “We are in the most dangerous public health period since 1918.”

The result of this terrifying march of untrammeled disease is that panic has begun to set in at state level. Governors and mayors from coast to coast have been scrambling to batten down the hatches, from New York City where the country’s largest public schools system was closed on Thursday barely two months after it reopened, to California where governor Gavin Newsom announced he was “pulling the emergency brake”.

It is in the heartland states that the true horror of the current crisis is unfolding. Here Donald Trump’s historic mishandling of the pandemic is coming home to roost.

Across the midwest, Trump’s playbook towards Covid-19 has been avidly embraced by Republican governors, from Kristi Noem in South Dakota, to Pete Ricketts in Nebraska, Kim Reynolds in Iowa, and Mike Parson in Missouri. They have mimicked the president’s relentless downplaying of the virus, lying about the pandemic being under control, and spurning of mask wearing.

The results are now plain to see – runaway infection levels, staggering positivity rates and hospitals at breaking point.

Only now, when the virus is pummeling the midwest like a tornado, have some of the Republican governors begrudgingly begun to change tack. Take Reynolds, the pro-Trump governor of Iowa.

She has pulled back from her refusal to impose a mask mandate after her state confronted its largest one-day increase in coronavirus deaths to at least 40. Iowa is now struggling with one of the worst outbreaks in the US with hospitals jammed with Covid-19 patients.

Reynolds spent months resisting calls from health specialists and doctors to require masks on the grounds, saying they were “no silver bullet”. That’s a position that’s hard to hold when new infections are running at about 100,000 a month.

Reynolds finally shifted after the White House coronavirus taskforce called the state’s measures to combat the pandemic “inadequate” and warned that doing nothing would cost thousands more lives. “The spread in Iowa is exponential and unyielding,” the taskforce said in a report this week.

The governor ordered people to wear masks in indoor public spaces with some exceptions such as eating in restaurants. She also banned gatherings of more than 15 people indoors and twice that outdoors, except in the “ordinary course of business”, while requiring bars and restaurants to close by 10 pm.

Despite it all, Reynolds remains firmly attached to her cultivated ambivalence over masks. She urged Iowans to “err on the side of caution” and wear one yet continues to question their value by saying there is “science on both sides”.

“If you look, you can find whatever you want to support wherever you’re at,” she said at a press conference to announce the mask mandate.

Reynolds’ limited measures, and the seeds of doubt she continues to plant around the science, have been criticized by some healthcare workers. Eli Perencevich, a doctor and professor of epidemiology at the University of Iowa, derided them as insufficient.

“Ask yourself this: 1) does the virus only spread after 10pm 2) if you don’t need to wear a mask unless you will be next to someone for 15 minutes, will you ever need wear a mask? The answer to both of these questions is no,” he tweeted.

In her controversial mini-Trump stance, the governor has enjoyed consistent backing from the Republican US Senator from Iowa, Joni Ernst. The senator has gone one step further, speculating that doctors were exaggerating fatalities by pinning deaths from other causes on Covid-19 as a ruse to claim extra payments from the government.

The Iowa Medical Society described Ernst’s comments as “incredibly disappointing” and “mistruths”. But it is a sign of how closely aligned many midwest Republicans are with Trump that he, too, has run with the lie about doctors cashing in on Covid deaths.

In the final days of his presidential campaign, Trump caused widespread offense within the medical world by claiming without evidence that doctors were marking every death down as Covid-19 so they could grab more money.

Even Trump’s mendacious pronouncements on the pandemic could arguably be seen as preferable to his current posture. Since the election, he has spent his time fixating on the baseless claim that victory was stolen from him, firing top officials who refused to go along with his conspiracy theories about voter fraud, and playing golf.

As for Covid, his leadership has consisted of resounding silence. The last time he attended a meeting of the White House coronavirus taskforce was at least five months ago.

The combination of soaring disease and an awol president has left the 50 states to cope with a mounting disaster as best they can. The result is an even more extreme form of what has emerged since the start of the pandemic – the patchwork of individual state responses, some aggressive, others nonchalant – that have been cobbled together as the virus slams in.

Wisconsin is another midwest state that has quickly emerged as a major hotspot, with almost 3,000 deaths. The state now breaks records in new cases, hospitalizations and deaths almost daily, with public health officials warning that it “is at a critical juncture right now”.

“Our hospitals are overwhelmed, our healthcare workers are exhausted, and too many families have lost a loved one,” the DHS deputy secretary, Julie Willems Van Dijk, said.

On the empty streets of downtown Milwaukee, hotel staff take extended breaks outdoors while parking enforcement officers keep warm inside their vehicles. With the city experiencing an especially punishing spike in cases, there simply aren’t the residents or visitors to serve.

Like Iowa, Wisconsin has lacked basic coronavirus measures designed to curb the continued spread of the virus – though in this case, it is not for want of trying by the Democratic governor, Tony Evers. He attempted to enact a “Safer at Home” order only to have the move struck down by the state supreme court last spring.

The court now weighs whether the last remaining mask mandate should be blocked. Meanwhile, leaders across the state have urged Wisconsinites not to gather or travel, a difficult ask at the start of the holiday season in a state whose often bitingly cold winters force families indoors.

Milwaukee resident Caroline Gaeta, 58, has heeded the call. She usually travels to Indianapolis to share Thanksgiving with her 81-year-old mother, but decided to stay home citing the risk of exposing elderly loved ones.

“Traveling would not be a good option right now given the uptick in numbers in both Wisconsin and Indiana,” she said.

Since the beginning of the outbreak, the response in Wisconsin has largely fallen along political and racial lines. When the disease first struck, devastating mostly Black and Latino communities in Democratic cities like Milwaukee, Madison and Green Bay, white residents in surrounding suburbs and rural areas took aim at Ever’s state orders meant to combat the spread.

The backlash has been amplified by Republican lawmakers who have pushed to block coronavirus legislation.

Such sharp partisan battles in Wisconsin are being repeated in states across the country. They are a measure of the challenges that lie ahead for Biden as he struggles to effect a nationwide heave to contain the disease.

Biden, who put combatting Covid as the top priority of his presidential campaign, has moved swiftly to convene a 13-member advisory panel on coronavirus. The group has been doing all it can to ensure it hits the ground running on inauguration day, 20 January, but its work is impaired by the willful lack of any cooperation coming from the Trump administration.

Biden has warned that Trump’s refusal to share intelligence on such critical matters as how to distribute the vaccines that are close to fruition means that “more people may die”.

The vacuum at the center of the most powerful nation on Earth in grappling with the pandemic is not only being felt in the largely Republican-controlled states of the midwest. On the coasts, where Covid-19 first struck in January, Democratic leaders are also feeling the heat.

In California, cases have skyrocketed after weeks of low transmission rates and loosened restrictions, and the state now has the distinction of being only the second besides Texas to surpass 1m cases.

With daily case rates doubling over the last 10 days, Newsom has announced that 94% of Californians will come under severe coronavirus restrictions yet again. That includes requiring masks to be worn outside the home with rare exceptions.

Newsom issued a travel advisory last week asking that all Californians cancel out-of-state travel. To add insult to injury, Newsom was forced to apologise on Monday after attending the birthday of a friend and lobbyist at the upscale French Laundry restaurant in Napa county, north of San Francisco.

Political reputations are also being frayed over on the east coast. The governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo, was so self-satisfied with the way the virus was brought under control in his state after its terrifying surge in April that he wrote a book bragging about his leadership skills.

In American Crisis, Cuomo describes in glowing terms how he became a national sensation in his daily coronavirus briefings. The knack was, he writes, that he was “authentic and real”. “I felt the same emotions so many people were feeling, and I would acknowledge them and show them.”

That was then. At Wednesday’s coronavirus briefing he was so tetchy about being asked routine questions about the decision to close New York City schools as the virus gathers force once again that he lashed out at a reporter, snapping: “I don’t really care what you think”.

You can understand why Cuomo would be on edge. Hospitalizations in New York state are at their highest levels since June. In the city, lines outside Covid testing facilities have grown as the infection rate ticks up.

Jordana Shiau, 28, had been waiting for two hours for a Covid-19 test outside a City MD clinic in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. She estimated she had another hour before she would make it inside.

Shiau said she was wary of what was to come after having been in the city during the first wave, when hospitals were overwhelmed and almost 20,000 people died in less than two months.

“I’ve been here since March and there’s like a collective trauma. Hearing sirens 24 hours, seeing the freezer trucks full of dead bodies outside funeral homes. I’m pretty freaked out that it’s going to get back to that.”

Sydney Spence, 30, said he would not be traveling home for Thanksgiving this year. It will be the first time she has not spent the holiday with family.

“Obviously I miss them,” she said. “It’s sad. But I’d much rather know they’re safer. There will be more Thanksgivings.”





No.14 article:
In Afghanistan, fears of assassination overshadow hopes of peace

Human rights workers, moderate religious scholars and civil society activists are being killed in wave of targeted attacks

When he wasn’t chasing stories, Elyas Dayee loved tending to his flowers, cooking with his wife and playing with his toddler daughter, the only survivor of triplets, now bereft that her father has stopped coming home, and too young to understand why.

Last week, the 34-year-old became the latest Afghan killed in a nationwide campaign of targeted killings, when a bomb twisted his car into a lethal pile of metal and glass as he drove to work in Lashkar Gah, the capital of Helmand province.

Around the country, journalists, human rights workers, moderate religious scholars and civil society activists have been picked off as they go about their daily lives, often blown up in their cars.

The UN and Afghanistan’s independent human rights commission have both documented sharp rises in these kind of attacks compared with 2019.

The steady drum beat of killings has cast a shadow of fear across the country, even as the government and Taliban are meant to be hammering out a peace deal, hundreds of miles away in Qatar.

Many people see a connection between the two, even though the attacks have not all been claimed by the insurgents.

“Even if we only assume the Taliban are responsible for part of them, the message is clear: ‘Be prepared for our rule, be prepared to surrender, we are coming back’,” said Orzala Ashraf Nemat, the director of the Kabul-based thinktank AREU.

“It is to discourage the united struggle for democratic values, freedom of speech, education, even the enlightening side of religious scholarship. They are trying to do these attacks to create fear because their rule is fear-based.”

Dayee’s death on 12 November was typical of ambiguity around many deaths. A Taliban spokesmen, Qari Yusuf Ahmadi, distanced the group from the killing, but a local Taliban source claimed the car bomb as an “achievement” on social media and tweeted threats to other journalists.

A self-made man, who moved from the countryside to the provincial capital in search of an education and a career, Dayee ended up working with local and international media, ensuring news from one of Afghanistan’s most dangerous corners reached a wider world.

“He is an irreplaceable figure,” said Jawad Dawari, another Helmand journalist, one of many who paid tribute to Dayee’s sense of fun and community.

Like most reporters in Helmand, Dayee was used to Taliban threats that arrived by phone, on WhatsApp and Twitter, but shrugged them off to carry on working.

After his murder, others are wondering if they could be next, and some have left the province while they consider their own safety, making his family’s personal tragedy also a professional disaster for the media in Helmand.

The killings across the country are having a similar effect elsewhere. Many of the victims, who range from a young human rights worker to a central bank adviser, were not particularly prominent nationally, nor were they known for a particularly outspoken anti-Taliban stance.

Their deaths have left a pall of uncertainty across swathes of Afghan society, with thousands of people questioning if they could be targets because they work in professions or in conditions – including mixed-gender offices – that the Taliban want to curtail or abolish should they regain power in Kabul.

“It feels quite random, in terms of who gets killed, but not random in terms of the types of people who get killed. They are targeting what I’d call public intellectuals, researchers, activists, journalists, people working for NGOs,” said Kate Clark, the co-director of the Afghanistan Analysts Network.

“They are definitely rivals [to the Taliban], not in terms of power, but in ideas and ways of looking at the world.”

The killings also undermine already shaky confidence in the central government, said Saad Mohseni, the director of the Moby Group, Afghanistan’s largest private media company, which has lost several journalists to Taliban attacks.

“For the Taliban it’s important to try to turn the clock back,” he says, but the bloody social messages also have a military purpose. “The other aspect is the message that ‘we can strike at anyone we want, anywhere’. Your government cannot protect you.”

The US says the Taliban committed to reducing attacks under the terms of a troop withdrawal signed in February. Although violence nationwide has actually increased overall since then, there has been a fall in large-scale violence in urban areas compared with previous years.

Targeted assassinations are unlikely to draw US reprisals, or register much in the news beyond Afghanistan’s borders, but they have a powerful demoralising effect in Afghan cities, spreading a sense of insecurity.

Fear caused by the deaths has been exacerbated by failure to investigate the murders. The family of Yama Siawash, a central bank adviser and former TV presenter, killed five days before Dayee in another car bomb, have issued an open letter threatening legal action if the government doesn’t do more to track the people who killed him.

“One of the concerns for people at risk is the lack of government investigations into the killings. If you feel someone is seriously investigating who did it, on whose orders, then you can say I trust the system, it will try to protect me. When that is not happening it is hard,” Nemat said

Shaharzad Akbar, the head of the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission, has called on the Taliban to speak out against the killings, and the government to take stronger steps to investigate them.

“We are very concerned about the impact of this trend on civic space, and public participations in the peace talks, and we are very concerned that many of these killings are not fully investigated,” she told the Guardian.

“The Taliban in Doha should go beyond denying involvement, they should have a very clear instruction to all their fighters about not attacking civilians and the Afghan government should do more to investigate and arrest and hold accountable those who are behind these targeted killings.”





No.15 article:
Italian children take lessons outside school in protest at Covid closures

Movement began with 12-year-old Anita Iacovelli in Turin, who says her message is schools are safe

Temperatures have dropped in recent days in the northern Italian city of Turin, but that hasn’t prevented Anita Iacovelli from persevering in her protest against the closure of her school.

Every day since 6 November, when schools across the city and the wider Piedmont region were closed due to escalating coronavirus infections, the 12-year-old, wearing a hat, gloves and face mask, has sat outside Italo Calvino school and continued with her lessons remotely on a tablet computer. Behind her is a handwritten poster that reads “Learning at school is our right”.

It began as a lone protest but Anita was soon joined by her friend Lisa Rogliatti and other classmates, before the initiative gathered momentum across Italy.

It is not the most ideal way to study, but the children simply want to go back to class, having spent months cooped up indoors in front of computers during the first wave of the pandemic.

“At the very beginning, when they announced that schools were closing, we were happy as we had weeks of tests coming up and so we thought we would skip them,” Anita told the Guardian. “But then it became extremely heavy and we got very tired.”

Schools in Italy reopened in September after being closed for more than six months. Within weeks all high school classes were again moved online as the coronavirus second wave took hold. “I was not afraid to go back to school, it was a safe place, and it was lovely to see school friends even if only for a short time,” Anita said.

Distance learning was extremely strenuous, she said. “When you study this way there are so many problems, maybe you lose the internet connection and have to repeat the task. After so long being in front of a screen you stop concentrating and get distracted, and so you don’t follow the lesson any more. But that’s not the only problem – some people don’t even have an internet connection, space to work or parents who can help and support them.”

The protest attracted the attention of the education minister, Lucia Azzolina, who called Anita to congratulate her and say she would do everything she could to reopen schools as soon as possible.

“The message I want to give is that schools are safe,” Anita said. “We were always in masks, the windows were open and there was hand gel.” 

The Italian government has adopted a tiered system across its 20 regions as it tackles the pandemic. Piedmont is in the high-risk “red zone”, meaning people can leave their homes only for work, health or emergency reasons. Bars and restaurants are closed, as are most shops. But people still have the right to protest.

Anita’s demonstration and others across the country are now being promoted by Priorità alla Scuola (Priority to School), a movement made up of teachers and parents that fights for a better education system. The protests are being called “Schools for Future”, a play on Fridays for Future, the global climate strike movement started by Greta Thunberg in Sweden in 2018.

Comparisons are already being drawn between Anita and Greta. “But Anita says ‘I’m Anita, not Greta’,” said her mother, Cristiana Perrone.

Perrone has been accompanying her daughter on the protests. “The children are really determined … they are really just focused on going back to school.”

Anita, whose favourite subject is maths, said she did not have a precise idea of what she would like to do in the future, but she wanted to do something that helps schools.

“I would like to create a policy for schools that gives them the importance they need to have,” she said.





No.16 article:
Explosions come ahead of separate scheduled meetings between Mike Pompeo, Taliban and Afghan government officials in Doha 

At least three people have been killed in a series of loud explosions that shook central Kabul, including several rockets that landed near the heavily fortified Green Zone where many embassies and international firms are based, officials said.

Saturday’s explosions occurred in densely populated parts of the Afghan capital, marking the latest attack in an ongoing wave of violence sweeping Kabul.

“This morning, the terrorists fired 14 rockets on the city of Kabul,” interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said.

“Unfortunately the rockets hit residential areas. Until now, three of our countrymen were martyred and 11 others were wounded.”

Kabul police spokesman Ferdaws Faramarz confirmed the same death toll and details, saying “multiple rockets” had been fired, while photos on social media appeared to show damage to an external wall at a large medical complex.

The interior ministry said two small “sticky bomb” explosions had been reported earlier Saturday morning, including one that hit a police car, killing one policeman and wounding three others.

No group immediately claimed responsibility for blasts, which came amid an ongoing wave of violence that has wrought carnage across Afghanistan in recent months.

The Taliban has pledged not to attack urban areas under the terms of a US withdrawal deal, but the Kabul administration has blamed the insurgents or their proxies for other recent attacks in Kabul.

Taliban and Afghan government negotiators launched peace talks in Doha in September but progress has been slow.

Officials told AFP on Friday however that a breakthrough was expected to be announced in the coming days, and the US State Department announced late on Friday that the US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, would meet separately with negotiators from the Taliban and the Afghan government in Doha on Saturday.

Pompeo will also meet Qatar’s ruler, Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, and the foreign minister on his stop in Qatar, the Taliban’s base for diplomacy, the State Department said on its public schedule.

Earlier this week, the Pentagon said it would soon pull some 2,000 troops out of Afghanistan, speeding up the timeline established in a February agreement between Washington and the Taliban that envisions a full US withdrawal in mid-2021.

Trump has repeatedly vowed to end “forever wars,” including in Afghanistan, America’s longest-ever conflict that began with an invasion to dislodge the Taliban following the September 11 attacks in 2001.

President-elect Joe Biden, in a rare point of agreement, has also advocated winding down the Afghanistan war although analysts believe he will not be as wedded to a quick timetable.

In the past six months, the Taliban carried out 53 suicide attacks and 1,250 explosions that left 1,210 civilians dead and 2,500 wounded, interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said this week.





No.17 article:
Country diary: the birds here are consigned to memory

Airedale, West Yorkshire: It’s just as well that I can identify at least a few of them en route because they’re adept, once they’ve landed, at burying themselves within the deep dark greens

I mistake an ash tree full of starlings for an ash tree full of sodden bunches of ash keys (“Don’t those damp ash keys look a bit like… Oh”). I’m often wrong about things. I sit in our park, in the shadow of the steep wooded glen, and think about what I know and how I know it.

Most of the birds here occupy a different stratum of the park to me and the other parents pushing pushchairs, the kids on scooters, the couples lockdown-dating on benches, the path-pounding joggers. For the birds the park is a network of treetops – mostly evergreens, rich in cones and yew berries – with a lot of awkward open space in between.

Thrushes, tits, chaffinches, goldcrests. Watching them scud from one tree to another as if on zipwires, I’m struck by how readily my brain – or the part of it that’s been steeped in bird books for 30-odd years – tells them apart by size. It feels a bit like the way your fingers recognise coins in your pocket. Thrush shapes rank upward from redwing to mistle thrush (no burly fieldfares here yet); another scale runs from goldcrest to great tit – anything smaller than a goldcrest is most likely a windblown birch leaf.

It’s just as well that I can identify at least a few of them en route, because they’re adept, once they’ve landed, at burying themselves within the deep dark greens of the hollies, yews and pines. Half watching, I’ll catch a chaffinch’s wing bar, the eyeliner streak of a nuthatch, a long-tailed tit’s swivelling tail.

Today throws up a surprise – I think. From within a gallery of yew branches a finch’s head is briefly lifted, the plumage an imperfect sort of green, textured, almost scaly-looking. Crossbill? Could be – crossbills are very much on the move right now. I didn’t get a good view of its beak (crossed mandibles are a clinching ID point, leaving you only with the question – a doddle! – of telling apart the near-identical common, parrot and Scottish varieties).

I don’t see it again. I’ll never know for sure whether it was a crossbill or not (an ill-kempt greenfinch, a wintering siskin?). I’m better at dealing with this knowledge, with the birder’s known unknowns, than I used to be.





No.18 article:
US and Taiwan sign five-year agreement on health, tech and security

Countries emphasise potential for cooperation and future partnerships, which Beijing opposes

Taiwan and the United States have held their first high-level meetings under a new economic dialogue, inking a five-year agreement and pledging future cooperation on health, tech, and security.

The talks, held amid a contentious US presidential transition period and high regional tensions with China, did not advance Taiwan’s hopes for a trade deal with US, despite the two countries growing closer under Donald Trump and his pushback on Beijing.

They were led by Taiwan’s deputy minister of economic affairs, Chen Chern-chyi, and US undersecretary of state, Keith Krach, with the stated aim of building on historic ties and “shared democratic values”, and senior government officials met for the first time on Friday, signing an five-year memorandum of understanding.

The parties established working groups on global health security, science and technology, 5G and telecommunications security, supply chains, women’s economic empowerment, infrastructure cooperation, and investment.

Officials said the talks emphasised the potential for cooperation on health research and development, the prioritisation of Taiwan’s contribution to the semiconductor supply chain. The MOU does not create legally binding rights or obligations on either party, and is subject to available resources.

The two sides’ representatives detailed few specific commitments on Saturday, instead announcing expectations and aspirations for the future bilateral partnership. But Taiwan hopes the meetings will develop into something more concrete, like a trade deal.

A US-Taiwan trade deal has bipartisan US support, but president-elect Joe Biden has not publicly announced his intentions for his China policy. He is seen as a proponent of multilateral solutions which has driven some concern in Taiwan that he may seek to re-engage with Beijing.

On Saturday, Taiwan’s foreign minister Joseph Wu said it was “premature” to count out support from Biden’s team for a trade deal.

“I think the team is busy dealing with the transition,” he told media.

“I don’t think they already have a pre-conclusion on a [bilateral trade agreement] or a [free trade agreement] which says it’s not what they want to pursue. I think the bipartisan support on Capitol Hill is still very strong and I think it will continue, and we will work hard under the [existing bilateral] framework with the new administration.”

Natasha Kassam, a research fellow with the Lowy Institute, said it wasn’t surprising the trade talks were on the back burner, but “even the symbolism of these high-level economic talks and resulting MOU is valuable to President Tsai, and is another signal to Beijing that US support for Taiwan continues to grow”.

The island’s government is looking to the US for bilateral trade agreements in part because it isn’t a party to the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), the world’s largest free trade deal signed last week by 15 Asia-Pacific countries including China.

Taiwan’s foreign ministry has said there was little chance of it joining the RCEP given China’s presence. It has also been pushing to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, but with Chinese president, Xi Jinping, flagging his potential interest in joining, Taipei could find itself again blocked from participating.

The economic dialogue is a key initiative stemming from the outgoing Trump administration’s deepened ties with Taiwan, which have seen high-level government visits and billions of dollars in arms sales – all angering Beijing.

State media was quick to dismiss the talks as a “toxic” political stunt by “RCEP outcasts”, and warned of consequences.

On Friday China’s foreign ministry spokesman, Zhao Lijian warned the US to “fully grasp the high sensitivity of the Taiwan question” and demanded it immediately halt all official ties and interactions.

“China firmly opposes all forms of official exchanges between the United States and Taiwan. This position is consistent and clear,” he said. “China will make legitimate and necessary reactions in light of the development of the situation on the ground.”

Beijing considers Taiwan to be a rogue province that must be brought back into the fold, by force if necessary. Particularly since the election of the current government led by Tsai Ing-wen, Beijing has lobbied to have Taiwan excluded from international bodies like the World Health Assembly, and for the few remaining countries which recognise Taiwan’s sovereignty, to cut ties with Taipei.





No.19 article:
Libya interior minister campaigns to lead country as fragile peace holds

Fathi Bashagha looks to France for support ahead of elections

Libya’s interior minister has completed a three-day charm offensive in France, as a tentative ceasefire in the war-torn country holds and diplomatic jostling for its leadership roles intensifies.

Fathi Bashagha, who hopes to become Libya’s interim prime minister, is regarded by the United Arab Emirates and forces in the east of Libya as under the influence of both the Muslim Brotherhood and Turkey, a country with which France is increasingly in conflict, not only in Libya but across the Middle East.

If Bashagha, determined to present himself as a supporter of a democratic pluralist Libya, could gain French support, or at least reduce its objections, it would increase his chances of taking Libya to elections next year.

In his talks in Paris, Bashagha met the foreign, interior and defence ministers, and signed memorandums of understanding on closer French security cooperation. The French oil firm Total was also in discussion with the Libyan national oil corporation about expanding its activity.

France emphasised that the meetings were within the “framework of regular contact France has with all Libyan actors”, but the depth of its exchanges with Bashagha were striking. France has been a covert supporter of Khalifa Haftar, the renegade general in charge of eastern forces, who mounted a bloody, but unsuccessful siege of Tripoli ending in the summer. Bashagha’s visit was controversial with some Libyans, who regarded it as a betrayal.

The UN hopes Libya may have finally turned a political corner, ending years of on-off fighting, by agreeing on 23 October to an immediate nationwide ceasefire that has helped Libyan oil production to soar back to 1.2m barrels a day, the highest level for more than a year. The ceasefire agreement requires all foreign forces and mercenaries to leave Libya within three months, which Turkey and the UAE may resist.

Stephanie Williams, the UN special envoy for Libya, in her most upbeat address yet to the UN security council, on Thursday said “the language of peace prevails over the language of war”.

In talks in Tunis last week the 75 delegates to the UN-sponsored Libya Political Dialogue Forum agreed to hold elections on 24 December 2021, the 70th anniversary of Libya’s birth, but were not able to agree a procedure to select the new three-person presidency council or the interim prime minister.

The LPDF had already accepted that the three members of the new council would each represent one of the country’s three historic regions – Cyrenaica, Fezzan and Tripolitania – and several of those attending wanted the vote for each of the three to be limited to those delegates from the region concerned. Others wanted all the delegates to vote together as a single college for each of the three members. A move to exclude the generation of politicians that have ruled Libya since 2011, including Bashagha, won majority support, but did not meet the required threshold.

The meeting was marred by claims, signed by a majority of the 75 delegates, that there had been attempts to bribe some delegates to support certain candidates. Williams said she would investigate and seek to sanction anyone found guilty.

Williams this week told a Turkish thinktank she was concerned that all sides may be preparing for a breakdown of the ceasefire. “On the ground, tactical developments in Libya’s central region remain worrying, as reinforcements continue to pour into both sides and the risk of miscalculation remains,” she said. “In Tripoli, tensions between armed groups are on the rise.”

In a sign that Turkey would not leave easily, Hulusi Akar, the Turkish defence minister, said he supported the UN peace process, “but these efforts should not restrict our existing ties with our Libyan brothers. Our presence and support to the GNA are based on an invitation, and bilateral agreements and are in conformity with international law provided a window of opportunity for diplomacy.”

Turkey came to the Tripoli government’s aid after the UK, US, Nato, Tunisia and Italy had not responded to written pleas to help repel Haftar’s assault.





No.20 article:
Mexico deaths pass 100,000 as fragments found in Victorian sewage

Obrador rejects criticism as political attacks; Canada fears big rise in cases could overwhelm hospitals; Italy records 37,242 new cases

This blog is now closed. Follow our continuing coronavirus coverage here

Marshall is asked if he admits there have been shortcomings in South Australia’s hotel quarantine system.

“Not at all. There will be a thorough investigation but what we have said since day one is this is a highly contagious disease ... we know that, very highly trained nurses and with all of their PPE, they have been able to contract the disease, so we know there is a risk associated with every time we bring somebody into this country,” he says.

“But we do believe we have an obligation to play our part in this national repatriation of Australian citizens.”

Steven Marshall is talking about the lifting of the hard lockdown in South Australia at midnight tonight.

“The vast majority of businesses will be back trading. There will be some restrictions right through to the 1 December,” he says.

“The No 1 priority is getting businesses stood up as quickly as possible.”

He is asked if there will be compensation for businesses affected by the hard lockdown this week.

“Compensation is not something we are contemplating at this point in time,” Marshall says.

“What we’re trying to do is get through the situation, this very difficult situation, get back to the situation that we had prior to the Parafield cluster emerging. Which was, I think, the best level of restrictions in the entire country.”

He says he doesn’t want South Australian residents to think that there is no further risk in the community once that lockdown lifts tonight.

“I don’t want anyone watching this telecast to think that the risks are over,” he says. 

“While the risk is far more diminished ... the risk is still there, it is a real risk that we need to adhere very strictly to the restrictions.”

Two new cases in Queensland today, both in hotel quarantine. There are no new local cases. 

Reporters are asking about the timeline in South Australia from the case at the pizza bar and the decision to lock down the state.

A reporter asks: Can you give us a precise time, please, about when you were aware or made aware of the pizza box, and then the decision to lock down, to recommend a lockdown to the commissioner?

Spurrier: I cannot tell you exact times, you know, I am very busy and I got lots of information coming to me. But [we heard] about the Stamford case and told the press. Later that evening, certainly after eight or nine o’clock at night, when I got home, I received this other case, which I was told was the pizza delivery person ... I know people have a thing about the pizza box but it was a person that had a pizza there or a pizza delivery but had only had a small time of exposure to the pizza bar. 

That meant that anyone else who had a short time of exposure in the same setting could have potentially contracted the virus.

New South Wales has recorded another day of no new locally acquired cases of Covid-19.

Ten cases were reported in overseas travellers in hotel quarantine, bringing the total number of cases in NSW since the start of the pandemic to 4338.

There were 16,329 tests reported to 8pm last night, compared with 18,391 in the previous 24 hours.

NSW Health is treating 70 Covid-19 cases, none of whom are in intensive care. Most cases, 96 per cent, are being treated by NSW Health in non-acute, out-of-hospital care.

South Australia’s police commissioner, Grant Stevens, has been talking about the investigation involving the Woodville pizza bar and the worker who failed to disclose his job at the bar. 

He says there are 20 officers following up on that one case.

Stevens says the worker involved is a 36-year-old man on a temporary graduate’s visa. 

The man is in quarantine and the investigation is continuing. 

Spurrier is saying early detection of those first cases made it possible for health authorities to trace and get a handle on the cluster quickly.

She makes some clarifications about the case linked to the Woodville Pizza Bar, which is now subject to an investigation.

Spurrier says: “To be clear, the decision to lock down hard, and I know it has been very difficult for people in South Australia, and perhaps difficult to understand, was not based on the interview with one man.

“We would never make those decisions in isolation of just one piece of information, it is very complex.”

A little more from that press conference in South Australia.

The chief public health officer, Nicola Spurrier, says the state is averaging 28 hours to turn around results of a Covid-19 test.

She says the next week will be crucial.

“It is now the time of this outbreak that we will start to see, in the next week, anyone in the community who we haven’t been able to identify through our extensive contact tracing who may start to become positive,” she says.

She says now is the time for anyone with any symptoms, even if they are minor, to get tested. 

South Australia’s chief health officer, Nicola Spurrier, says the state has one new confirmed case of Covid-19. It is a close contact of another case and the person had been in isolation so there is no risk to the community. 

“He has been in quarantine since his partner tested positive, so it is definitely linked to the Parafield cluster,” she says.

“We do expect to see more cases, but we are hoping that they will all be people in quarantine, and we are actually doing regular testing of people in quarantine.”

There are now 26 cases linked to the cluster and more than 5400 close contacts are in quarantine.

“We still have some work to do, but just to say that we have made huge inroads into the investigation and getting on top of this outbreak,” Spurrier says. 

The South Australian premier, Steven Marshall, has been speaking in Adelaide. 

He says he is pleased the state’s hard lockdown will lift at midnight tonight.

But he wants to make clear “we are not out of the woods yet”. 

“The expert health advice we have received is that we are still managing a very dangerous cluster and although we are reducing those restrictions, we are still very concerned about this cluster,” he says.

“There are still many people that we need to identify and put into a quarantine situation and get testing results and that needs to happen today, all resources have been deployed to that very important task.”

US president-elect Joe Biden, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi agreed in a meeting on Friday that Congress should pass a package of coronavirus economic aid in its current session, Reuters reports.

“That package should include resources to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, relief for working families and small businesses, support for state and local governments trying to keep frontline workers on the payroll, expanded unemployment insurance and affordable health care for millions of families,” the joint statement, released by Biden’s office, said.

Biden, who is due to take office on 20 January, has been pushing for quick action on a coronavirus relief bill, but Republicans and Democrats in Congress have been far apart for months on the scope and cost of such a measure.

Schumer said on Thursday that Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell had agreed to resume coronavirus relief talks. Staff members representing McConnell, Schumer, Pelosi and House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy met on Thursday, according a senior Democratic aide.

In the US, officials have confirmed Donald Trump’s son, Donald Trump Jr, tested positive for Covid-19 this week.

He is experiencing no symptoms, according to a spokesman.

The president’s eldest son managed to evade infection after the White House super-spreader event earlier this year led to positive tests for many around him, including his father and his girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle.

But he tested positive at the start of the week for Covid-19, according to a statement from his spokesman.

“Don has been quarantining out at his cabin since the result,” the spokesman said. “He’s been completely asymptomatic so far and is following all medically recommended guidelines.”

Reuters reports:

The US Food and Drug Administration’s outside advisers will meet on 10 December to discuss whether to authorise the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc and German partner BioNTech for emergency use, the agency said on Friday.

The move comes after Pfizer applied for the authorisation of its Covid-19 vaccine earlier in the day, the first such application in a major step toward providing protection against the new coronavirus.

“While we cannot predict how long the FDA’s review will take, the FDA will review the request as expeditiously as possible,” FDA commissioner Stephen Hahn said in a statement.

The meeting of Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee will discuss the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine candidate.

The FDA is not obligated to abide by its advisory panel recommendations, but typically does.

In Australia, Victoria’s health minister, Martin Foley, has been speaking in Melbourne about the traces of coronavirus that were detected in sewage in the Altona catchment.

The catchment covers suburbs including Altona, Altona Meadows, Laverton, Point Cook and Sanctuary Lakes, and residents or people who have visited are being encouraged to get tested if they have any symptoms.

Foley says detection of the virus in wastewater was unexpected.

“The result is really unexpected, given that there have been some eight weeks since the last known resident in these areas had a coronavirus illness or diagnosis,” he says. 

The British prime minister, Boris Johnson, will urge other G20 leaders to take more ambitious action to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and to address climate change at a weekend virtual summit in Saudi Arabia, Reuters reports.

In remarks ahead of the meeting, Johnson appealed to leaders of the other nations that make up the G20 group of major economies to honour their promise to do “whatever it takes to overcome the pandemic and protect lives and livelihoods”.

He will also use Sunday’s session to call on those leaders yet to make net zero commitments to make the same pledge, just under a month before Britain co-hosts the Climate Ambition Summit on 12 December.

“The G20 committed in March to do ‘whatever it takes to overcome the pandemic and protect lives and livelihoods’. As we meet this weekend, we must hold ourselves to account for that promise,” he said before addressing the summit.

“If we harness the collective ingenuity and resources of the G20, we can chart a path out of the pandemic and build a better, greener future.”

In the US, Wisconsin’s governor issued an emergency health order on Friday requiring face masks to be used indoors except at home, a move aimed at slowing a surge in coronavirus infections that is pushing hospitals to the limits of their capacity.

The face-covering mandate marked the latest in a flurry of new restrictions by state and local officials nationwide to tamp down Covid-19 cases soaring with the onset of winter.

Public health experts say greater social mixing and indoor gatherings as the weather turns colder ahead of the holiday season is fuelling the escalating contagion, threatening to inundate already strained healthcare systems.

“Wisconsin hospitals are overwhelmed and facing staffing shortages,” said the Wisconsin governor, Tony Evers, a Democrat, according to Reuters. 

His state is one of several in the upper midwest registering some of the highest rates of positive results from Covid-19 tests.

The order, which remains in effect for 60 days, requires everyone to wear masks indoors whenever non-household members are present. 

Children younger than five years of age are exempt, as are individuals who have breathing difficulties.

The governor announced the declaration of an emergency hours after one of the nation’s leading public health officials, Dr Deborah Birx, a member of the White House coronavirus task force, appealed to Americans to avoid unnecessary travel and limit social gatherings during next week’s Thanksgiving holiday.





No.21 article:
Scientists say jab could be used to protect those who cannot be given vaccines 

Major trials will begin this weekend of an antibody cocktail that scientists hope will protect people against Covid-19 and could be swiftly used in care homes or on cruise ships in the event of an outbreak.

A UK volunteer will be given the first dose of a drug that is expected to give vulnerable people immediate protection. The jab into the muscle of the arm takes effect straight away and could last for six months to a year. If it works as well as scientists predict, it could be used to protect those who cannot be given vaccines because of their state of health.

The drug, which is moving into large-scale phase 3 trials in the UK, is made by AstraZeneca, the same pharmaceutical company that has partnered with Oxford University to develop a vaccine. The Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine is the UK government’s biggest hope for a mass vaccination campaign next year. The UK has pre-ordered 100m doses but unlike rival vaccination trials from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, the company has not yet published any efficacy results.

Asked whether the vaccine would be ready to use by the end of 2020, Sir Mene Pangalos, executive vice president of biopharmaceuticals R&amp;D at AstraZeneca, said: “We are on track to still have data before the end of the year or before Christmas. I think we’re still hoping that we might be able to dose, if we show that the vaccine is safe and effective, towards the end of the year.”

Pangalos said the antibody drug would be almost like a passive vaccination. “Now that’s important because obviously there’s going to be a significant number of people even in a world where vaccines are highly effective that will not respond to vaccines, or in fact will not take vaccines and so having monoclonal antibodies as potential therapeutics I think is also important.”

Monoclonal antibodies are produced in the lab and can enhance the response of the immune system to an invading virus. The phase 3 trial launching at the weekend will recruit 5,000 patients globally to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the long-acting antibodies. There will be nine sites in the UK with 1,000 patients, half of whom will have the trial drug and the other half a placebo.

The UK trial will test whether the drug is protective for people without Covid infection. Later trials will look to see whether it can help in an outbreak in a care home, before anyone knows whether they are infected. It will also be tested at a later date as a treatment in early stage Covid disease.

Kate Bingham, head of the UK vaccines taskforce, said the drug was “part of our portfolio to protect the whole UK”. The UK has a provisional order for 1m doses.

Vaccines typically take six weeks to work and but this would protect people immediately.

“Vaccines work in people who have a functional immune system and if you’re immunosuppressed and you’re going through bone marrow transplants or treatments that actually reduce your ability to mount an immune response, then this is basically the only current way of providing that short term passive immunity,” she said.

The cost, however, is high. Two companies, Regeneron and Eli Lilly, that have produced antibody cocktails for treating people in hospitals, set their prices at $600 (£451) to $1,000 a dose. The numbers of people who would be given the antibody cocktail instead of a vaccine were relatively small, said Pangalos. “It’s millions of doses, versus billions,” he said.






