No.1 article:
Fighting Election Results, Trump Employs a New Weapon: The Government

As President Trump and his administration insist he didn’t lose, the rest of the world has increasingly moved to accept Joe Biden’s victory.

WASHINGTON — President Trump, facing the prospect of leaving the White House in defeat in just 70 days, is harnessing the power of the federal government to resist the results of an election that he lost, something that no sitting president has done in American history.

In the latest sign of defiance, the president’s senior cabinet secretary fueled concerns on Tuesday that Mr. Trump would resist handing over power to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. after legal challenges to the vote. “There will be a smooth transition to a second Trump administration,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said.

Mr. Trump’s attorney general has at the same time authorized investigations into supposed vote fraud, his general services administrator has refused to give Mr. Biden’s team access to transition offices and resources guaranteed under law and the White House is preparing a budget for next year as if Mr. Trump will be around to present it.

The president has also embarked on a shake-up of his administration, firing Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper as well as the heads of three other agencies while installing loyalists in key positions at the National Security Agency and the Pentagon. Allies expect more to come, including the possible dismissals of the directors of the F.B.I. and the C.I.A.

But the rest of the world increasingly moved to accept Mr. Biden’s victory and prepared to work with him despite Mr. Trump’s refusal to acknowledge the results. Speaking with journalists, Mr. Biden called the president’s actions since Election Day “an embarrassment” that will not serve him well in the long run. “How can I say this tactfully?” Mr. Biden said. “It will not help the president’s legacy.”

The standoff left the United States in the position of the kind of country whose weak democratic processes it often criticizes. Rather than congratulating Mr. Biden and inviting him to the White House, as his predecessors traditionally have done after an election changed party control, Mr. Trump has been marshaling his administration and pressuring his Republican allies into acting as if the outcome were still uncertain, either out of faint hope of actually overturning the results or at least creating a narrative to explain his loss.

The president’s efforts to discredit with false claims both the election results and the incoming Biden administration is in many ways the culmination of four years of stocking the government with pliant appointees while undermining the credibility of other institutions in American life, including intelligence agencies, law enforcement authorities, the news media, technology companies, the federal government more broadly and now election officials in states across four time zones.

Throughout his presidency, Mr. Trump has tried to condition much of the American public not to believe anyone other than him, with evident success. Although the evidence shows there was no widespread conspiracy to steal the election in multiple states that Mr. Trump has invented, at least one poll showed that many supporters accept his claims. Seventy percent of Republicans surveyed by Politico and Morning Consult said they did not believe the election was free and fair.

“What we have seen in the last week from the president more closely resembles the tactics of the kind of authoritarian leaders we follow,” said Michael J. Abramowitz, the president of Freedom House, a nonprofit organization that tracks democracy around the world. “I never would have imagined seeing something like this in America.”

Mr. Abramowitz doubted there was much danger of Mr. Trump overturning the election. “But by convincing a large part of the population that there was widespread fraud, he is seeding a myth that could endure for years and contribute to an erosion of public confidence in our electoral system,” he said.

Mr. Biden has proceeded without waiting for Mr. Trump’s concession and spoke on Tuesday with the leaders of Britain, France, Germany and Ireland. Most major world leaders have congratulated him on his victory, including close Trump allies like Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, another Trump favorite, joined the chorus on Tuesday. The major holdouts remained Presidents Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Xi Jinping of China.

Mr. Biden said he was not overly concerned with the Trump administration’s refusal to provide transition money, offices and access to agencies, insisting he could assemble a government by his Jan. 20 inauguration. “We are going to be moving along in a consistent manner, putting together our administration, White House,” he said. “Nothing is going to stop us.”

Mr. Biden agreed that it would be helpful to have access to classified information like the presidential daily briefing, something an outgoing administration usually provides an incoming president. But he added, “The fact that they are not willing to acknowledge that we won at this point is not of much consequence to our planning.”

In a testy exchange with journalists at the State Department, Mr. Pompeo insisted that American efforts to prevent voter intimidation and ensure free and fair elections around the world were not diminished by Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede.

“We must count every legal vote,” Mr. Pompeo said, adopting the president’s language. “We must make sure that any vote that wasn’t lawful ought not be counted. That dilutes your vote if it’s done improperly.”

He snapped when asked if Mr. Trump’s delaying tactics undermined the State Department’s efforts to pressure political leaders abroad to accept losing results. “That’s ridiculous and you know it’s ridiculous, and you asked it because it’s ridiculous,” he said.

Mr. Pompeo can often be sarcastic, particularly when speaking to reporters, but the State Department made no effort to clarify if he was joking. Asked later on Fox News if he was serious, he did not say. “We will have a smooth transition,” he said. “And we will see what the people ultimately decided, when all the votes have been cast.”

His comments provoked a backlash from career diplomats, including criticism of his glib tone and outright concerns that the Trump administration would try to steal the election. But Mr. Trump congratulated him later on Twitter: “That’s why Mike was number one in his class at West Point!”

The delay in acknowledging the results has left American embassies in limbo. At least some embassy officials have been told to steer clear of any efforts to help Mr. Biden with foreign leaders who want to congratulate him, as they normally would during a transition. Diplomats said they could not even begin enumerating the successes of the Trump administration for fear of describing it in the past tense.

Some ambassadors sought to straddle the line of neutrality even as they pointedly did not recognize Mr. Biden as the victor. “It’s been a hard fought race that has shown us the American spirit of both grit and resilience,” Robert “Woody” Johnson, the ambassador to Britain, said on Twitter. “Nothing in the history of America worth achieving has ever come easy.”

Other envoys echoed the president’s allegations of voter fraud. “Please don’t disenfranchise me and my fellow voters in order to win at all costs,” Carla Sands, the ambassador to Denmark, said on her personal Twitter page. By way of evidence, she posted a screenshot of a State Department website that could not track her absentee ballot.

“Secretary Pompeo shouldn’t play along with baseless and dangerous attacks on the legitimacy of last week’s election,” said Representative Eliot L. Engel, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “The State Department should now begin preparing for President-elect Biden’s transition.”

In extending his purge of the Pentagon on Tuesday, Mr. Trump replaced three more policy officials with loyalists. Some Defense Department officials worried that the replacements could be more amenable to striking American adversaries than their predecessors were.

James Anderson, the acting under secretary of defense for policy who was at odds with the White House, stepped down and was effectively replaced by Anthony Tata, who became “the senior official performing the duties of the under secretary of defense for policy,” as the announcement put it.

Mr. Tata, a retired Army one-star general who has called Islam “the most oppressive violent religion” and referred to former President Barack Obama as a “terrorist leader,” withdrew from consideration for the top Pentagon policy job in August amid opposition from both Republican and Democratic senators. The president also installed Kashyap Patel, a former aide to Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, who played a key role in helping Republicans try to undermine the Russia investigation, as chief of staff to the new acting defense secretary, Christopher Miller, adding alarm at the Pentagon over moves to stock the department leadership with loyalists.

Mr. Trump’s allies said the president was justified in fighting the election results even if he was not successful, citing what they deem illegitimate court decisions expanding mail-in voting.

“In light of the Pennsylvania’s Supreme Court’s unconstitutional de facto legislation enacted through its rulings, along with the coming 2022 U.S. Senate and governor races, the Trump campaign’s litigation is essential for Republicans to have a fair playing field in the long term no matter the short term result,” Sam Nunberg, an adviser to Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign, said by email.

Only nine sitting presidents before Mr. Trump lost bids for another term in a general election (a few others were not renominated by their party), and some like John Adams and John Quincy Adams were sour enough to skip their successors’ inaugurations. But none resisted leaving office or made claims of widespread conspiracy to reverse the outcome.

“We have not seen any president in history lose re-election, refuse to concede defeat and take actions that threaten the abuse of presidential power to keep himself in office,” said Michael Beschloss, a prominent presidential historian. “Here, Donald Trump is yet again in a historical category of his own — and this time, it is ominous for democracy.”

Richard Norton Smith, who wrote a biography of Herbert Hoover and is writing one on Gerald R. Ford, two of the nine, recalled Hoover’s anger at the man who beat him, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and their frosty car ride to the inauguration in March 1933.

“But the point is Hoover, however embittered he was over F.D.R.’s unwillingness to cooperate, as he defined the term, shared the same car, just as he had welcomed the Roosevelts for the ritualistic pre-inaugural tea the night before,” Mr. Smith said. “They might despise one another, but their personal animosity was outweighed by their commitment to the democratic process.”

The parallel often cited is when Vice President Al Gore pushed for recounts in Florida in 2000 to overcome a slim lead by his Republican opponent, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. But Mr. Gore was not the incumbent, and President Bill Clinton did not direct the administration to intervene, although it did withhold transition resources from Mr. Bush until the fight was resolved.

“We were so darn careful not to use any government resources, funds, staff or even a paper clip,” said Donna Brazile, who was Mr. Gore’s campaign manager.

In Florida, Mr. Gore had a plausible chance to change the outcome of the election, given that he was down by only 327 votes in a single state after the automatic machine recount. Mr. Trump, by contrast, is behind by tens of thousands of votes in multiple states that would have to switch, which has never happened on that scale.

“The big difference,” Ms. Brazile said, “is this feels like a major P.R. campaign being waged in the courts to sully the voters where Trump lost or underperformed versus shaping a much larger narrative that this election was so-called rigged.”





No.2 article:
Key Justices Signal Support for Affordable Care Act

At a Supreme Court argument on Tuesday, Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Kavanaugh suggested that striking down one provision would not doom the balance of the law.

WASHINGTON — At least five Supreme Court justices, including two members of its conservative majority, indicated on Tuesday that they would reject attempts by Republicans and the Trump administration to kill the Affordable Care Act.

It was not clear whether the court would strike down a provision of the act that initially required most Americans to obtain insurance or pay a penalty, a requirement that was rendered toothless in 2017 after Congress zeroed out the penalty. But the bulk of the sprawling 2010 health care law, President Barack Obama’s defining domestic legacy, appeared likely to survive its latest encounter with the court.

Both Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh said striking down the so-called individual mandate did not require the rest of the law to be struck down as well.

“Congress left the rest of the law intact when it lowered the penalty to zero,” Chief Justice Roberts said.

Justice Kavanaugh made a similar point. “It does seem fairly clear that the proper remedy would be to sever the mandate provision and leave the rest of the act in place — the provisions regarding pre-existing conditions and the rest,” he said.

The court’s three-member liberal wing — Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan — also indicated their support for the law. That suggested there were at least five votes to uphold almost all of it.

Three members of the court’s conservative majority, Justices Clarence Thomas, Samuel A. Alito Jr. and Neil M. Gorsuch, seemed poised to vote to strike down the law. The court’s newest member, Justice Amy Coney Barrett, was harder to read, though she has been publicly critical of earlier rulings sustaining key provisions of the law.

Striking down the Affordable Care Act would expand the ranks of the uninsured in the United States by about 21.1 million people — a nearly 70 percent increase — according to new estimates from the Urban Institute.

The biggest loss of coverage would be among low-income adults who became eligible for Medicaid under the law after all but a dozen states expanded the program to include them. But millions of Americans would also lose private insurance, including young adults whom the law allowed to stay on their parents’ plans until they turned 26 and families whose income was modest enough to qualify for subsidies that help pay their monthly premiums.

In the decade since the enactment of the health care law, Republicans have worked hard to destroy it, and President Trump has repeatedly criticized it. But attempts to repeal it failed, as did two earlier Supreme Court challenges, in 2012 and 2015. With the passing years, the law has gained in popularity and been woven into the fabric of the health care system in ways big and small.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. vowed Tuesday to preserve and expand the law when he takes office on Jan. 20, and he assailed the arguments made in court by lawyers for Republican officials and the Trump administration.

Mr. Biden lashed out at what he called “far-right ideologues” in the administration who had asked the court to strike down the law, saying the impact of such a move for millions of Americans would be severe.

Campaigning for president, Mr. Biden said he wanted to strengthen the law by offering a public option that allows people to receive coverage the way Medicare enrollees do, through a system of government-run insurance. People who would prefer to stay on private insurance would be able to do so.

The new case, California v. Texas, No. 19-840, was brought by Republican officials who said the mandate requiring insurance became unconstitutional after Congress in 2017 eliminated the penalty for failing to obtain health insurance because it could no longer be justified as a tax.

They went on to argue that the mandate was a crucial feature of the law, and so the entire law should be thrown out.

The challenge has largely succeeded in the lower courts. A federal judge in Texas ruled that the entire law was invalid, but he postponed the effects of his ruling until the case could be appealed. In December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, agreed that the mandate was unconstitutional but declined to rule on the fate of the remainder of the health law, asking the lower court to reconsider the question in more detail.

Officials in states led by Democrats instead asked the Supreme Court to hear the case, saying the justices should act to resolve the uncertainty created by the appeals court’s ruling.

The law includes popular provisions on guaranteed coverage for pre-existing medical conditions, emergency care, prescription drugs and maternity care. A lawyer for Texas and other Republican-led states, supported by a lawyer for the Trump administration, argued that all of those provisions should be ended as a consequence of the 2017 change to the individual mandate.

Those arguments were largely based on a decision in an earlier Supreme Court case, in 2012, when the court upheld the law’s requirement that most Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty. The vote was 5 to 4, with Chief Justice Roberts writing the controlling opinion, which said the mandate was authorized by Congress’s power to assess taxes. He was joined by what was at the time the court’s four-member liberal wing.

Since the mandate no longer raises revenue, said Kyle D. Hawkins, Texas’s solicitor general, it cannot be justified as a tax and was therefore unconstitutional.

In assessing the narrow question of the constitutionality of the revised mandate, the justices discussed hypothetical laws that merely urged people to do things without penalizing them if they disobeyed.

Michael J. Mongan, California’s solicitor general, said that without penalties for noncompliance, such laws present no constitutional problems. As for the revised mandate, he said, “it doesn’t require anybody to do anything.”

At Justice Barrett’s confirmation hearings last month, Democratic senators questioned her closely about critical statements she had made about the two major Supreme Court decisions sustaining the law. At Tuesday’s argument, she questioned the constitutionality of the mandate.

“Why can’t we say that when Congress zeroed out the tax, it was no longer a tax because it generated no revenue and, therefore, it could no longer be justified as a taxing power?” she asked.

But Justice Barrett did not tip her hand on the more important issue of whether the rest of the law should survive if the mandate is struck down.

Justice Kagan noted what she said was a curious features of the challengers’ argument. In 2012, she said, the Supreme Court had ruled that the mandate backed by a penalty was not an unconstitutional command. In 2017, she said, the law became less coercive.

“How does it make sense to say that what was not an unconstitutional command before has become an unconstitutional command now, given the far lesser degree of coercive force?” she asked.

Chief Justice Roberts noted that the mandate had in the earlier case been said to be “the key to the whole act.” Justice Thomas said the court had been told that “this provision was the heart and soul of the Affordable Care Act.”

Indeed, when the earlier challenge to the health care law was argued in 2012, the Obama administration did say that the mandate could not be severed from two related provisions, one prohibiting insurers from turning away applicants and the other barring them from taking account of pre-existing conditions.

Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who successfully defended the law in 2012 as solicitor general in the Obama administration and appeared as a lawyer for the House of Representatives on Tuesday, said experience had shown that the practical importance of the mandate had been overstated.

The health care law, he said, included both carrots, like subsidies, and the stick that was the mandate. “It’s turned out that the carrots worked without the stick,” he said.

The elimination of the law’s financial penalty for going without health insurance has indeed had little effect on how many people signed up for coverage through the law’s marketplaces. Enrollment in the marketplaces has decreased slightly since 2017, but it has not shown any signs of a “death spiral,” when only sick people buy coverage and costs skyrockets as a result.

Whether the mandate was now unconstitutional or not, Mr. Verrilli said, the balance of the law must stand. It was far-fetched, he said, that Congress had intended to doom the law by adjusting a monetary penalty as opposed to repealing it outright.

“There were efforts to repeal the entire A.C.A.,” Mr. Verrilli said, “Those efforts failed.”

Chief Justice Roberts said that adjusting the penalty while leaving the rest of law in place was telling. “It’s hard for you to argue that Congress intended the entire act to fall if the mandate were struck down,” the chief justice told Mr. Hawkins, “when the same Congress that lowered the penalty to zero did not even try to repeal the rest of the act.”

Justice Kavanaugh also said that the whole law was not tied to the fate of the mandate. “I tend to agree with you,” he told Mr. Verrilli, “that it’s a very straightforward case for severability under our precedents.”

The law’s defenders hoped that the Republican challengers could not run the table on three separate legal arguments they would need to win: that they have suffered the sort of injury that gives them standing to sue; that the zeroing out of the tax penalty made the individual mandate unconstitutional; and that the rest of the law cannot stand without the individual mandate.

Judging by the questioning on Tuesday, in an argument that lasted for two hours, the law’s defenders seemed poised to prevail on at least the third issue. A ruling is expected by June.





No.3 article:
The Times Called Officials in Every State: No Evidence of Voter Fraud 

The president and his allies have baselessly claimed that rampant voter fraud stole victory from him. Officials contacted by The Times said that there were no irregularities that affected the outcome.

PHILADELPHIA — Election officials in dozens of states representing both political parties said that there was no evidence that fraud or other irregularities played a role in the outcome of the presidential race, amounting to a forceful rebuke of President Trump’s portrait of a fraudulent election.

Over the last several days, the president, members of his administration, congressional Republicans and right wing allies have put forth the false claim that the election was stolen from Mr. Trump and have refused to accept results that showed Joseph R. Biden Jr. as the winner.

But top election officials across the country said in interviews and statements that the process had been a remarkable success despite record turnout and the complications of a dangerous pandemic.

“There’s a great human capacity for inventing things that aren’t true about elections,” said Frank LaRose, a Republican who serves as Ohio’s secretary of state. “The conspiracy theories and rumors and all those things run rampant. For some reason, elections breed that type of mythology.”

Steve Simon, a Democrat who is Minnesota’s secretary of state, said: “I don’t know of a single case where someone argued that a vote counted when it shouldn’t have or didn’t count when it should. There was no fraud.”

“Kansas did not experience any widespread, systematic issues with voter fraud, intimidation, irregularities or voting problems,” a spokeswoman for Scott Schwab, the Republican secretary of state in Kansas, said in an email Tuesday. “We are very pleased with how the election has gone up to this point.”

The New York Times contacted the offices of the top election officials in every state on Monday and Tuesday to ask whether they suspected or had evidence of illegal voting. Officials in 45 states responded directly to The Times. For four of the remaining states, The Times spoke to other statewide officials or found public comments from secretaries of state; none reported any major voting issues.

Statewide officials in Texas did not respond to repeated inquiries.  But a spokeswoman for the top elections official in Harris County, the largest county in Texas with a population greater than many states, said that there were only a few minor issues and that “we had a very seamless election.” On Tuesday, the Republican lieutenant governor in Texas, Dan Patrick, announced a $1 million fund to reward reports of voter fraud. 

Some states described small problems common to all elections, which they said they were addressing: a few instances of illegal or double voting, some technical glitches and some minor errors in math. Officials in all states are conducting their own review of the voting — a standard component of the certification process.

Perhaps none of the Trump campaign’s claims received more attention than an allegation made over the weekend in Pennsylvania by Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer. On Saturday, Mr. Giuliani held a news conference in the parking lot of a Philadelphia landscaping company and claimed that the election in the city had been rife with fraud.

The office of the state’s top law enforcement official said that there was no evidence to support Mr. Giuliani’s claims, and that the election in the state was “fair and secure.”

“Many of the claims against the commonwealth have already been dismissed, and repeating these false attacks is reckless,” said Jacklin Rhoads, a spokeswoman for Josh Shapiro, a Democrat who is Pennsylvania’s attorney general. “No active lawsuit even alleges, and no evidence presented so far has shown, widespread problems.”

What emerged in The Times’s reporting was how, beyond the president, Republicans in many states were engaged in a widespread effort to delegitimize the nation’s voting system.

Some Republicans have even turned to lashing members of their own party who, in their eyes, did not show sufficient dedication to rooting out fraud. In Georgia, where Mr. Biden is leading, the two Republican senators, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, both of whom are in a runoff to gain re-election, have called for the resignation of the Republican secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger. “The secretary of state has failed to deliver honest and transparent elections,” the senators said in a statement.

In Washington, the losing Republican candidate for governor, Loren Culp, has disputed the Republican secretary of state’s determination that the election there was free of fraud. The secretary of state, Kim Wyman, has in turn challenged Mr. Culp, trailing by roughly 14 percentage points in the results, to produce evidence. “It’s just throwing grass at the fence at this point,” she said in an interview. “See what sticks.”

Democrats have more frequently been the target of criticism. Last week, the Republican leadership of the Pennsylvania state legislature called on Kathy Boockvar, the Democratic secretary of state, to step down. In Wisconsin, the Republican speaker of the Assembly announced he would form committees to investigate voter fraud in the wake of Mr. Biden’s narrow victory in the state, though there is no evidence of any. Republican lawmakers in Michigan on Saturday voted to issue subpoenas for documents in search of “election irregularities.”

Indeed, Republicans in all three “blue wall” states have initiated “investigations” or called for audits — which is redundant given the certification work already underway. Democrats say this is simply a way to undermine confidence in the results. 

On Monday, the Trump campaign accelerated their legal efforts, filing a lawsuit in the seven Pennsylvania counties where the president lost that claimed mail voting created an unfair, “two-tiered” system during the election — though the system is also in place in counties the president won. The campaign also announced plans to file another suit in Michigan. 

The president has kept up a barrage of Twitter posts with false claims about improprieties in Nevada and Pennsylvania, predicting he’d prevail in Georgia, where he is behind, and said Wisconsin “needs a little time statutorily,” though he offered no explanation for what he meant.

Nellie Gorbea, the Democratic secretary of state in Rhode Island, said the amount of attention on the election would make illegal voting extremely difficult. “It would be nearly impossible to do voter fraud in this election because of the number of people tuned in,” she said.

Voting fraud in the United States is extremely rare. The irregularities that do occur are often inconsequential, isolated in nature, and unlikely to alter the outcome of an election. The most significant episode of election fraud over the past several years involved an alleged effort to manipulate ballots to benefit a Republican candidate for Congress in North Carolina, Mark Harris, in 2018. The scheme forced a new election and an operative who worked for Mr. Harris, L. McCrae Dowless, is under indictment. Mr. Harris was not charged with wrongdoing, and denied any role.

In the case of the 2020 election, Mr. Biden’s margins in the blue wall states of Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin are all in the tens of thousands. Even in Georgia, where Mr. Biden leads by more than 11,000 votes, it would be hard to uncover enough voting irregularities to change who won.

‘‘We have not seen any evidence of fraud or foul play in the actual administration of the election,’’ said Jake Rollow, a spokesman for Jocelyn Benson, the Democratic secretary of state in Michigan.  “What we have seen is that it was smooth, transparent, secure and accurate.’’

Still, Mr. Trump has been fixated on voter fraud since 2016, when he falsely claimed that vote stealing had cost him the popular vote, which he lost by roughly 3 million. In the election’s aftermath, he formed a voting fraud commission that disbanded with no findings amid charges of secrecy, bias and overreach.

Mr. Trump’s attack on the election system this year has relied on either outright fabrication or gross exaggeration involving the sorts of small problems that typically come up in elections.

In Ohio, for instance, Mr. LaRose said that while it was not unusual to discover a handful of improprieties in a statewide election, systemic fraud has not happened.

“In the past, I’ve referred people to local prosecutors and the attorney general for noncitizens voting,” he said. “It’s like tens or dozens of people, not hundreds. There’s no acceptable level of voter fraud and we take every one of those cases seriously.”

The tension over voting has been most palpable in Georgia. The Trump campaign and the two Republican senators have complained about transparency, which Mr. Raffensperger, the secretary of state, called “laughable.”

“We were literally putting releases of results up at a minimum hourly,” he said in a statement. “I and my office have been holding daily or twice-daily briefings for the press to walk them through all the numbers. So that particular charge is laughable.”

He added that while there were likely small instances of fraud, he did not expect it to be significant enough to affect the outcome.

The absence of any major findings of fraud or irregularities, and the willingness of even Republican election officials to attest to smooth operations, have also undercut Mr. Trump’s legal efforts.

In Michigan, the Trump campaign has sued, saying that their poll watchers were not given access to properly observe ballot counting in Detroit. But election officials in the city deny that, saying there were dozens of poll watchers from both campaigns inside the main counting center there.

Last week, a judge denied a Trump campaign bid to halt counting based on complaints about observers, dismissing key evidence as “vague” and as “hearsay.”

The accusations of fraud from the president and his allies were noticeably absent from states where Mr. Trump and his fellow Republicans did well.

In South Carolina, for instance, the Republican incumbent, Senator Lindsey Graham, won relatively easily over Jaime Harrison, despite the fact that polls showed a tight race there. The South Carolina Election Board chairman John W. Wells said late Monday, “I have not heard of any” substantive allegations of fraud in the state, though he added he would await a final determination in the certification and protest process.

Asked if Mr. Graham was concerned about results in his  state, a spokesman said the senator has “discussed states where the margins are close” but invited South Carolina voters to step forward with any “evidence of fraud or irregularities.”

Mr. Graham, a close ally of Mr. Trump, has taken up the president’s cause. He asked the Department of Justice to investigate claims made in an affidavit the Trump campaign shared with him from a Postal Service worker in Erie, Pa. The worker made allegations of  impropriety at the local Postal branch based largely on a conversation he said he overheard.

Late Tuesday, the credibility of that affidavit came into question after the House Oversight Committee reported on Twitter that the worker recanted his story in discussions with the Postal Service’s Office of Inspector General. The worker later denied he recanted in an online video.

One of the secretaries of state who did not respond to requests for comment about the election in his state was Corey Stapleton of Montana, an outgoing Republican. But Mr. Stapleton did post a message implicitly addressing the president’s ongoing fraud claims. “I have supported you, Mr. President,” he wrote. “@realDonaldTrump accomplished some incredible things during your time in office! But that time is now over! Tip your hat, bite your lip, and congratulate @JoeBiden.”

Michael Wines, Mike Baker, Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio and Will Wright contributed reporting.





No.4 article:
Vatican Report Places Blame for McCarrick’s Ascent on John Paul II

In elevating Theodore E. McCarrick to the position of cardinal, the former pope disregarded warnings and believed the prelate’s denials about sexual abuse, an inquiry found.

VATICAN CITY — A highly anticipated Vatican report found on Tuesday that Pope John Paul II had rejected explicit warnings about sexual abuse by Theodore E. McCarrick, now a disgraced former cardinal, choosing to believe the American prelate’s denials and misleading accounts by bishops as he elevated him to the highest ranks of the church hierarchy.

As Washington’s archbishop, Mr. McCarrick was one of the most powerful leaders of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States, a media darling and prodigious fund-raiser with deep connections in the Vatican. But he became the highest-ranking American official to be removed for sexual abuse when the pope kicked him out of the priesthood in 2019.

Given Mr. McCarrick’s long career — as a priest in New York, archbishop of Newark and a Washington cardinal with a national and international profile — the 449-page report had the potential to engulf three separate papacies in scandal. Since the abuse carried out by Mr. McCarrick became public in 2018, conservative critics have accused Francis of covering up the American’s misconduct.

But the investigation, commissioned by Francis, who had promised to “follow the path of truth wherever it may lead,” largely absolved the current pope. Instead, it put fault chiefly with Francis’ conservative predecessors, emeritus Pope Benedict XVI, and in particular Pope John Paul II — elevated to sainthood since his death — who believed Mr. McCarrick’s denials of the allegations of sexual misconduct and promoted him.

“Pope John Paul II personally made the decision to appoint McCarrick,” the report says, despite receiving a letter in 1999 from Cardinal John O’Connor, then the archbishop of New York, that summed up allegations, some anonymous, that Mr. McCarrick had engaged in sexual conduct with another priest in 1987, that he had committed pedophilia and that he shared a bed with young adult men and seminarians.

John Paul II ordered an investigation to determine whether the allegations were true. Bishops found that Mr. McCarrick had shared a bed with young men but said they were not sure there had been sexual misconduct, according to the inquiry, which now considers the information provided by those bishops to have been misleading.

“What is now known,” the report says, “is that three of the four American bishops provided inaccurate and incomplete information to the Holy See regarding McCarrick’s sexual conduct with young adults.”

The inquiry also notes that Mr. McCarrick appealed directly to Pope John Paul II’s gatekeeper, Bishop Stanislaw Dziwisz, now a cardinal and retired archbishop of Krakow, to insist on his innocence.

“McCarrick’s denial was believed,” the report says, the allegations were dismissed as rumor, and the pope appointed Mr. McCarrick as Washington’s archbishop in November 2000. 

Archbishop José H. Gómez, the president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, welcomed the report for its “transparency in addressing issues of abuse.”

But for abuse survivors and their advocates, the revelations were no salve.

“At no time has the Vatican ever had any remorse or empathy toward me,” said James Grein, who has accused Mr. McCarrick, then a priest and family friend, of abusing him starting at age 11. Mr. Grein noted that while the report described decades of cover-up, it offered no “plan to rectify the situation.”

Anne Barrett Doyle, a director of BishopAccountability.org, an advocacy group, said that while the report was the “Vatican’s first forthright account of its own cover-up of a sexual predator,” it let Francis hide behind plausible deniability. “Didn’t the pope wonder if those rumors had substance?”

Mr. McCarrick, who has never been criminally charged, has been living in an undisclosed location since leaving a Capuchin friary in Kansas in January.

The Vatican report said “no limit was placed on the examination of documents, the questioning of individuals or the expenditure of resources necessary to carry out the investigation.” It said that more than 90 witnesses had been interviewed, including cardinals, bishops, American seminarians and priests who overlapped with Mr. McCarrick throughout his career.

Some recounted “sexual abuse or assault, unwanted sexual activity, intimate physical contact and the sharing of beds without physical touching,” it said. Those accounts, which the Vatican warned could be “traumatizing” to Mr. McCarrick’s victims, were “made available to Pope Francis.”

But the finding could also be disconcerting to the faithful, especially as it appeared to cloud the reputation of Pope John Paul II, whom the report sought to defend. The Vatican report took pains to defend the pope, arguing that “John Paul II’s past experience in Poland regarding the use of spurious allegations against bishops” to hurt the church “played a role in his willingness to believe” Mr. McCarrick.

In 2005, new details about allegations against Mr. McCarrick surfaced and John Paul II’s successor, Pope Benedict XVI, “urgently sought” to substitute Mr. McCarrick as the archbishop of Washington. In 2006, Mr. McCarrick was replaced in the post.

In 2006 and 2008, Archbishop Carlo Maria Viganò, an official in the Holy See’s Secretariat of State, wrote letters urging his superiors to start a church legal procedure to address the allegations and rumors against Mr. McCarrick.

The issue was brought directly to the attention of Pope Benedict, who decided against that path. “Instead, the decision was made to appeal to McCarrick’s conscience” and for him to “maintain a lower profile,” the inquiry found.

The Vatican report defended Pope Benedict by arguing that there were at the time no credible accusations of child abuse against Mr. McCarrick. It added that Benedict had not been “kept apprised of McCarrick’s activities” in the United States or overseas after that.

But when Archbishop Viganò became Vatican ambassador to the United States in 2011, he received further information about allegations of sexual misconduct by Mr. McCarrick and in 2012 petitioned the Vatican again.

The report says that the Vatican instructed Archbishop Viganò to conduct an inquiry to determine whether the allegations were credible.

“Viganò did not take these steps,” the report says.

That line has a whiff of score settling to it. In August 2018, Archbishop Viganò stunned the church with a public letter claiming that the Vatican hierarchy, including Pope Francis, was complicit in covering up accusations that Mr. McCarrick had sexually abused seminarians.

The letter also accused Mr. McCarrick of advancing corrupt networks linked to homosexual relationships within church leadership, and it exposed deep ideological clashes at the church’s highest levels, with conservatives taking up arms against Francis’ inclusive vision of a church less focused on divisive issues like abortion and homosexuality.

The charges came during a delicate and damaging period for Francis, when a renewed explosion of the scandal over sexual abuse in the church, to which he sometimes seemed blind, threatened his papacy.

Archbishop Viganò claimed that he had personally warned Francis about Mr. McCarrick’s violations in 2013, but that Francis did nothing. 

Francis told the Mexican broadcaster Televisa that he knew nothing about Mr. McCarrick’s past. He also said that he did not recall if Archbishop Viganò had ever brought the issue to his attention. The Vatican report adds that “no records support Viganò’s account” about his raising the issue with Francis in 2013.

The Vatican report does support Archbishop Viganò’s assertions that Pope Benedict XVI had already punished Mr. McCarrick for his abuse of seminarians and priests, however. 

But while it says that Pope Francis did receive notification about the prior indications by Benedict from top church officials, he was not given documentation regarding the allegations against Mr. McCarrick. Believing that they had already been thoroughly reviewed, the Vatican report said Francis “did not see the need to alter the approach that had been adopted in prior years.”

When allegations of sexual abuse by Mr. McCarrick of a minor were found to be credible, and were made public in 2018, Francis stripped Mr. McCarrick of his rank of cardinal. The Vatican’s Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith subsequently found Mr. McCarrick guilty of solicitation during confession and of abuse, prompting Francis to remove him from the priesthood in February 2019.

Pope Francis, who ordered the report in 2018, has frequently attributed the crisis to clericalism, a systemic abuse of power and the unhealthy pursuit of authority within the church’s hierarchy.

The McCarrick scandal has already forced a reckoning inside the church about how clerics can use their authority to abuse not just minors but adults — relationships the Vatican had long played down as consensual rather than an abuse of power.

That abuse certainly seemed in evidence in the report, which includes multiple examples of Mr. McCarrick, a powerful bishop, abusing young seminarians, and other bishops looking the other way.

One victim is quoted as saying that the disgraced American prelate “tried to convince me that priests engaging in sexual activity with each other was normal and accepted in the United States.”

In light of the fact that Mr. McCarrick was his superior, the priest said he had been “afraid,” especially because he felt his immigration status at the time made him vulnerable.

The report did not provide an accounting of Mr. McCarrick’s fund-raising activities, and argued that “they were not determinative with respect to major decisions relating to McCarrick.” Over the decades, Mr. McCarrick directed millions of dollars to John Paul II, Benedict and Francis for papal charities through his Papal Foundation.

Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the church’s secretary of state and second-ranking official, said in a statement on Tuesday, “We publish the report with sorrow for the wounds that these events have caused.”

He said the inquiry showed how decisions, including the appointment of bishops, depended “on the commitment and honesty of the people concerned and that the report, would make “all those involved in such choices more aware of the weight of their decisions or omissions.”





No.5 article:
Gene Mater, Champion of Press Freedom, Dies at 93

As news director of Radio Free Europe, he saw the Berlin Wall go up and later worked for CBS and at the Newseum in Washington. He died in the pandemic.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

Gene Mater was the news director of Radio Free Europe when East Germany began building the Berlin Wall in August 1961. He took a flight from Munich, where he was based, to see its concrete and barbed-wire incarnation take shape.

“This was an opportunity to see mankind at it worst,” he said in an interview in 2009 for the Freedom Forum, a First Amendment advocacy group. “Perhaps the worst that I saw was in Bernauer Strasse, where apartment houses suddenly become a wall; workmen were inside, under guard, smashing windows, knocking the wooden frames out and bricking up the holes.”

The bricks, he added, prevented people on the inside from leaping to freedom.

Mr. Mater, who had a long career as a newspaperman, broadcast executive and First Amendment advocate, died on Sept. 20 in a hospice center in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 93. Jeanne Mater, his daughter, said the cause was complications of Covid-19.

Gene Paul Mater (pronounced MAY-ter) was born in Brooklyn on Nov. 27, 1926. His father, Albert, was a house painter. His mother, Emma (Landau) Mater, was a homemaker who volunteered to sell war bonds during World War II. After studying engineering for two years at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Gene entered the Army.

He was sent to West Germany just after the war ended and as the Cold War was beginning. On the troop ship taking him to Europe, he started a newsletter to raise morale, then used it as his pitch to the military brass to be involved in news media efforts. He was assigned to help start newspapers that would be free of government interference and run by Germans with clean war records.

In all, he helped create eight papers, seven of which still publish, in the southwestern part of the country. After his discharge in July 1947, he worked for the German news service DENA.

While working in Stuttgart, Mr. Mater met Jeanne Blanc, a warrant officer for the French Army. They married in London in 1947 and moved to the United States the next year.

For the next decade, Mr. Mater pursued newspaper work as a reporter for The San Bernardino Sun in California and as an editor at The Star-Ledger of Newark and The New York World-Telegram and Sun.

He joined Radio Free Europe, which broadcast news to countries behind the Iron Curtain, in 1959, knowing that it was funded by the C.I.A. but intending to impose rigorous journalistic standards on its reporting staff, his daughter said. After six years, during which he directed coverage of the Berlin Wall’s construction and other stories, he joined the broadcaster’s parent, the Free Europe Committee, in Manhattan.

CBS hired Mr. Mater as an executive in 1970, and over 15 years there he acted as a spokesman for its broadcast group, sometimes testifying at federal regulatory hearings.

After leaving CBS in 1985, he was a media consultant, helping journalists in Eastern Europe run newspapers after the fall of the Soviet Union and, most recently, working with the Freedom Forum in Washington, often speaking to international journalists about press freedom.

In addition to his daughter, Mr. Mater is survived by his son, Rick; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His wife died in 1994.

At the Freedom Forum, Mr. Mater worked at its Newseum, the Washington museum dedicated to journalism that closed last year. It had exhibited eight large segments of the Berlin Wall.

Ms. Mater said her family had a personal memory of her father’s visit to the wall in 1961.

“Dad brought each of us a piece of barbed wire from that Berlin visit,” she said in a phone interview. “He cut it himself and had a brick thrown at him by a VOPO” — an East German border policeman. “The brick missed.”





No.6 article:
The Catholic Sex Abuse Crisis Is Far From Over

What can we learn about needed reforms from the Vatican’s damning report on the defrocked cardinal Theodore McCarrick?

After the Catholic sex abuse crisis exploded into headlines in 2002, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops promulgated standards that would guide the American church’s efforts to protect children. In May 2002, the editorial board of USA Today met with an American bishop who would play an important role in shaping the new regulations.

“We haven’t been focused on the Lord; I’m trying to do that,” he told them. “As I see the bishops losing credibility in many areas, I want to try to be as good a bishop as I can be. I’ve got a long way to go.” It now seems that bishop, Theodore McCarrick, had further to go than it seemed.

But the report the Vatican released Tuesday on Mr. McCarrick’s history of sexual misconduct before he was removed from the College of Cardinals and defrocked in 2019 sheds harsh light on the church’s unfinished response to the sex abuse crisis. It indicates policy weaknesses and dangerous habits that must be corrected so figures like Mr. McCarrick cannot again wreak havoc on future generations of Catholics.

Mr. McCarrick’s own history of abuse underscores the gaps left by the standards he helped craft in 2002.

While the charter improved the church’s policies on sex abuse prevention and its management of allegations, it was directed specifically at shielding children and youths from the predations of priests. As Mr. McCarrick’s exploits show, it isn’t just children who are at risk of sexual exploitation in the church. 

While Mr. McCarrick did sexually abuse children, some of the more egregious of his offenses were committed against adults, namely seminarians he met during his tenure as a bishop in New Jersey. In the report, it is clear that his peers and superiors were convinced his case wasn’t particularly urgent because Mr. McCarrick preyed mostly on adults.

There appears to be confusion among prelates throughout the document as to whether what had transpired between Mr. McCarrick and these seminarians ought to be seen as consensual sexual activity between adults — which would be a sin and an error, by the church’s count, though not necessarily a career-ending disgrace — or as something much more insidious and abusive.

Pope Francis has since expanded the church’s definition of “vulnerable adults” from those without the mental or physical capacity to resist sexual advances to include those who have “some deprivation of personal freedom,”  which could include seminarians and junior priests who rely on their bishops for ordination, promotion and favorable appointments.

Yet even that definition can be easily misconstrued. The Vatican ought to clarify that any sexual contact suggested or initiated by a superior in the church hierarchy involving an inferior will be met with the same rigorous reprimands — including removal from one’s post and possibly laicization — as similar offenses committed against children. Likewise, priests, seminarians and other adult victims of clergy sex abuse need reliable ways to report misconduct with transparent accountability and no threat of retaliation.

The church is also due for a slew of cultural reforms. According to the report, Mr. McCarrick was able to coerce seminarians into bed with him by creating an atmosphere of fearful cooperation at Seton Hall’s Immaculate Conception Seminary School of Theology. I have heard many similar, recent accounts from seminarians across the country, involving a number of clergy members. Sexual abuse in Catholic seminaries has been well known since at least 1983, when the author Paul Hendrickson published “Seminary: A Search,” detailing his own experiences. The Catholic seminary system is long overdue for a thorough, independent investigation into these disturbing patterns.

As a character study of Mr. McCarrick, the report offers another important area for review: the spiritual formation of its clergymen. Mr. McCarrick’s sexual behavior seemed at times juvenile, arrested; he clearly felt lonely and longed for intimacy and was unable to find a licit way to channel those emotions. If policies regarding the Catholic clergy and sex aren’t going to change, then something must, and it’s reasonable to begin with the way those considering holy orders are taught about the nature and goodness of sex.

Then there is the problem of bishops. While America’s bishops have vowed to hold themselves accountable for sexual abuses via a hotline for tips and procedures for investigation of bishops by senior bishops, those policies allow for no oversight from laypeople. But lay participation in accountability processes is crucial, because laypeople provide a perspective less entwined with the interests of the church hierarchy, and because trust and transparency are sorely lacking in the church.

Tuesday’s report is, I suspect, as remarkably unflinching as it is precisely because it was written by a layperson, the American lawyer Jeff Lena, who was given vast investigative power by the church. It should be seen as a model for accountability processes for bishops and other senior church officials going forward.

The church stands at a crossroads. It can continue to fight legislation that would empower victims to seek redress and respond to abuse long after the fact, such as the suspension of statutes of limitation in sex abuse cases. Or it can confess the way it asks us to confess, and repent the way it asks us to repent: Fully, openly, over and over again, as often as it takes, as painful as it is.





No.7 article:
As Hospitalizations Soar, El Paso Brings In New Mobile Morgues

The nation hit a record number of coronavirus hospitalizations on Tuesday. The feared third wave has left cities like El Paso struggling with overloaded I.C.U. wards and scarce staffing.

EL PASO — Coronavirus patients filled beds on one floor. Then two. Then the University Medical Center, a teaching hospital in El Paso, set up tents to care for patients in a parking lot. A downtown convention center became a field hospital. To free up even more space, the state began airlifting dozens of intensive care patients to other cities.

Local leaders clashed over what to do to quell the spiraling coronavirus crisis. The top county official ordered a lockdown and curfew. But the mayor disagreed, and the police said they would not enforce it. Then the state attorney general weighed in — a lockdown was unnecessary and illegal, he said.

And the patients kept coming.

“We discharge one patient, and there are two that come in,” said Wanda Helgesen, executive director of the local council on emergency and disaster preparedness.

El Paso, a border city of 680,000, now has more people hospitalized with Covid-19 than most states — 1,076 as of Tuesday — and is more than doubling its supply of mobile morgues, to 10 from four.

The strain on the city, as it grapples with the pandemic’s deadly third wave, is mirrored across the country. The number of Covid-19 hospitalizations in the United States hit a record high of 61,964 on Tuesday, surpassing the horrific early days of the spring in New York and the summer in the South and West.

Hospitalizations have more than doubled since September, according to the Covid Tracking Project, passing the previous peak of 59,940 patients hospitalized in mid-April. But while the earlier spikes subsided, public health experts fear that the pace of new hospitalizations will continue to rise along with new infections, which are averaging 111,000 a day nationwide and show no signs of abating.

States that had appeared to control the spread, like New Jersey and New York, are seeing a resurgence. At the same time, rural hospitals in North Dakota and Idaho are desperate for doctors, nurses and technicians to deal with fast-growing patient populations.

And the risk factors that public health officials have long warned could spread the virus and strain hospitals in the fall and winter — more indoor activities, the onset of the flu season and gatherings over the winter holidays — have just begun.

“Things are not only bad, there’s no end in sight,” said Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health. “If we stop all transmission today, which we can’t and won’t, we are looking at probably a month of overcapacity in lots of communities in America.”

Texas recently surpassed one million confirmed cases of the virus, with 19,000 dead. Of the 6,100 patients hospitalized across the state, one out of every six are in El Paso. Dr. Mario Rascon, the chief medical examiner for El Paso County, said Tuesday that his office had 154 bodies. “It’s exhausting,” he said.

The city has brought in more than 1,400 health care workers from around the state, and about 60 more arrived over the weekend in three teams sent by the Defense Department. But new patients have strained even those additional resources. Half of all patient beds in the city are now taken up by those with Covid-19.

“Things are not good,” Mayor Dee Margo said. But he said he also worried about the impact of new shutdowns on families struggling to survive. “I’m trying to walk that tightrope.”

The situation reflects the broader difficulty of trying to battle a national crisis in the absence of a national strategy. In El Paso, an urban island in remote West Texas between borders with Mexico and New Mexico, that absence has been acutely felt.

A pandemic response philosophy focused on local control and personal responsibility, starting with the Trump administration and reinforced by Texas’ Republican governor, Greg Abbott, has at times left local leaders at odds over how to deal with the serial outbreaks.

After shutting down in the spring, Mr. Abbott was quick to begin reopening the Texas economy. By the summer, as the virus surged once again, he paused the reopening, then clashed with local leaders in Houston and other cities who wanted to curtail activities but were prevented from doing so by his orders. He told Texans to wear face masks. In October, he eased more business restrictions.

By then, in El Paso, hospitals were already feeling strained.

The top county official, Ricardo A. Samaniego, issued a stay-at-home order and strict new limits on businesses on Oct. 29. But Mayor Margo did not believe that Mr. Samaniego had the authority to do so, and initially opposed it. While local county constables tried to enforce the lockdown, the much larger El Paso Police Department said it would not.

“Huge, huge confusion,” said Laura Rayborn, who owns a spa and other local businesses. “The mayor went on the radio and on TV and said, ‘Stay open.’” Ms. Rayborn decided to do so.

Restaurants kept serving, despite the order to stop all but takeout and delivery. “We decided to do what we had to,” said Aaron Means, who owns a restaurant near the campus of the University of Texas at El Paso.

Some went to court to fight the lockdown and were joined by the conservative state attorney general, Ken Paxton, who described the county’s action as “oppression” and vowed to end it. After a week of back-and-forth among three levels of Texas government, a state court on Friday ruled in favor of the new restrictions on businesses. Mr. Paxton is appealing.

By that point, frustration and confusion had spread widely, dampening any immediate benefits from the business closures and all but ensuring that a longer shutdown would be necessary.

“One thing almost worse than being closed down is being confused about whether you are closed down,” said David Jerome, the president of the El Paso Chamber of Commerce. “I’m a big fan of 50 experiments in democracy but not when it comes to a pandemic.”

The county’s two-week lockdown order, set to expire on Wednesday, has yet to show any appreciable effect on hospitalizations, officials said. “We do not seem to have met our peak,” Ms. Helgesen said.

As of Tuesday, the city was averaging 1,800 new coronavirus cases a day, nearly double the number in more populous Dallas County, the state’s next hardest hit.

Mr. Samaniego, the county executive, said he would like to extend the shutdown order, possibly through Thanksgiving. He worried that too few people had been following it, and that the holiday would bring new risks.

“We really never deployed a true stay-at-home,” Mr. Samaniego said. “We never got to see the full impact.”

The governor’s office said the focus for Mr. Samaniego and other local officials should be on enforcement of existing regulations, including restaurant capacity limits and mask requirements, not closures. “That strategy was effective in slowing the spread over the summer and containing Covid-19, while allowing businesses to safely operate,” said Renae Eze, a spokeswoman for the governor.

Like the country as a whole, El Paso has now entered into an uncertain period. Officials are hopeful that enough people are now following the lockdown order to slow the spread of infections. The police have begun ticketing businesses that do not comply.

On Monday, city officers riding thick-tired Segway vehicles and sheriffs in patrols cars could be seen cruising a mostly empty shopping district and visiting businesses near the border with the Mexican city of Ciudad Juárez.

Some officials and residents blamed trips to Juárez for the spread of infections in El Paso, even as cross-border travel has been limited almost entirely to American citizens. The two cities have long formed one hub of commerce in the mountainous desert, and Americans who live in Mexico have often traveled to El Paso to use its better-resourced hospitals.

That has continued during the pandemic, officials said, as Juárez has seen its hospital infrastructure buckle under the strain of its own serious outbreak. The scope of the pandemic in Juárez is not known because of inadequate testing, but even the mayor has been hospitalized with the virus.

The majority of infections in El Paso have come, health officials said, from local community transmission, especially within multigenerational families who often live together or come together frequently to shop or visit.

“We have seen multiple members of families coming in, usually on different days,” said Dr. Edward Michelson, chief of emergency medicine at the University Medical Center and a professor at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center.

Hector Balderrama, 55, a medical supply salesman, watched as his immediate family contracted the virus in mid-October: first his adult son. Then his wife. Then his eldest daughter.

“It just shut us down completely,” he said. His wife was hospitalized and his son, who is diabetic, spent days in an intensive care unit. They eventually recovered. Mr. Balderrama never caught it. “Thank God we’re here and getting better, but we’re not 100 percent.”

Vast swaths of the city are eerily empty, with indoor shopping malls surrounded by desolate parking lots. The afternoon wind whips through deserted downtown streets, tossing plastic bags like tumbleweeds in a spaghetti western with few actors.

Adriana Salas, 48, kept her small clothing store open despite the small number of customers and new restrictions. “I’m very late with the rent,” she said. “I came to open because I needed money.”

What activity continued in the city could be found at big-box stores along Interstate 10, in snaking lines of cars at drive-through restaurants or by people trying to find some space to be outside at a mostly quiet outdoor mall.

“We were all sick,” Xavier Gonzales, 45, said of his wife and his 6-year-old son, who at that moment was running with the family dog on a patch of artificial turf.

Mr. Gonzales, a singer who has been mostly without work since March, got it the worst — “I couldn’t get up anymore” — and was told by emergency room doctors that he had viral pneumonia. But because he could breathe on his own, he was sent home to recover to make room for other, more seriously ill patients.

He did not look to Mexico, as some Texans have, for the source of El Paso’s pandemic problems. “I think that’s an excuse for people who are looking to blame someone; it’s not us, it’s them,” he said. “But it is us. It’s us not following the rules.”





No.8 article:
How Hyperpop, a Small Spotify Playlist, Grew Into a Big Deal

The microgenre — fueled by teen upstarts like osquinn and glaive, and more established names like 100 gecs and A.G. Cook — has a modest but dedicated following, and many different kinds of sounds.

One night this past February, osquinn got into an argument on Twitter and decided to make a song about it. From her bedroom in the suburbs of Northern Virginia, the 15-year-old logged onto a server on the text, voice and video chat app Discord, where around 50 of her internet friends, all young artists like herself, usually spent their nights playing video games and making music together.

In a recent interview, she explained how she heard a glitchy beat by blackwinterwells, a vocalist and producer from Hamilton, Ontario, in a video chat there. Unable to focus on her homework, osquinn quickly recorded a song over the beat that night. A few days later, she released it on SoundCloud and then uploaded it to streaming services through the independent distribution service DistroKid.

Clocking in at just over a minute, “Bad Idea” is a cascade of pitched-up vocals and abrasive synths, with osquinn singing in an unaffected tone, “I’m still trapped and I can’t work, I’m too distracted/Saw your tweet and took some action, bad idea.”

Since then, Spotify users have streamed “Bad Idea” over a million times, an impressive feat for any independent artist on the platform, let alone one who’s too young to drive. Much of the song’s success can be traced to a playlist on the streaming service called Hyperpop, and a co-sign from 100 gecs, the experimental electronic duo of Laura Les and Dylan Brady, whose 2019 album, “1000 gecs,” crossed genres and online references at warp speed.

In July, Les and Brady took over the Hyperpop playlist as guest curators, drawing from the community of artists that had been developing on Discord and SoundCloud, where Les said she found most of the music she added. A month before their Hyperpop takeover, she tweeted out high praise for osquinn’s song: “so mad I didn’t write bad idea.”

“I think hyperpop has evolved to be a flexible enough term that I’m not as hesitant anymore to rep it at an arm’s length,” Les said in a phone interview. “It seems like it’s become more encompassing of many things.”

The Hyperpop playlist, which Spotify started in August 2019, began as a direct response to 100 gecs’ viral rise. “The fact that so many people were talking about this project inspired us to look deeper and see if there were other artists making music like this that we didn’t know about,” Lizzy Szabo, an editor at Spotify and the playlist’s lead curator, said in a phone interview.

Initially, Hyperpop featured songs by 100 gecs and artists associated with PC Music, the experimental pop collective and label founded by the British producer, singer and songwriter A.G. Cook in 2013, and the forerunners of the distorted pop sound that’s become associated with the term. Szabo and her colleagues landed on the name after seeing it come up in metadata collected by Glenn McDonald, Spotify’s “data alchemist,” whose job is finding emerging sounds on the platform and classifying them into “microgenres.”

Over email, McDonald said he first saw the term applied to PC Music’s releases in 2014 but it wasn’t until 2018 that hyperpop qualified as a microgenre: “For our categorization purposes it was mostly a matter of waiting to see if enough artists would coalesce around a similar ebullient electro-maximalism.”

Some of the artists in the scene seemed to resent being grouped together under an arbitrary genre term by a big corporation. While some of them make electronic pop in the vein of PC Music, others are more inspired by online rap movements. The name started to become a meme — “hyperpoop” jokes abounded on Twitter — but the springboard the playlist provided was undeniable.

Almost overnight, osquinn watched streams of “Bad Idea” climb into the hundreds of thousands. (On Spotify, osquinn’s music is listed under P4rkr, the name she used before coming out as transgender in April.) The song performed so well on the playlist that two weeks after 100 gecs’ takeover, Szabo and the other editors put her on its “cover,” the lead image at the top of the page.

If osquinn has become hyperpop’s most visible star, then glaive, also 15, has had the fastest rise of any artist in the scene. He began recording his first songs at the start of quarantine, at first inspired by the emo rapper Lil Peep, before finding artists in the hyperpop scene and quickly moving on to a brighter, more up-tempo sound that emphasizes his intricately layered vocals.

“I feel like hyperpop is not a genre,” glaive said on a FaceTime call from his home in a small town outside of Asheville, N.C. “I’ve made straight-up pop songs, nothing hyper about them, but they’ll still get put in the hyperpop label because I’m friends with all the people that make ‘hyperpop.’”

The Hyperpop playlist is an example of what Szabo called a “community-based playlist.” Similar to Lorem, another playlist Spotify started in 2019 that targets a specific brand of internet-savvy Gen Z listener and includes various strains of emerging pop music, Hyperpop aims to engage both the young artists who have been included under its ever-expanding umbrella and their increasingly devoted fans.

At just over 120,000 subscribers, the playlist is still relatively small, but Szabo said the rate at which listeners add its songs to their own libraries rivals that of Spotify’s biggest playlists. (RapCaviar, one of the platform’s most popular playlists, has over 13 million subscribers.) Eighty percent of its currently featured songs are independent releases and, because of its high level of engagement, the playlist can have a significant impact on artists’ careers.

Like many small, passionate scenes, hyperpop has also experienced blowups and backlashes. When A.G. Cook did a takeover of the playlist in September and added 50 songs, some of his picks became controversial. Drawing connections between old and new, as he explained later in a thread on Twitter, Cook added songs by J Dilla, Kate Bush and others — artists that were decidedly not part of the of-the-moment hyperpop universe. The fresh names appeared at the top of the playlist, bumping down many of the regulars.

“At the time, I was really mad,” osquinn said over an Instagram video call. “People were asking why we were making such a big deal about it, but they didn’t realize there were people who were literally living off that Spotify check.”

A sophomore in high school, osquinn said her parents were “speechless” when she showed them her last payout from DistroKid. She’s prone to taking long breaks from social media, but has gotten messages on Instagram from managers who want to work with her and A&amp;Rs who want to sign her. Though she wants to make those moves eventually, she has mostly left these messages unanswered.

Dan Awad, who manages similarly internet-driven artists like Whethan and Oliver Tree, said he first found glaive’s song “Sick” on SoundCloud in June and thought, “This kid is the best songwriter I’ve ever heard in my life.” He started managing glaive shortly after and said there was immediate interest from major labels. In October, after narrowing it down to three options, glaive signed a short-term deal with Interscope for two EPs.

Even as some of these artists begin to brush up against the larger music industry, defining what hyperpop is, and what it isn’t, is still evasive. “Hyperpop is a genre but it’s also an artist and listening community,” Szabo said. “It’s a playlist that hugs both of those ideals.”

The way the term has resisted classification — moving fluidly through digital spaces and pulling in new sounds and artists as it travels — might be its biggest strength. “As far as being a genre, I think it’s still in its infancy and we’re still writing the rules for what it can sound like,” said Les of 100 gecs. “Once you can lock down specific elements of what makes something ‘it’ then it’s time to move on and do something else.”





No.9 article:
What Happens to Some L.G.B.T.Q. Teens When Their Parents Reject Them

Over a third of young people in foster care in New York City identify as L.G.B.T.Q. and are struggling to find the support they need, according to a new survey.

A teenage girl from Brooklyn bounced to four foster homes before she trusted a family enough to come out as bisexual. In Queens, a 21-year-old transgender man said he no longer spoke to his parents.

Another teenager, who is transgender, remembered the day he climbed to the roof of his apartment building in Queens and contemplated jumping to his death. Soon after, he was placed into a foster home.

Some advocacy groups have long believed that gay, bisexual and transgender teenagers are overrepresented in the city’s foster care system, and that many struggle to find support in it and at home. A new survey has confirmed that impression: It found that more than a third of New York City’s young people in foster care identify as L.G.B.T.Q.

The survey, published on Tuesday by the Administration for Children’s Services, the city’s child welfare agency, revealed disparities between the L.G.B.T.Q. youths and their peers in foster care. The young people who identify as L.G.B.T.Q. are placed more often in group homes or residential care, instead of family-based homes. They also are more likely to report experiencing homelessness, negative interactions with the police, and feelings of depression and hopelessness.

The agency said it had used the survey’s findings to develop a plan to decrease the number of L.G.B.T.Q. youths in the system, increase placements with relatives and foster families, and improve the young people’s overall well-being. In New York City, children can stay in foster care into adulthood, transitioning once they find stable housing.

“Without that data, in a sense, we’re doing program and policy planning in the dark,” said David Hansell, the agency’s commissioner. “We can only do good planning to meet the needs of youth in foster care if we really understand what those needs are.”

For years, foster care agencies in New York City have lacked the data to assess L.G.B.T.Q. youths’ needs or analyze their own shortcomings. Nationwide data on L.G.B.T.Q. teenagers in foster care is scarce.

While there is no federal data for comparison, the Annie E. Casey Foundation, a philanthropy for underprivileged children, has found that about 24 percent of young people being served by a foster care initiative it has in 17 states identify as L.G.B.T.Q.

The New York City survey is “a very targeted focus on a population that we usually don’t see in child welfare,” said Sandra Gasca-Gonzalez, vice president of the Annie E. Casey Foundation’s Center for Systems Innovation.

Theo Sandfort, a professor at the Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, analyzed the findings of the telephone survey, which was completed in late 2019. People ages 13 to 20 who were in foster care answered questions about their gender, sexual orientation, demographics, experiences in the system and well-being.

Nearly 2,400 people were contacted, and 659 responded. About 34 percent of the respondents said they were L.G.B.T.Q.

While some children are placed into foster care because of abuse, neglect or poverty, many L.G.B.T.Q. teenagers enter the system after their families reject them.

Jonathan DeJesus, the 21-year-old man who said he no longer speaks to his parents, dreams of becoming a public speaker and an advocate for young people like him. Mr. DeJesus said he was first placed in foster care when he was 12, after experiencing domestic violence at home. Despite family therapy, friction continued once he identified as a lesbian.

“I started to dress masculine and everything, so it was just definitely out of the question for them,” he said, referring to his parents.

His first placement, at a residential treatment center in Westchester County, N.Y., was supposed to last a couple of months. Mr. DeJesus stayed for four years.

His experience was similar to that of other L.G.B.T.Q. youths who lingered in residential care and group homes. Mr. DeJesus said he was thriving in his current group home because it was L.G.B.T.Q. specific and aided in his transition.

Under the child welfare agency’s new plan, all staff members must attend two days of training. The agency will also recruit foster parents interested in caring for L.G.B.T.Q. youths, and L.G.B.T.Q. youths will join a current youth leadership council that advises the staff.

While the plan outlines solutions, the survey does not get to the root of the disparities. It does not, for example, explain why L.G.B.T.Q. youths are more likely to have more placements or more likely to be placed in group homes.

Family settings tend to be more effective, Ms. Gasca-Gonzalez said, because “families take care of each other’s needs” and group homes typically have generalized rules.

Mr. Hansell said the agency was planning to do further studies. Advocacy groups welcomed the new data as a positive step, though some were skeptical that the effort to improve services would be effective.

Lawyers for Children, a nonprofit legal group that represents children in foster care, has an L.G.B.T.Q. Rights Project. Linda Diaz and Kristin Kimmel, co-directors of the project, said they wished they had been included in devising the plan.

“It is very disappointing that at a really crucial juncture in the provision of services to L.G.B.T.Q. youth that A.C.S. is not consulting with us,” Ms. Diaz said.

Youth advocates could have offered valuable perspectives, Ms. Kimmel said. She added, for example, that the plan should make sure all foster parents — even those not specifically recruited to care for L.G.B.T.Q. youths — were trained to support children regardless of sexuality or gender expression.

“While A.C.S. has had a policy for quite some time that they’re going to train all of their foster parents, all of their agency caseworkers and everybody that provides services to these kids to be accepting of them, that really hasn’t come to pass,” Ms. Kimmel said. “There are plenty of foster homes that are rejecting of these young people.”

Destiny Simmons, 24, who was not part of the survey, said that moving from home to home often kept her from forming relationships.

“You don’t know when you’re going to be moved again,” Ms. Simmons, who is bisexual, said. “So, it’s like, why form a bond with this person when it could just be broken?”

In recent years, city data on homelessness showed that 40 percent of homeless young people in New York City were L.G.B.T.Q., and about 42 percent of homeless youths had been in foster care.

Jamie Powlovich, executive director of the nonprofit Coalition for Homeless Youth, attributed the homelessness rate to rejection from family and community members, and a lack of secure housing. Surveys and plans were not enough, she said, and L.G.B.T.Q. youths must be involved in decision-making.

“I’ve never worked with a young person who didn’t know some really great answers,” she said. “It’s just that most people don’t listen to them.”

Andrés, a 19-year-old living in a foster home in the Bronx, knows the feeling of not being heard, wishing the city’s child welfare agency had acted sooner to remove him from his parents’ apartment.

About four years ago, Andrés, who did not want his surname used, came out as transgender. That kick-started family therapy, an intervention by the agency in hopes of keeping Andrés out of foster care. But he said his relationship with his parents could not be repaired.

“I’m not making any compromises,” he said, “because I’m not going to compromise myself for someone else.”

During a visit to Colombia, he said, his mother forced him to participate in what he described as an exorcism to change his identity.

“I’m locked in a concrete room with two men I’ve never met before in my life trying to pray the gay away,” he said.

When he returned to New York, his two brothers continued to support him. Still, he found himself on the roof of his apartment building considering suicide.

The child welfare agency then moved him from his home in 2016. Now, he said, he is in a better place.





No.10 article:
Start a New Tradition With Your Thanksgiving Potatoes

For faster, more flavorful Thanksgiving potatoes, do as J. Kenji López-Alt does, and stir-fry them.

At the holidays, recipes that are simple on their own become more difficult when you try to juggle them all in a single kitchen. To make things less complicated, I’m taking a novel approach with my potatoes this year, one that requires only a bit of prep work, and a few minutes of attention at dinner time: I’m stir-frying them in my wok.

Several years ago, when walking through the bustling Muslim quarter of Xi’an, in the Shaanxi Province of China, my wife, Adri, and I were surprised to see carts with wide, flat aluminum pans filled with tiny golden potatoes bubbling away in oil, just as they’re cooked in Adri’s native Colombia. There, yellow papas criollas, grown high in the Andes and no bigger than grapes, are often served shallow-fried whole until their skins are wrinkled and their flesh is so tender that they virtually pop as you eat them.

(I later reached out to the British chef and writer Fuchsia Dunlop, who trained in China. She identified the potatoes as gaoshan tudou, or “high mountain potatoes,” grown in the Qinling Mountains, just south of Xi’an. Given the potatoes’ comparable alpine growing conditions, their similarity to Andean papas criollas made sense.)

In Colombia, the potatoes would be sprinkled with salt and served with ají, a fresh salsa made with chiles and cilantro. In Xi’an, it was a little different. We ordered and watched as the vendor scooped up some of the fried potatoes and placed them in a hot wok, rapidly added spices and aromatics, and stir-fried everything for a moment, before transferring them to a cup and handing them over with a couple of toothpicks.

The potatoes were remarkable — as moist and buttery as papas criollas, with the complex warm spices of Xi’an: chile, garlic, Sichuan and white pepper, star anise, cumin, fennel and something that gave it all a distinct umami.

The idea of briefly stir-frying precooked potatoes was immediately appealing to me, and, when we got back home, I started experimenting.

To simplify things, I wanted to see if I could do away with the initial shallow fry. I found success boiling yellow new potatoes, draining them and letting them steam-dry before stir-frying them. Extending the stir-fry step to a few minutes (rather than the 30 seconds the vendors in Xi’an gave them) delivered potatoes with delightfully brown and crispy bits on their surfaces. Even better: You could boil the potatoes earlier in the day, let them sit at room temperature, then stir-fry them for a few minutes just before serving without any loss in quality.

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

The method is also highly adaptable, in terms of flavor. The potatoes are good with just salt and pepper, but some minced fresh rosemary and chopped garlic puts them at home on a traditional Thanksgiving table. At my restaurant, we make a spice blend with blistered cumin and mustard seed that we sprinkle over our currywurst. Those flavors are wonderful with stir-fried potatoes, especially when you add a handful of chopped fresh cilantro.

Eager to identify that umami flavor I tasted in Xi’an, I reached out to my friends Steph Li and Chris Thomas, who produce the YouTube channel Chinese Cooking Demystified out of their home in Shunde. They pinned down the mystery powders as a particular brand of Chinese chicken bouillon and a seasoning blend that contains monosodium glutamate (MSG) and disodium 5’-ribonucleotides. The latter is a mixture of organic compounds that work synergistically with MSG, increasing its umami flavor by around fourfold. It’s a common ingredient in Western chicken bouillon (and snack food).

The Xi’an-inspired spiced potatoes are delicious, even without added chicken bouillon, but adding a touch bolsters their flavor considerably. I keep a small jar of MSG on my countertop right next to the salt cellar and the pepper mill (just as my mother and grandmother did). I may start keeping a jar of powdered bouillon on my counter as well; stir-fried potatoes make the holidays easier, but they’re also delicious any time of year.

Recipe: Hot and Numbing Stir-Fried New Potatoes

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.11 article:
Only Truth Can Save Our Democracy

The Trump presidency has dangerously normalized lying.

On Saturday morning I was sitting in the kitchen with my wife, Ann, who was stirring her Cream of Wheat, when out of nowhere she surprised me with a question: “Is not lying one of the Ten Commandments?”

I had to stop and think for a second myself, before answering: “Yes, thou shalt not bear false witness.”

The fact that the two of us even momentarily struggled over that question is, for me, the worst legacy of the Trump presidency.

You remember the old joke? Moses comes down from Mount Sinai and tells the children of Israel: “Children, I have good news and bad news. The good news is that I bargained him down to 10. The bad news is that adultery is still in.”

Well, I’ve got bad news and worse news: We’re now down to nine.

Yes, this was a historic four years — even one of the Ten Commandments got erased. Lying has been normalized at a scale we’ve never seen before. Hence Ann’s question.

I am not sure how we reverse it, but we’d better — and fast.

People who do not share truths can’t defeat a pandemic, can’t defend the Constitution and can’t turn the page after a bad leader. The war for truth is now the war to preserve our democracy.

It is impossible to maintain a free society when leaders and news purveyors feel at liberty to spread lies without sanction. Without truth there is no agreed-upon path forward, and without trust there is no way to go down that path together.

But our hole now is so deep, because the only commandment President Trump did believe in was the Eleventh: “Thou shalt not get caught.”

Lately, though, Trump and many around him stopped believing even in that — they don’t seem to care about being caught.

They know, as the saying goes, that their lies are already halfway around the world before the truth has laced up its shoes. That’s all they care about. Just pollute the world with falsehoods and then no one will know what is true. Then you’re home free.

The truth binds you, and Trump never wanted to be bound — not in what he could ask of the president of Ukraine or say about the coronavirus or about the integrity of our election.

And it nearly worked. Trump proved over five years that you could lie multiple times a day — multiple times a minute — and not just win election but almost win re-election.

We have to ensure that the likes of him never again appear in American politics.

Because Trump not only liberated himself from truth, he liberated others to tell their lies or spread his — and reap the benefits. His party’s elders did not care, as long as he kept the base energized and voting red. Fox News didn’t care, as long as he kept its viewers glued to the channel and its ratings high. Major social networks only barely cared, as long he kept their users online and their numbers growing. Many of his voters — even evangelicals — did not care, as long as he appointed anti-abortion judges. They are “pro-life,” but not always pro-truth.

For all those reasons, lying is now such a growth industry it deserves its own G.D.P. line: “Auto sales and durables were each down 10 percent last quarter, but lying grew 30 percent and economists predict that the lying industry could double in 2021.”

Israeli Bedouin expert Clinton Bailey tells the story about a Bedouin chief who discovered one day that his favorite turkey had been stolen. He called his sons together and told them: “Boys, we are in great danger now. My turkey’s been stolen. Find my turkey.” His boys just laughed and said, “Father, what do you need that turkey for?” and they ignored him.

Then a few weeks later his camel was stolen. And the chief told his sons, “Find my turkey.” A few weeks later the chief’s horse was stolen. His sons shrugged, and the chief repeated, “Find my turkey.”

Finally, a few weeks later his daughter was abducted, at which point he gathered his sons and declared: “It’s all because of the turkey! When they saw that they could take my turkey, we lost everything.”

And do you know what our turkey was? Birtherism.

When Trump was allowed to spread the “birther” lie for years — that Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii, was actually born in Kenya and was therefore ineligible to be president — he realized he could get away with anything.

Sure, Trump eventually gave that one up, but once he saw how easily he could steal our turkey — the truth — he just kept doing it, until he stole the soul of the Republican Party.

And, had he been re-elected, he would have stolen the soul of this nation.

He and his collaborators are now making one last bid to use the Big Lie to destroy our democracy by delegitimizing one of its greatest moments ever — when a record number of citizens came out to vote, and their votes were legitimately counted, amid a deadly and growing pandemic.

It is so corrupt what Trump and his allies are doing, so dangerous to our constitutional system, but you weep even more for how many of their followers have bought into it.

“Lies don’t work unless they’re believed, and nearly half the American public has proved remarkably gullible,” my former Times colleague David K. Shipler, who served in our Moscow bureau during the Cold War, said to me. “I think of each of us as having our own alarm — and it’s as if half of their batteries have died. Lots of Trump’s lies, and his retweets of conspiracy fabrications, are obviously absurd. Why have so many people believed them? I’m not sure it’s fully understood.”

That is why it’s vital that every reputable news organization — especially television, Facebook and Twitter — adopt what I call the Trump Rule. If any official utters an obvious falsehood or fact-free allegation, the interview should be immediately terminated, just as many networks did with Trump’s lie-infested, postelection, news conference last week. If critics scream “censorship,” just shout back “truth.”

This must become the new normal. Politicians need to be terrified every time they go on TV that the plug will be pulled on them if they lie.

At the same time, we need to require every K-12 school in America to include digital civics — how to determine and crosscheck if something you read on the internet is true — in their curriculum. You should not be able to graduate without it.

We need to restore the stigma to lying and liars before it is too late. We need to hunt for truth, fight for truth and mercilessly discredit the forces of disinformation. It is the freedom battle of our generation.





No.12 article:
The Republican Party Is Attacking Democracy

Our survival as a nation depends, above all, on the loser accepting the results of an election.

It turns out there was a coordinated attack on the 2020 election after all. It began several years ago and accelerated in the last several months. Now that Election Day has passed, it has launched into overdrive.

Its weapons are baseless insinuation and evidence-free charges, deployed solely to sow chaos and undermine the results of a free and fair election — one that produced a clear winner and an even clearer loser.

But the most dangerous attackers of American democracy aren’t the Russians or the Chinese. They are the leaders of the Republican Party.

In the face of a commanding national triumph by President-elect Joe Biden — not just an Electoral College victory but a popular-vote margin that is approaching five million — President Trump and top Republicans are behaving like spoiled children refusing to let go of their toys.

“President Trump is 100 percent within his rights to look into allegations of irregularities and weigh his legal options,” said Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, even as he celebrated Republican pickups in the House of Representatives. Apparently, the same ballots that may be fraudulent at the presidential level are fine a few lines farther down, where Republicans are winning more of them.

Attorney General Bill Barr, who has repeated the president’s lies that absentee ballots were a source of widespread voter fraud, authorized the Justice Department to look into “substantial allegations” of voting irregularities. In response, the department official who oversees voter-fraud investigations stepped down.

The rot pervades the administration. The Trump-appointed head of the General Services Administration, Emily W. Murphy, has yet to recognize Mr. Biden as the winner of the election and the president-elect, preventing him from accessing millions of dollars in funds, national-security tools and other essential resources to begin the long and complex task of presidential transition.

On Monday, Mr. McConnell snidely remarked, “Let’s not have any lectures about how the president should immediately, cheerfully accept preliminary election results from the same characters who just spent four years refusing to accept the validity of the last election.”

Oh, please. Hillary Clinton conceded the 2016 election less than 24 hours after polls closed, even though Mr. Trump had barely eked out wins in three decisive swing states and was trailing badly in the popular vote. So did other top Democrats, including, crucially, President Barack Obama, who called Mr. Trump before sunrise to congratulate him and to “invite him to come to the White House tomorrow to talk about making sure that there is a successful transition between our presidencies.”

This is what you do when you lose an election. Republicans still howled in outrage because Mrs. Clinton had dared to hold off conceding on election night itself.

It is now one full week after Election Day 2020. Joe Biden has prevailed in the Electoral College by a margin that, if current leads hold, will be identical to Donald Trump’s in 2016. When the counting is complete, his popular-vote margin could be twice as big as Hillary Clinton’s.

And yet with painfully few exceptions, Republicans are silent. No congratulations to Mr. Biden and his running mate, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. No concessions. No acknowledgment that any world exists beyond their fantasy one in which only Republicans may rule. Instead we hear endless droning about “voting irregularities” or “fraud” or whatever euphemism Republicans have agreed on this year to describe Black and brown people voting in large numbers.

By the way, for a party that professes to care so much about election integrity, Republicans have an odd way of showing it. Democrats have tried to pass multiple measures enhancing election security in recent years, some with bipartisan support. Mitch McConnell keeps blocking them, or being stingy with funding.

Of course any election irregularities should be brought to light, if they exist. But what Republicans have brought forth instead is a slurry of unverified allegations and flat-out bogus claims racing around social media, and filing lawsuits that would be sanctionable under normal circumstances. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said, “Philadelphia elections are as crooked as a snake,” without offering any evidence. The new generation of Republican leaders preach and preen about how only “legal” votes should be counted, as though they have discovered some long-lost secret rather than a mundane fact about all elections.

The truth is that Republicans have conditioned themselves to refuse to accept that they could lose despite, or precisely because of, all the built-in structural advantages they currently enjoy, like the Senate and the Electoral College.

Speaking of those advantages, do you hear any Democrats saying that the Senate was “stolen,” even though their minority has consistently represented many millions more Americans than the Republicans’ majority? Instead, after a disappointing election night, they regrouped and said, we have to get out the vote and win those two runoffs in Georgia. That’s what you do in a democracy.

Sure, Democrats are mad at Mr. Trump and opposed to his presidency — not only because he lost the popular vote by so much, but because he was and remains so manifestly unfit to hold the office, as many top Republicans used to say themselves.

One of the countless measures of Mr. Trump’s unfitness is his willingness to accept or even solicit foreign interference to win. That is why, if there was any cheating in the 2020 election, it was committed by the president himself, when he tried to extort a foreign nation to gin up dirt on Mr. Biden and his son Hunter. For this high crime he was impeached by the House of Representatives. To be clear, that impeachment was not the result of Democrats’ refusal to accept his legitimacy to govern; it was a result of his decision to squander that legitimacy yet again by behaving like a strongman.

But the bigger picture here is the decades-long descent of the Republican Party which now prefers conspiracy theories over facts, magical thinking over science and delegitimizing its political opponents over substantive and responsible governance. Just a few recent examples: The racist birther slurs that Mr. Trump spearheaded against Mr. Obama; the reflexive opposition to everything Mr. Obama tried to do, even before he took office; the blanket denial of his appointment of federal judges, culminating in the theft of a Supreme Court vacancy that arose nearly a year before he left office; and finally, the seating of Mr. Trump’s Supreme Court nominee only days before an election that he lost fair and square.

Republicans have been working tirelessly to make voting harder for many years, and especially this year, for precisely this reason. They knew that Mr. Trump was unpopular and that Mr. Biden would probably win if more people voted. When voter suppression failed, they had only two options: accept their fate like serious and responsible people do, or claim that any loss they suffered was by definition the result of fraud.

Once again, they picked door number two. This is the problem with getting comfortable with the perks of minority rule, as Republicans have over the past several decades. It’s not just that you can ignore what most Americans want. It’s that you genuinely believe that there’s no way your opponent can win — much less by an absolute majority — without cheating.

That attitude is fatal to a democracy, the survival of which depends, above all, on the loser accepting the results. The Democrats, along with most of the rest of the world, understand this. One party alone is responsible for dragging the nation to this perilous place.





No.13 article:
Bobby Ball, Half of a Hit British Comedy Duo, Dies at 76

Their TV show “Cannon &amp; Ball,” part goofy comedy and part earnest musical numbers, drew up to 20 million viewers on Saturday nights in the 1980s. Mr. Ball was infected with the coronavirus.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

Bobby Ball had a look that fit his slapstick humor. He was a slightly stocky 5-foot-3, with a head of dark, bushy hair, a similarly impressive mustache, a gaptoothed grin and a habit of snapping his red suspenders. His signature line, addressed to his comedy partner, Tommy Cannon, was “Rock on, Tommy!” The two were among Britain’s biggest television stars in the 1980s.

Mr. Ball died on Oct. 28 at a hospital in London. He was 76. His manager, Phil Duke, who confirmed the death, said Mr. Ball had been admitted to the hospital because of breathing problems and tested positive for Covid-19.

“Cannon &amp; Ball,” which ran from 1979 to 1988, drew as many as 20 million viewers on a Saturday night. The show was a mix of goofy comedy bits — about things like unpredictably reclining airline seats, obsessive-compulsive bartenders and a “West Side Story” gang encounter involving a very old man — and earnest musical numbers.

Between skits, Mr. Ball and Mr. Cannon would put on tuxedos and sincerely sing well-known songs, often romantic ballads, like “Send In the Clowns” or “To All the Girls I’ve Loved Before.”

Toward the end of the show’s run, Mr. Ball, unhappy about his bad habits (drinking, womanizing and a propensity toward violence, the press said), turned to religion. He wrote “Christianity for Beginners” and began teaching vicars how to incorporate humor into their sermons.

Robert Harper was born on Jan. 28, 1944, in Oldham, England, a manufacturing town near Manchester. Although he showed some interest in show business in his youth, he took a traditional job after high school: welder at a local factory.

But in his spare time he sang at cabarets around northern England. When a new welder, Thomas Derbyshire, joined the company, the two became friends. Soon they were a singing duo, calling themselves Bobby and Stevie Rhythm, then the Sherrell Brothers, then the Harper Brothers. Later they changed their surnames and became Cannon and Ball.

The duo once said that they had decided to expand their act to include jokes because comics were being paid more per hour than singers.

After their series ended, the two returned to television as shopping mall security guards on a short-lived sitcom, “Plaza Patrol” (1991). Mr. Ball continued to act, mostly on television, in grandfather and father-in-law roles.

Mr. Ball’s last screen appearances — both in 2019 — were in “The Cockfields,” a mini-series about a family birthday celebration on the Isle of Wight, and “Not Going Out,” a series on which he had a recurring role as the feckless father of the star (Lee Mack).

He and Mr. Cannon also continued to work together onstage. They played Las Vegas as recently as 2018.

Mr. Ball and Joan Lynn married in 1964 and divorced in 1970. His survivors include his second wife, Yvonne Nugent, whom he married in 1974; two sons, Robert Harper Jr. and Darren Harper, now a comedy team, from his first marriage; and a daughter, Joanne Ball. According to The Oldham Times, his hometown newspaper, there were also 10 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

He didn’t plan to retire. “If no promoters booked me, I’d be out there busking,” Mr. Ball told The Mirror in 2015, referring to British sidewalk performers who sing or dance for spare change.

Entertaining people had been an honor, he said, adding, “That’s all I want written on my gravestone — ‘He gave us a laugh.’”





No.14 article:
These Towns Trusted a Doctor to Set Up Covid Testing. Sample Patient Fee: $1,944.

Patients say a Connecticut physician took advantage of the pandemic with “super Covid tests” and $480 follow-up phone calls.

Rebecca Sussman got a coronavirus test because town officials in Bedford, N.Y., encouraged her to.

“If you haven’t gotten your test yet, please do so for yourself, your family and our community,” Chris Burdick, the town supervisor, said in an email. More tests would mean a lower positivity rate, he said, and a faster path to reopening. He directed residents to the town’s new testing site, situated on an empty parking lot at the train station.

Ms. Sussman, 51, took her whole family to get tested, and the results came back negative.

Then the paperwork came: $6,816 had been charged to insurance for four coronavirus tests. Ms. Sussman’s fees alone were $1,944.

She started looking through the itemized costs. One insurance claim showed that she had been tested for a dozen respiratory diseases. She found that odd; the town emails advertised only a coronavirus test. There was also a surprise $480 charge for a short phone call relaying her results.

“That’s when I realized something was wrong,” Ms. Sussman said. “When in the history of medical appointments does it ever cost to get a phone call giving you your test results?”

The bills didn’t come from the town. They came from Dr. Steven Murphy, an internist from Greenwich, Conn., whom Bedford had selected to run its testing site.

Ms. Sussman and 10 other patients contend that Dr. Murphy used this public testing site and others nearby to run unnecessary and expensive tests. He did so with little oversight from town officials, who had advertised his services widely.

In health care, this type of billing is often described as upcoding, using codes that net high reimbursements but aren’t warranted for the medical care delivered.

“What it appears is happening is he is billing every code he can get reimbursed,” said Susan Null, a medical billing expert who reviewed patient billing documents from Dr. Murphy’s practices for The New York Times.

Patients tested at privately owned emergency rooms have faced similarly high bills. Many of those tested by Dr. Murphy were shocked that testing sites created by their cities and towns would involve such high fees.

Dr. Murphy estimates he has tested at least 60,000 patients for coronavirus. He defends his billing methods, and says he has brought an important service to the communities he serves.

“I jumped on this,” he said. “I decided, let’s work up these patients. Let’s care for them in the drive-through.”

The Times has been asking readers to submit their bills so that we can understand the costs of coronavirus testing and treatment. The collection of more than 400 bills has revealed that some coronavirus patients face overwhelming medical debt and that, across the country, many Americans face illegal fees for their tests. If you have a bill to submit, you can do so here.

Dr. Murphy has generated more submissions to the Times database than any other individual provider, often from patients concerned that his high fees would raise health premiums.

“Just because I have a zero-dollar co-pay, it doesn’t meant that, in the long run, I don’t pay for this,” Ms. Sussman said. “My husband works for a company with amazing benefits, but every year our premiums go up. This is part of that.”

Town and city officials were eager to work with Dr. Murphy when he offered to set up coronavirus testing sites in early spring. There was no national testing infrastructure, and cities, hospitals and doctor’s offices were scrambling to build testing capacity on their own.

New York City’s northern suburbs were especially desperate. Westchester County experienced one of the country’s earliest outbreaks, a cluster centered in a synagogue in New Rochelle.

Dr. Murphy offered to provide thousands of tests, something other doctors and hospitals could not match.

“He reached out to me, then we realized he was doing work in other towns, ” said Justin Elicker, the mayor of New Haven, Conn., which started a testing site with Dr. Murphy in April. “We called them for references and they were all quite pleased.”

Cities and towns gave Dr. Murphy free access to public property and rented tents on his behalf. One city provided internet hot spots. Bedford, where Ms. Sussman lives, recruited volunteers to assist Dr. Murphy with his work and arranged for residents to donate lunches.

Dr. Murphy committed to not billing patients directly but retained control over how he would examine patients and what he would charge health insurers.

Billing documents show that Dr. Murphy did not test patients just for coronavirus. He routinely billed insurers for a large panel test for at least 20 respiratory pathogens, including rhinovirus and enterovirus.

One large national health plan said it received over 1,000 claims from Dr. Murphy for the large panel test this spring. It received fewer than a dozen claims from him for stand-alone coronavirus tests in the same period. Insurers typically reimburse the panel test at a higher rate, often paying six times what they would for a regular coronavirus test, according to data provided by the nonprofit Health Care Cost Institute.

Dr. Murphy said he reserved the larger panel test for symptomatic patients or those who needed a quick turnaround on their results. But in interviews, asymptomatic patients said they had also received the more expensive test.

Mary Farley, 69, got a test at one of Dr. Murphy’s sites because she wanted to contribute to epidemiological data in her area, she said. She had no symptoms or any known contact with a positive case.

Medicare paid $583 for Ms. Farley’s drive-through test, in part because of the large panel test. Medicare typically pays only between $51.31 and $100 for a coronavirus test.

“There is a lot broken with the health system, and I think this is a blatant example of that,” Ms. Farley said. “A lot of people are worried about taxes going up, and these charges are a hidden tax on all of us.”

Dr. Murphy also billed patients hundreds of dollars for a short call to deliver results.

Ms. Farley recalled making repeated phone calls to Dr. Murphy’s office to obtain her results. “It was a 30-second phone call after I spent almost two weeks trying to get someone on the phone,” she said. “Then to find out they were charging $340 for that, it felt like there was no end to it.”

Some health insurers are paying a large share of Dr. Murphy’s billed charges. Ms. Sussman’s health plan, Anthem Blue Cross, paid more than $5,000 for the family’s tests. Medicare appears to regularly reimburse Mr. Murphy’s claims, too.

Other plans are denying the large fees or requesting more information. Dr. Murphy has sued one large health plan, Cigna, over denied coronavirus test claims. When The Times first contacted Dr. Murphy, he responded with a photograph of what he said was a large box of insurer denials.

“About 4,000 denials or requests,” he wrote. “Uncompensated at a cost of millions!&quot;

Dr. Murphy said that it was inappropriate to test patients only for coronavirus, as other diseases could be missed.

“Just testing for coronavirus is one of the most dangerous things you could do,” he said. “It is crystal clear that mentality is bad for public health.”

When Ms. Farley emailed to inquire about her bill, Dr. Murphy’s staff described the larger panel test as “a super Covid test.”

“Dr. Murphy is a very thorough doctor,” a staff member wrote, adding that everyone “is tested not only for Covid but also for any other virus that may be active.” The email was obtained by a public records request filed by Sammy Sussman, Ms. Sussman’s son, a student journalist who wrote about his test fees on Medium.

Medical experts said Dr. Murphy’s testing and billing practices were out of line with current standards.

Offering one large panel when looking for the virus “is unusual and, in my opinion, inappropriate,” said Dr. Alexander McAdam, director of the infectious disease laboratories at Boston Children’s Hospital. “That panel should only be used for the critically ill or immuno-compromised, so we don’t over-test and generate too large of a bill for our patients.”

Dr. McAdam also said a “super Covid test” does not exist, nor would he describe a large respiratory panel as such.

Ms. Sussman’s complaint to a town official about the high fees was forwarded to Dr. Murphy, who seemed to bristle at her suggestion that the price was inappropriate.

“What would be acceptable as payment, Ms. Sussman, to put your life at risk daily with exposure to a virus seven days a week?” he wrote in an email. “In snow? In lightning? In rain? In oppressive heat?”

Elected officials in multiple cities have received complaints from residents about Dr. Murphy’s billing practices. Some shut down the testing sites as resources became available elsewhere.

“It raised enough concerns that we felt like it was simpler to move in a different direction,” said Mr. Elicker, the New Haven mayor.

Others say it’s not their place to regulate Dr. Murphy’s billing practices.

“We’re not policing this from a billing perspective,” said David Knauf, health director for Darien, Conn. “That is somebody else’s responsibility and not ours.”

The testing site in Bedford closed in mid-July, shortly after Sammy Sussman’s article on his testing bill was published.

Mr. Burdick, the town supervisor who had directed Bedford residents to the site, said the decision to close did not have to do with Dr. Murphy’s billing practices. Rather, the site was on a commuter parking lot, and a more typical number of commuters to New York was expected to return soon.

“As other testing facilities opened, the need no longer was present,” he wrote in an email.

Dr. Murphy’s website still advertises six testing sites: four in Connecticut and two in New York. For those awaiting test results, his site says: “Daily telehealth visits recommended for your health.”





No.15 article:
Detonating the Masters, One Power Drive at a Time

Bryson DeChambeau mapped out his Masters plan on Tuesday, which included bombing his tee shots over 100-foot tall pine trees and maybe breaking out the longest driver in golf.

AUGUSTA, Ga. — Bryson DeChambeau was specific on Tuesday about his long-driving plans to brazenly overrun the Augusta National Golf Club, home to the Masters tournament since 1934. For sports fans who do not follow golf, here are some points of reference:

What DeChambeau envisions is something akin to kicking a 75-yard field goal. Or slamming a 650-foot home run. Sinking a half-court shot with the ease of a free throw. Now imagine doing those things 14 consecutive times in the midst of a single major competition.

That is what the beefy DeChambeau plans to unleash on the Masters when he tees off in the first round at 7:33 a.m. Eastern on Thursday. It doesn’t mean DeChambeau will shoot a record low score, but regular viewers of golf’s most-watched event might see some things they have never seen before. And since DeChambeau has been remarkably accurate with his towering drives in practice rounds this week, it’s worth noting that he is also the betting line favorite to back up his United States Open victory in September with his second major golf championship at the Masters.

On Tuesday, the ever-meticulous, numbers-driven DeChambeau, who has gained 40 pounds in the last year and anywhere from 30 to 70 yards of length on his drives, went hole by hole with his plans for Augusta National.

He skipped the par-3 holes, because, let’s face it, what’s the point talking about short challenges? DeChambeau only goes big and is planning to bomb tee shots over 100-foot tall pine trees to cut the corners on 510-yard holes. Or, consider the 445-yard first hole, which is entirely uphill and has been played this week in wet, soft grass conditions that starkly inhibit the roll of a tee shot.

At least for the everyday, multimillionaire pro golfer. Not DeChambeau-flex.

He expects to have only 60 yards left on his second shot at the first hole. That’s a rather effortless wedge shot from there for anybody. On the second hole, DeChambeau said in practice rounds he has been hitting a 7-iron for his second shot into that par 5, which is 575 yards long. Keep in mind that many other golfers in the field will be hitting woods and hoping to land on that green.

The 350-yard third hole? Piece of cake; he’s been driving that off the tee. The 495-yard fifth hole? Well, it has been playing into the wind so he’s had to settle on a 9-iron for his second shot. Bummer that’s not a wedge, too.

And on and on it went Tuesday as DeChambeau ticked off how easily some of the Augusta National greens could be to reach. For him.

As for the course’s most pivotal, and typically daunting, final holes, DeChambeau has big plans for those as well. A pitching wedge to the 11th green, same thing for the 510-yard, par-5 13th hole. He plans an 8-iron into the par-5 15th. And the famed 18th hole?

DeChambeau figures to fly the bunkers on the left, an old ploy of 1991 Masters champion Ian Woosnam, except the hole was dozens of yards shorter 29 years ago. So, what’s the advantage to that strategy on the modern, lengthened 18th?

Said DeChambeau with a shrug: “I can have only 110 yards to the green.” As in, another wedge.

His contemporaries are in on the gag and know what’s coming. Justin Thomas, the third-ranked golfer in the world, played a practice round with DeChambeau on Monday.

“It’s a substantially easier golf course for him than it is for everybody else,” Thomas said with a laugh. “I sure would like to be hitting from his tee shots as opposed to mine distance-wise.”

Thomas was asked why he bothered to play a practice round with DeChambeau. Wouldn’t it be better for his psyche to avoid the image of DeChambeau’s soaring tee shots?

“I mean, I’ve seen it before, it’s not like I’ve never played with him,” Thomas said. “It just confirmed what I already knew.”

And then Thomas added another possibility.

“Once he starts messing with that longer driver and has a little bit more free time,” he said, “then as crazy as it is, he might be able to hit it further.”

DeChambeau has been practicing with a driver that has an 48-inch shaft, the longest allowed in the rules. The standard length on the PGA Tour is about 45 and one-half inches. A longer shaft can mean a higher swing speed and longer shots, although it’s harder to keep the ball traveling straight.

Still, DeChambeau did not rule out unveiling his 48-inch driver this week. As late as Thursday afternoon, he was still testing it on the practice range. With the longer shaft, he had gotten his swing speed up to 144 miles an hour. Most recreational golfers struggle to surpass 90 miles an hour.

“I mean, it looks really promising right now,” DeChambeau said of the driver. “I did not expect it to work yesterday. But it did work yesterday. I’m not 100 percent sure if I’ll put it in play yet.”

So many decisions for the man who has been a focus of all the buzz preceding the 2020 Masters. And then there will be the hundreds of choices DeChambeau will have to make as he lines up putts on the undulating, vexing Augusta National greens, where the tournament has been customarily won or lost.

DeChambeau is aware.

“It comes down to putting and chipping out here,” he conceded.

Then, it was back to talking about the gargantuan drives. Because nobody talks about 25-yard field goals, 300-foot home runs or 20-foot jump shots.





No.16 article:
Who’s Going to Tell Him? Republicans Shy From Asking Trump to Concede

President Trump’s iron grip on his party has inspired love for him among many Republican lawmakers, and fear in others. Neither group will tell him it is time to concede his loss.

WASHINGTON — Since President Trump was elected, his relationships with Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill have mostly fallen into one of two categories: the unbreakable bond with his most ardent followers, who defend him at all costs, and the tenuous, strained alliance with the rest, who share his agenda but often cringe privately at his language and tactics.

Neither group is particularly well suited for the chore of trying to persuade Mr. Trump, who refuses to concede the election, that it is time to step aside — or at the very least, to stop spreading claims about the integrity of the nation’s elections that are contrary to considerable evidence. And there is little chance that Mr. Trump, who has been perplexed and sometimes enraged by the Republican institutionalists who might normally be expected to play such a role, would listen if they did.

The dynamic helps explain why, days after President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. was declared the winner of the election, even Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, was unwilling to recognize the result. Instead, senators have tiptoed around — or in some cases blindly run past — the reality of Mr. Trump’s loss, and the lack of evidence to suggest widespread election fraud or improprieties that could reverse that result.

“There is no bipartisanship to speak of, in terms of how many members are willing to speak up — and would it matter to him? Would he listen?” said William S. Cohen, a former senator and House member from Maine who was one of the first Republicans to break from his party and support the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon. “Trump doesn’t care a whit about the House or Senate, and he rules by fear. He still can inflame his supporters — there are 70 million out there. He still carries that fear factor.”

By Tuesday, a club of only a few Republican senators known for their distaste for Mr. Trump — Mitt Romney of Utah, Ben Sasse of Nebraska, Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — had acknowledged Mr. Biden’s victory.

In times past, lawmakers might have marched down to the White House to level with the president of their own party about political reality. Instead, Vice President Mike Pence went up to Capitol Hill on Tuesday and kept Mr. Trump’s false narrative alive, telling Republican senators over lunch that he and the president would keep fighting the election results and detailing the legal moves they were taking in states around the country to challenge the outcome.

Mr. McConnell, who is poised to be the top Republican in Washington during the coming Biden administration, continued to decline to recognize Mr. Biden’s victory and played down Mr. Trump’s denial of his defeat and evidence-free claims of election fraud.

“I think we ought to quit all the hand-wringing and not act like this is extraordinary,” Mr. McConnell told reporters after the luncheon. “We’re going to get through this period and we’ll swear in the winner” in January, he said, “just like we have every four years.”

Far from trying to influence the president’s thinking, most Republicans have gone out of their way to avoid seeming to dictate what he should do.

In an extensive statement on Tuesday, Senator Rob Portman of Ohio refrained from recognizing Mr. Biden’s victory and argued that Mr. Trump “has every right to insist that all legally cast ballots are counted.”

But in an indication of how carefully some Republicans are treading amid the president’s outlandish accusations, Mr. Portman added, “At the same time, the Trump campaign has an obligation to come forward with evidence to support any allegations of election fraud.”

Some of Mr. Trump’s acolytes, on the other hand, have rushed to advance his baseless theories of fraud. Senators Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue of Georgia, both of whom are facing runoff elections in January, demanded the resignation of their state’s top election official, a fellow Republican, after he said there was no evidence of widespread fraud in the state’s elections.

Asked by a reporter if he had congratulated Mr. Biden on his victory, Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, replied that he had not.

“Nothing to congratulate him about,” Mr. Johnson said tersely.

Mr. Biden, speaking at a news conference in Wilmington, Del., brushed off the chilly response he had received so far from congressional Republicans — but not before working in a jab at the president, calling his refusal to concede “an embarrassment, quite frankly.”

“I haven’t had a chance to speak to Mitch,” he said of Mr. McConnell, with whom he has a decades-long relationship. “My expectation is that I will in the not-too-distant future. The whole G.O.P. has been put in a position, with a few notable exceptions, of being mildly intimidated by the sitting president.”

In 1974, as Mr. Nixon faced the Watergate scandal and the strong likelihood of impeachment and conviction, a cadre of powerful Republican lawmakers went to the White House and one by one, naming lawmakers in their own party who were prepared to vote to convict him, told him it was time to go. The message was clear, and Mr. Nixon announced his resignation the next day.

Expect no such reckoning for Mr. Trump, said Timothy Naftali, the founding director of the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum and a professor at New York University.

“It’s very difficult for Republicans whose leader got 71 million votes, the most by any Republican standard-bearer ever, to simply just turn their backs on him,” Mr. Naftali said. “The issue is now not so much Trump as loyalty to Trumpism. And I think that’s why you see the contortions now. If you’re a Republican and you get this wrong, you’re going to be primaried out.”

There is a more immediate concern for the party, too. With Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler facing elections whose outcomes are likely to determine control of the Senate, Republicans are reluctant to do anything to dampen the enthusiasm of their conservative base. Any hint that leaders were prodding Mr. Trump to exit the stage could provoke a Twitter rampage from the president that could turn his supporters against the party at a critical time.

“The Republican Party hemorrhaged seats in 1974 after Watergate, after the near-impeachment of a Republican president,” Mr. Naftali said, while Republican lawmakers appear on track to gain House seats this year after Democrats’ impeachment of Mr. Trump. “So what is the lesson for politicos? The lesson is not to run away from Trump.”

Still, some Republicans have argued in recent days that it is crucial for members of their party to push back in a measured way against the president’s unsubstantiated claims of widespread voter fraud.

On Monday, 31 former Republican members of Congress — many of them outspoken critics of the president — denounced Mr. Trump’s allegations in an open letter that called on him to accept the election results.

“We believe the statements by President Trump alleging fraud in the election are efforts to undermine the legitimacy of the election and are unacceptable,” wrote the group, led by former Representative Tom Coleman of Missouri. “Every vote should be counted and the final outcome accepted by the participants because public confidence in the outcome of our elections is a bedrock of our democracy.”

Barbara Comstock, a Republican former House member from Virginia who signed the letter, said she did so because skeptical voters “have got to come to the understanding and see that this isn’t real.”

Her former colleagues, Ms. Comstock added, had largely come to the conclusion privately that Mr. Trump’s legal challenges “aren’t going anywhere.”

“Their facade is crumbling,” she said. “It’s inevitably going where it’s going. We’ve just got to responsibly explain to people why this isn’t true.”





No.17 article:
‘Wow, What Else Can Happen to Us This Year?’





No.18 article:
The Buttermilk-Brined Turkey of Your Thanksgiving Dreams

For someone who didn’t grow up celebrating Thanksgiving, I’ve got a lot of strong opinions about turkey.

It’s probably because I’ve cooked more of it than practically anyone I know, in just about more ways than I can list. I’ve roasted, braised, grilled, spit-roasted and deep-fried it. I’ve boned it out and made “turchetta.” I’ve dry-brined it, wet-brined it, injected it with brine and stuffed slabs of herbed butter under its skin. I’ve built a makeshift cinder-block oven to cook it at a friend’s farm that lacked a kitchen. I’ve even cooked 20 turkeys in a night, working the holiday in a restaurant.

And I once took an impromptu call from the famed rancher Bill Niman. He was just starting to raise heritage turkeys, and wondered if he could swing by with seven different breeds for me to cook for a blind tasting. I figured why not, and threw myself into the challenge, roasting all of the breasts and right legs, and braising all of the left legs. I remember that I took lots of notes and that some birds tasted much more turkey-ish than others.

As I look back on all of this poultry, though, one thing is clear: No matter how complicated or technical the preparation, no one turkey I’ve ever cooked has been that much more exciting to eat than any other. (Though if it was underseasoned or overcooked, it was certainly less exciting to eat.)

The truth is, deep down in my heart, I’ve always secretly hoped that if I cook it just right, a roast turkey will emerge from the oven as tender and juicy as a perfect roast chicken. And I suspect I’m not the only one who feels that way. But the fact of the matter is that it’s a different bird! And it has completely different qualities.

So let’s stop wishing our turkeys could be chickens, and let’s stop making ourselves unnecessarily miserable by complicating the cooking process. When it comes to turkey, simpler is better.

While I’ve finally, grudgingly, admitted that turkey isn’t chicken, it has occurred to me that I might be able to adapt my favorite roast chicken recipe for Thanksgiving. Three years ago, I published a recipe for three-ingredient, buttermilk-brined roast chicken in my book, “Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat.” It’s now among the most beloved of my recipes, and every November, people reach out to ask if they can apply the technique to their holiday turkey.

I’ve always answered hesitantly — not having tested it, I wasn’t sure that the skin wouldn’t grow too dark with the longer cooking time, or that the seasoning would be balanced. This year, I figured it was time to try it out for myself.

I set about tinkering, and the first thing I changed was timing. The chicken takes a simple overnight dip in the buttermilk, but a turkey weighs three times as much as a chicken, so it needs to spend a full 48 hours in the brine to ensure the meat is tender and properly seasoned throughout.

Next, the salt. Unlike the original chicken recipe, which leaves things to chance, I decided to specify the turkey brine’s ideal salinity — no one wants a bland holiday bird. But I’m a pragmatist, and I know that we’re not all using the same type of salt. I also know that different salts have different levels of salinity by volume, but not by weight. So, if you’ve got one, I encourage you to use a scale to measure out your salt to ensure a balanced brine. It’s just about the trickiest part of the recipe, and I promise you won’t regret it.

The last and most obvious change was my decision to spatchcock the turkey. By removing its backbone and flattening it out, I cut the cooking time by more than half. While in the chicken recipe, the lactose in the buttermilk contributes to perfectly golden-brown skin, I’d worried that a turkey’s significantly longer cooking time might yield a blackened bird.

Spatchcocking put an end to that fear. Furthermore, laying the bird out flat means there’s greater surface area for browning — more of that dark, lacquered skin for everyone.

An unexpected boon of spatchcocking is how beautifully it streamlines the entire brining process: Without a backbone, the turkey can just be folded in half and slipped into a two-gallon zipper-top plastic bag containing the buttermilk and salt. There’s no unwieldy pot or bowl taking up all of your refrigerator space. Just slip the bag in wherever it fits, turn it two or three times a day, and that’s it. Simplicity is everything here.

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

This year will require something different of many of us, whether that means gathering in smaller groups, eating alone on a Zoom call or forgoing some of our usual Thanksgiving comforts. So I’m offering three versions of this recipe, for whatever your holiday entails: the spatchcocked whole turkey; a brined breast, for those who want turkey for four to six people; and the classic buttermilk chicken, for those who may not want or be able to manage a turkey.

All of the variations yield incredibly tender meat that’s seasoned through and through, enveloped in that showstopping caramel-brown skin that’s such a pleasure to eat. And they’re all utterly simple and satisfying. In a year full of so many other complications, let your holiday bird be stress-free.

Recipes: Buttermilk-Brined Roast Turkey | Buttermilk-Brined Turkey Breast | Buttermilk-Brined Roast Chicken

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.19 article:
Corrections: Nov. 11, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Wednesday, Nov. 11, 2020.

A picture caption with an article on Tuesday about negotiations for a trade agreement between Britain and the European Union misstated the reason for Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s appearance at a ceremony at the Cenotaph. He was commemorating the anniversary of the end of World War I, not honoring coronavirus victims.

An article on Tuesday about the storming of a football field after a game by thousands of Notre Dame students who broke virus protocol described incorrectly the reason that Notre Dame’s president apologized in August after posing for photos with students who were returning to campus. He apologized for not properly following the university’s social distancing guidelines, not for posing without a mask.

An article on Sunday about the impact of Black Lives Matter protests on the U.S. election referred incorrectly to Crystal Daddario. She identifies as Hispanic, not white.

An article on Monday about divisions in the United States following last week’s election misstated the day that a World War II sailor spontaneously kissed a woman in a nurse’s uniform in Times Square. It was V-J Day, not V-E Day.

An article on Saturday about Steven A. Cohen’s first day as the new owner of the Mets misstated part of the name of a hedge fund group that he founded and owned. It was SAC Capital Advisors, not SAC Capital Partners.

An article on Saturday about Nannette Streicher, a piano builder and a friend of Beethoven, misstated her age at her death in 1833. She was 64, not 70.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.20 article:
As Owner of the Mets, Steven Cohen Is ‘Doing It for the Fans’

While saying the team won’t spend like “drunken sailors,” Cohen spoke boldly of the team’s future. “I’m not in this to be mediocre.”

The greatest frustration for a die-hard fan is to believe you care more than the owner of your favorite team. You splurge for tickets and hang on every pitch. You treasure the memories and plot for the future. Your loyalty is unshakable, as permanent as height or shoe size. All you ask is that the folks in charge also bleed in team colors.

In baseball, caring tends to mean spending. It is a harsh calculation in most places, but not in New York, where people understand the basic rule: stuff costs a lot. If you are not prepared to spend, you should probably leave town.

Steven A. Cohen paid $2.475 billion last week to buy the Mets from the Wilpon family, who spent 18 years as principal owners without finding the right combination of funds, drive and vision to win the World Series — or win over the fans. In Cohen, who grew up taking the train from Great Neck on Long Island to Shea Stadium to watch the Mets from the upper deck with his buddies, the fans have one of their own in charge.

He just happens to run a hedge fund, Point72 Asset Management, and have an estimated net worth of more than $14 billion.

“I’m essentially doing it for the fans,” Cohen said on Tuesday. “When I really thought about this, I could make millions of people happy, and what an incredible opportunity that is. That’s how I’m thinking about this. I’m not trying to make money here. I have my business at Point 72 and I make money over there. So here, it’s really about building something great, building something for the fans, winning. I just find this an amazing opportunity.”

Cohen and his new team president, the former Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson, spoke for 45 minutes each in a news conference by video conferencing that heralded a new day in the often-tortured history of the team. It was startlingly smooth, pitch-perfect messaging from a team rarely known to consistently articulate its principles.

The Mets missed the playoffs in 15 of the last 18 seasons, including the last four, after the Wilpons bought out Nelson Doubleday’s half-stake of the franchise in August 2002. They have not won a championship since 1986. Cohen, 64, is tired of waiting.

“Only one team wins the World Series every year, so that’s a pretty high bar,” he said. “But if I don’t win a World Series in the next three to five years — I’d like to make it sooner — then obviously I would consider that slightly disappointing.”

Alderson, 72, helped build the Mets’ last pennant winner in 2015. He left three years later while fighting cancer and then advised the team he first ran, the Oakland Athletics. The chance to preside over the Mets’ baseball and business operations intrigued him, he said, because of Cohen, and the “immense possibilities” he represents for a tattered brand.

“The Mets are a storied franchise, if you will,” Alderson said. “Some of the stories have been good. Some of them have been bad. If we want to be an iconic franchise, which I think we are capable of doing, we have to write more good stories than bad, and occasionally we have to write a really epic story. That’s what excites me about these next few months and years, because I think we have the chance to do that.”

Alderson, who served in the United States Marine Corps. and earned a law degree from Harvard, has long chafed at the Mets’ reputation for comedic chaos and unforced errors. A former general manager, Steve Phillips, likes to say that to run the Mets is to see the pile of manure in your path but step in it anyway.

In Cohen, Alderson said, he found an owner who could restore respectability and shed the well-earned label for slapstick. On Tuesday’s call, Alderson read from a memo he prepared for Cohen outlining his mission.

“First page, second paragraph,” Alderson said. “A vision for new ownership: to create an iconic major league franchise respected for its success — competitive and financial success — and how it achieves that success, and for its commitment to fans and community.”

Respect should flow not merely from winning, Alderson said, but from the way a team operates. As an initial good-will gesture last week, Cohen restored the pre-pandemic salaries of all Mets employees, reversing the 5 to 30 percent pay cuts implemented in March. He also established a relief fund for seasonal employees who work at Citi Field.

Those gestures cost Cohen about $9.5 million, he said last week — or less than the Mets would have spent on Brad Hand, an All-Star reliever for the Cleveland Indians who went unclaimed by every team on waivers last week. Had Cohen been in place, Alderson said, the Mets might have made the $10 million claim.

“Now, is that a good deal?” Alderson said. “I don’t know. It’s probably overpaying a little bit, who knows? But today, given what we want to achieve, it’s not about how much less we can get somebody for. It’s more about getting that somebody. Now, I don’t want to create the impression that we’re going to go out and sign a bunch of players. But we now can emphasize the acquisition rather than the cost.”

Alderson said the Mets’ manager, Luis Rojas, would “very likely” return for a second season. The team is seeking both a president of baseball operations and a general manager to replace the fired Brodie Van Wagenen, and already, Alderson said, the jobs are attracting more and better candidates than they could have before.

Free agents, naturally, will find a generous owner more alluring, and teams hoping to unload salaries will be eager to talk trade. Cohen said he would trust Alderson’s new staff to make the right decisions, and pledged that the Mets would not spend like “drunken sailors.” But he left no doubt of his goal: restoring pride to his favorite team.

“I’m not in this to be mediocre,” Cohen said. “That’s just not my thing. I want something great, and I know the fans want something great. That’s my goal and that’s what I’m going to do.”





No.21 article:
Quotation of the Day: El Paso Buckles Under Strain as Infections Soar

“I’m a big fan of 50 experiments in democracy, but not when it comes to a pandemic.”

DAVID JEROME, the president of the El Paso Chamber of Commerce, on businesses’ frustration with officials’ competing directives on whether to close or stay open as the virus overwhelms local hospitals.





No.22 article:
In Bitter Nagorno-Karabakh War, a Reordering of Regional Powers

Russia and Turkey emerged as power brokers as Moscow forged the peace agreement and Ankara backed the victorious Azerbaijanis.

MOSCOW — Russian peacekeeping forces were deployed to an ethnic Armenian territory in the Caucasus Mountains on Tuesday, cementing Azerbaijani gains in a brutal, six-week-long war that reordered the geopolitics of a volatile region.

There was jubilation in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, and sorrow and anger in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia. More than 1,300 soldiers had died on the Armenian side of the conflict alone since late September, when a quarter-century of tensions over the disputed area, Nagorno-Karabakh, exploded into open warfare.

Azerbaijan emerged largely successful in retaking territory that belonged to Baku under international law but had been de facto controlled by Armenia since the two countries’ previous war, in the early 1990s. Late Monday night, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia announced that the two sides had agreed to stop the fighting in a deal that ceded more land to Azerbaijan but retained Armenian control over some of the territory, including the capital of Nagorno-Karabakh.

“We have once again proved that we have invincible soldiers, officers and generals who are ready to sacrifice their lives for the defense of our holy motherland without a second thought,” Armenia’s Defense Ministry said in a statement. “But it is time to stop the bloodshed.”

Russian television footage showed Russian troops driving toward Nagorno-Karabakh, underscoring Mr. Putin’s geopolitical win for brokering peace between two countries that used to be part of the Soviet Union. But behind the day’s drama lay the growing regional power of Turkey, which staunchly backed Azerbaijan in the conflict and also celebrated on Tuesday.

Mr. Putin has spoken with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey at least four times since the start of the war on Sept. 27, most recently on Tuesday. Mevlut Cavusoglu, Turkey’s foreign minister, hailed the peace agreement as “a great success and victory for Azerbaijan.”

Under the agreement, some 1,960 armed Russian service members and 90 armored vehicles will deploy for at least five years to guard the line of contact between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces in the region and along the road connecting Armenian-controlled Nagorno-Karabakh to Armenia. Azerbaijan retained control of the hilltop town of Shusha, a place of historic and strategic significance to both countries, which it captured in recent days.

But there were many unknowns about the future of the region, including the peacekeepers’ precise role and how soon Azerbaijanis will resettle the recaptured areas. The early 1990s war displaced a million people, most of them Azerbaijanis, and pressure from those forced to flee their homes was among the factors pushing President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan to retake the territory by force. 

“This brings Baku what it long failed to attain through negotiation,” Zaur Shiriyev, the South Caucasus analyst for the International Crisis Group, said in a phone interview from the Azerbaijani capital.

Mr. Shiriyev said he was awakened just after 3 a.m. Tuesday by the din of celebrations in the streets. He said people waved the flags of Azerbaijan, Turkey and even Israel — a country that sold to Azerbaijan some of the high-tech drones that tilted the balance in Baku’s favor.

Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, also erupted, but with the yelling of demonstrators furious that Nikol Pashinyan, Armenia’s prime minister, had signed the agreement ceding Armenian land. 

Bellowing “Where is Nikol? Where is that traitor?” some protesters stormed Mr. Pashinyan’s residence. They also broke into the Parliament and beat its speaker, Ararat Mirzoyan, who required surgery. 

Opposition politicians called for Mr. Pashinyan’s resignation, and amid the tumult, Mr. Pashinyan posted on Facebook on Tuesday morning that he was in Armenia and continued to work as prime minister. The country’s leadership struggled to convince the public that it had no choice but to stop the fighting now, because Armenia had suffered steep losses of life and territory.

“I made this decision after the army kept insisting for a long time on the need to take such a step,” Mr. Pashinyan said in a live broadcast on Facebook Tuesday, according to Russia’s Interfax news agency. “The army said that it is necessary to stop, that there are certain problems and they either do not see the prospects to solve them or the resources for their resolution have been exhausted.”

There was also pain: The lush mountains of Nagorno-Karabakh, known to Armenians as Artsakh, had long been part of a national and ethnic identity for Armenians around the world. The loss of that territory on Tuesday was already taking a place in the annals of tragedy in Armenian history, alongside the slaughter and expulsion of Armenians from Turkey a century ago in what most neutral historians call the century’s first genocide.

“The trauma of victimization has returned,” said Richard Giragosian, director of the Regional Studies Center in Yerevan. “There’s a sense that the world and the West have abandoned us.”

Azerbaijan launched an offensive on Sept. 27 to retake Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding, previously Azerbaijani-populated regions, which are all part of Azerbaijan under international law but have been controlled by Armenia since the 1990s war. Azerbaijan lost the war a quarter-century ago, but in recent weeks, Azerbaijan’s firepower has proved superior, with the country’s oil wealth funding a fleet of drones and other modern weaponry.

Tatul Hakobyan, an Armenian journalist who has covered the region for more than 30 years, said small-arms fire was audible from the capital of Nagorno-Karabakh, Stepanakert, on Sunday, indicating that Azerbaijani forces were closing in. The mounting losses appeared to pressure Armenia into accepting Azerbaijan’s territorial gains in order to stop the fighting. 

“We lost the war, and this is the tragic reality which we should accept,” Mr. Hakobyan said in a telephone interview.

Armenia’s Defense Ministry said Tuesday morning that combat operations along the front line had been suspended and that Russian peacekeepers were being deployed. In Azerbaijan, Mr. Aliyev described the agreement as one of his country’s greatest triumphs.

“We are proud of our people, of our Armed Forces!” Mr. Aliyev said in a Twitter posting on Tuesday. “For our people, these days are the happiest ones.”

The end of the war suggests a sweeping redrawing of the security map of the southern Caucasus, a volatile region wedged between Turkey, Russia and Iran. The settlement sealed a role in the region for an increasingly assertive Turkey.

Russia’s leading role in stopping the fighting also shows that Moscow continues to be the most influential player in the southern Caucasus. Some Armenians had hoped for a more forceful Russian role in the war, since the two countries have a mutual-defense treaty. 

But according to Mr. Hakobyan, the Armenian journalist, it was Russia’s decision to send peacekeepers that spared Armenians from having more of Nagorno-Karabakh — including Stepanakert — fall under Azerbaijani control.

“Smart and sober Armenians understand that the Russians intervened and in a way saved Karabakh proper,” Mr. Hakobyan said.

“We proceed from the assumption that the agreements reached will create the necessary conditions for a lasting and full-scale settlement of the crisis over Nagorno-Karabakh on a fair basis and in the interests of the people of Armenia and Azerbaijan,” President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who brokered the agreement between Mr. Pashinyan and President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan, said in a statement overnight.













No.23 article:
Why a Trump Loss May Be No Match for Rupert Murdoch’s Realpolitik

Fox News has lasted through “multiple presidents, and they’re going to be around for multiple more,” said one right-wing media executive.

Presidents come and go. Rupert Murdoch remains.

For those who wondered how Mr. Murdoch, the octogenarian media magnate with a conservative streak, would react to the electoral defeat of President Trump, the past few days have brought a complicated answer, well-suited to the mercurial nature of Mr. Murdoch’s world.

The New York Post, the Murdoch tabloid that attacked Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son Hunter before the election, splashed a beaming Mr. Biden on its Sunday cover — “IT’S JOE TIME” — and described Mr. Trump as “downcast” and misguided in his efforts to claim the election was a fraud. The Sun, Mr. Murdoch’s outpost in London, reached new heights of Fleet Street ingenuity by comparing the president’s defeated visage to a crumple of skin on the actress Famke Janssen’s kneecap.

The Wall Street Journal, which had rejected The Post’s attack on Hunter Biden, has dismissed Mr. Trump’s fraud claims, and its conservative opinion page is nudging the president toward a gracious concession. Fox News — home to “Hannity” and “Fox &amp; Friends,” instigators and nurturers of Mr. Trump’s rise — refused to retract an election night projection of a Biden win in Arizona despite intense pressure from Mr. Trump’s aides, who reached Mr. Murdoch in England to plead their case.

And yet, just as a Murdoch-Trump divorce appeared to be underway, Fox News’s prime-time stars — who have operated more or less on their own since the exit of the network&#x27;s co-founder Roger Ailes — have embraced parts of Mr. Trump’s sully-the-results strategy, even knocking colleagues who have portrayed Mr. Biden, accurately, as the election’s victor.

“Many people have not called Arizona,” Sean Hannity told viewers on his Monday night show, before lobbing a dagger at the Fox News decision desk: “Those that called early made a huge mistake.” Mark Levin, a right-wing radio star with a weekend Fox News show, attacked the “Fox News Sunday” anchor Chris Wallace for calling Mr. Biden the clear winner. And Tucker Carlson took a not-so-veiled swipe on Monday at his Fox News colleague Neil Cavuto, who had won the hosannas of Liberal Twitter by cutting off an appearance by Mr. Trump’s press secretary and saying he could not in good conscience broadcast her fictive claims about voter fraud.

“In a democracy, you cannot ignore honest questions from citizens,” Mr. Carlson said. “You can’t just cut away from coverage you don’t like.”

Efforts to understand Mr. Murdoch’s media universe are often compared to Kremlinology. But former and current associates of Mr. Murdoch said that his response to Mr. Trump’s loss could be summed up by another Cold War term: realpolitik.

“He will do as he has done in other cases, which is adapt to a new reality,” said one former consigliere, who like others interviewed for this article requested anonymity to speak candidly about a man who values discretion.

Mr. Murdoch, who has presided over newspapers and television networks for more than 50 years, knows that opportunity awaits no matter who is temporarily in power: Some of Fox News’s highest ratings and profits came during the Obama administration, when the network was a gathering spot for dismayed conservatives, the same phenomenon that fueled MSNBC’s success with liberals in the Trump age.

“Fox News Channel has been on the air since 1996,” said Christopher Balfe, a right-wing media impresario who has developed digital ventures for conservative stars, including the former Fox News host Megyn Kelly. “They’ve been around for multiple presidents and they’re going to be around for multiple more.”

Fox News reached new heights of influence in the Trump era — it was the highest rated network in all of prime-time television this past summer — but it’s easy to forget it was the No. 1 cable news channel long before the New York real estate developer rode an escalator to the political stage. Many Fox News employees believe the network’s ratings are likely to surge again as an anti-Biden audience seeks succor.

“They don’t tend to back losers,” one longtime Murdoch lieutenant observed of the family.

To that point, Mr. Murdoch’s publicists — who declined to comment for this article — conspicuously confirmed rumors last month that the mogul did not expect Mr. Trump to recapture the presidency. And several people who have worked with Mr. Murdoch said he harbored no malice toward Mr. Biden and had even expressed some admiration of the former vice president on occasion.

It would not be the first time Mr. Murdoch has stayed loose to maintain influence with whoever comes into power. In England, he became an ally of the Labour prime minister Tony Blair, despite years of backing Tory rule. The Biden administration is likely to handle regulatory disputes that could affect Mr. Murdoch’s domestic assets, which include sports and entertainment networks as well as Fox News, The Journal, and The Post.

Last week, Fox News was upfront with viewers about Mr. Trump’s poor chances, standing behind its Decision Desk call in Arizona and, on Saturday, trumpeting the network’s projection that Mr. Biden would be the 46th president.

But the recent hesitation of Senator Mitch McConnell and other Republican leaders to acknowledge Mr. Biden’s victory may have complicated the equation for the network’s opinion stars, who are loath to end up on the liberal side of the mainstream conservative line.

Some prime-time personnel, protective of their ratings success, were unnerved after seeing some viewers turn against the network after the Arizona call; one group of protesters chanted “Fox News sucks!” outside a tabulation center in Phoenix.

On Monday, Mr. Hannity and Mr. Carlson stoked Mr. Trump’s shadowy narrative of a suspicious election. “The Washington swamp, Joe Biden, all desperate, they want to just call it a day and stop you from asking legitimate, tough questions about the election,” Mr. Hannity thundered to viewers.

The president seemed to approve: On Tuesday, he urged his Twitter followers to watch Mr. Hannity’s program, promising “Ballot Corruption will be exposed tonight.” It was his first positive reference to Fox News since Election Day.

Still, Mr. Hannity has left himself options: His criticism of Democrats and the “swamp” is a familiar line of Fox News attack that can be easily adapted to a Biden presidency. And Mr. Carlson stopped short of uttering what Mr. Trump would most like to hear: that he was the true victor last Tuesday.

“If, after all the questions have been answered, it becomes clear that Joe Biden is the legitimate winner of the presidential election, we will accept that and will encourage others to accept it, too,” Mr. Carlson said. 

Last week, Laura Ingraham, who attended Mr. Trump’s election night appearance at the White House, even floated the possibility of “an unfavorable outcome in this election”— the sort of acknowledgment of an unwelcome reality that Mr. Trump abhors. “If and when that does happen,” Ms. Ingraham counseled, Mr. Trump ought to concede with “grace and composure.” It was a pep talk for the Audience of One.

Few expect a wholesale shift in the Murdoch ideology. Mr. Carlson has met frequently in Los Angeles with Mr. Murdoch’s son Lachlan, who is now executive chairman of Fox News’s parent company. Lachlan Murdoch has backed Mr. Carlson despite an ongoing advertiser boycott and multiple uproars over the host’s incendiary remarks.

The prospect of Mr. Trump starting his own media platform as a competitor to Fox News is often cited as a reason for Rupert Murdoch to keep the president close. But there are myriad hurdles before such a venture could get off the ground.

Mr. Trump, a connoisseur of traditional media, may balk at the sort of online-only service that the former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly pursued. Fox News is available in far more households than One America News, a right-wing network often cited as a potential vessel for Trump TV. Cable providers like Comcast and Spectrum would need to agree to carry a new Trump-oriented network, and regulations make it difficult for existing channels to abruptly change formats.

Fox News, meanwhile, just notched its highest-rated week in prime time since the channel began.

“I don’t think there’s a fear among conservative media,” said Mr. Balfe, the right-wing media consultant, “that Biden winning is going to hurt.”





No.24 article:
Does Trump’s Defeat Signal the Start of Populism’s Decline?

Populist leaders may have lost their most prominent champion, but their economic, social and political grievances remain potent.

LONDON — When Hungary’s populist prime minister, Viktor Orban, joined a parade of foreign leaders in congratulating President-elect Joe Biden this week, he conspicuously failed to note that Mr. Biden had actually beaten his friend, President Trump.

Like other right-wing populists, from Britain and Brazil to Poland and Germany, Mr. Orban was still coming to grips with the defeat of populism’s flamboyant standard-bearer in the White House. The Hungarian leader acknowledged that a victory by Mr. Trump was his “Plan A.” There wasn’t really a Plan B.

While Mr. Trump’s defeat is a stinging blow to his populist allies, its consequences for populism as a global political movement are more ambiguous. Mr. Trump, after all, won more votes than any American presidential candidate in history aside from Mr. Biden, which attests to the enduring appeal of his message.

The economic, social and political grievances that fed populist and xenophobic movements in many countries are still alive, and indeed, may be reinforced by the ravages of the coronavirus pandemic. Social media continues to spread populist ideas, often cloaked in conspiracy theories designed to sow doubt about the scientific facts behind the virus or the legitimacy of the electoral process that brought about Mr. Trump’s defeat.

“It’s arguably the most consequential election in our lifetime, but I would be very cautious about a mood swing toward believing populism is finished,” said Timothy Garton Ash, a professor of European studies at Oxford University.

“In general,” he said, “all such extreme mood swings are mistaken, and specifically, more than 70 million Americans voted for Trump.”

Moreover, some of these leaders are likely to be able to exploit the aftereffects of the pandemic — from chronic unemployment and insecurity to soaring public debt and racial tensions — even if they themselves worsened the problems by playing down the threat of the virus and politicizing the public-health response.

Some tried to pivot quickly to the new political reality.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson, whom Mr. Trump once referred to as “Britain’s Trump,” spoke by phone with Mr. Biden on Tuesday, telling him he looked forward to working with the United States on “shared priorities, from tackling climate change to promoting democracy, and building back better from the coronavirus pandemic.” That last line was a reference to a slogan from Mr. Biden’s campaign, also used by Mr. Johnson’s government.

For all the talk of a populist wave that swept the world after Britain’s Brexit vote in June 2016 and Mr. Trump’s election five months later, experts point out that the populist and far-right movements in Germany and other European countries always had their own roots that were distinct and predated the Anglo-American variety.

Their fortunes have waxed and waned, largely independent of Mr. Trump. In France, the right-wing leader Marine Le Pen suffered a crushing defeat by Emmanuel Macron in 2017, at a time when the American president was riding high. Now, with Mr. Macron beleaguered by the pandemic and deeply unpopular, polls suggest that Ms. Le Pen is poised to make a comeback in elections scheduled for 2022.

In Italy, where Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, once dreamed of opening an academy to train populist leaders in a converted monastery, the far-right parties built their political base by opposing migration from the south, a phenomenon that predated Mr. Trump and will outlast his presidency.

“Trump gave these parties legitimacy,” said Fabrizio Tonello, a political-science professor at the University of Padua. But he said the president’s unyielding manner and winner-take-all style never had much influence in Italy’s messy politics, where the premium is on deal-making and compromise.

In Germany, Mr. Trump’s complicated legacy was evident in how the main rightist party, Alternative for Germany, dithered over how to treat Mr. Biden’s victory. While some lawmakers parroted Mr. Trump’s false claims about the vote counting, party leaders quietly congratulated Mr. Biden after the vote was called.

Some interpreted the more conciliatory tone as a recognition that Mr. Trump’s defeat was also a defeat for the polarizing politics of the German party, which has seen its popularity hover around 10 percent in recent surveys.

“All of those who focused on a politics of polarization around the globe have suffered a setback,” said Hans Vorländer, a professor of political science at the Technical University Dresden. “It is a very clear signal.”

Others, though, are more skeptical. Populism in Europe is a homegrown phenomenon, they said, so while populist leaders could point to Mr. Trump as a kindred spirit while he was in office, their fortunes were not directly tied to his.

“Trump was more or less irrelevant for populist and right-wing movements in Germany and Europe,” said Norbert Röttgen, a Christian Democratic politician who is vying to succeed Chancellor Angela Merkel as leader of the party. “For that reason, his defeat will not affect them in a fundamental way.”

Conspiracy theorists and the movements they have spawned — like QAnon, which has taken root in Germany — will also be unmoved by Mr. Trump’s defeat, according to some experts, because his allegations of fraud simply give them another opportunity to spin the situation to their advantage.

“The wonderful thing about conspiracy theories is that they are non-falsifiable and impossible to refute with facts,” said Anna Grzymala-Busse, a professor of politics at Stanford University who specializes in populism.

Where Mr. Trump will continue to cast a shadow, Mr. Röttgen said, is in how the United States engages with the world. Immigration, the great-power rivalry with China, suspicion of foreign entanglements, and doubts of the value of alliances — all these themes will continue to drive debates over the country’s foreign policy.

Populist leaders are also likely to keep borrowing from Mr. Trump’s playbook.

In Brazil, President Jair Bolsonaro, a retired military officer who dined with the president at his Palm Beach, Fla. estate, Mar-a-Lago, modeled his response to the pandemic on Mr. Trump’s — disdaining lockdowns and face masks, and endorsing an anti-malaria pill that was ineffective and dangerous.

Mr. Bolsonaro mimicked Mr. Trump in making unsubstantiated allegations of voting irregularities, which he said were to blame for him having to compete in a runoff election in 2018. Political scientists in Brazil said they viewed Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede his electoral loss as a dangerous precedent.

In Hungary, Mr. Orban made no secret of his preference in the U.S. election.

“We root for Donald Trump’s victory,” he wrote on Nov. 3. While the ballots were being counted, his cabinet posted a message saying, “We supported Donald Trump, whereas Joe Biden has been supported by George Soros,” the billionaire financier who is the perennial subject of conspiracy theories on the right.

When Mr. Orban finally congratulated Mr. Biden on Sunday, it was for his “successful presidential campaign,” not for winning the White House. He went on to wish Mr. Biden “continued success in fulfilling your responsibilities.”

The departure of Mr. Trump will make life more difficult for Mr. Orban and other populists in Eastern Europe, said Andras Biro-Nagy, of Policy Solutions, a think tank in Budapest that has tracked Mr. Orban for the past decade. But he questioned whether Mr. Biden would succeed in getting them to change their ways.

“For leaders like Viktor Orban, the easy days are over,” Mr. Biro-Nagy said. “The biggest challenge for them is that there will be more pressure and more attention on policies that went unchecked in the last four years.”

For example, he cited Mr. Orban’s expulsion of the Central European University from Hungary. Founded in Budapest by Mr. Soros, the school was forced to move the majority of its operations to Vienna. Mr. Biro-Nagy said it was “unprecedented” that the State Department did not intervene in the situation.

“Orban could get away with policies that hurt American interests,” he said. “The big question for me, is how important will Hungary or Poland be to the new U.S. administration? At least this open support will cease to exist.”

To some experts, the greatest significance of Mr. Trump’s defeat is not how it will change the populists but whether it will embolden those who oppose them. In countries like Hungary, where the democratic system has been corroded almost out of recognition, the vanquishing of Mr. Trump could serve as a beacon.

“It shows them it really is possible to get rid of the populists,” Professor Grzymala-Busse said.





No.25 article:
The Races That Haven’t Been Called

More than a month after the election, we still don’t know who won two congressional races — one in Iowa, and one in New York.

More than a month after Election Day, two extraordinarily close House races remain unresolved.

Here’s an overview of the races — in Iowa’s Second Congressional District and New York’s 22nd Congressional District — and what needs to happen before the results are finalized.

This race — for a seat being vacated by Representative Dave Loebsack, a Democrat — was always expected to be close, but it would have been hard to predict just how close.

In the initial count, the Republican candidate, Mariannette Miller-Meeks, led Rita Hart, a Democrat, by 47 votes. A recount narrowed Ms. Miller-Meeks’s lead to just six votes, and Iowa officials certified her as the winner on Nov. 30.

Ms. Hart chose not to challenge the results through the normal legal process, which would have involved district courts and the Iowa Supreme Court. Instead, she took the unusual step of contesting the election before the House Administration Committee, which has the power to conduct an investigation and make a recommendation to the full House on which candidate to swear in.

The full House would then vote on whom to seat, with a simple majority required. The race will not be definitively called until all challenges have been resolved.

Former Representative Claudia Tenney, a Republican who was unseated by Anthony Brindisi in 2018, led him by just 12 votes after all ballots appeared to have been counted in New York’s 22nd Congressional District, which includes Binghamton and Utica.

But then 55 uncounted ballots turned up in Chenango County, throwing the race into even more turmoil than it had already been in thanks to the incredibly close margin and a set of 39 disputed ballots. The outcome may also depend on absentee and affidavit ballots whose validity a judge is expected to determine.

There will be extensive litigation, and potentially a recount, before a winner is declared.

This is the last outstanding race in New York, where the state board of elections certified all other results on Dec. 3. Four other races where results had been delayed because of slow counting — in the First, Second, 11th and 24th Districts — were all recently called for Republicans.





No.26 article:
Amanda Bouffioux, Alaska Native and ‘Amazing Mother,’ Dies at 44

Ms. Bouffioux’s death, of the coronavirus, was a reminder of the impact the pandemic has had on Alaska Natives, whose mortality rate has been more than four times higher than white Alaskans.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

When the coronavirus pandemic began, Amanda Bouffioux and her family stayed home.

Ms. Bouffioux, an Inupiaq Alaska Native, worked as an administrative assistant for the Anchorage management services office of NANA, an Alaska Native corporation owned by more than 14,000 Inupiaq shareholders. During the week, she would go into the office only to pick up paperwork. The office reopened in the summer, and she made sure to wear her mask.

After a family day trip to the port city of Seward in mid-August, Ms. Bouffioux started to feel sick. Her partner, Scott Wells, insisted that she go to a hospital, where she tested positive for the virus. She was sent home and isolated herself in their bedroom, away from their children, Chris, 8, and Terrisa, 9. He and the children had tested negative.

When her condition worsened, Mr. Wells took Ms. Bouffioux back to the hospital and this time, she was admitted. Several days later, on Aug. 19, she was intubated and put on a ventilator.

“She called the day they were going to intubate her,” Mr. Wells said in an interview. “I told her I loved her, not to worry about the kids, just work on getting better. That was the last time I talked to her.”

Ms. Bouffioux died on Sept. 8 at a hospital in Anchorage. She was 44.

Amanda Pauline Bouffioux was born on Dec. 26, 1975, in Kotzebue, a village above the Arctic Circle in northwest Alaska. Her birth parents gave her up for adoption to Edna and Norman Bouffioux.

A fan of the country singer George Jones, she sang in her high school choir and played the flute.

Ms. Bouffioux was taking courses online at a Native community college, and had dreams of owning her own business.

“When she put her mind to something, she made things happen,” her sister Clarissa Coffin said. “She was so unselfish and just so good at taking care of people.”

At her burial in Anchorage, her three older sons from a previous relationship, Nickolaus Bouffioux, Daniel Gallahorn and Robert Gallahorn, served as pallbearers.

“She was quiet and shy and so smart,” Mr. Wells said of Ms. Bouffioux. “She loved to read and loved to learn, and she was great at Pictionary and Trivial Pursuit. She was an amazing mother. I’ve never known a more patient and loving mother.”

For her family and friends, Ms. Bouffioux’s death was a stark reminder of the unpredictability of the virus; at one point the state had the lowest mortality rate in the country, but cases are on the rise, according to the Alaska Department of Health and Social Services.

Alaska Native people are particularly affected, said Dr. Joseph McLaughlin, an epidemiologist for the department. From the beginning of the pandemic through Oct. 15, Alaska Native people were hospitalized five times more often than white Alaskans, and the mortality rate for them was more than four times higher.





No.27 article:
In Brazil’s Halt of Chinese Vaccine Trial, Critics See Politics

The government offered little explanation as to why it had stopped testing a promising coronavirus shot; an institute involved in the trial said a participant’s death was unrelated to the vaccine.

Brazil halted a late-stage trial of a Chinese vaccine on Monday that had been considered a global front-runner in the race to develop a protective shot for the coronavirus after a “serious adverse” reaction in a participant.

The decision provoked a political firestorm on Tuesday after President Jair Bolsonaro, who has been critical of China and spoken dismissively of its vaccine, CoronaVac, called the suspension a political victory.

Instituto Butantan, the Brazilian institute assisting with the CoronaVac trial, called the suspension unwarranted, arguing that it had been triggered by the death of a trial participant, but that the death was unrelated to the vaccine.

A police report obtained by The New York Times says the participant’s death, which occurred Oct. 29, is being investigated as a suicide. A senior government official for the State of São Paulo, which runs Instituto Butantan, said that fact led health experts at the institute to conclude that it did not raise red flags about the safety of the vaccine.

São Paulo state, the largest in Brazil, is led by Gov. João Doria, a political rival of Mr. Bolsonaro who has criticized the president’s cavalier handling of the pandemic.

Gustavo Mendes, the director of pharmaceuticals at Anvisa, Brazil’s health regulatory agency, said in an interview on Tuesday that regulators have yet to conclude that the volunteer’s death was unrelated to the vaccine.

“It was a precautionary measure,” he said. “Unfortunately, it’s being politicized.” He added: “Halting a study until there is more information is what is expected of a regulatory agency.”

CoronaVac, which is being developed by the Chinese company Sinovac, is one of 11 experimental vaccines produced by some of the world’s foremost pharmaceutical companies that are currently in Phase 3 trials. As the world grapples with another major wave of coronavirus infections, the race for a vaccine has intensified and been made all the more competitive by fractious geopolitics.

On the same day that Brazil suspended the Sinovac trial, the American company Pfizer announced that an early analysis of its coronavirus vaccine trials suggested that its drug was more than 90 percent effective in preventing the virus that causes Covid-19.

Sinovac’s drug was seen in China as a leading candidate. But in Beijing’s push to get a Chinese vaccine to be the first on the global market, officials stretched the definition of “emergency use.” They have permitted tens of thousands of people to receive the Sinovac vaccine and two other locally made vaccines, despite having not yet concluded Phase 3 trials.

Adverse effects are not unusual in Phase 3 trials. AstraZeneca and Johnson &amp; Johnson both paused their trials after several volunteers fell seriously ill, resuming them six weeks later, in October, after concluding that the illnesses were not related to the vaccines.

In a statement issued on Tuesday, Sinovac said Instituto Butantan had deemed the “serious event” not related to the vaccine. The company said it was “confident in the safety” of its vaccine.

The Chinese vaccine study has inflamed a political rivalry between Mr. Bolsonaro and Mr. Doria, who is widely expected to run for president in 2022. If the vaccine is approved, it would be manufactured by the institute.

Mr. Bolsonaro had voiced skepticism about the Chinese vaccine previously, and on Tuesday he gloated about the setback in a message on Facebook.

“This is the vaccine Doria wanted everyone in São Paulo to take,” the president wrote. “Yet another victory for Bolsonaro.”

Last month Mr. Bolsonaro reacted angrily when he learned the health ministry intended to buy 46 million doses of the vaccine.

“I ordered that it be canceled,” he said. “It appears no country in the world is interested in that Chinese vaccine.”

Mr. Doria’s party, the Brazilian Social Democracy Party, said in a statement that the race to develop a vaccine “is not a political contest and cannot be treated like one.”

It accused Mr. Bolsonaro of “putting his political aspirations above anything else, showing disregard for the lives of Brazilians.”

It is rare for a drug that has not been fully tested to be so widely administered, and scientists from around the world have repeatedly warned that the Chinese government was risking the health of its people before the completion of late-stage trials.

Sinovac has said previously that more than 10,000 people in Beijing have been injected with its vaccine. Separately, it said that nearly all its employees — around 3,000 in total — and their families had taken it. Vaccine experts said it was important to conclude the third and final phase of human testing before making the drug available. Phase 3 trials involve tens of thousands of people and may detect uncommon but potentially severe side effects.

The company began Phase 3 trials in Brazil and in Indonesia in August, and in Turkey in September, testing its vaccine in about 27,000 people. Sinovac said it had hoped to complete the trials by the end of the year, but the suspension of the trial in Brazil could affect the process in other countries, potentially derailing that timeline.

The Indonesian state-owned pharmaceutical company Bio Farma, which is conducting trials for Sinovac, said that it had no plans to cancel its trials, according to Iin Susanti, head of Bio Farma’s business planning and strategy division.

The suspended Brazilian trial is a reminder of the formidable challenges facing Chinese vaccine companies when they go abroad. Few of the companies have experience operating overseas, much less navigating potential political minefields. All of them had to test their vaccines in places with active outbreaks because the virus had largely been stamped out in China.

In Brazil, the trials have been politically fraught as supporters of Mr. Bolsonaro, who has downplayed the threat and blamed China for the pandemic, have criticized them.

Prof. Raina MacIntyre, who heads the biosecurity program at the Kirby Institute of the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia, said serious side effects in a vaccine trial were “extremely rare” but added, “We can expect to see this scenario happen again with different vaccines. If you’ve got 45,000 people in a trial, it’s quite likely that one person will have a serious health event in that time.”

Professor MacIntyre said that the pause would allow a safety monitoring board to investigate.

Vaccine experts have said that they considered data from Sinovac’s early-stage trials to be promising. Results from the company’s Phase 1 trials showed no adverse effects, and Phase 2 trials showed 90 percent protection against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.

Seeing a company from China develop a vaccine first has been a priority for the country’s leader, Xi Jinping. Mr. Xi has staked his personal reputation on the effort, which is seen as a way to erase some of the blame that several countries have placed on China for its initial missteps when the virus first emerged in the city of Wuhan last year.

Sinovac’s treatment is an inactivated vaccine, meaning that it is made of a coronavirus that has either been weakened or killed by chemicals.

Tao Lina, a vaccine expert in Shanghai, said he believed that the Brazilian suspension was not based on science but on politics.

“The technology of inactivated vaccines is very mature, and the possibility of this incident being related to vaccines is very slim,” said Mr. Tao, a former immunologist at the Shanghai Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He said the Chinese government was unlikely to halt the emergency-use program because “it will cause a lot of panic.”





No.28 article:
How ‘The Queen’s Gambit’ Started a New Debate About Sexism in Chess

The Netflix hit captures the struggles of women in the game, where female grandmasters are rare. But the reality, one top player says, is worse.

Judit Polgar might be the one woman in the world who knows how Beth, the heroine of the hit Netflix series “The Queen’s Gambit,” really feels. Like Beth, Polgar, who is from Hungary, stood out during her career because she regularly beat the world’s top players, including Garry Kasparov in 2002, when he was ranked No. 1.

Polgar, the only woman to ever be ranked in the Top 10 or to play for the overall world championship, retired from competitive chess in 2014. Watching the series, which she described as an “incredible performance,” gave her a sense of déjà vu, particularly in the later episodes.

But there was one respect in which she could not identify with Beth’s experience: how the male competitors treated her.

“They were too nice to her,” Polgar said. When she was proving herself and rising in the world rankings, Polgar said the men often made disparaging comments about her ability and sometimes jokes, which they thought were funny but were actually hurtful.

And no one ever resigned to her as Shapkin did to Beth in Episode 7 by gallantly holding her hand near his lips.

“There were opponents who refused to shake hands,” she recalled. “There was one who hit his head on the board after he lost.”

Not every woman has had negative experiences. Irina Krush, who won her eighth United States Women’s Championship last month, said that she felt as if the chess community and men in particular were very supportive of her when she was an up-and-coming player. She said of the series, “The spirit of what they are showing conforms to my experience.”

Whether what happens to Beth is typical or not, the popularity of “The Queen’s Gambit” has inspired anew a debate about inequality and sexism in chess and what, if anything, can be done about them.

Though chess would seem like one area where men and women should be able to compete on equal footing, historically, very few women have been able to do so. Among the more than 1,700 regular grandmasters worldwide, only 37, including Polgar and Krush, are women. Currently, only one woman, Hou Yifan of China, ranks in the Top 100, at No. 88, and she has been playing infrequently, even before the pandemic.

The superiority of men in the game is so well established that the best female players have freely acknowledged it. In a recent issue of Mint, in an article titled, “Why Women Lose at Chess,” Koneru Humpy, an Indian player currently ranked No. 3 among women, said that men are just better players. “It’s proven,” she said. “You have to accept it.”

The dearth of women at the top of the game is one reason that there are separate tournaments for women, including a world championship; the World Chess Federation even created titles for women, such as women grandmaster.

Having such institutionalized, second-class status might seem like a bad idea, but not according to Anastasiya Karlovich, a woman grandmaster who was the press officer for the World Chess Federation for several years. She said that the women’s titles permit more female players to earn a living as professionals, thereby increasing their participation in the game.

Karlovich said that the Netflix show has helped her indirectly: It has made the parents of her chess students look at her differently. “They have more respect for me. They understand better the life of a player,” she said.

While some men have speculated that the reason there are so few top female players is because they are not wired for it — Kasparov once said that it is not in their nature — women think the overriding reason is cultural expectations and bias.

Polgar said that society and even parents can undermine their daughters’ efforts to improve, though, in her case, her parents, in particular her father, did the opposite: They started teaching her chess when she was of kindergarten age. Polgar also has two older sisters, Susan, who became a grandmaster and women’s world champion, and Sofia, who became an international master, to blaze the way and support her.

Elizabeth Spiegel is an expert, a level just below master, and has taught chess for two decades at I.S. 318, a public middle school in Brooklyn that has won dozens of national championships. She believes that cultural stereotypes definitely affect how people learn and play chess. She noted that boys tend to be overconfident, but that is more of a strength than a flaw in chess. On the other hand, during class, when girls answer her questions, they often begin, “I think I am wrong, but …”

Krush said that the cultural cleaving between boys and girls happens at a young age. Scrolling through the lists of the top players in the United States who are 7, 8 and 9, Krush pointed out there are only a small handful of girls in the Top 10.

That creates and reinforces another problem that discourages women’s participation: too few social contacts. Jennifer Shahade, a two-time U.S. Women’s Champion who has written two books about women in chess (“Chess Bitch” and “Play Like a Girl!”) and is the women’s program director at the U.S. Chess Federation, said teenage girls tend to stop playing chess because there are so few of them and they want the social support. That Beth is a loner is likely an important reason she does not quit playing in tournaments.

Shahade said she actually did quit for a while, at about age 12, even though she came from a chess family. Her father, Mike, was a master and her brother, Greg, became an international master.

“I was self-conscious,” Shahade said. “My brother was super talented and had become a master so early and so easily. I was a much slower learner.”

Shahade, who grew up admiring Polgar, said it was “totally inspiring” to see Beth’s story unfold. Like Beth, who loses all her games to Benny the first time they play speed chess, she prefers slow, or classical, chess.

Of 74,000 members in total, the U.S. Chess Federation said it has about 10,500 female members. Shahade wants to increase that number, as well as their participation. To that end, Shahade and the federation started an online chess club in April to keep female players engaged during the pandemic. In the last few weeks, there have been between 80 and 140 participants, with quite a few older players. The last meeting also had a special guest: Kasparov, who has become a big booster of women’s chess since his retirement from competition in 2005. He was also a consultant on the Netflix series.

To keep the momentum going, Shahade is launching a new online group called the “Madwoman’s Book Club.” The title refers to a pejorative name used for the queen in the 15th and 16th centuries after it became the most powerful piece on the board. The first meeting this Friday already has 100 people signed up.

The subject of the discussion should come as no surprise: “The Queen’s Gambit” by Walter Tevis, the book on which the Netflix series is based.





No.29 article:
$1,944 for a Coronavirus Test? How Readers Helped Us Spot an Unusual Trend

After patients sent us copies of their medical bills, I noticed a pattern that called for a closer look.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

For the last few months, I’ve started my mornings with the same routine: reviewing New York Times readers’ medical bills over coffee.

The documents are part of a project I began in August, asking readers to send in charges they’ve faced for coronavirus testing and treatment. The bills can reveal important information that hospitals and doctors often keep secret, like the true cost of a hospital stay or how much fees vary from one patient to the next. A few trickle in each day, and I look over every one.

If you read enough — I’m at 400 and counting right now — they can also show patterns in how providers bill patients. That’s how I came to my latest story, which looks at a doctor based in Greenwich, Conn., named Steven Murphy. Patients contend that he used public testing sites to run unnecessary and expensive tests. Dr. Murphy defended his billing practices and said he was providing a vital service to the community.

The story caught my eye only because of the high number of patients sending bills from his testing sites in New York City’s northern suburbs. Without that wave of reader submissions, I never would have known something was awry.

The first bill with this provider was sent to me on Aug. 3, the same day I started the collection project. A woman from outside New York City said she was “shocked” to see a drive-through coronavirus testing site bill her insurance $1,944. “How can this provider bill $480 for a 3 minute phone call giving test results?” she asked in her submission.

The next day, another submission from a patient of Dr. Murphy’s came in. “I can pay my bill but I’m astounded at the cost the provider is charging for the test,” the patient wrote. Four days later, there was another patient reporting the “exorbitant rates” she faced, also from Dr. Murphy.

When the first bill came in, I thought it was interesting but didn’t quite see a full story. The patient’s high charges could be an anomaly. By the end of the summer, I had six separate bills and an inkling something was amiss. I had slowly amassed a data set that showed that a doctor who was staffing public testing sites was repeatedly billing insurers more than $1,000 for coronavirus tests.

This is information that powerful health care lobbies typically try to keep secret. The American Hospital Association recently sued the Trump administration over new rules that would make health care prices public (they lost that challenge but have said they plan to appeal to a higher court). This makes it frustratingly difficult for reporters and patients to answer seemingly basic questions, like how much a coronavirus test costs in the United States.

The patients who went to one of these drive-through testing sites had no chance of knowing what charges they would face beforehand. Their bills, however, can help shine some light on the issue. They lay secret prices out in plain sight.

They also contain five-digit billing codes, which I’ve had to become more adept at reading the longer I’ve covered the health system. Those codes show exactly what service the doctor provided. In this case, those codes tipped me off that Dr. Murphy wasn’t just billing for coronavirus tests, as his patients thought. He was billing for 20 other respiratory pathogens, too.

The bills are important, but they are never the entire story. After I had amassed enough bills to start seeing a pattern, I began interviewing patients about their experiences. I spoke with Dr. Murphy about his billing practices. He said the use of the larger test was appropriate because it could catch a wider range of diseases, particularly for those who were symptomatic.

I talked to medical billing experts to get their insights, and to the elected officials who had set up the testing sites. I filed public records requests, and when they came back, combed through thousands of pages of emails between Dr. Murphy and town government workers.

In most cases, the patient bills I receive don’t turn into stories. Some don’t reveal new information. Of those that do, we often don’t have enough submissions to show a pattern or the ability to look into each one.

In this case, though, we got lucky: A critical mass of readers decided to take a few minutes to send us a medical bill they found odd. Their decisions allowed me to do my job better, and tell a story that otherwise may have gone untold.





No.30 article:
Black Voters Helped Deliver Biden a Presidential Victory. Now What?

Joe Biden thanked Black voters in his victory speech, saying “you’ve always had my back, and I’ll have yours.” But many remained skeptical that he would usher in real change.

[Race affects our lives in countless ways. To read more stories on race from The New York Times, sign up here for our Race/Related newsletter.]

When President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. thanked Black voters in his victory speech on Saturday night for rescuing his campaign when it was at its lowest point and declared “you’ve always had my back, and I’ll have yours,” Kourtney Neloms did not cheer like the hundreds in attendance.

Instead, listening to Mr. Biden speak in Wilmington, Del., from her hometown, Detroit, she felt somewhat skeptical.

“OK, let’s see if he’s really being honest about this,” Ms. Neloms, 42, who is Black, recalled thinking. “My prayer is that it’s not just lip service.”

While Black voters across the country celebrated the election of Mr. Biden and his vice president, Senator Kamala Harris of California, many said in recent days that the administration would have to prove its sincerity when it came to addressing the country’s vast inequalities and systemic barriers.

“I am hopeful and willing to give Biden a chance but am not completely sold,” said Geary Woolfolk, 53, who is Black and lives in suburban Atlanta.

In this year’s election, Mr. Biden attracted about 87 percent of the Black vote. At the same time, Mr. Trump, despite being widely viewed as inflaming racial hatred, gained more Black voters than in 2016, especially among Black men, according to exit polls.

In two dozen interviews, some African-American voters echoed a longstanding political concern that they were underappreciated, particularly within the Democratic Party they have staunchly supported for decades. While Democrats always face high expectations to deliver for Black communities, the pressure on Mr. Biden, a compromise-first moderate, may be even greater because of the recent summer of protests over police brutality and systemic racism, the racial makeup of his electoral coalition and his own past.

In this year’s presidential bid, Mr. Biden’s political identity was shaped largely by the fact that he served as the vice president to Barack Obama, the country’s first African-American president. He leveraged that experience to garner Black support, and it was Black voters in South Carolina who rescued his campaign during the Democratic primary.

He also addressed an issue that might have affected Black support, acknowledging that parts of his signature legislation as a longtime Delaware senator, the 1994 crime bill, were a mistake. Much of his campaign pitch, too, centered on addressing racial disparities, with the coronavirus pandemic disproportionately harming Black and Latino communities, and incidents of police violence leading to one of the largest protest movements in the nation’s history.

Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris — the first Black woman on a successful presidential ticket — accumulated huge margins over Mr. Trump in Detroit, Milwaukee, Philadelphia and Atlanta, cities with large or majority Black populations that gave the president-elect a significant boost in tightly contested swing states.

Mr. Biden’s dramatic vow during his victory speech to return the favor for Black voters who so ardently supported him was an unusually explicit commitment to African-Americans from an incoming president.

“It does create a situation where there is more pressure to provide for the Black community,” said Isaiah Thomas, a city councilman in Philadelphia who is Black. “I don’t think that we can recreate this moment right here. So we have to get as much as we can for poor people and people of color.”

During the campaign, Mr. Biden released an extensive policy agenda that outlined his plan for Black America. It included proposals to invest in Black businesses and entrepreneurs, create opportunities for homeownership, narrow racial disparities in education and address a criminal justice system that disproportionately arrests, convicts and imprisons members of Black communities.

As he started his transition this week, Mr. Biden released a plan that included a section on racial equity. Activists with the Movement for Black Lives coalition said on Tuesday that they sent a letter to Mr. Biden asking to have a role in the transition, but that they have not heard back.

Not long after Mr. Biden’s speech on Saturday, Mr. Woolfolk, a centrist who described his vote not necessarily in favor of the new president but instead in opposition to Mr. Trump, wrote an open letter to Mr. Biden. He said the Democratic Party had not earned his vote — or his loyalty. “Politicians,” he wrote on Facebook, “my vote is open for bid — what will you do for me and my kind now that the election is over?”

The father of three grown sons, Mr. Woolfolk said he wanted police accountability without defunding departments and better preparation for Black students headed to college or trade school.

Jean Brooks Murphy counted herself among the more than 60 percent of Black voters in South Carolina who rescued Mr. Biden’s withering primary campaign.

“Biden definitely owes us an administration that works on equality,” said Ms. Brooks Murphy, 74, a retired retail buyer living in Charleston. She says access to health care is an important priority for her because she has many friends “who are afraid to go to the doctor or will not go because they can’t afford the treatment or the medicine.”

Part of the challenge for Mr. Biden will be to coalesce the broad and differing views that Black Americans hold on policy goals, ideas and strategies. Some see a drastic overhaul of systems — from policing to housing — as the path to equality, while others favor more moderate measures that can garner support across the political spectrum.

While young Black progressive activists champion slogans like “defund the police,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, one of the most powerful Black members of Congress, criticized the use of such phrases. He argued that they threatened to undermine support for racial justice movements and hurt Democrats in elections.

Banika Jones, 41, who works in food service for the Detroit Public Schools, said she wanted to see reparations for Black people, a public option for health insurance, a living wage for workers and the elimination of student loan debt.

“I want to see some actual, real socialist reform,” she said, emphasizing the political ideology that Republicans have used to demonize Democrats. “I said a dirty word and I meant it. I want us to move toward Denmark.”

Although she voted for Mr. Biden, Ms. Jones said she was not excited about him. Instead, she saw him as a continuation of past Democrats, who seem more inclined to try to placate voters in the middle, rather than push for real change for African-Americans and other marginalized groups.

“The Democrats always say that they’re going to do something,” she said. “They’re going to make health care better. They’re going to help us with education. They’re going to do something about poverty. But they have spines that are made out of ramen or something. They are completely unwilling to stand up and fight back.”

Jaymes Savage is far from being disillusioned. A 19-year-old sophomore at Rutgers University-Camden, he voted for the first time this year and is excited about what a Biden-Harris administration could mean for a Black man from Philadelphia like himself. He is especially hopeful that Ms. Harris — whose father immigrated from Jamaica and mother immigrated from India — would be able to relate to the continued struggles in his community.

“I’m kind of cautious,” he said, “but then again, I’m still hopeful because he specifically addressed us and he said that we were a key part of him winning the election. I feel as though that he really is going to try to help us more now.”

It was not enough for Black voters to wait on Mr. Biden to help their communities, some said. They needed to force the issue.

Jasmine M. Johnson, who spent a year helping to mobilize voters in Milwaukee, where turnout was similar to 2016, said she was ecstatic about Mr. Biden’s victory — and hopes his cabinet selections include Black women, “who once again delivered.” After that, she said, the president’s Black agenda should prioritize shrinking the wealth gap.

“This election cycle has been a refresher for some and a crash course for others in civics,” Ms. Johnson, 39, said. “We have to collectively understand the impact of elections in our lives and collectively come up with our ask of this new administration — and then hold them accountable.”





No.31 article:
Tom Heinsohn, Champion Celtic as Player and Coach, Is Dead at 86

His blood always ran green: eight titles with Boston as a Hall of Fame forward and two as head coach followed by a four-decade career as a die-hard Celtics broadcaster.

Tom Heinsohn, the Hall of Fame forward who played on eight N.B.A. championship teams with the Boston Celtics, coached them to two titles and became their passionate broadcaster for more than 40 years, died on Monday at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 86.

Jeff Twiss, a Celtics spokesman, said the cause was renal failure, adding that Heinsohn had had multiple illnesses, including diabetes and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD.

Playing on the parquet floor of the old Boston Garden from 1956 to 1965, Heinsohn brought a superb shooting touch to the dynasty engineered by Coach Red Auerbach. He loved to shoot, most famously hitting flat-trajectory jumpers, and he had a deadly running hook.

Heinsohn was the N.B.A.’s rookie of the year in 1957, capping the season by scoring 37 points when the Celtics defeated the St. Louis Hawks for the first N.B.A. championship in their history. He was a six-time All-Star.

Coaching a rebuilt team after the retirement of Bill Russell, who had become a player-coach with the Celtics after revolutionizing the game with his defensive prowess at center, Heinsohn took Boston to N.B.A. championships in 1974 and ’76.

As the Celtics’ TV color analyst, he bemoaned referees’ calls that went against Boston while exulting, “That’s the basketball I’m talking about!” when they scored off fast breaks the way the Celtics of his playing days had done. He gave the Celtics players “Tommy points” for hustle and toughness.

Apart from his intensity behind the microphone, Heinsohn endeared himself to Celtics fans by showing a softer side, telling how “the redhead in Needham” would have reacted to particular plays — a running tribute to his wife, Helen (Weiss) Heinsohn, who was being treated for cancer. (She died in Needham, Mass., in 2008 at 68.)

Heinsohn found a serene world as an accomplished painter, pursuing his love of art while playing and coaching. His works, most notably watercolors of the New England seashore, were displayed in shows and at museums.

He was bemused by that calling, spawned in his grammar school years in New Jersey.

“I was probably the least likely artist,” he once told The New York Times. “As a coach I was the Ralph Kramden of basketball, always stomping and screaming.”

Thomas William Heinsohn was born on Aug. 26, 1934, in Jersey City. After his family moved to Union City, N.J., he became a basketball star there at St. Michael’s High School.

In college Heinsohn was an All-American at Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., taking the Crusaders to the 1954 National Invitation Tournament championship as a sophomore and averaging 27.1 points a game as a senior. He scored 1,789 points in three seasons to surpass his future teammate Bob Cousy as the school’s career scoring leader.

The Celtics made Heinsohn a territorial draft pick (something no longer in existence), and he won rookie of the year honors at a milestone time for the team — its first championship after the midseason arrival of Russell, who had played in the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Australia, after leading the University of San Francisco to two N.C.A.A. titles.

Heinsohn, 6 feet 7 and 220 pounds or so, had 23 rebounds to go with his 37 points when the Celtics won the 1957 N.B.A. championship, defeating the St. Louis Hawks, 125-123, in a Game 7 double overtime.

He played at varying times with Russell, Frank Ramsey, Tom Sanders and John Havlicek up front, and Cousy, Bill Sharman, K.C. Jones and Sam Jones in the backcourt.

But Heinsohn became the target of Auerbach’s ire over his conditioning.

In his memoir “Second Wind” (1979, with Taylor Branch), Russell said that Heinsohn had not always gotten the most out of his talent.

“Though Red yelled at him for about an hour every day, it wasn’t enough,” Russell wrote. “Tommy should have been a much better rebounder than he was, and he never got into peak condition.”

But as K.C. Jones told Dan Shaughnessy in “Ever Green” (1990), “You couldn’t intimidate Heinie ’cause he was too busy shooting the ball and thinking, ‘My shot, my shot, my shot.’”

Heinsohn got revenge on Auerbach when he turned a practical joke back on him, handing him an exploding cigar — Auerbach had once given him one — which the coach lit, only to have it blow up in his face.

Heinsohn was president of the N.B.A. players’ association when a pension dispute delayed the players taking the floor at Boston Garden for the start of the 1964 All-Star Game. They did come out of their locker rooms, and the issue was eventually resolved.

Heinsohn retired because of a foot injury when he was only 30 years old, having averaged 18.6 points and 8.8 rebounds a game. He was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., in 1986 as a player and in 2015 as a coach.

Coaching Celtics teams built around center Dave Cowens and guard Jo Jo White, along with veterans like Havlicek, Paul Silas and Don Nelson, Heinsohn had a string of winning seasons. In addition to winning two championships, he was the N.B.A.’s coach of the year in 1973, when the Celtics had a league-best 68-14 record, though they lost in the playoffs to the Knicks, the eventual league champions.

Auerbach, who put those Boston teams together as the general manager, replaced Heinsohn with Sanders in January 1978 when the Celtics were 11-23, but called it “the most traumatic experience in my 32 years in the N.B.A.” He complained that the players had been around Heinsohn so long that they didn’t seem to be listening to him any longer.

But Heinsohn was very much a Celtic for decades to come as their TV analyst. Playing off his longstanding fury with referees’ calls, he once did a Miller Lite commercial in which the former referee Mendy Rudolph ejected him from a bar in an argument over whether the beer was less filling or tasted great.

Heinsohn is survived by two sons, Paul Heinsohn and David Heinsohn-Roe, and a daughter, Donna Kumf, all of whom he had with his first wife, Diana Heinsohn; his partner, Karen Veinotte; his sister, Marion Merletto; and seven grandchildren.

Heinsohn was a color commentator and studio analyst for the Celtics into 2020 but was replaced for road games by Brian Scalabrine several years ago.

Mike Gorman, Heinsohn’s longtime partner as the Celtics’ play-by-play announcer, viewed him as a Celtic for life.

“Tommy doesn’t really do color,” Gorman told The Boston Globe in 2005. “In his heart he’s still coaching the Celtics and always will be. If it was possible to still be playing for this team, he would be.”





No.32 article:
For Home Cooks, Burnout Is a Reality This Holiday Season

It’s time to put aside the idea of a perfect Thanksgiving dinner.

If we’d talked this time a year ago, I would have told you with giddy enthusiasm why I always, every year, without fail, make not one but two kinds of potato dishes on Thanksgiving (one mashed, one roasted).

I would have explained, in excruciating detail, why I choose certain varieties of potatoes (the particular starch levels of these potatoes, the importance of these levels to their final textures), and how I treasure the chaotic vibes of a big holiday that I wasn’t brought up with, but adopted as an immigrant when I moved to the United States.

This year, a day or two in the kitchen for a feast that disappears in minutes is unimaginable. I don’t think I’m supposed to admit this here in the Food section, but when I think about cooking, I’m filled with dread.

People all over the country are exhausted by the losses of the pandemic, police violence and continuing protests against it, and the tensions of the election. Even nerdy cooks who found pleasure in freezing sheets of pie dough a week ahead of time (yes, that’s me) might find the approach of the holiday overwhelming.

When our bodies experience stress, there’s an instant neurological and physiological shift as endorphins, epinephrine and glucocorticoids rush in. Our blood pressures rise. Our brains focus on the present moment. These tiny, temporary shifts work together to sharpen our senses and help us cope with an obstacle.

“Burnout is when that stress is really prolonged,” said Saumya Dave, a psychiatrist in Atlanta. “We have mechanisms in place to survive, but when the stress is drawn out, when we don’t have an end in sight, when we’ve been stretched too long, too thinly, for an uncertain period of time, it’s burnout.”

[Thanksgiving will be different this year. Here are hundreds of our best Thanksgiving recipes from NYT Cooking to help.]

Long-term stress is toxic. It can weaken the immune system, increase blood pressure and contribute to insomnia, memory loss, depression and more. It results in total emotional exhaustion, accompanied by a sense of detachment and powerlessness.

For women of color, particularly Black women, as well as other marginalized groups, burnout is nothing new, but this year it’s been amplified and persistent.

Christina Samala, a first-generation Filipina-American living in San Francisco, is an early-stage investor and part of a community potluck group. She’s the kind of cook who makes 100 lumpia at a time, filling the rolls with pork and beef, water chestnuts, celery and carrots. She preps huge piles of vegetables to make her version of the noodle dish pancit, and she used to delight in having friends over for chicken adobo.

“I want to look forward to Thanksgiving, but I can’t,” she said. “I’d be pretty disappointed to get my hopes up, and in a week or two or three, it might not seem like a good idea anymore, for everyone’s health and safety.”

In the meantime, Ms. Samala is in charge of feeding herself, her wife and her baby, and the family is experiencing what she describes as a mix of boredom and decision-making fatigue. “When it comes to logistics and assessing risk — are we going to do Instacart? Are we grocery shopping in person? What businesses are we going to support?”

[How does Ina Garten do it? Read our profile of the Barefoot Contessa.]

In “Burnout: The Secret to Unlocking the Stress Cycle” the authors Amelia and Emily Nagoski note that finding meaning through goals, acts of service and simply being in loving relationships can be the best way to build a support system that buoys you when you’re stressed (and just works to make life better when you’re not).

And most therapists recommend the simplest social tools within reach to alleviate day-to-day stress, before it becomes unmanageable. Taking an exercise class, talking with friends over brunch or going to see a movie, are all small, reliable ways to find moments of joy and potentially break the cycle of stress in your mind and body.

“But a lot of these things just aren’t available to us right now,” said Yana Sercarz, a psychotherapist in Los Angeles. “We can’t go hang out with our friends. We can’t go to the gym. And a lot of people are really suffering because of that.”

Ms. Dave, the therapist in Atlanta who sees her patients via Zoom, said she has noticed an increase in burnout, but that it’s different this year, with a deep sense of grief running through it.

Across the country, Americans are mourning the deaths of more than 238,000 people. Millions more have lost their businesses and their jobs, deferred starting college, canceled trips to see family, or celebrated major life events like weddings and births in isolation.

“In some cases, it’s grief for the future people thought they would have,” said Ms. Dave. “This is a unique type of grief, and there’s so much we don’t know about how to cope with it yet.”

There’s no easy fix, but she asks patients to think about what gave them a sense of joy before the pandemic, to identify exactly what made them feel anchored or provided a sense of stability.

For me, it’s cooking for friends who are in and out of the house all day, and reporting in people’s kitchens, asking them questions, learning about them. These things are currently out of the question, but Ms. Dave said she brainstorms smaller, more realistic versions of those activities, and finds ways to integrate these into her patients’ lives.

Instead of dinner, joining friends in watching new episodes of “Star Trek: Discovery” each week while group texting with them could be an unexpectedly fulfilling replacement. A brunch date with a best friend, for example, might turn into a weekly phone call set in the calendar.

“Some sort of daily ritual, even if it’s just five minutes long, can signal the transition from work to nonwork time,” Ms. Dave said, “and help take you out of that mind-set of going from one thing to another with a sense of detachment.”

She suggests a ritual that engages multiple senses, such as warming essential oils, or lighting candles. It can’t be meeting friends at a bar after work, but maybe it could be mixing a drink and garnishing it with nice long citrus peel, then taking it to the backyard to sip, away from the phone and news apps. For so many, even that small of an amount of time and personal space is a luxury, and it can function as a kind of reset button.

This clear shift in expectations, in expecting far less for and from ourselves, isn’t easy, especially amid the relentlessly cheerful seasonal messaging — How to be the perfect hostess! Tips for making this the most perfect Thanksgiving ever!

Those kinds of headlines are always a touch unhinged, but this year? Every flawlessly styled photo of a set table, every perfect, crusty-edged casserole, is a reminder of the insurmountable gap between the fantasy of the holiday and its much darker, messier reality.

“We’re not going to be able to get together the way that we may have, and that’s a hardship,” Ms. Sercarz said. “We can acknowledge that it’s hard, and we cannot expect so much of ourselves.”

Home cooks rarely tend to their fatigue in the kitchen with any urgency — dinner has to get on the table, period. And it’s easy to minimize stress in comparison to the more visible and immediately threatening hardships around us.

But acknowledging the burnout is important precisely because it’s so pervasive, and so quietly destructive.

It’s also the first step to ditching the idea we’ve been sold, over and over again, of what the perfect Thanksgiving should look like — a minimum of 30 guests and two kinds of potato dishes! — and instead, celebrating one that’s possible, however different, and however small.

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.33 article:
Macron and Kurz Flex Antiterror Muscles for Domestic Audience

The context of a European-wide meeting on Tuesday was tackling the Continent’s terrorism concerns. For the leaders of France and Austria, political interests were the subtext.

PARIS — President Emmanuel Macron of France and Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria stood side by side Tuesday to talk terrorism at the Élysée Palace, but the moment was as much about domestic politics for each leader as about terrorist threats.

France and Austria both have been attacked recently: Vienna last week with the deadly shooting of four people by an Islamic State sympathizer, and France with the stabbing deaths of three in Nice and the beheading of a teacher in the Paris suburbs. And Mr. Macron in particular has been looking for allies in the face of hostility in the Muslim world to the broad crackdown his government has launched in response.

The French president, facing a re-election campaign in 2022 in which his opponent is likely to be the far right leader Marine Le Pen, has every interest in flexing his antiterrorism muscles in public, even to the point of appearing with Mr. Kurz, who until last year governed in a coalition with Ms. Le Pen’s allies on Austria’s far right.

“Given the level of emotion that has been created, he has the feeling he’s got to prove to the French he’s doing his utmost,” said Dominique Moïsi, special adviser on geopolitics at the Institut Montaigne think tank in Paris, speaking about Mr. Macron. “Even going beyond his political zone of comfort” by appearing with Mr. Kurz.

And Mr. Kurz, now in a coalition with the Greens and in a quest for broader respectability, gains from being seen in public shoulder-to-shoulder with a member in good standing of the core group of European Union leaders.

The meeting of the two leaders Tuesday was followed by a Europe-wide video conference on terrorism with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands, the European Council president, Charles Michel, and the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen.

The meeting produced some tough talk about reinforcing borders and stepping up cross-border policing, but it was more about symbol than substance for the French and Austrian leaders, according to some who have studied the two men.

Mr. Macron’s political standing, damaged by his government’s handling of the coronavirus epidemic, is now benefiting from public outrage and nationalism in the wake of the killings. He is also seeing a lift from what French commentators and politicians have suggested is anger over undue focus by foreign observers on the country’s treatment of its Muslim population.

“Macron is clearly keeping up the momentum. Being tough on terrorism never hurt anyone,” said François Heisbourg, a French defense analyst, though “honestly I don’t think most French people have heard of Kurz.”

In the view of analysts, the political implications of Tuesday’s meeting were clear.

“In a way it’s a direct answer to Marine Le Pen,” said Mr. Moïsi of the Institut Montaigne. “He’s already in the campaign, and he’s only got one opponent. He’s proving to those who vote for her, you don’t have to vote for her, you can vote for me. It’s a political tactic in the immediate, and a global strategy in the longer term.”

Mr. Kurz had similar domestic goals in mind, aware of having to take a tough line to mobilize voters who might defect to the far-right Freedom Party, with which he governed in a previous coalition.

“For Kurz this alliance with Macron is useful in three ways,” said Christoph Hofinger, director of the SORA institute, a social research group in Vienna. “He can show that he has European recognition, he can show that he is being tough on political Islam, and the whole thing distracts from the embarrassing missed warnings ahead of the recent attack in Vienna.”

He added: “It is less about persuading Macron of anything than about giving the impression of being a leading voice in Europe.”

Mr. Macron was careful to touch on themes dear to Ms. Le Pen’s party, in brief remarks Tuesday after his meeting with Mr. Kurz and the other European leaders. “This menace weighs on all the countries of Europe,” he said, emphasizing to reporters that the Continent’s external border, outside the so-called Schengen Zone that encompasses most of the countries of Europe, needed to be tightened.

“Security weakness at the border is a risk to all our member states,” Mr. Macron said. “There has to be a refoundation of the Schengen Zone,” he added, “so that it becomes a safe space.”

Mr. Macron insisted that “we have to look lucidly at the link between illegal immigration and terrorism,” a nod to apparent illegal entry into Italy by boat by the suspect in the Nice killings.

Mr. Kurz chimed right in Tuesday. “We can’t live in liberty without protecting our exterior frontiers,” the Austrian chancellor said. “We’re being confronted by a permanent menace.”

Ms. Merkel was the only leader who sounded a softening note. “This is not a fight between Islam and Christianity,” the German chancellor said. “It’s about defending our model of a democratic society.”

Before Mr. Macron spoke, Ms. Le Pen’s National Rally party issued a statement Tuesday calling for the abandonment of the Schengen Zone and the re-establishment of national borders — for years a French far-right rallying cry. This would do away with a signature achievement of the European Union, border-free travel. Mr. Macron hasn’t gone that far, although last week he announced a doubling of French border guards.

Ms. Le Pen’s party professed bemusement at Mr. Macron’s remarks. “He doesn’t understand the threat we are facing,” said Philippe Olivier, a close aide to the far right leader, in an interview after Mr. Macron spoke.

“We are at war, and in the face of a war we implement a law of war,” Mr. Olivier said, adding that Mr. Macron’s pledges to rethink the Schengen area and to regulate hate speech on social networks were useless in the fight against terrorism.

Mr. Macron touched on another theme dear to the far right, the abuse of demands for asylum. “There’s been a distortion in calls for the right to asylum,” the French president said Tuesday. “We’ve seen more and more people asking for asylum. This is being used by traffickers,” he said.

Mr. Olivier said that Mr. Macron’s denunciation of the “misuse” of Europe’s asylum system was contradicted by his support for the new European Commission-backed plan for migrants, which offers countries financial incentives to take in refugees, but also aims to speed deportation.

For now, Mr. Macron can absorb these jabs from the far right, even as he lobbies, with some success, to make the problem of terrorism a European Union-wide one.

A policy document set to be approved this week by E.U. interior ministers lays out areas where the E.U. should step up the fight against extremism, including compelling social media companies to remove extremist content, improving existing intelligence-sharing platforms and bolstering cooperation with third countries on the movements of extremists.





No.34 article:
What Went Wrong With Polling? Some Early Theories

Pollsters thought they had learned from the errors of 2016. It’s possible that they did, and that this election reflects new problems.

Asking for a polling post-mortem at this stage is a little bit like asking a coroner for the cause of death while the body is still at the crime scene. You’re going to have to wait to conduct a full autopsy.

But make no mistake: It’s not too early to say that the polls’ systematic understatement of President Trump’s support was very similar to the polling misfire of four years ago, and might have exceeded it.

For now, there is no easy excuse. After 2016, pollsters arrived at plausible explanations for why surveys had systematically underestimated Mr. Trump in the battleground states. One was that state polls didn’t properly weight respondents without a college degree. Another was that there were factors beyond the scope of polling, like the large number of undecided voters who appeared to break sharply to Mr. Trump in the final stretch.

This year, there seemed to be less cause for concern: In 2020, most state polls weighted by education, and there were far fewer undecided voters.

But in the end, the polling error in states was virtually identical to the miss from 2016, despite the steps taken to fix things. The Upshot’s handy “If the polls were as wrong as they were in 2016” chart turned out to be more useful than expected, and it nailed Joe Biden’s one-point-or-less leads in Pennsylvania, Georgia and Arizona.

The national polls were even worse than they were four years ago, when the industry’s most highly respected and rigorous survey houses generally found Hillary Clinton leading by four points or less — close to her 2.1-point popular-vote victory. This year, Mr. Biden is on track to win the national vote by around five percentage points; no major national live-interview telephone survey showed him leading by less than eight percentage points over the final month of the race.

The New York Times/Siena College polls were also less accurate than they were in 2018 or four years ago. In 2016, the last two Times/Siena polls were among a very small group of polls to show Mr. Trump tied or ahead in Florida and North Carolina. This time, nearly all of the Times/Siena surveys overestimated Mr. Biden to about the same extent as other surveys.

In the months ahead, troves of data will help add context to exactly what happened in this election, like final turnout data, the results by precinct, and updated records of which voters turned out or stayed home. All of this data can be appended to our polling, to nail down where the polls were off most and help point toward why. But for now, it’s still too soon for a confident answer.

In the broadest sense, there are two ways to interpret the repeat of 2016’s polling error. One is that pollsters were entirely wrong about what happened in 2016. As a result, the steps they took to address it left them no better off. Another is that survey research has gotten even more challenging since 2016, and whatever steps pollsters took to improve after 2016 were canceled out by a new set of problems.

Of these two, the latter interpretation — real improvements canceled out by new challenges — may make the most sense.

“I think our polls would have been even worse this year had we employed a pre-2016 methodology,” said Nick Gourevitch of Global Strategy Group, a Democratic polling firm that took steps to better represent Mr. Trump’s supporters. “These things helped make our data more conservative, though clearly they were not enough on their own to solve the problem.”

The explanation for 2016’s polling error, while not necessarily complete or definitive, was not contrived. Many state pollsters badly underrepresented the number of voters without a college degree, who backed Mr. Trump in huge numbers. The pollsters went back to their data after 2016, and found that they would have been much closer to the election result if they had employed the standard education adjustments that national surveys have long used. An Upshot analysis of national surveys found that failing to weight by education cost Mr. Trump about four points in polling support — enough to cover much of the 2016 polling error. Other pollsters had similar findings.

But this time, education weighting didn’t seem to help. State and national polls consistently showed Mr. Biden faring far better than Mrs. Clinton did among white voters without a degree. Last week’s results made it clear that he didn’t.

Over all, the final national surveys in 2020 showed Mr. Trump leading by a margin of 58 percent to 37 percent among white voters without a degree. In 2016, they showed Mr. Trump ahead by far more, 59-30. The results by county suggest that Mr. Biden made few gains at all among white voters without a degree nationwide, and even did worse than Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 showing in many critical states.

In contrast, the 2016 polls did show the decisive and sharp shift among white voters without a degree, but underestimated its effect in many states because they underestimated the size of the group. Many state polls showed college graduates representing half of the likely electorate in 2016, compared with about 35 percent in census estimates.

The poll results among seniors are another symptom of a deeper failure in this year’s polling. Unlike in 2016, surveys consistently showed Mr. Biden winning by comfortable margins among voters 65 and over. The final NBC/WSJ poll showed Mr. Biden up 23 points among the group; the final Times/Siena poll showed him up by 10. In the final account, there will be no reason to believe any of it was real.

This is a deeper kind of error than ones from 2016. It suggests a fundamental mismeasurement of the attitudes of a large demographic group, not just an underestimate of its share of the electorate. Put differently, the underlying raw survey data got worse over the last four years, canceling out the changes that pollsters made to address what went wrong in 2016.

It helps explain why the national surveys were worse than in 2016; they did weight by education four years ago and have made few to no changes since. It also helps explain why the error is so tightly correlated with what happened in 2016: It focuses on the same demographic group, even if the underlying source of the error among the group is quite different.

Polling clearly has some serious challenges. The industry has always relied on statistical adjustments to ensure that each group, like white voters without a degree, represents its proper share of the sample. But this helps only if the respondents you reach are representative of those you don’t. In 2016, they seemed to be representative enough for many purposes. In 2020, they were not.

So how did the polls get worse over the last four years? This is mainly speculation, but consider just a few possibilities:

The president (and the polls) hurt the polls. There was no real indication of a “hidden Trump” vote in 2016. But maybe there was one in 2020. For years, the president attacked the news media and polling, among other institutions. The polls themselves lost quite a bit of credibility in 2016.

It’s hard not to wonder whether the president’s supporters became less likely to respond to surveys as their skepticism of institutions mounted, leaving the polls in a worse spot than they were four years ago.

“We now have to take seriously some version of the Shy Trump hypothesis,” said Patrick Ruffini, a Republican pollster for Echelon Insights. It would be a “problem of the polls simply not reaching large elements of the Trump coalition, which is causing them to underestimate Republicans across the board when he’s on the ballot.”

(This is different from the typical Shy Trump theory that Trump supporters don’t tell pollsters the truth.)

A related possibility: During his term, Mr. Trump might have made gains among the kinds of voters who would be less likely to respond to surveys, and might have lost additional ground among voters who would be more likely to respond to surveys. College education, of course, is only a proxy for the traits that predict whether someone might back Mr. Trump or respond to a poll. There are other proxies as well, like whether you trust your neighbor; volunteer your time; are politically engaged.

Another proxy is turnout: People who vote are likelier to take political surveys. The Times/Siena surveys go to great lengths to reach nonvoters, which was a major reason our surveys were more favorable for the president than others in 2016. In 2020, the nonvoters reached by The Times were generally more favorable for Mr. Biden than those with a track record of turning out in recent elections. It’s possible that, in the end, the final data will suggest that Mr. Trump did a better job of turning out nonvoters who backed him. But it’s also possible that we reached the wrong low-turnout voters.

The resistance hurt the polls. It’s well established that politically engaged voters are likelier to respond to political surveys, and it’s clear that the election of President Trump led to a surge of political engagement on the left. Millions attended the Women’s March or took part in Black Lives Matter protests. Progressive activists donated enormous sums and turned out in record numbers for special elections that would have never earned serious national attention in a different era.

This surge of political participation might have also meant that the resistance became likelier to respond to political surveys, controlling for their demographic characteristics. Are the “MSNBC moms” now excited to take a poll while they put Rachel Maddow on mute in the background? Like most of the other theories presented here, there’s no hard evidence for it — but it does fit with some well-established facts about propensity to respond to surveys.

The turnout hurt the polls. Political pollsters have often assumed that higher turnout makes polling easier, since it means that there’s less uncertainty about the composition of the electorate. Maybe that’s not how it worked out.

Heading into the election, many surveys showed something unusual: Democrats faring better among likely voters than among registered voters. Usually, Republicans hold the turnout edge.

Take Pennsylvania. The final CNN/SSRS poll of the state showed Mr. Biden up by 10 points among likely voters, but by just five among registered voters. Monmouth showed Mr. Biden up by seven among likely voters in a “high-turnout” scenario (which it ended up being), but by five points among registered voters. Marist? It had a lead of six points among likely voters and five points among registered voters. The ABC/Washington Post showed a seven-point lead for Mr. Biden among likely voters and a four-point lead among registered voters.

It’s still too soon to say whether Republican turnout beat Democratic turnout, but it sure seems possible. In Florida, the one state where we do have hard turnout data, registered Republicans outnumbered registered Democrats by about two percentage points among those who actually voted, even though Democrats outnumber Republicans among registered voters by about 1.5 points in the state. Here, there is no doubt that the turnout was better for the president than the polls suggested, whether they’re private polls or the final Times/Siena poll — which showed registered Republicans with an edge of 0.7 points.

If Mr. Trump fared better among likely voters than among registered voters in Pennsylvania, a fundamental misfire on the estimate of turnout could very quickly explain some of the miss.

Unlike the other theories presented here, this one can be proved false or true. States will eventually update their voter registration files with a record of whether voters turned out in the election. We’ll be able to see the exact composition of the electorate by party registration, and we’ll also be able to see which of our respondents voted. Perhaps Mr. Trump’s supporters were likelier to follow through. We might start to get data from North Carolina and Georgia in the next few weeks. Other states might take longer.

The pandemic hurt the polls. Remember those Times/Siena polls from October 2019 that showed Mr. Biden narrowly leading Mr. Trump? They turned out to be very close to the actual result, at least outside of Florida. They were certainly closer than the Times/Siena polls conducted since.

It wasn’t just the Times/Siena polls that were closer to the mark further ahead of the election. Results from pollsters in February and March look just about dead-on in retrospect, with Mr. Biden leading by about six points among registered voters nationwide, with a very narrow lead in the “blue wall” states, including a tied race in Wisconsin.

One possibility is that the polls were just as poor in October 2019 as in October 2020. If so, Mr. Trump actually held a clear lead during the winter. Maybe. Another possibility is that the polls got worse over the last year. And something really big did happen in American life over that time: the coronavirus pandemic.

“The basic story is that after lockdown, Democrats just started taking surveys, because they were locked at home and didn’t have anything else to do,” said David Shor, a Democratic pollster who worked for the Obama campaign in 2012. “Nearly all of the national polling error can be explained by the post-Covid jump in response rates among Dems,” he said.

Circumstantial evidence is consistent with that theory. We know that the virus had an effect on the polls: Pollsters giddily reported an increase in response rates. High-powered studies showed Mr. Biden gaining in coronavirus hot spots, seeming to confirm the assumption that the pandemic was hurting the president.

But if Mr. Shor is right, the studies weren’t showing a shift in the attitudes of voters in hot spots; rather, it was a shift in the tendency for supporters of Mr. Biden to respond to surveys.

Adding to the intrigue: There is no evidence that the president fared worse in coronavirus hot spots, contrary to the expectations of pundits or studies. Instead, Mr. Trump fared slightly better in places with high coronavirus cases than in places with lower coronavirus cases, controlling for demographics, based on the preliminary results by county so far. This is most obviously true in Wisconsin, one of the nation’s current hot spots and the battleground state where the polls underestimated Mr. Trump the most. The final polls in Wisconsin — including the final Times/Siena poll — showed Mr. Biden gaining in the state, even as polls elsewhere showed Mr. Trump making gains.

Don’t forget the Hispanic vote. There’s one state in particular where the polls were much worse in 2020 than in 2016: Florida, where Mr. Trump made huge gains among Hispanic voters.

What happened in Miami-Dade County was stunning. Mr. Biden won by just seven points in a county where Mrs. Clinton won by 29 points. No pollster saw the extent of it coming, not even those conducting polls of Miami-Dade County or its competitive congressional districts.

Most polls probably weren’t even in the ballpark. The final Times/Siena poll of Florida showed Mr. Biden with a 55-33 lead among Hispanic voters. In the final account, Mr. Biden may barely win the Hispanic vote in the state.

What happened in Miami-Dade was not just about Cuban-Americans. Although Democrats flipped a Senate seat and are leading the presidential race in Arizona, Mr. Trump made huge gains in many Hispanic communities across the country, from the agricultural Imperial Valley and the border towns along the Rio Grande to more urban Houston or Philadelphia.

Many national surveys don’t release results for Hispanic voters because any given survey usually has only a small sample of the group. It will be some time until the major pollsters post their results to the Roper Center, a repository of detailed polling data. Then we’ll be able to dig in and see exactly what the national polls showed among this group.

But if the Florida polls are any indication, it’s at least possible that national surveys missed Mr. Trump’s strength among Hispanic voters. It seems entirely possible that the polls could have missed by 10 points among the group. If true, it would account for a modest but significant part — maybe one-fourth — of the national polling error.

These are the initial guesses. Other theories will emerge. In time, to the extent they can be, all of them will be put to the test. And then we’ll know more than we do now, and can revisit this question.





No.35 article:
At Augusta National, Not Talking About Race Is Tradition

A plan to honor Lee Elder, the first Black golfer to compete in the Masters, highlights the glacial pace of change at the club that hosts golf’s marquee event.

The coronavirus pandemic has silenced the Masters Tournament’s resonant roars. It has erased the par-3 contest, drained the color from the wintering azaleas and brought brisk north winds into play for the first time. This week’s tournament, rescheduled from the first major of the year to the last and stripped down to better safeguard the participants from the virus, is happening in one kind of bubble.

But Augusta National has always existed in a bubble, a byproduct of a famously private club consolidating its influence and then enforcing it over the decades while maintaining practices that, throughout most of its storied history, were exclusionary and racist.

The Masters, first played in 1934, didn’t extend an invitation to a Black competitor until 1975. The club didn’t admit its first Black member until 1990 and didn’t offer membership to women until 2012.

As host to what is considered the most prestigious event on the golf calendar, on the most exquisite course that money can maintain, Augusta National serves up a history that is Southern comfort food for the pilgrim’s soul but leaves out the unappetizing bits.

After a year characterized by widespread protests over racial inequality and amid an ongoing reckoning in America over race, Augusta National on Monday at last joined the conversation. The club announced plans to honor Lee Elder, who in 1975 became the first Black man to play in the Masters.

On the 45th anniversary of his barrier-breaking appearance, Elder was recognized with an invitation to become an honorary starter alongside the sport’s elder statesmen and long-serving curtain-raisers, 85-year-old Gary Player and 80-year-old Jack Nicklaus.

Fred Ridley, Augusta National’s chairman, said Elder, 86, would join Player and Nicklaus for the ceremonial first tee shot next year, when he hopefully can be surrounded, and celebrated, by the tournament’s customary complement of fans.

“The opportunity to earn an invitation to the Masters and stand at that first tee was my dream, and to have it come true in 1975 remains one of the greatest highlights of my career and life,” Elder said in a statement. “So to be invited back to the first tee one more time to join Jack and Gary for next year’s Masters means the world to me.”

Ridley also revealed that the club would fund a women’s golf program at Paine College, a historically Black college in Augusta, Ga., and endow two scholarships there in Elder’s name, one to a student on the men’s golf team and one to a student on the women’s.

In a statement, Ridley said the club had decided to recognize Elder’s “courageous life” because of “all he has done in his career to help eliminate barriers and inspire Black men and women in the game of golf and beyond.”

Unspoken was the fact that Augusta National could have honored Elder five, 10 or 15 years ago. In choosing to do so now, the club appeared to be trying to catch the tail end of a wave of racial awakenings that spurred work stoppages across a variety of professional sports, forced the N.F.L. to publicly reverse its position on on-field protests and led to the banning of the Confederate flag at NASCAR events.

Yet golf, especially in America, has always been different. Historically it has practiced segregation by class, gender, race and religion. The Professional Golfers Association had a “Caucasian clause” from 1934 to 1961, which precluded nonwhites from becoming members.

Augusta National’s founders, the famed amateur Bobby Jones and the Wall Street broker Clifford Roberts, were both men of their times. In Golf Digest in 2017, Tom Callahan wrote that Jones and Roberts “might not have been any more bigoted than the average American born in 1894 or 1902, but neither was a champion of affirmative action.”

Callahan will get no argument from the family of Charlie Sifford, whose two PGA Tour victories, at the 1967 Greater Hartford Open and the 1969 Los Angeles Open, were not enough to gain him a start at the Masters.

“He did everything that was required,” said Sifford’s son Charlie Jr., “and they kept changing the requirements.”

In 1983, Calvin Peete, the second Black golfer after Elder to compete in the Masters, was asked his opinion of the Masters traditions. “Till Lee Elder came, the only Blacks here were caddies and waiters,” he said. “To ask a Black man how he feels about the traditions of the Masters is like asking him how he feels about his forefathers, who were slaves.”

In 2020, the defending champion is Tiger Woods, a five-time winner whose 15 major championships make him the most conspicuous symbol of racial progress in the sport.

“Yes, it has had some roots that I don’t think that everyone is proud of,” Woods said last month, referring to Augusta National. “But it has evolved. We have minority members now. It’s more diverse.”

Augusta National’s membership, thought to number roughly 300, is not a matter of public record. The club’s dues and rules are also kept secret, though it can be surmised by the reluctance of members to speak openly that not publicly addressing club matters is rule No. 1.

One member, Lynn Swann, an N.F.L. Hall of Fame receiver and one-time Republican nominee for governor of Pennsylvania, demurred weeks ago when asked about the proposal to honor Elder.

“The club has some histories and traditions and things that they follow,” Swann said in a telephone interview. “I’m on a committee that does not look into those things.”

Wendell Haskins, who left his post as the diversity director for the PGA of America in 2017, first proposed making Elder an honorary starter at Augusta more than five years ago. But it wasn’t until he got outside golf’s bubble, he said, that he understood why he had not been able to make more inroads in the sport.

This fall, Haskins enrolled in an online course through Cornell University to earn a diversity and inclusion certificate. One of the lessons, he said, was that meaningful diversity in any club or company can only happen when the people brought in are not expected to conform to the existing environment but are encouraged to add their unique perspective.

Upon hearing the news that Augusta National had adopted his proposal, Haskins was reflective.

“It’s significant for Augusta National to be doing this at this moment in time,” said Haskins, now the chief marketing officer of the Professional Collegiate League. “I think it’s extremely special. I know it’s going to mean a lot to the people of color who want to see more reflections of themselves in the game.”

Still, he remained dubious that the club’s power brokers were committed to changing its culture. “What are they doing from this day forward to create a climate that is welcoming and comfortable and allowing people to be their authentic selves?” Haskins said.

In 2008, Kenton Makin, who is Black, was assigned to cover the Masters for The Aiken Standard, a daily newspaper in South Carolina. He walked the grounds and noticed that most of the patrons, as the spectators are called, were white. And most of the people picking up the trash and serving him food in the media center were Black.

“I felt that angst, that uncomfortability,” Makin said.

He was at the event again in 2012, he said, and hasn’t been back since. Makin, who now hosts a podcast, said: “I call it ‘that golf tournament.’ The reason I call it ‘that golf tournament’ is I think calling it the Masters when you understand its sordid history, I think the Masters is in and of itself an ideology that literally ties back to white supremacy.”

If Augusta National’s loblolly pines, some of which predate the Civil War, could talk, they would tell the story of a parcel of land that has gone from an indigo plantation in the middle of the 19th century to a private white men’s society that reflected the racist mores of the 20th century to a private wealthy person’s society in the 21st century that hosts the most prestigious golf tournament in the world, has Black and female members and now even oversees a women’s amateur tournament.

“The reality is we can’t get caught looking back to claw our way forward,” Swann, 68, said, adding, “We’ve got to progress and move forward, and those people who have held others back are going to have to make an adjustment and understand that that is no longer viable.”

It was never going to be possible to move forward without revisiting the past. The initiatives that Ridley announced Monday may relieve the tension that has rippled just beneath the serene surface of the Masters, the tug and pull between people who revere Augusta National as a holy place and those who view it as a remnant of the country’s segregationist history. But in honoring one Black player, it also shines a new light on those it continues to ignore.

Jim Dent, 81, an Augusta native and Paine College alumnus, participated in his first Masters when he was 15 — as a caddie, because that was the only avenue available to him at the time. He joined the PGA Tour at 31 without the benefit of a single lesson and, as a long-hitting journeyman pro, inspired other Black players for parts of five decades while winning more than $500,000 on the tour and posting 12 victories on the 50-and-older tour.

Dent was to the ’70s what Bryson DeChambeau is to 2020 — a pro whose drives made jaws drop. In June, the entrance to the Augusta Municipal Golf Course was renamed Jim Dent Way to honor his contributions to the sport. Ira Miller, the general manager of the course, known affectionately as the Patch, would love to see Dent recognized in some way by Augusta National.

“Jim is right here in the backyard,” Miller said, adding, “What stops them from honoring him?”

Sifford’s son Charlie Jr. said his father, known to his family as Big Charlie, never set foot on the grounds of Augusta National before his death in 2015 at age 92. He could never get out of his head what he claimed Roberts had said: As long as Roberts was alive, all the caddies at Augusta National would be Black and all the players would be white. Roberts died in 1977 of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Sifford’s nephew Chris Sifford traveled from his home in North Carolina to attend his first Masters some time ago. Walking the storied course, “I got goose bumps,” he said.

But as the day wore on and he took in the majesty of the grounds and the magnificence of the event, he thought of his uncle, and his ebullient mood soured.

“Here was this guy who did everything you told him to do that was required and he wasn’t allowed to play,” Chris Sifford said. “As electrifying as it was to walk the golf course, I really left sad knowing what they did to him.”

He has not been back.

“I think they should right the ship by rewriting the narrative,” Chris Sifford said, adding, “They never righted the ship, especially as Charlie was concerned.”





No.36 article:
Who Would Rig This Vote? The Fraud Was Real (and Feathers Were Ruffled)

More than 1,500 fake votes were slipped into New Zealand’s Bird of the Year 2020 contest in favor of the kiwi pukupuku.

The voter fraud, perpetrated on Monday in New Zealand, was real. And the contenders were, er, fowl.

As the citizens slept, a hacker slipped more than 1,500 fake votes into an election database, sending one flightless bird to the top.

The scandal has roiled Bird of the Year 2020, an online popularity contest among the native birds of New Zealand, and made headlines in the remote Pacific Island nation, which takes its avian biodiversity seriously.

“It’s kind of disappointing that people decide to try their little tech tricks on Bird of the Year,” Laura Keown, the spokeswoman for the competition, told Radio New Zealand on Tuesday. “I’m not sure what kind of person could do it, but I like to assume that it’s somebody who just really loved native birds.”

No one has claimed responsibility, and no one is expected to.

The contest, which began on Nov. 2 and ends on Sunday, is conducted through an instant-runoff system that allows voters to rank their favorite birds — just as New Zealanders do when they elect humans to office. The organizer, a New Zealand-based advocacy group called Forest &amp; Bird, has said that the contest is designed to raise awareness about the plight of the country’s more than 200 species of native birds, many of which are threatened or at risk of extinction.

“It’s a chance for people to get to know our native birds so that they will love them and they’ll want to protect them,” Ms. Keown said.

As the voting commenced, Yvan Richard, a data scientist at Dragonfly, a consultancy in New Zealand’s capital, Wellington, that had volunteered to monitor the vote, spotted something suspicious.

He discovered that someone had slipped a huge amount of votes in favor of the kiwi pukupuku, or little spotted kiwi. It is one of five species of kiwi bird, New Zealand’s national icon. It is flightless — a common avian trait in a country without native, land-based mammalian predators.

Edward Abraham, Dragonfly’s founder, said that finding the cheating ballots had been relatively easy because people who interfered with bird elections tended to show their hands by getting “a little enthusiastic.”

“When a bird gets a whole lot of votes in the middle of the night and zooms from the middle of the pack to the top of the ranks, that’s a sign that something’s going on,” he said.

Forest &amp; Bird said in a statement on Tuesday that while “illegitimate” ballots had briefly pushed the pukupuku into the lead, they were removed within a few hours.

The pukupuku was once the most common type of the five kiwis, but is now extinct on New Zealand’s mainland. Its 1,900 or so remaining members live on Kapiti Island, a bird sanctuary off the coast of the country’s North Island. The International Union for Conservation of Nature lists its status as “near threatened.”

Mr. Abraham described the Bird of the Year electorate as roughly split between fans of seabirds and forest-dwelling ones, and said that voter turnout appeared to be lower than in previous years. That was possibly because New Zealanders had just endured another major vote: re-electing their prime minister a few weeks before the bird polls opened.

In that sense, he said, “the birds are going head-to-head with real politics.”

About 12,000 people had voted in this year’s bird contest as of Tuesday evening, Mr. Abraham said. The leader was the antipodean albatross, an endangered seabird that is often caught up in the lines used by commercial fishing boats to catch tuna and swordfish.

But the albatross was fighting off a stiff challenge from the kakapo, which the organizer describes as an “exquisitely perfumed” species.

The owner of the Twitter account @VoteToroa, which was apparently created by a supporter of the albatross, said on Monday that while the bird had picked up votes from “Chile and other parts of the Pacific Ocean,” that was only natural for such a freewheeling creature.

Responding to an earlier claim by a supporter of a rival bird who had insinuated fraud (without offering evidence) and wildly exaggerated the vote count, @VoteToroa wrote, “These are TOTALLY legal and VALID ballots.”

The kiwi pukupuku scandal is not the first case of bird-related voter fraud in New Zealand.

In 2015, two 15-year-old girls created fake email addresses and used them to cast fraudulent votes for the kokako, which has a “minimalist, operatic five-note song.”

And in 2017, Mr. Richard, of the Dragonfly consultancy, spotted a suspicious midnight spike in votes for the matuku moana, or white-faced heron.

A similar bird-popularity contest in Australia was rocked last year when its sponsor, The Guardian newspaper, detected automated voting for the rainbow lorikeet, the cockatoo and the black-throated finch, the eventual winner.

Ms. Keown, the spokeswoman for the New Zealand edition, said that the 1,500-plus pukupuku votes that were suddenly recorded between 1 a.m. and 3 a.m. on Monday were all submitted from the same Auckland-based IP address.

“No one has to worry about the integrity of our bird election,” she told Radio New Zealand, adding that every vote would be counted.

Asked whether Russia had been involved, she denied any “overseas interference” in the vote.





No.37 article:
Biden Is Expected to Keep Scrutiny of Tech Front and Center

Issues like antitrust and privacy would remain on the agenda as his administration pursued policies to limit the power of the industry’s giants.

WASHINGTON — The tech industry had it easy under President Barack Obama. Regulators brought no major charges, executives rotated in and out of the administration, and efforts to strengthen privacy laws fizzled out.

The industry will have it much harder under president-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Bipartisan support to restrain its power has grown sharply during the Trump administration, and shows no signs of going away as Democrats regain control of the White House. Mr. Biden is expected to take on the Silicon Valley giants on misinformation, privacy and antitrust, in a sharp departure from the polices pursued while he was vice president under Mr. Obama.

“The foundations of the concerns about digital platforms were developing during the Obama years, and yet the major tech issues from the Obama era are still with us and unresolved,” said Chris Lewis, the president of the consumer advocacy group Public Knowledge. “The genie is out of the bottle and the issues the public needs resolved are piling up without resolution.”

On the campaign trail, Mr. Biden rarely spoke about technology policy at length. But he has criticized social media companies, like Facebook, that have allowed disinformation to flourish on their sites, and he has expressed concern over power held by a handful of companies in tech and other industries.

A Biden administration is expected to pursue the antitrust lawsuit filed against Google last month, people with knowledge of his campaign said. It may also introduce more antitrust cases against Facebook and possibly Amazon and Apple, which the Trump administration has investigated for more than a year.

The Biden campaign wouldn’t comment about specific cases or investigations. But a spokesman for it, Matt Hill, said Mr. Biden would take an aggressive stance toward the industry.

“Many technology giants and their executives have not only abused their power, but misled the American people, damaged our democracy and evaded any form of responsibility,” Mr. Hill said. “That ends with a President Biden.”

Mr. Biden’s clearest position on internet policy has been his call to revoke a legal shield known as Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act. That safe harbor has protected Google, Facebook, Amazon and Twitter from lawsuits for hosting or removing harmful or misleading content. He hasn’t elaborated on how he would revoke the shield, a 1996 law that the tech industry will fight vigorously to defend.

Also near the top of Mr. Biden’s agenda, his advisers have said, will be the extension of broadband internet service to low-income and rural households, which has become an urgent need during the pandemic as schools have shifted online. Billions in federal funding could come from legislation or the Federal Communications Commission, which hollowed out several regulations during the Trump administration.

The F.C.C. would also be poised to reinstall so-called net neutrality, a rule that prevented telecommunications companies from blocking or slowing internet traffic.

Hundreds of informal tech advisers, some of them current or former telecom and tech employees, have offered opinions, white papers and strategies for Mr. Biden’s campaign and possible presidency. Many of the top advisers have been proponents of strong legislation to limit the power of the tech companies.

Leading Mr. Biden’s team of tech advisers is Bruce Reed, his chief of staff when he was vice president. Mr. Reed served in recent years as general counsel for Common Sense Media, a child advocacy nonprofit in San Francisco that has lobbied for tech privacy and safety laws. Mr. Reed was instrumental in the creation of California’s privacy law in 2018.

Another top aide working on tech issues is Stef Feldman, a longtime member of Mr. Biden’s staff who led the campaign’s policy efforts. This year, she told Politico that among the issues she was tracking closely was “disparities in children’s ability to engage in remote learning due to a lack of access to technology” during the pandemic.

Mr. Biden will need to navigate a split in the Democratic Party over how aggressively to approach the tech companies. Progressives like Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Representative David Cicilline of Rhode Island have argued that the giants should be broken up, and those lawmakers will probably fight for regulators who feel similarly. Moderates in the party have shown a reluctance to break up the companies.

Many conservatives support the antitrust investigations being led by the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission. But they are likely to resist many of Mr. Biden’s tech policies, like online speech and privacy legislation that interferes in free markets. And with neither party controlling a large majority in the Senate, their opposition means that legislation could easily hit gridlock.

Mr. Biden will also face fierce pushback from the industry. In recent years, technology companies have expanded their lobbying, with Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google spending $53.6 million on it last year — more than Wall Street, pharmaceutical and energy firms.

“Tremendous political influence will be brought to bear on a Biden White House by the tech lobby and its allies,” said Jeffrey Chester, head of the Center for Digital Democracy, a privacy advocacy group. “However, it’s night and day in terms of how tech is viewed now and during the Obama years.”

Current and former tech executives and lobbyists, as well as former regulators, said that while the industry expected a Biden administration to be tough on the companies, particularly in antitrust areas, it would welcome a change from the unpredictable Trump administration.

“The Trump administration was a showbiz, and as a result no one knew what to expect,” said Tom Wheeler, a Democrat who was chairman of the Federal Communications Commission under Mr. Obama. “Silicon Valley will at least be pleased with stability knowing there is a plan, rather than a whim-of-the-moment policy creation.”

Bruce Sewell, Apple’s general counsel and its chief of government affairs from 2009-17, said, “If you’re in Silicon Valley and you’re the head of one of these companies, you’re probably saying, ‘Biden’s not going to be easier on us — but at least it’s back to the devil that we know.’”

Mr. Biden is expected to largely extend the hard line Mr. Trump has taken against Chinese tech firms that officials say pose a national security threat. The Trump administration has moved to strip Chinese telecom equipment from American networks, stop Silicon Valley companies from building undersea cables to mainland China and remove Chinese-owned products like TikTok from Apple’s and Google’s app stores.

Mr. Trump has pressured American allies to take the same steps. But Mr. Biden may try to take a more conciliatory approach with European policymakers who have grown to see China’s influence over technology as a major threat — which could encourage him to overcome the gap between Europe’s tough internet regulations and the United States’ hands-off approach.

“A Biden administration would definitely seek to put pressure on Beijing in a multilateral way, but one of the first things they’ll have to think about is: How do we work with Europeans when there is a massive digital chasm?” said Samm Sacks, a cybersecurity policy and China digital economy fellow at the think tank New America.





No.38 article:
The Husband-and-Wife Team Behind the Leading Vaccine to Solve Covid-19

Two years ago, Dr. Ugur Sahin took the stage at a conference in Berlin and made a bold prediction. Speaking to a roomful of infectious disease experts, he said his company might be able to use its so-called messenger RNA technology to rapidly develop a vaccine in the event of a global pandemic.

At the time, Dr. Sahin and his company, BioNTech, were little known outside the small world of European biotechnology start-ups. BioNTech, which Dr. Sahin founded with his wife, Dr. Özlem Türeci, was mostly focused on cancer treatments. It had never brought a product to market. Covid-19 did not yet exist.

But his words proved prophetic.

On Monday, BioNTech and Pfizer announced that a vaccine for the coronavirus developed by Dr. Sahin and his team was more than 90 percent effective in preventing the disease among trial volunteers who had no evidence of having previously been infected. The stunning results vaulted BioNTech and Pfizer to the front of the race to find a cure for a disease that has killed more than 1.2 million people worldwide.

“It could be the beginning of the end of the Covid era,” Dr. Sahin said in an interview on Tuesday.

BioNTech began work on the vaccine in January, after Dr. Sahin read an article in the medical journal The Lancet that left him convinced that the coronavirus, at the time spreading quickly in parts of China, would explode into a full-blown pandemic. Scientists at the company, based in Mainz, Germany, canceled vacations and set to work on what they called Project Lightspeed.

“There are not too many companies on the planet which have the capacity and the competence to do it so fast as we can do it,” Dr. Sahin said in an interview last month. “So it felt not like an opportunity, but a duty to do it, because I realized we could be among the first coming up with a vaccine.”

After BioNTech had identified several promising vaccine candidates, Dr. Sahin concluded that the company would need help to rapidly test them, win approval from regulators and bring the best candidate to market. BioNTech and Pfizer had been working together on a flu vaccine since 2018, and in March, they agreed to collaborate on a coronavirus vaccine.

Since then, Dr. Sahin, who is Turkish, has developed a friendship with Albert Bourla, the Greek chief executive of Pfizer. The pair said in recent interviews that they had bonded over their shared backgrounds as scientists and immigrants.

“We realized that he is from Greece, and that I’m from Turkey,” Dr. Sahin said, without mentioning their native countries’ long-running antagonism. “It was very personal from the very beginning.”

Dr. Sahin, 55, was born in Iskenderun, Turkey. When he was 4, his family moved to Cologne, Germany, where his parents worked at a Ford factory. He grew up wanting to be a doctor, and became a physician at the University of Cologne. In 1993, he earned a doctorate from the university for his work on immunotherapy in tumor cells.

Early in his career, he met Dr. Türeci. She had early hopes to become a nun and ultimately wound up studying medicine. Dr. Türeci, now 53 and the chief medical officer of BioNTech, was born in Germany, the daughter of a Turkish physician who immigrated from Istanbul. On the day they were married, Dr. Sahin and Dr. Türeci returned to the lab after the ceremony.

The pair were initially focused on research and teaching, including at the University of Zurich, where Dr. Sahin worked in the lab of Rolf Zinkernagel, who won the 1996 Nobel Prize in medicine.

In 2001, Dr. Sahin and Dr. Türeci founded Ganymed Pharmaceuticals, which developed drugs to treat cancer using monoclonal antibodies.

After several years they founded BioNTech as well, looking to use a wider range of technologies, including messenger RNA, to treat cancer. “We want to build a large European pharmaceutical company,” Dr. Sahin said in an interview with the Wiesbaden Courier, a local paper.

Even before the pandemic, BioNTech was gaining momentum. The company raised hundreds of millions of dollars and now has more than 1,800 people on staff, with offices in Berlin, other German cities and Cambridge, Mass. In 2018, it began its partnership with Pfizer. Last year, the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation invested $55 million to fund its work treating H.I.V. and tuberculosis. Also in 2019, Dr. Sahin was awarded the Mustafa Prize, a biennial Iranian prize for Muslims in science and technology.

Dr. Sahin and Dr. Türeci sold Ganymed for $1.4 billion in 2016. Last year, BioNTech sold shares to the public; in recent months, its market value has soared past $21 billion, making the couple among the richest in Germany.

The two billionaires live with their teenage daughter in a modest apartment near their office. They ride bicycles to work. They do not own a car.

“Ugur is a very, very unique individual,” Mr. Bourla, Pfizer’s chief executive, said in the interview last month. “He cares only about science. Discussing business is not his cup of tea. He doesn’t like it at all. He’s a scientist and a man of principles. I trust him 100 percent.”

In Germany, where immigration continues to be a fractious issue, the success of two scientists of Turkish descent was cause for celebration.

“With this couple, Germany has a shining example of successful integration,” wrote the conservative-business site Focus.

A member of Parliament, Johannes Vogel, wrote on Twitter that if it was up to the far-right Alternative for Germany party, “there would be no #BioNTech of Germany with Özlem Türeci &amp; Ugur Sahin at the top.”

“If it were up to critics of capitalism and globalization,” he added, “there would be no cooperation with Pfizer. But that makes us strong: immigration country, market economy &amp; open society!”

Dr. Sahin has had little time for politics this year. BioNTech has been so busy developing a vaccine that the company has not finalized the financial details of its partnership agreement with Pfizer.

“Trust and personal relationship is so important in such business, because everything is going so fast,” Dr. Sahin said. “We still have a term sheet and not yet a final contract on many things.”

Dr. Sahin said he and Dr. Türeci learned about efficacy data on Sunday night and marked the moment by brewing Turkish tea at home. “We celebrated, of course,” he said. “It was a relief.”





No.39 article:
The Election Brings Dance to the Streets for a Collective Roar

On Saturday, after Joe Biden’s victory was announced, what spilled out of bodies and into cities was an expression of churning emotion.

As soon as I landed on the sidewalk in Brooklyn after running across the Williamsburg Bridge on Saturday morning, I knew what had happened. But it wasn’t because of what I instantly heard: a symphony of honks and cheers. It was because of what I saw. Dancing. Everyone was dancing.

In celebration of the victory of Joseph R. Biden Jr., New York City — and so many other cities across the country — found its groove. From that shimmering, unseasonably warm morning until well after dark, cars became boomboxes. Line dances sprouted up from nowhere. There were duets between strangers. Drivers, catching a bystander’s eye, turned up the music to encourage a moment of free-spirited improvisation. (It was a window down kind of day.)

The past few years have been exhausting. And when you factor in the past eight months of coronavirus lockdown, protests in the street and the election, many Americans are tightly wound. It felt right that collective stress, sleepless nights, frustration and fear would spill out of bodies and into the streets. And that it was genuine said something, too. This wasn’t a performative response, but a gut reaction — a way to express churning emotions, most conspicuously joy, when words alone couldn’t do the trick.

Of course, in a country so divided, only some people were dancing in the streets. But on both sides of the aisle, dancing kept popping up during this election, in strange yet illuminating ways. Kamala Harris’s dancing turned into a meme, celebrated by supporters but ridiculed by critics. That was strange, too — she’s such an unaffected, effortless dancer. Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Peggy Noonan, the former Ronald Reagan speechwriter, called Ms. Harris “giddy” on the campaign trail.

“She’s dancing with drum lines and beginning rallies with ‘Wassup, Florida!,’” Ms. Noonan wrote, adding: “She’s going for a Happy Warrior vibe, but she’s coming across as insubstantial, frivolous. When she started to dance in the rain onstage, in Jacksonville, Fla., to Mary J. Blige’s ‘Work That,’ it was embarrassing.”

Ms. Harris, please, never stop dancing.

Like everyone, I watched President Trump’s awkward dance moves — they went viral and inspired a TikTok challenge. But when he rocked back and forth to the Village People’s “YMCA,” fists clenched and lips firmly sealed, the emotion it inspired was dismay. I usually love a dad dance, good or bad. There’s something unbelievably tender about watching a person give dancing a whirl when it doesn’t come naturally. It’s brave.

But Mr. Trump’s frat-house moves remind us of how uncomfortable he seems to be in his body. Awkward is one thing; his rigid dancing had no spirit. It didn’t bring him to life in a new way.

But dancing did come to life in other ways: There was an abundance of soul at some voting stations, where instead of suffering through long lines, people chose to pass the time by dancing. In The Philadelphia Inquirer, Nicolas O’Rourke, a pastor and organizing director of Pennsylvania’s Working Families Party, said, “When there’s so much hate and so much resistance to truth and justice, joy is itself an act of resistance.” The most exhilarating dance moments have been just that: Expressions of joy, pure and simple. (And more convenient than a muffled chant through a mask.)

Over the weekend, fragments of Kevin Bacon’s speech from “Footloose” (1984) started to play in a loop in my brain. Pleading to hold a dance in a small town that forbids it, he addresses the question of why, throughout time, people have danced: “They danced in prayer or so that their crops would be plentiful or so their hunt would be good. And they danced to stay physically fit and show their community spirit. And they danced to celebrate. And that, that is the dancing that we’re talking about.”

It’s not frivolous. Last weekend, the explosion of dance — which overtook social media, making it seem like it was happening everywhere — was a celebration of community. But for those of us in the dance world it emphasized another point: While the pandemic will continue to prevent public performances for what now looks to be another year or so, dance is still alive in the world. It’s making headlines, as much for what it looks like as what it feels like. Dancing is not just about moving your body, but reclaiming it — and with that, your faith in the world.



No.1 article:
Greece tightens lockdown – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Here is a recap of the main developments from the last few hours.

Cyprus on Wednesday announced partial lockdowns in its virus hotspots on the Mediterranean coast and other measures in an effort to curb a surge in coronavirus cases.

The resort towns of Limassol and Paphos on the south coast are to go into partial lockdown from Thursday until the end of November.

The health minister Constantinos Ioannou said that travel into or out of the towns would be banned, and a curfew in force from 8pm to 5am.

After keeping daily infection numbers low through most of the summer, the island has seen them rise to record three-digit figures and the health system has started to feel the strain, with a dedicated Covid-19 hospital at capacity.

Whereas at the end of June it had a total of 1,000 coronavirus cases, the figure has shot up to almost 6,500 in the second wave that is now gripping Europe.

Forty-nine of 68 patients in hospital with Covid-19 are from Limassol and Paphos, as well seven of the last eight deaths from the coronavirus.

Hospitality and catering venues are to close in the two towns, and gatherings banned in public places like parks. Primary schools will remain open, while higher and secondary education will operate remotely.

Museums, cinemas and theatres will shut until 30 November in Limassol and Paphos, and attending church is prohibited. Shopping malls, department stores, hair salons, gyms and beauty parlours will also have to close.

In the rest of Cyprus, a curfew remains in place until 30 November from 11pm to 5am, while bars, cafes and restaurants have to close by 10.30pm.

The Republic of Cyprus, which registered 165 new virus cases on Wednesday, has officially recorded 6,461 infections and 33 deaths.

The island had largely kept a lid on the pandemic by introducing an early lockdown in March that was gradually eased from early May. Authorities are keen to avoid another draconian lockdown, with the economy already in recession.

Health authorities blame the surge on Cypriots flouting hygiene rules, including on mask-wearing and social distancing. Face masks are mandatory indoors and outdoors, except at home, while household gatherings are limited to 10 people.

The breakaway Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which is recognised only by Ankara, has registered 986 coronavirus cases, including five deaths.

Texas on Wednesday became the first US state with more than 1 million confirmed Covid-19 cases, and California closed in on that mark as a surge of coronavirus infections engulfs the country from coast to coast, AP reports.

The country’s second-most populous state, Teas has recorded 1.01 million coronavirus cases and over 19,000 deaths since the outbreak began in early March, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. California, the most populous state, has logged more than 991,000 cases.

The US has recorded more than 240,000 deaths and about 10.3 million confirmed infections, with new cases soaring to all-time highs of well over 120,000 per day over the past week. The country also surpassed 1 million new confirmed cases in just the first 10 days of November (see 1.04pm.).

Health experts have blamed the increase in part on the onset of cold weather and growing frustration with mask-wearing and other precautions.

Cases per day are on the rise in 49 states, and deaths per day are climbing in 39. A month ago, the US was seeing about 730 Covid-19 deaths per day on average; that has now surpassed 970.

The Swedish prime minister has said his government will present a law proposal that would ban nationwide the sale of alcohol after 10pm in bars, restaurants and night clubs from 20 November in an effort to curb the spread of Covid-19.

Stefan Lofven said that “we are facing a situation that risks becoming pitch-black” and added that Sweden “currently is risking a situation like the one we had last spring”.

Sweden has witnessed record numbers of new coronavirus infections in past weeks, which is burdening the country’s health care system and intensive care wards.

“All indications point in the wrong direction,” Lofven said at a joint news conference with the social affairs minister Lena Hallengren.

Hallengren said that all places with a permission to serve alcohol must close 30 minutes after 10pm, and described these places — particularly bars and night clubs — as “risk environments”.

Earlier on Wednesday, the Swedish capital reintroduced a ban on visiting elderly care homes after a coronavirus surge was reported in retirement facilities in Stockholm.

Sweden, which has opted to keep parts of its society open, lifted in September a national ban on visiting elderly care homes, saying the need for a restraining order there had decreased.

Overall, the country of 10 million has now reported 166,707 cases and 6,082 deaths since the start of the pandemic.

Spain’s coronavirus death toll surged to over 40,000 on Wednesday with infections passing the 1.4 million mark, while the rate of new cases continued to grow, health ministry data showed.

With 349 people dying in the past 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 40,105 in Spain, which has the fourth-highest death rate within the European Union after the United Kingdom, France and Italy.

Spain passed the grim landmark a day after logging 411 deaths, the highest daily death toll of the second wave.

Over the past 24 hours, health authorities also registered more than 19,000 new cases, bringing the overall number of people infected to 1,417,709, the second-highest figure within the EU after France.

Pressure on hospitals is increasing with around a third - 31.78% - of all ICU beds taken up by Covid-19 patients.

Despite the figures, top health official Fernando Simon said on Tuesday there were signs of a “clear stabilisation” in the 14-day incidence rate although it would take “several days” for that to be reflected in the death toll and bed-occupancy rates in ICUs.

He said the figures had stabilised “at around 525 cases per 100,000 inhabitants”.

By Wednesday, that rate had fallen to 514 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, with the health minister Salvador Illa cautiously welcoming the numbers at a news conference:

The figures are starting to confirm a stabilisation. There is a downward trend but the figures are still worrying. We must keep our guard up.

Despite its high caseload, Spain has been slow to follow the example of other European nations which have imposed new lockdowns to try and curb spiralling cases.

The UK, France and several other countries have recently re-imposed lockdowns as the virus shows no sign of abating, while other European nations like Portugal have entered partial lockdowns.

Until now, Spain has resisted, with the government hoping a national night-time curfew and other restrictions, put in place by regional authorities who are responsible for managing the pandemic, would be enough to slow the rate of infection.

South Africa will open up travel to all countries in an effort to boost the tourism and hospitality sectors, the president Cyril Ramaphosa said on Wednesday, despite having the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the continent.

Africa’s most advanced economy, which has recorded more than 740,000 Covid-19 cases and over 20,000 deaths, has seen infections rise since it eased lockdown restrictions in September to their lowest levels.

In a televised national address, Ramaphosa said normal trading hours of alcohol would be restored too, after sales were restricted on weekends in an effort to reduce pressure on hospitals due to alcohol-related accidents.

We are also opening up international travel to all countries subject to the necessary health protocols and the presentation of a negative Covid-19 certificate.

By using rapid tests and strict monitoring we intend to limit the spread of the infection through importation. We expect that these measures will greatly assist businesses in the tourism and hospitality sectors.

The president did not give further details, or a specific date for the reopening. A presidency spokesperson could not immediately be reached for comment.

South Africa opened its borders to some international travellers at the beginning of October after a six-month ban, but restricted entry from high-risk countries, with the latest list including the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia, Brazil and India.

The country depends heavily on tourism, which prior to the pandemic contributed nearly 9% of its gross domestic product and employed over 4% of the workforce.

The economy was already in recession before the pandemic struck, and one of the world’s strictest lockdowns has exacerbated its woes with millions of its citizens losing their jobs or being pushed deeper into poverty.

Ramaphosa, however, warned of a potential resurgence in infections, saying the number of new cases in the Eastern Cape province was 50% higher than the week before, with higher infection rates also seen in the Northern Cape and Western Cape regions.

We have also seen in other countries how a resurgence can dash hopes for a swift economic recovery.

A thick blanket of smog enveloped Pakistan’s cultural capital of Lahore on Wednesday, prompting officials to warn that tens of thousands of the city’s residents risk respiratory disease and eye-related problems while doctors urged people to stay at home, the Associated Press reports.

The air quality in Lahore deteriorated to hazardous levels, putting an additional burden on the fragile healthcare system amid a surge in coronavirus deaths and new infections. The Air Quality Index at one point rose to 750 in the city’s poorer areas — about 12 times the recommended level.

Earlier in the day, Switzerland-based air quality information platform IQair declared Lahore the second most polluted city, after New Delhi, India’s capital. Pollution indexes peak dramatically in Pakistan in winter, when farmers burn off stubble in the fields. Winds worsen the pollution by further spreading smog across the region.

“The air quality level was hazardous today,” said Sajid Bashir, a spokesman for Environmental Protection Department. By mid-day the situation had improved, he said, as authorities took steps to keep smoke emitting vehicles off the roads and shut brick kilns across the province of Punjab, where Lahore is the provincial capital.

Lahore, once dubbed as the city of gardens, remained pollution-free for months after March, when the government imposed a lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. But the restriction was lifted in May, allowing a return to industrial activities and normal businesses. With cars back on the roads, the air quality gradually deteriorated, falling again to unhealthy levels.

Pollution is no stranger to Pakistan, a country of 220 million — or Lahore, with some 12 million people. Cars are the top pollutants in Lahore but the city also has other sources of pollution, including the stubble burning, steel manufacturing furnaces and the city’s famous brick kilns.

“Coughing, throat infection and irritation in the eyes are common,” said Anza Farid, an environmental expert, warning that the situation could worsen in the coming weeks as more people burn garbage in the cities and farmers burn off the stubble in their fields.

Dr Talha Ayub urged people to wear face masks for protection, both from pollution and the coronavirus. “People should try to stay at home if they can,” he appealed.

Pakistan on Wednesday said it registered a further 21 Covid-19 deaths and 1,708 new infections over the past 24 hours — despite a government-imposed partial lockdowns in 4,136 residential areas across the country. The government is turning to sealing off hotspots in a bid to contain rising fatalities and infections from coronavirus.

Authorities also banned large gathering, shut shrines, cinemas and theatres to contain the spread of the virus, which has infected more than 348,000 people in Pakistan and killed 7,021 since February.

An update on our earlier post from Reuters.

The New York governor Andrew Cuomo has imposed a new round of restrictions aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus as the infection rate climbed and hospitalisations soared in the state that was the epicentre of the American outbreak in its early stages.

Cuomo ordered bars, restaurants and gyms in the state to shut down on-premises services at 10pm nightly, and capped the number of people who could attend private parties at 10.

The new measures, which take effect on Friday, came a day after California and several states across the Midwest tightened restrictions on residents on Tuesday to try to curb the rapid spread of the virus.

“This is our LAST chance to stop a second wave,” the New York City mayor Bill de Blasio tweeted on Wednesday, as he announced the city-wide seven-day average rate of coronavirus tests coming back positive had hit 2.52%.

The city’s public school system, the nation’s largest, would be shut to in-person learning if that figure reaches 3%. “We can do it, but we have to act NOW,” de Blasio said.

As Covid-19 infections, hospitalisations and deaths surge across the United States, more signs emerged that a second wave could engulf areas of the Northeast, which had managed to bring the pandemic under control after being battered last spring.

The United States as a whole reported more than 1,450 deaths on Tuesday, the highest single-day count since mid-August, according to a Reuters analysis. It has also emerged that the country surpassed 1 million new confirmed cases in just the first 10 days of November (see 1.04pm.).





No.2 article:
Special Armistice Day ceremony lauds contribution of wartime courier who died in 1944

France has paid tribute to a six-year-old boy regarded as its youngest resistance hero, as part of the nationwide Armistice Day ceremonies in memory of those who died in the first and second world wars.

In a special ceremony, the name of Marcel Pinte was inscribed on the war memorial of Aixe-sur-Vienne, just west of the central city of Limoges.

Marcel, known as Quinquin after a children’s song, acted as a courier for resistance fighters who opposed the Nazi occupation during the second world war, slipping past enemy patrols and carrying messages under his shirt.

His father, Eugene Pinte, was a local chief of the “army of the shadows” led from London by Charles de Gaulle, who set up an operations centre at a farm outside Aixe-sur-Vienne. His farmhouse received coded messages from London, and parachute drops of supplies in a field nearby.

Marcel died, aged just six, on 19 August 1944, when a large deployment of resistance fighters arrived by parachute ahead of an expected battle around Aixe as allied forces began to liberate France.

They were heavily armed and Marcel was hit by several bullets when a Sten submachine gun went off accidentally.

“People who pass by this monument to the dead will notice his name and particularly his age,” said a family member, Marc Pinte.

“It’s an honour. It throws a light on those who remained in the shadow but who fought for freedom.”

Several days after Marcel’s death, containers fell in the field in a final drop, but the parachutes were black.

“The British knew that the little Marcel played a real role. This parachute was the calling card sent to the family,” Pinte told Le Monde.

In 1950, Marcel was posthumously awarded the rank of sergeant of the resistance. In 2013, he posthumously received an official card for “volunteer combatants of the resistance” from the National Office of Former Combatants and War Victims.





No.3 article:
Hurricane Eta leaves trail of destruction in Central America

Nicaragua and Honduras bear the brunt as storms cause landslides and flooding, and leave 100 dead

The active north Atlantic hurricane season continued through last week with Hurricane Eta making landfall as a category 4 storm to the south of Puerto Cabezas in Nicaragua. The storm weakened as it moved slowly inland towards Honduras through the week. Some areas saw as much as 550mm of rain (22 inches), leading to landslides and flooding. At least 100 people have died as a result.

Spain and Portugal also had some anomalously high rainfall totals last week as low pressure lingered nearby. Eastern Spain was particularly wet with Valencia getting 100mm on 5 November, compared with the November monthly average of just 37mm. Flash flooding followed, leading to the suspension of schools and road closures. Wind and hail also damaged and estimated €8m (£7m) worth of crops.

Across large parts of the US, it was notably warm for the time of year last week with cities such as Denver, Boston, Minneapolis and Chicago surpassing 20C on numerous days. Temperatures of 26C and 25C in Denver on 3 and 4 November respectively broke daily records for the city, which extend back to 1872. The heat was even more notable in Phoenix, which recorded 37C on 5 November, its hottest November day since records began in 1895.





No.4 article:
Officials say there have been no bear encounters since arrival of robots in wolves’ clothing 

A Japanese town has deployed robot wolves in an effort to scare away bears that have become an increasingly dangerous nuisance in the countryside.

The town of Takikawa, on the northern island of Hokkaido, purchased and installed two Monster Wolf robots after bears were found roaming neighbourhoods in September. City officials said there had been no bear encounters since.

Bear sightings in Japan are at a five-year high and occur mostly in rural areas in western and northern Japan, the national broadcaster NHK has reported. There have been dozens of attacks so far in 2020, two of them fatal, prompting the government to convene an emergency meeting last month to address the threat.

The Monster Wolf has four legs, a shaggy body, blond mane and red, glowing eyes. When its motion detectors are activated, it moves its head, flashes lights and emits sounds ranging from wolfish howling to machinery noises. The maker, Ohta Seiki, has sold about 70 units since 2018.

The real Japanese wolf roamed the central and northern islands of the country before being hunted to extinction more than a century ago.

Takikawa city officials said bears become more active and dangerous as they search for food before going into hibernation in late November. A decrease of acorns and nuts in the wild this year may have driven the animals to venture closer to towns in search of sustenance, according to local media.





No.5 article:
Thousands of hospital staff to be deployed in inoculation network with jabs also done by GPs at smaller community sites 

Thousands of hospital staff will join the drive to vaccinate all adults in England against coronavirus and will be deployed at mass vaccination centres, each of them aiming to give the jab to up to 5,000 people a day, NHS officials involved in the plans said.

The NHS intends to use football stadiums, town halls and conference buildings in England to inoculate at least 2,000 people per centre each day. In urban areas, there will be a network of these centres.

The new facilities will be additional to the 1,560 community-based vaccination centres run by GPs, which will each dispense 200 to 500 jabs a day. Other forms of vaccination are also planned, including mobile vans and visits to homes and prisons. All the venues will do temperature checks on people before entry allowing space for social distancing and a 15-minute recovery time.

Neither NHS England nor the government has so far published an overall projection for how many vaccinations all these venues and methods of delivery will carry out daily in total. NHS England is expected to publish its “deployment plan”, outlining the rollout, next week.

However, seconding personnel from already under-staffed hospitals to aid the vaccine rollout could lead to patients having to wait longer for care. The NHS is already facing a massive backlog of cases due to its decision to suspend most non-Covid care provision in the spring.

NHS England has asked health service heads across England to be ready to vaccinate many numbers of people at large sites not in use because of the pandemic. 

The details emerged as government figures showed the UK’s Covid-19 death toll has surpassed 50,000, adding to the pressure to roll out a comprehensive vaccination programme as soon as possible.

The centres are also expected to play a key role in immunising the general public in a second phase of the vaccination programme, following the dispensing of two doses each to the estimated 22 million, including carehome residents, NHS staff and those aged 50 or over, considered a priority.

A Whitehall official explained the centres’ key role, saying: “We are looking to vaccinate as many people as is humanly possible as quickly as possible. We want to get the country back to normal as soon as possible, which would allow us to open up the economy.”

Staff from every hospital will be seconded to the vaccination campaign, which ministers see as vital to achieving their aim of reviving the economy and normalising life.

The staff, however, could be absent from their normal duties for several months, which could affect hospital services. But many NHS workers are thought to be keen to play their part in combating the virus.

Jonathan Van-Tam, England’s deputy chief medical officer, said on Wednesday that he would happily give up his free time to help administer the vaccine. “This is one of the most important, if not the most important, vaccination programme we’ve done for decades,” he said. “If I can help with this in some evenings and weekends, doing some extra vaccinations sessions myself, then I’m going to.”

District nurses, health visitors and other health professionals who do not work in hospitals will also be drafted in to help, amid concerns that, while GPs are playing the lead role in the immunisation effort, there are too few of them to deliver the NHS target of vaccinating a million people a week.

Vaccinators, who will include podiatrists and physiotherapists, will also tour areas in vans or buses and visit staff “pop-up” immunisation clinics to administer jabs. They will also offer the vaccine to people gathered for religious services.

NHS England, which is running the immunisation drive, is finalising the details of the logistics to distribute whichever vaccines are available and intends to publish its plans next week.

Although reports have said the rollout will begin on 1 December, Whitehall and NHS sources said that that was premature and it was “very unlikely” that supplies of the Pfizer vaccine, or the one being developed by Oxford University and Astra Zeneca, would be available until early 2021.

Ruth Rankine, director of the primary care network at the NHS Confederation, said that while family doctors and their staff would play the lead role in vaccination, especially in the first phase, other healthcare professionals would contribute to NHS England’s “all hands to the pump” approach, with ultimately tens of thousands of staff involved.

The plans became public after it emerged that the UK government had spent £50m to reserve manufacturing capacity at a plant in Wales to guarantee supply of a second Covid-19 vaccine candidate being developed by Oxford University and Astra Zeneca.The government has also secured a £50m manufacturing facility in a pharmaceutical company in north Wales for millions of doses of the Oxford vaccine and other candidates currently in the trial phase. According to a notification to the EU, the contract with CP Pharmaceuticals, in Wrexham, involves an 18-month facility “to provide for vaccine in bulk product form to be converted into individual doses capable of rollout via a mass vaccination programme”.CP Pharmaceuticals, trading as Wockhardt, is already a big supplier of generic drugs to the NHS and has been doing trial runs for the Oxford/Astra Zeneca AZD122 candidate vaccine in anticipation of that vaccine gaining regulatory approval. A spokesman said however the facility could be involved in multiple vaccine production if the government so required.Ravi Limaye, managing director of Wockhardt, UK, said: “We have a sophisticated sterile manufacturing facility and a highly skilled workforce. We expect to start delivering the first doses of the vaccine later this year.” The government has also asked specialist healthcare warehousing owners to tender for distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine. Those contacted have been obliged to sign non-disclosure agreements but it is thought that that relates to getting supply channels opened up for the Pfizer vaccine in the existing national network of 50 or so hubs, which supply the NHS and pharmacies twice a day.Martin Sawer, executive director of the Healthcare Distribution Association, said the association’s members were working closely with government “to understand how the existing robust and efficient pharmaceutical distribution network can be utilised to assist with the rapid rollout of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine once it receives regulatory approval”.Pfizer will manufacture the drug at its plant in Puurs, Belgium, with a secure cold-supply chain enabling delivery to 1,500 vaccination centres in England.The logistics entail specially designed hi-tech fridge boxes or “shippers” to hold 1,000 vials each at temperatures of -75°c ±15°c for up to 10 days.Each of the shippers will be loaded with heat sensors that will transmit temperature readings to a Pfizer control centre to ensure the efficacy of the drug is not compromised while it is being transported.After arriving in the UK the vials are to be distributed to vaccination clinics where they can be stored at temperatures of 2-8°C for up to five days.Pfizer said it was confident the supply chain would not be disrupted by Brexit border checkpoints since the company had secured priority routes under contingency plans put in place for a UK “no deal” Brexit.“We have a robust plan in place regarding supply of the investigational Pfizer and BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine candidate should it receive approval in the UK, in the event of a no-deal scenario. We are confident of our capability to deliver doses to the government’s designated facilities, according to product requirements.”

Last month the government signed ferry contracts worth £87m to secure freight capacity for medical supplies on nine routes serving the English ports of Felixstowe, Harwich, Hull, Newhaven, Poole, Portsmouth, Teesport, and Tilbury, which were described as being “in areas less likely to experience disruption”.

• This article was amended on 12 November 2020 to make clear that inoculation of “up to 5,000 people a day” is an aim for each mass-vaccination centre, rather than a national figure.





No.6 article:
Covid and Thanksgiving: CDC issues warning and bolsters mask-wearing guidance

US officials urge people not to gather amid coronavirus pandemic and says masks can protect the wearer

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has abruptly beefed up its advice to Americans on wearing masks to prevent the spread of coronavirus and warned against traditionally large gatherings over the holidays.

Thanksgiving celebrations are safest kept within households – and face masks protect the wearer as well as those around them, the federal public health agency said this week, in new, more robust coronavirus guidelines.

With just over two weeks to go before Thanksgiving, the CDC issued guidance on Tuesday on how to celebrate safely during the pandemic.

Despite cases surging across the US, the CDC did not go as far as to rule out gatherings on Thursday 26 November. But it did suggest alternatives to hosting events with people from other households in person, such as communing online for virtual meals.

“Traditional Thanksgiving gatherings with family and friends are fun but can increase the chances of getting or spreading Covid-19 or the flu … The safest way to celebrate this year is to celebrate with people in your household,” its latest online guidance says.

However, it also included tips for those who are still planning to celebrate with other households.

Other than mask-wearing, social distancing and hand washing, it also advised eating outdoors, limiting numbers, bringing your own food, drinks and utensils and opting for single-use condiments and disposable plates and utensils.

Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, has said each family needs to make their own “risk assessment” when it comes to Thanksgiving. In his own household, he said that he plans to have a “quiet dinner” with his wife, Christine Grady, and also to use Zoom to “gather” with their three adult daughters.

The CDC also updated its guidance on mask-wearing, highlighting the benefits of masks as a form of protection for both incoming and outgoing droplets. Previously the emphasis was on the protection that wearing a mask offers to others.

“Upwards of 80% blockage has been achieved in human experiments that have measured blocking of all respiratory droplets, with cloth masks in some studies performing on par with surgical masks as barriers for source control,” the CDC said.

But it also stated for the first time that cloth masks can protect the wearer, too.

“Studies demonstrate that cloth mask materials can also reduce wearers’ exposure to infectious droplets through filtration, including filtration of fine droplets and particles less than 10 microns,” it added.

The new mask guidance marks a change of stance from the CDC’s previous softer approach, which said the “main protection” offered by mask-wearing was to others and that “the latest science may convince” people to wear masks.

Public health officials have often been sidelined during the pandemic by the Trump administration, which the whistleblower Rick Bright said “ignores scientific expertise, overrules public health guidance and disrespects career scientists”.

Bright, a former top vaccine official, was this week named as a member of president-elect Joe Biden’s new coronavirus advisory board.





No.7 article:
Milestone reached on Wednesday after a further 595 people died, bringing total to 50,365

The UK’s Covid-19 death toll has surpassed 50,000, government figures have revealed, as the nation struggles to deal with a deadly second wave.

The news served as a sobering reminder of the severity of the crisis after hopes were raised on Monday that an end may be in sight with announcement that a vaccine had been shown to be effective.

The alarming milestone was passed on Wednesday as Whitehall said a further 595 people had died within 28 days of testing positive, bringing the total by this measure to 50,365.

The Office for National Statistics (ONS) compiles separate figures which suggest the death toll from Covid-19 is substantially higher – closer to 65,000.

“This is a point that should never have been reached,” said Dr Chaand Nagpaul, the chair of the British Medical Association (BMA). “Today’s figure is a terrible indictment of poor preparation, poor organisation by the government, insufficient infection control measures, coupled with late and often confusing messaging for the public.”

The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, said: “It is a grim milestone and we’re the first in Europe to hit it. Behind these numbers is a devastated family, one for every death, and they have to be uppermost in our mind.”

He accused the government of being “slow at phase one” and of failing to learn lessons thereafter. “We owe it to all of the families who are grieving to get on top of the virus and head towards a vaccine and that’s what the government must absolutely focus on now.”

Boris Johnson reacted to the news during a visit to a Tesco distribution centre in south-east London, telling reporters: “Every death is a tragedy. We mourn everybody who is gone.”

Dr Yvonne Doyle, medical director of Public Health England, said: “Sadly the upward trend is likely to continue and it will be several weeks before any impact of the current measures – and the sacrifices we are all making – is seen and is reflected in the data. By limiting contact with others, you are helping to stop the spread of the virus. This will lead to fewer infections and help to save lives. Together we can bring the virus under control.”

Alongside the news of progress towards the rollout of a vaccine, Johnson also lauded last week’s launch of a mass-testing programme in Liverpool, insisting the country had the tools to finally end the pandemic. “We have two boxing gloves to pummel the disease in the weeks and month that follow but I have got to stress that we are not out of the woods yet. It does require everybody to follow the guidance,” he said.

But the BMA heavily criticised his handling of the pandemic, saying the nation’s health service had “started on the back foot, with years of underfunding seriously affecting its ability to keep it running effectively”.

Both Johnson and Starmer encouraged people to get vaccinated as soon as it was possible. And Joe Anderson, Liverpool’s mayor, said more than 44,000 people have taken part in the city’s testing pilot.

The government said that, as of 9am on Wednesday, there had been a further 22,950 lab-confirmed cases in the UK. That brought the total number of cases in the UK to 1,256,725.

This daily death total is the worst since early May and is substantially greater than Tuesday’s 532, which was the previous highest total during the second wave.

The UK’s headline death toll of 50,365 only counts people who have died within 28 days of testing positive. The ONS, however, compiles separate figures based on mentions of Covid-19 on death certificates, which is considered by experts to be a more reliable estimate. The Northern Irish and Scottish agencies use the same methodology.

The death toll as counted by the three statistical agencies covering the four UK nations currently stands at 63,317 deaths. But the government’s dashboard shows that a further 2,511 people have died since the latest statistical releases, bringing the total number of Covid-related deaths to 65,828.

The government changed its own methodology midway through the pandemic after it claimed its figures could be overstating the true death toll, which was revised down by 5,000.

The UK is the first country in Europe to suffer 50,000 deaths. As of Wednesday morning, Italy – the second-worst hit country in Europe – was on 42,330 deaths, with France having reported 40,987 deaths, according to international data from Johns Hopkins University.

More than 1,000 deaths have been recorded in England in one week, according to the latest ONS figures.

For the week ending 30 October, there were 1,258 deaths involving Covid-19. The number of deaths involving coronavirus has increased in all of the English regions, with the north-west having the largest number, at 445 deaths.

The number of deaths occurring in the week ending 30 October in the north-west of England was 31.4% higher this week compared with the five-year average for the region. London was the only English region to have fewer overall deaths than the five-year average.

Scottish figures released on Wednesday saw its death toll increase to 4,856 deaths reaching a six-week high of 206 in the week to 8 November.





No.8 article:
‘We’re in power now’: Evo Morales makes gleeful return to town he fled

Tens of thousands of supporters greet Bolivian ex-president during his triumphant return to Chimoré

Tens of thousands of jubilant followers have welcomed Evo Morales back to the coca-growing region from which he fled into exile exactly one year ago after what they branded a racist rightwing coup.

“Evo, Evo, Evo,” chanted the people who had travelled from all over Bolivia to witness their leader’s triumphant return home in the jungle-flanked town of Chimoré.

Bolivia’s first indigenous president resigned and abandoned the South American country on 11 November 2019, making his escape on a Mexican air force jet that whisked him out of Chimoré’s airport.

Morales decided to bolt when security forces withdrew their support after later questioned claims of electoral fraud in the presidential election sparked street protests and deadly unrest.

But on Wednesday, two days after re-entering Bolivia at the start of an emotional, politically charged homecoming, he made a gleeful return to the same town – to a rapturous reception.

In a highly symbolic move, tens of thousands of followers from across the country had gathered on the runway from which Morales took flight.

Addressing them from a stage decked with green, yellow and red balloons, Morales declared: “We knew we were not alone. We knew we would return.”

Wreathed in white flowers and coca leaves, the former coca growers union leader thanked the crowd for its support during his year-long banishment, railed against the US and mocked Jeanine Áñez, the conservative senator who took power after he was forced from office.

Morales, 61, recalled how in January Áñez had urged the Bolivian people to stop “the savages” from regaining power.

“The Bolivian right and the global right should know: the savages are back in government,” he added sarcastically. “We’re in power now.”

Morales decision to return to Bolivia, just weeks after his party reclaimed the presidency in a rerun of last year’s election, has enraged opponents and unnerved some within his own party, the Movement for Socialism (Mas).

Bolivia’s new leftwing president, Luis Arce, has distanced himself from his predecessor and has not taken part in Morales’s caravan to Chapare province.

But Morales is still adored in many parts of the country for the social, economic and racial strides Bolivia made during his three terms in power. There have been scenes of joy this week as the exiled politician crossed Bolivia’s southern border with Argentina and headed north towards the jungle-covered Chapare region where he began his political career in the 1980s.

Before Morales spoke in Chimoré, Justina Choque, 37, had fought her way to the front of the throng. She beamed in anticipation under a wide-brimmed hat.

“We will never forget our President Evo. He identifies our roots. He represents the poor, the peasants, and this story will never be forgotten. He will always be our undisputed leader,” said Choque, a coordinator for the Mas party in Cochabamba.

“We have lived through massacres, with dead and wounded,” she said, recalling the shooting of unarmed civilians at the height of last year’s unrest. “But thanks to Luis Arce, we got back our country.”

Nearby, a group held up a banner commemorating Roberth Calisaya, 20, who was killed last year when soldiers opened fire on demonstrators in Santa Cruz.

“When [Evo] left, there was a dictatorship that persecuted our people,” said María Poma, whose sister was wounded in unrest.

“They showed no mercy to my sister, in spite of her being a woman, and they beat and tortured her as if she was a man.

“We want justice for all the victims. We want justice from that damn dictatorship we lived through,” said Mark Frauz, another family member. “It’s a joy for us that Evo has returned.”

Along the road north Morales was serenaded by brass bands and mobbed by devotees shouting words of support or clutching the multicoloured indigenous Wiphala flag that Morales made one of Bolivia’s national standards.

“The fight goes on,” the former cocalero activist proclaimed as his motorcade began its three-day journey back on Monday morning. On Tuesday the former union leader visited his childhood home in Orinoca wearing an Andean poncho.

Addressing the rally in Chimoré on Wednesday, Juan Carlos Huarachi, the head of the Bolivian Workers’ Centre, urged Morales’s champions to celebrate the return of “comrade Evo” and the defeat of the right.

“We did not surrender, carajo! We fought back … The people are responsible for this revolution,” Huarachi said.

“Comrade Evo isn’t just a domestic leader. He’s a Latin American leader and he’s a world leader,” he added. “Thanks to him we have our dignity. Thanks to him, comrades, we have recovered our identity.”





No.9 article:
China&#x27;s biggest tech firms dive in value over Beijing crackdown fears

Frantic stock sell-offs across sector anticipate new ‘monopoly’ rules, with Alibaba’s shares falling 9.8%

Hundreds of millions of dollars have been wiped off the value of China’s biggest internet companies following two days of frenetic selling with investors fearing Beijing plans to curb the power of homegrown tech firms.

Shares in Alibaba, a Chinese version of Amazon, dropped by 9.8% on Wednesday, while its rivals, Tencent and JD.com, fell by 7.4% and 9.2% respectively.

The share declines coincided with China’s Singles’ Day, an unofficial holiday on 11 November which is billed as the world’s biggest online shopping event. Alibaba and other online retailers can smash sales records for daily trading on the day.

Wednesday was the second day of heavy selling of Chinese tech stocks following the publication of Beijing’s draft plans to “prevent and stop monopolistic behaviours” of internet platforms.

The smartphone maker Xiaomi closed down 8.2%, and shares in the on-demand delivery firm Meituan also lost 9.7%. 

In total more than $280bn has been wiped off the market value of the five Chinese tech heavyweights since Monday. Alibaba and JD.com shares are on track for their worst week ever.

The sell-off was sparked when the State Administration for Market Regulations, China’s top regulator, published plans designed to limit the dominance of the big internet firms and “promote the sustainable and healthy development of the online economy”.

Analysts warned that the plans indicated the Chinese government was changing tack to take firm action against big tech firms. Previously it has left them unhindered and championed them as evidence of Chinese entrepreneurial success.

Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst for Asia Pacific at the trading firm Oanda, said: “China’s government is concerned about actual or possible monopolistic behaviour and the sheer size of the incumbents either leading to unfair competition or squeezing out new players and reducing competition.” He said the proposed regulations signalled a “much more vigorous regulatory environment”.

The new regulatory action comes a week after the Chinese government intervened to halt the much anticipated initial public offering (IPO) of Ant Group, the country’s biggest financial technology group, which was set to raise $37bn in the world’s largest flotation. Ant Group is controlled by Jack Ma, the billionaire founder of Alibaba and China’s richest man.

Andrew Collier, managing director of Orient Capital Research, described the sudden decision to suspend Ant’s public listing as a disaster. “You don’t yank a $35bn IPO two days before it’s going to be launched internationally, it makes the regulatory system look completely arbitrary and also confused,” Collier told CNBC on Wednesday. “It suggests deep politics within China ... that’s bubbled to the surface and they couldn’t resolve [it] ahead of time. Regulation can be positive but this particular move was a disaster.”

The Chinese administration last week summoned 27 internet platforms to discuss regulating the online economy. The platforms called to appear included Alibaba, Bytedance, Tencent, Pinduoduo, Baidu, and JD.com.

The plunge in the value of Alibaba, which owns roughly a third of Ant Group, has wiped hundreds of millions from the paper fortune of Ma. A former English teacher, Ma founded Alibaba in a one-bedroom flat in 1999 and has amassed an estimated $62bn fortune.

Ant Group’s stock-market filing revealed the firm collected 72.5bn yuan ($10.5bn) in revenue in the first half of the year, up nearly 40% on the same period in 2019. Profits were nearly 12 times greater at 21.9bn yuan, underlining how the firm had benefited from the coronavirus lockdown. Ma’s Alibaba owns 33% of Ant Group.





No.10 article:
Government says it will not give in to protesters’ call to resign after ceasefire agreement seen as capitulation

The office of Armenia’s prime minister has said that it will not allow the opposition to seize power by force, as heated protests have continued for a second day after the signing of a ceasefire in Nagorno-Karabakh seen as a capitulation.

Several thousand protesters defied martial law on Wednesday to gather in downtown Yerevan, Armenia’s capital, and call for the prime minister Nikol Pashinyan’s resignation. On Monday evening, he signed a Russian-brokered ceasefire that ceded territory to Azerbaijan that had been won in a bloody war in the 1990s. “Nikol is a traitor,” the protesters chanted.

Opposition parties – though only one in parliament – have issued an ultimatum for Pashinyan to step down by midnight. Pashinyan’s chief of staff shot back: “We won’t allow criminal elements to take power and will apply all the measures provided for by law to do this. Have no doubt.”

More than 400 Russian peacekeepers have already arrived in Nagorno-Karabakh, Moscow said on Thursday, part of a nearly 2,000-strong deployment that will remain in the region for the next five years. Maps of the deployment published for the first time on Wednesday showed that Russia will maintain 16 observation posts, including many along the Lachin corridor, a key lifeline between Armenia and the city of Stepanakert.

But many questions remain about how the hastily drafted ceasefire will be implemented, including the return of refugees to the region, the handover of territories not captured by Azerbaijan during the war, and the final status of the Armenian-backed government in Nagorno-Karabakh when the Russian peacekeeping mission ends.

And then there is Turkey, Azerbaijan’s main backer, which has claimed that it will also send peacekeepers to Nagorno-Karabakh despite repeated denials by Russia and Armenia that this is the case.

Turkey is not a party to the ceasefire, nor is it mentioned in the agreement that provides a mandate for the Russian peacekeeping mission.

However, the president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, on Wednesday said he expected Turkish troops to monitor the ceasefire in Karabakh, citing a memorandum of understanding that he signed with Russia. That document has not been made public by the Kremlin.

“Turkey will join the peacekeeping forces in the [Karabakh] region to monitor the implementation of the deal with Russia,” Erdoğan said on Wednesday in remarks to his party in Ankara.

While Erdoğan’s statements appear to be bluster and there is no basis for Turkey to send peacekeeping forces to Nagorno-Karabakh, a conflict between Turkey and Russia could possibly undermine the political future of the ceasefire deal.

Turkey’s diplomatic backing for Azerbaijan and provision of military technology, including drones, helped it quickly capture territory in the mountainous region of Nagorno-Karabakh. The ceasefire was hailed as a victory in both Baku and Ankara, where Erdoğan called it the end of an “occupation”.

The deployment of Turkish troops to the region would inflame tensions in Armenia, where Ankara’s forces are rightly seen as partisan. Moscow pushed back again on Wednesday, saying that there was no agreement for Turkish forces to monitor a ceasefire between the two ex-Soviet countries.

“No, there was no talk about joint peacekeeping forces. This subject has never been discussed. The joint interaction area will be in Azerbaijan’s territory, this won’t be Karabakh, and we’re talking about a monitoring centre,” said Dmitri Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman.

On Wednesday evening, the head of the Nagorno-Karabakh administration, which is called Artsakh, urged local Armenians not to flee the region as Azerbaijan consolidated control over the surrounding region.

“We don’t have a final decision about what to do,” he said. “But I want to tell you that the roads will be safe. Do not move your property from Artsakh to Armenia. You will see that we will live in Artsakh.”





No.11 article:
&#x27;Buddha would be green&#x27;: Dalai Lama calls for urgent climate action

Exclusive: The Dalai Lama warns of terrible consequences of climate inaction

The Dalai Lama has appealed to world leaders to take urgent action against climate change, warning of ecological destruction affecting the lives of billions and ruining the planet, including his birth country, Tibet.

As a call to action he has brought out a new book declaring that if Buddha returned to this world, “Buddha would be green”.

In an interview for Channel 4 News and the Guardian, the Buddhist spiritual leader spoke from the Indian city of Dharamsala, where he has been exiled for six decades. He warned that “global warming may reach such a level that rivers will dry” and that “eventually Tibet will become like Afghanistan”, with terrible consequences for at least a billion people dependent on water from the plateau “at the roof of the world”.

The 85-year-old Nobel peace laureate is considered by his followers to be the earthly manifestation of an enlightened one who has chosen rebirth in order to help liberate all living beings from suffering through compassion.

Lhamo Thondup, as he was named at birth, was discovered as the latest incarnation of the Dalai Lama when he was just two years old. He uses Zoom to communicate with people around the globe these days, unable to travel or invite visitors because of the coronavirus pandemic.

He insists, as he announced in 2011, that he is retired from politics and his leadership of the struggles for Tibetan freedom from China, and that ecology is now the thing that is “very, very important” to him.

In the week the Cop26 UN climate conference was to have been held in Glasgow, he says has high expectations of world leaders, and wants them to act on the Paris climate agreement.

“The United Nations should take a more active role in this field,” he says. Asked whether world leaders are failing, he says: “The big nations should pay more attention to ecology. I hope you see those big nations who spent a lot of money for weapons or war turn their resources to the preservation of the climate.”

The Dalai Lama says that if he joined a political party now, “I would like to join the Green party. Their idea is very good.”

The Dalai Lama has been known to put his foot in it with inadvertent enthusiasm, such as when he said it was possible he could be succeeded by a woman, but that she should be “very, very attractive”. He later made clear that he had meant no offence and said he was deeply sorry that people had been hurt by his words.

His suggestion for how to make world leaders see sense on climate change may also raise eyebrows, but again seems to be the product of a lively 85-year-old sense of humour. The Dalai Lama chuckles as he suggests we should lock them all in a room and “pipe carbon dioxide into it until they realise what climate change really means”. He explains that “people who have a certain luxury sort of style of life in a room without proper oxygen” would realise “it is very difficult”.

The Dalai Lama says he is in favour of large-scale tree planting to help tackle climate change. He also believes meat consumption worldwide should fall dramatically, but explains that since his own decision to go vegetarian in 1965, health problems have led doctors to advise him to resume eating a little meat.

He says his greatest personal contribution to fighting climate change is education and promoting the concept of compassion. The Dalai Lama is most passionate when talking about his idea of oneness among 7 billion people. “We see too much emphasis on my nation, my religion, their religion. That really is causing all these problems due to different religions and different nations are fighting. So now we really need oneness.” He even says he can now live as one with China, which he claims is “the biggest Buddhist population now”.

Nearing the end of this life, the Dalai Lama has not publicly explained how his reincarnation should be sought, or whether a 15th Dalai Lama should be found at all. He jokes that in his next life “I may be born on the Moon or Mars. Then I will starve.”

In the past he has raised the idea of being the last in the line of Dalai Lamas, perhaps to prevent China naming a politically cooperative successor. For now, he says he wants to leave that decision to others. “As long as I live I should be useful to help other people. Then after that, not my business. These are the concerns of other people.”

His advice for the rest of us living through the coronavirus pandemic is similarly practical, crediting an unnamed Indian scholar with the idea that “If there’s a way to overcome [coronavirus], then no need to worry. If there is no way to overcome, then it’s no use to worry too much either.”





No.12 article:
Mother demands access for families to loved ones in care facilities

Exclusive: Mother of Jamie Macfarlane tells of ‘vortex’ of decline after visits stopped during lockdown

A mother whose disabled son died following a “vortex” of decline when visits to his care facility were stopped has demanded greater access for other families to prevent similar deaths during the pandemic.

Melanie Macfarlane, whose son Jamie died on 30 October, said she believed he would probably be alive if she had been allowed face-to-face visits during the spring lockdown when his mental and physical health began to rapidly deteriorate.

The 21-year-old had Sanfilippo syndrome, a rare disorder that causes learning disabilities and a deterioration of physical and mental skills. He had a shortened life expectancy, but being prevented from seeing his loved ones triggered a catastrophic premature decline, Macfarlane said. He had an attachment disorder that focused on his mother, who did not see him for more than three months while he was in lockdown at St Elizabeth’s, a residential learning centre in Hertfordshire.

“The carers were made blind to him by the use of masks,” Macfarlane said. “For someone who can’t process that it must have been terrifying, and that his mummy couldn’t come and rescue him.”

Macfarlane spoke out as MPs called for greater visiting rights in a parliamentary debate, which heard constituents’ accounts of desolation at being separated from loved ones. Huw Merriman, the Conservative MP for Bexhill and Battle, warned: “In seeking to protect vulnerable residents we may not only diminish their quality of life, we may end up prematurely ending it altogether.”

Jamie Macfarlane’s death was raised by Joy Morrissey MP, who told parliament Jamie would “call out in anguish: ‘I want my mum, I want my mum’.”

“I cannot begin to imagine what it must have felt like knowing that her son was denied the care of his family for months, denied a hug, denied the comfort of a warm hand holding his, denied dignity in his suffering,” the Conservative MP for Beaconsfield said. Denying access to loved ones was “inhumane and cruel”, she said.

The care minister, Helen Whately, said she was looking into the circumstances of Jamie Macfarlane’s death, but said loosening visiting restrictions now was “strongly against the clinical advice I have received”. However, she said some family members would be able to visit residents if they tested negative first, with a trial starting on Monday in 30 care homes. She said there could be a further roll-out of family testing in December.

The shadow care minister, Liz Kendall, said: “After eight months of lockdown there isn’t time to wait for a pilot scheme or another set of guidelines. We need action now.”

Macfarlane described how, during lockdown, she found her son was bewildered by seeing her on a screen rather than in real life, and when visits restarted in June he was changed.

“He completely went into himself and became very unhappy,” she said. “That’s what upset me most about the lockdown: the misery he went through because of it. All his joie de vivre, the lightness in his face, his joy of life went.”

There were family visits in July and August, but his decline continued. Anxiety and depression medication had to be increased.

“He turned from a young man who sometimes slept for 15 hours to not sleeping at all,” she said. “He was exhausted and miserable. He got very thin. He was so emaciated.”

In September he was admitted to Wexham Park hospital in Slough for a month to try to boost his nutrition, and doctors inserted a feeding tube into his stomach.

He couldn’t stand it and ripped it out, which caused serious damage. He developed sepsis and was admitted to intensive care. His body, frail from the weight loss over the previous months, and his underlying health conditions meant he did not have the capacity to fight back. He was admitted to a hospice on 28 October and died two days later.

“The absence of visiting created a perfect storm and the outcome was inevitable,” said Macfarlane. “Once his mood was depressed it was like he was in some vortex that would only end one way. The speed with which we lost him and the rapidity of his decline wasn’t caused by his condition. I wasn’t expecting to lose him this year.

“What’s important is this stops happening and people who lack capacity are given back their dignity. Everyone is manically nervous about death because of Covid so it is easy to see why it happened. But human beings are more than a bundle of physical needs. Emotional and psychological health in cases like this have not been prioritised.”

Jill Rankin, the interim chief executive of St Elizabeth’s, said: “We absolutely understand how difficult it was for Jamie and his loved ones to be apart during the period in which government guidance prevented visits. Limiting the number of visits is not something we ever want to do, and we have sought to mitigate the impact of this through video calls, regular updates to loved ones … However, reducing the number of visitors to the centre is one of our most effective tools in the battle against coronavirus, and it continues to be a difficult balancing act to have as many safe visits as possible within the guidance at a time when cases in the community continue to rise.”





No.13 article:
Issues such as how jab will be prioritised among different groups still being finalised

The NHS is ramping up to deliver the most important vaccination programme for decades, a mammoth task that is aimed at protecting tens of millions of people against coronavirus. But with several vaccines potentially on the verge of being approved by regulators, how will the UK manage the rollout?

The joint committee on vaccination and immunisation (JCVI) advise government on vaccination policy. Its interim recommendations are to prioritise older adults in care homes and care workers, followed by all those aged 80 and over, and health and social care workers. Next in line are the over-75s, then the over-70s, and so on down the age groups, as more vaccine shots become available.

The interim results from Pfizer this week suggest that its two-shot vaccine, developed with the German firm BioNTech, is 90% effective. The figure is based on 94 Covid cases across both vaccinated and placebo arms of the trial. More data is needed to confirm this level of protection and that is expected within weeks when Pfizer runs another analysis based on 164 infected trial volunteers. If the vaccine is proven to achieve such a high level of protection, there is no reason why someone would need a different, additional vaccine on top.

However, whether people can safely have different Covid vaccines is an important question for scientists to answer. It has not been looked at yet, because the immediate priority is to find individual vaccines that are safe and effective on their own. If they can safely be used in combination, it could make rollout easier, because it wouldn’t matter which vaccine is given as the first or second shot.

Although the multiple vaccines in development are based on a number of different technologies many, including the frontrunners from Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca, stimulate the immune system to generate T cells and antibodies against the same coronavirus spike protein. If these vaccines produce similar immune reactions and achieve similar levels of protection, they could potentially be used interchangeably.

Trials have yet to look at the impact of using Covid vaccines in combination and it is unknown whether doing so would improve people’s protection against the virus. Some vaccines in development use the whole virus, and these are expected to produce different immune responses to those that rely on only the spike protein to stimulate the body’s defences. Using these in combination might produce an overall more robust immune response. But such combinations would have to be assessed for safety and efficacy in further trials. Some Covid vaccines may need booster shots to sustain immunity and scientists need to study whether that can be done with different products.

While encouraging, the results so far from Pfizer are preliminary. More safety data is expected soon. Important questions about the vaccine’s efficacy remain too. It is not yet known whether the virus prevents severe infections or just mild ones. Nor is it clear whether the vaccine prevents people from spreading the virus, if it is as effective in older people as well as younger people, and no one knows how long any protection lasts.

The first task is to immunise as soon as possible all those in the 10 groups identified by the JCVI. Together they comprise an estimated 22 million people. Besides care home residents, they include all health and care staff, the 2.2 million people on the shielding list classed as “extremely clinically vulnerable”, and then everyone aged 50 and over. This is “phase one” of the rollout.

If the vaccine is delayed until early 2021, it will be even later before the general public get the jab. Each of these 22 million people will need two doses, and because the NHS hopes to immunise 1 million people a week, everyone else is unlikely to be able to get a jab until the middle of next year at the earliest. This is “phase two” of the rollout. How long it will be before the general public can get immunised also depends on whether the JCVI, the government and NHS decide to vaccinate under-18s. That is being discussed but no decision has yet been taken.

Further discussions are afoot on how else people may be prioritised, and there could be different priority groups for different vaccines. This is similar to what is seen with influenza vaccines, where older and more vulnerable adults get a killed virus vaccine while younger people get a live, weakened virus vaccine.





No.14 article:
Indian move to regulate digital media raises censorship fears

Government will oversee online news, social media and video streaming platforms

India’s government has ordered that all online news, social media and video streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime are to be subject to state regulation, raising fears of increased censorship of digital media.

The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, which regulates and censors print newspapers, television, films and theatre, will also have jurisdiction, under the new order, over digital news and entertainment platforms in India.

The move is part of a push by the ruling Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) to regulate a digital realm seen as more transgressive and offering a space for more critical journalism and entertainment than traditional media.

According to the watchdog Freedom House, internet freedom in India has declined for the past three years and there are fears the order signals the end of the digital realm as one of the final bastions of creative and journalistic dissent in India. It is likely to be passed into law in parliament this week.

Nikhil Pahwa, a digital rights activist and founder of online news portal MediaNama, said: “The fear is that with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting – essentially India’s Ministry of Truth – now in a position to regulate online news and entertainment, we will see a greater exercise of government control, and censorship.”

The order follows months of campaigns by rightwing groups to bring streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon under the same censorship rules as television and film. Streaming services have exploded in popularity in India, with upwards of 25 million Netflix subscribers.

Online news and entertainment have up to now been overseen by the Ministry of Technology, which does not interfere with or regulate content. Streaming platforms were pushed to come up with a code for self-censorship, but all versions were rejected.

Shows created for these streaming platforms, such as Paatal Lok, Sacred Games, Leila and Rasbhari, have consequently not had to conform to the same restrictive standards as traditional media, and have addressed sex, sexual violence, homophobia and caste inequalities, as well as politically sensitive subjects such as Hindu nationalism and the persecution of Muslims.

Pahwa said the order meant that “the ministry can push through any self-regulatory code for streaming services that it desires. This will lead to more censorship of content on streaming services, and give the government more teeth to force streaming services to act on complaints.”

Netflix and Amazon would not comment on the new order. However, Netflix has recently poured half a billion dollars into its Indian operation and is seen as likely to comply with any government regulation.

The inclusion of online news portals in the order was also seen as concerning, and part of continuing government moves to bring online news under its control. Last month, a law was passed stating that digital news platforms could not have more than 26% foreign investment.

While traditional media in India is largely pro-government and subject to fierce pressure, online news platforms such as The Wire and Scroll.in are much more critical of the BJP government and the Hindu nationalist agenda of the prime minister, Narendra Modi.

These sites are already heavily regulated, having to comply not only with the same media and defamation laws as traditional news organisations but also the draconian Information Technology Act, which is often used to target and charge journalists who produce critical coverage. However, the new order could force digital news platforms to register with the government in the same way that traditional news organisations have to.

Siddharth Varadarajan, the editor of The Wire which has been slapped with multiple criminal charges for coverage considered critical of the government, said: “The government has been claiming for some time now that online news is some sort of wild west that follows no rules. This is nonsense since all the restrictions that come with the constitutional guarantee of free speech, and a free press, apply to news websites, just as they do to newspapers and TV channels. But what irks the government is the use we have made of our freedom – to ask questions and pursue stories that the big media increasingly shies away from.”

Varadarajan added: “Everything in government happens with a purpose and I would imagine this is a prelude to the drafting, or even promulgation, of a new law to ‘regulate’ news websites. No democratic country does this.”

Social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter will also be subject to regulation, though it is unclear how this will be enforced. The government said details of the law would be announced this week.





No.15 article:
Bear sightings in Japan are at a five-year high and occur mostly in rural areas in western and northern&nbsp;Japan. There have been dozens of attacks so far in 2020, two of them fatal, prompting the government to convene an emergency meeting last month to address the threat





No.16 article:
Hungarian government mounts new assault on LGBT rights

Constitutional amendment proposed to enshrine defence of so-called ‘Christian values’

Moments before Hungary entered a second coronavirus lockdown on Wednesday, the far-right government signalled its intention to pass a range of new legislation, including to make it harder for opposition political parties to join forces and to change the constitution to enshrine the defence of so-called “Christian values”.

Opposition politicians criticised both the substance and timing of the moves.

The proposed constitutional amendment, submitted to parliament by the justice minister, Judit Varga, late on Tuesday, is the latest assault on LGBT rights in the country, where legal recognition for gender changes was ended in May.

“Hungary protects children’s right to identify as the sex they were born with, and ensures their upbringing based on our national self-identification and Christian culture,” the amendment states. The constitution already stipulates that marriage must be between a man and a woman, but the amendment says that in a parent-child relationship “the mother is a woman and the father is a man”.

The amendment would ensure that only heterosexual married couples can adopt children. Single people could gain exemptions by special ministerial permission.

The attempted justification for the amendment explains that “new, modern ideologies in the western world raise doubt about the creation of the male and female sex, and endanger the right of children to have healthy development.” The Hungarian language has the same word for sex and gender.

For years, Viktor Orbán’s government has relied on an anti-migration agenda to rally its base, and some analysts suggest LGBT people may be the new target. In Poland, the ruling populist Law and Justice (PiS) party has made the fight against so-called “LGBT ideology” central to its political messaging.

Orbán’s government is facing pressure arising from discussions in the EU to link the disbursal of some European funds to rule of law criteria, as well as pressure over rising coronavirus cases. The new lockdown includes an 8pm curfew and the closure of restaurants and bars. Parliament has voted for a 90-day “state of emergency” during which the government can issue decrees on virus-related matters without parliamentary approval.

The timing of the new legislative initiatives, which were announced with no warning, was reminiscent of an earlier barrage of legislation unrelated to coronavirus that was introduced during the first coronavirus “state of emergency” in the spring.

The independent MP Bernadett Szél wrote on Facebook that “instead of fighting the virus, they wish to fight the LGBT community”. Katalin Cseh, an MEP of the opposition Momentum party, wrote on Twitter: “Parents, schools, hospitals, small businesses are hours away from a lockdown – not knowing what will happen, as details of regulations haven’t even been published yet. On the govt’s agenda: a constitutional amendment to fight gender ideology.”

The new laws will have to be debated in parliament, but Orbán’s Fidesz party has a two-thirds majority, sufficient to make constitutional amendments.

While the gender-related initiatives are the most eye-catching, the political changes could also prove significant. The new rules would make it harder for parties to run joint lists in elections without fully uniting.

Fidesz has dominated Hungarian politics over the past decade, but the fragmented opposition has had success in mayoral elections – including in Budapest – when unifying behind a single candidate. Opposition parties had announced their intention to run unity candidates against Fidesz in parliamentary elections in 2022.

“Viktor Orbán has become unworthy of his office once and for all,” six opposition parties said in a statement on Wednesday, Reuters reported. “This only goes to show that he no longer feels safe even in the election system he wrote for himself, which is fitting because he will lose.”





No.17 article:
The move prompted the entire pro-democracy caucus to announce their resignation, and was heralded by the opposition politician Claudia Mo as 'the death knell of Hong Kong’s democracy fight'





No.18 article:
Barcelona launches 10-year plan to reclaim city streets from cars

Plans include making one in three Eixample streets “green zones” and creating 21 public squares

Barcelona has launched an ambitious 10-year plan to reclaim the city’s streets from cars and cut down pollution with the creation of green spaces and public squares.

One in three streets in the heavily polluted central Eixample district – the 20th-century grid devised by the engineer Ildefons Cerdà – will become green zones under the scheme, giving priority to pedestrians and cyclists, and 21 public squares will be created at intersections so that no citizen is more than 200 metres from a square or small park.

“The Cerdà plan modernised Barcelona at the end of the 19th century and we are reviving that spirit of urban transformation to bring the Eixample into the 21st century,” the deputy mayor, Janet Sanz, said.

The plan, estimated to cost €37.8m over the next 10 years, amounts to a rapid and radical extension of the so-called superblocks policy introduced in 2016.

The superblock scheme groups together nine city blocks and closes them to through-traffic with plant pots and benches, introduces cycle lanes, play areas and green spaces and replaces many of the parking spaces with seating areas.

While cars aren’t banned, the superblocks are car-unfriendly. There are six so far, with as many as 11 more planned over the next few years – and more than 500 if the plan is carried out in its entirety. The superblocks provide an oasis of quiet in a city where citizens own 6,000 cars per square km, not counting vans or motorcycles, the highest in the EU.

The new plan seeks to augment the city’s chronic lack of public space and address its equally chronic pollution problem.

Barcelona almost never meets EU or World Health Organization limits for nitrogen dioxide or particulate pollution. WHO NO2 limits are 40 micrograms per cubic metre, while in much of the city the level is above 47 µg/m 3.

In common with cities such as Paris and Milan, the city has been practising “tactical urbanism” – widening pavements, temporarily closing streets, extending cycle lanes, closing parking spaces – to create more public space in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.

The measures have been widely welcomed and, while car lobbies are opposed, haven’t polarised opinion the way they have in some British cities.

Since the lockdown was enforced in March, the city has created 29km of cycle lanes – bringing the total to nearly 240km – and 12km of pavement. In the same period, it has eliminated 1,300 parking spaces.

The design for the squares and green spaces will be decided in open competition. The closing date for entries is 17 December.





No.19 article:
Italy passes 1m Covid cases as calls grow for national lockdown

Italy is third country in mainland Europe, after Spain and France, to pass milestone

Italy surpassed 1m confirmed coronavirus infections on Wednesday, as its death toll climbed rapidly in a second wave that is wreaking havoc on hospitals.

The government is biding its time on resorting to another national lockdown despite repeated calls from overwhelmed medics for such a policy.

A further 623 Covid-related deaths were registered on Wednesday, the highest daily tally since early April, and there were 32,961 new infections. Italy is the third country in mainland Europe, after Spain and France, to exceed 1m cases.

Italy was the first country in Europe to be hit by the pandemic and has the highest death toll on the continent, at 42,953. Doctors said this week there would be an additional 10,000 deaths in a month unless drastic action was taken.

There are now 29,444 people hospitalised for Covid-19 across the country – the highest number since the start of the pandemic.

“We need a general lockdown like the one in March and April, maybe for two or three weeks or a month, in order to bring the infection rate down,” said Giovanni Leoni, the vice-president of an Italian doctors’ federation. “The number of admissions to intensive care is doubling every 10 days and at this speed it will be very difficult to guarantee care to patients with other diseases.”

The critical threshold of Covid patients taking up 30% of intensive care has already been exceeded in some regions, and hospitals are struggling to find space for people in general wards. Ambulances have been queueing outside emergency units in the badly hit northern city of Turin, where emergency teams are also treating Covid patients in their homes. An otherwise healthy 21-year-old woman died of Covid in one of the city’s hospitals this week.

In the southern city of Naples, people have been treated for Covid in their cars as they wait outside hospitals. One of the reasons for the chaos is that people are rushing to emergency units even with mild symptoms.

The further south, where hospitals are less equipped than those in the wealthier north, the more worrying the situation. Leoluca Orlando, the mayor of Palermo, said his city and the rest of Sicily risked heading towards “an announced massacre”.

Last week Sicily was placed in the medium-risk “orange zone” as part of the government’s tiered system, which imposes varying levels of restrictions on regions according to factors including the Covid transmission rate, hospital efficiency and availability of intensive care beds.

The number of these beds across Italy has increased from 5,000 at the beginning of the pandemic to 7,500, but there is a shortage of anaesthetists. There are 3,081 Covid patients in intensive care nationwide, and the average time spent there is two to three weeks.

“It is a very complicated situation,” said Tuttlio Prestileo, a doctor of infectious diseases at the Benfratelli hospital in Palermo. “On Tuesday we met with the regional government to increase intensive care spaces. We are making a superhuman effort. But we cannot guarantee space indefinitely.”

In the last month 18,000 health workers have become infected with Covid while doing their jobs, exacerbating the shortages.

Silvio Scotti, the president of the Italian federation of general practitioners, has also called for a national lockdown and described the government’s three-tiered system of red, orange and yellow as “a joke of a jigsaw”.

“We have doctors, nurses, health workers, cleaners, people who have been fighting this battle for months now,” he told Sky TG24.

The prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, told La Stampa on Wednesday that he was waiting to see whether recent measures have an impact on the infection curve over the next few days. “It’s true, there are critical issues,” he said. “But a generalised lockdown shouldn’t be the first choice – the costs would be too high.”





No.20 article:
Schools, clubs and cinemas in Phnom Penh locked down as cases reported after trade trip

Cambodia’s prime minister, Hun Sen, has gone into quarantine and the country has locked down schools, clubs and cinemas in the capital, Phnom Penh, and a surrounding province, after an outbreak of coronavirus cases linked to a visit by the Hungarian foreign minister, Péter Szijjártó.

Szijjártó made a short visit to Cambodia on 3 November as part of a planned trade tour to the region, then tested positive for Covid-19 when he arrived in Thailand later the same day. All his meetings were cancelled and he flew home the next day on a private plane.

Since then, the trip has been linked to at least four cases of coronavirus in Cambodia, where at least 1,000 people connected with the visit have been tested, including Hun Sen and his wife. Four cabinet ministers were also quarantined after meeting Szijjártó.

The country has largely escaped the ravages of the global pandemic through strict entry and quarantine requirements, with only 301 infections and no deaths recorded. With a weak and badly funded healthcare system, Cambodia could face a devastating toll if the disease took hold.

Authorities appear to be taking no chances, shutting down schools in the capital and surrounding Kandal province for two weeks, after the education ministry said it was not able to collect enough information about students who had direct or indirect contact with Szijjártó.

Schools across much of the country had reopened only last Monday, after being closed since March; in Phnom Penh a phased reopening had been underway for several weeks. Under the new measures the government also banned all state-organised events and shut clubs and cinemas for two weeks in and around the capital.

Thai authorities also confirmed that a Hungarian diplomat who shared a car and a meal with the minister had tested positive; they said 16 other people who came in contact with him tested negative. The country has reported 3,847 infections and 600 deaths.

Hungary has reported an increase in the number of cases since September with more than 4,000 new daily infections and record casualties in recent days. The foreign ministry said Szijjártó had tested negative before his departure for Cambodia, Reuters reported.

In photos of a meeting with Hun Sen and other senior politicians none of the participants appeared to be wearing masks. At the time, Szijjártó described his country as a “bridge to Europe” for Cambodia, the Diplomat reported.

• This article was amended on 12 November 2020. Mentions of bars being shut down were changed to clubs.





No.21 article:
Indian capital records highest single day rise in cases as monitor says pollution is at 14 times WHO safe level 

Delhi’s 20 million residents are facing a double health crisis as high levels of pollution look set to exacerbate the coronavirus pandemic.

The twin threats have been looming over the city for the past week. After managing to get fresh daily infections under control last month, the city is witnessing its worst wave so far, recording a highest single day rise on Tuesday of 7,830 new cases.

Equally off the charts is the catastrophic pollution that has wrapped the city in a poisonous shroud for the past week and which, doctors say, will weaken people’s lungs and render them even more vulnerable to the virus.

The pollution is a replay of last year’s crisis. The sensors at the air quality monitoring stations can measure up to the value of 500. For the past six days, the index has reached 490. But a federal monitoring agency classified the air quality on Tuesday at 724. An air quality index (AQI) score of between zero and 50 is considered safe by the World Health Organization (WHO).

The thick smog has blurred the city’s skyline. Residents complain of smarting eyes, coughing and difficulty breathing. Doctors have advised everyone to stay indoors if they can, particularly children and the elderly.

In homes, the red “alert” lights have been blazing on even the most powerful air purifiers. It can take some time before the hazardous pollution is brought down to a tolerable level, only to shoot up again if anyone opens a door or window.

The reasons for the pollution are the same as last year and previous years: car emissions, burning of waste, construction dust, and the burning of farm stubble in neighbouring states. The weather, with not enough winds to disperse the pollutants, has made thing worse.

Civil servant Ashish Narang has not ventured out for a week. “We were already confined indoors because of the pandemic but we could at least go for a walk with a mask but now we can’t do that either. How can our lungs stand a chance against the virus if they are already blackened and damaged by pollution?” he asked.

Despite the crisis, the New Delhi government has given no indication that it is disturbed or alarmed, beyond announcing a ban on letting off firecrackers, a tradition during Diwali, which is on Saturday.

Nor has any minister in Narendra Modi’s government made any comment on the poor air quality.

Hospitals say there has been a rise in the number of people complaining of respiratory illnesses. “Increased pollution has led to a nearly 25% increase in respiratory problems,” said Dr Vivek Nangia, head of the Institute of Respiratory and Critical Care at Max Hospital. Owing to the acute shortage of beds due to Covid, he said the hospital was managing these cases via teleconsultation or the outpatients department.

Studies have shown that lungs weakened by pollution are more vulnerable to coronavirus, suggesting that the city is facing a double disaster. The virus figures have been spiralling upwards and the New Delhi government shows no sign of being able to get them under control yet.

This has come as a shock for residents because the city seemed to have turned the corner last month when daily infections had fallen to around 2,500. Quarantine centres were lying empty and hospital beds were easily available. The worst seemed over.

All that has changed as restrictions have been relaxed. Markets are jam-packed with shoppers, most wearing masks but with no social distancing. Diwali is likely to see more movement and socialising.

Hospitals are complaining of an acute shortage of beds and stories are once again doing the rounds of families having to drive around for hours looking for a hospital bed.

The Indian Medical Association has said that 13% of the city’s recent Covid cases may be linked to air pollution.







No.22 article:
Evo Morales: Bolivia’s ex-president returns – in pictures

Bolivia’s former leader Evo Morales made a dramatic homecoming on Monday, greeted by crowds of cheering supporters as he crossed the border from Argentina, where he had been living in exile since late last year





No.23 article:
&#x27;An own goal&#x27;: experts question resignation of Hong Kong lawmakers

Mass resignation after ousting of four ‘unpatriotic’ legislators leaves council with no opposition members

On Thursday, Hong Kong’s legislature will look remarkably more like its counterpart in mainland China. It will sit without any opposition lawmakers after they announced their resignations in protest at four colleagues disqualified from the body on Wednesday under a new power granted to Hong Kong authorities by Beijing to dismiss “unpatriotic” politicians with immediate effect. 

The 70-member legislative council will then consist of only pro-Beijing lawmakers, turning into what several observers have described as a rubber-stamping body like China’s National People’s Congress (NPC), which passes pre-approved measures.

“This is the end of any meaningful opposition. This is exactly the model that we are expected to shift to. It’s a huge paradigm shift,” said Kenneth Chan, a political scientist at the Hong Kong Baptist University and former pro-democracy lawmaker.

“Opposition in the legislative council has always been an eyesore to the powers that be. They would like LegCo to behave just like NPC deputies,” he said.

On Wednesday, Beijing released a vague statement barring anyone from the legislature seen as supporting independence, seeking help from foreign forces to “interfere” in Hong Kong’s affairs or otherwise committing “acts that endanger national security”. Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, later added anyone objecting “in principle” to the sweeping national security law implemented in June, and said a government “must be composed of patriots”.

The law took immediate effect and was used to disqualify four sitting members.

Critics described it as a “death-knell” for the remaining democratic institutions of Hong Kong, whose courts, legal system and society are meant to enjoy a “high degree of autonomy” from Beijing under the “one country, two systems” framework.

Analysts said the move, while abrupt, represents a progression of efforts to prevent pro-democracy candidates from holding office. In 2016, authorities disqualified a number of young lawmakers on the basis of oath-taking procedures. In 2018, Agnes Chow, a young activist, was barred from running on the basis that her party included self-determination for Hong Kong in its platform.

After a year of protests and public anger at the government, as well as victories for opposition candidates in local district elections, pro-democracy candidates had launched a campaign to get half of the legislative council’s seats in the next election.

But in June, a dozen candidates, including the four lawmakers disqualified on Wednesday, were barred from running after they made campaign promises to block government legislation if they succeeded. That election, scheduled for September, was delayed after the government invoked emergency powers, citing the Covid-19 pandemic.

“Beijing has decided to snuff out the opposition. They want to minimise as effectively as possible the opposition forces so there won’t be any,” said Willy Lam, an adjunct professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. 

Others questioned the timing of the new measure and the targeting of four lawmakers who are considered moderates. In the past, the conventional wisdom was that Beijing would not tolerate the most radical wings of the pro-democracy camp.

“The major message is that after today, they don’t want to provide room of survival for even moderate democrats,” said Ivan Choy, a senior lecturer on electoral politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.

After the controversial delay of the legislative election in August, the NPC’s standing committee, the decision-making body of China’s legislature, said that all current lawmakers would continue their duties “for no less than one year” until a new session began.

The change after three months suggests to Choy a shift in Beijing’s thinking, perhaps motivated by distraction in the US as the Trump administration – a supporter of the protests in Hong Kong – deals with the president’s election loss.

“Perhaps they are taking advantage of this transitional period to do that – because they know they are busy,” he said.

By resigning en masse, Hong Kong’s pro-democracy camp will effectively shut off one of the last formal channels of opposition within the government. The resignations will not affect quorum and the council’s ability to meet. Observers say this is probably what Beijing hoped would happen.

“A symbolic gesture that doesn’t give you anything in practice, and a symbolic gesture that the other side would have calculated you would do and is quite happy for you to do, is a symbolic gesture that is effectively an own goal,” said Prof Steve Tsang, the director of the SOAS China Institute. “It’s Beijing flexing its muscle to say it can control Hong Kong.”

Tsang said the new law would make it more difficult for pro-democracy constituents to elect legislative councillors that could speak up for them in the future, “which is exactly why they shouldn’t resign”.





No.24 article:
Several injured in explosion at Saudi Armistice Day event

France condemns ‘cowardly attack’ at Jeddah ceremony for foreign diplomatic staff

Several people have been wounded in an explosion in the Saudi Arabian city of Jeddah during a ceremony to commemorate the end of the first world war attended by staff from foreign diplomatic missions, officials have said.

“The embassies involved condemn this cowardly attack, which is wholly unjustified,” the French foreign ministry said. “They call on the Saudi authorities to shed as much light as they can on this attack, and to identify and hunt down the perpetrators.”

A Greek government official told Reuters that an explosive device had gone off at a ceremony at a non-Muslim cemetery in Jeddah. Four people had been slightly injured, the official said, including a Greek national.

A statement from the Mecca governorate on Saudi state TV said two people were injured: a Greek consulate employee and a Saudi security guard. The British government said one UK national suffered minor injuries.

The Remembrance Day event was reportedly organised by the French embassy in Saudi Arabia for several diplomatic delegations from the EU and from other countries. Saudi officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

There was an attack at the French consulate in Jeddah last month in which a Saudi man was arrested after a security guard was wounded. The consulate urged French nationals in the city on Wednesday to exercise maximum vigilance.

“In particular, exercise discretion, and stay away from all gatherings and be cautious when moving around,” said the statement, circulated to French residents. It said only two people had been injured in the blast.

Saudi state TV said the site of the cemetery had been secured and police were investigating the explosion. Traffic had returned to normal in the area, it said.

Tensions between France and many Muslim-majority countries have been heightened following the beheading near Paris of a French junior high school teacher after he showed caricatures of the prophet Muhammad to pupils in a class on free speech.

Citing his country’s commitment to free speech, strict secular traditions and right to blasphemy, President Emmanuel Macron promised France would not “renounce caricatures” in the wake of the attack, angering many in the Muslim world who view the cartoons as extremely offensive.

There were angry protests in several countries, some burning Macron’s effigy, while in others supermarkets boycotted French products. The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, said Macron should have “his mental health tested”.

The French president sought to calm the anger in an interview with the al-Jazeera news channel in which he said he understood that Muslims were “shocked” by the depictions of Muhammad, which he said did not reflect the state’s views.

Saudi Arabia, which is home to Islam’s holiest sites, has criticised the cartoons, but senior clerics have also called for calm and urged people to follow the prophet’s example of “mercy, justice, tolerance”.

The Saudi government also said it “strongly condemned” a second fatal Islamist attack in France last month in which two women worshippers and a church sexton were killed at the Notre Dame basilica in Nice.

On Tuesday, the French president hosted a summit of European leaders to plan a joint approach to combating what he calls “Islamist radicalism” after four people were killed in a shooting rampage in the heart of Vienna last week.





No.25 article:
European commission says giving EU health agencies more power will improve response to cross-border health threats

Brussels is seeking a major shift in powers towards the EU’s health agencies, warning that Europe’s faltering approach to the coronavirus pandemic has caused “confusion and distrust”.

The EU commissioner for health, Stella Kyriakides, said the bloc’s lack of readiness for the crisis had meant substandard care for patients and left medics without access to vital resources.

At the height of the first wave of the pandemic, the Italian government hit out at the lack of solidarity within the EU after its urgent calls for medical resources from fellow European governments were ignored.

Kyriakides, a former MP in Cyprus who is also a psychologist with a degree from Reading University, said she believed the pandemic had been a “wake-up call” to EU capitals.

She said: “We have seen in the beginning of this crisis how fragmentation can make member states more vulnerable. We saw that in the beginning, in the first few weeks, the effects of uncoordinated national measures. There was a lack of readiness and preparation.

“And we saw that with the shortfall of medical equipment, testing capacity and coordination in many areas. So this uncoordinated approach, what it directly means is that citizens don’t get the best healthcare.

“It means they don’t have the access that they should have to the medicines they need, to the medical devices and the medical equipment they may need.”

Under a new regulation on serious cross-border threats to health proposed by the European commission on Wednesday, EU member states would be obliged to report on the capacities of their healthcare systems, while national crisis plans would be scrutinised by the bloc’s officials for weaknesses.

The EU would establish a strengthened surveillance system using artificial intelligence to watch out for any outbreaks of disease or weaknesses in healthcare capacity within its territory.

An entirely new organisation modelled on the US biomedical research and development authority will also be formed by 2023 to build up stockpiles of key medicines and equipment. The Health Emergency Response Authority (Hera) will be tasked with developing a “surge capacity” in production for times when raw materials from outside of Europe might be scarce.

In the past, the bloc’s member states have resisted greater EU powers in the area of health. Most recently leaders cut heavily into the commission’s spending proposals on medical research and resilience for the next seven-year EU budget.

Kyriakides said she was confident that there had been a realisation of the need for more EU involvement in coordination of the member states’ responses to health emergencies.

“We fully respect member states’ competences for health system but Covid-19 is a wake-up for everyone,” the commissioner said.

“Viruses know no borders, and other health threats know no borders. Citizens expect the EU to take a more active role in the area of health, to take a more active role in protecting them. They have been asking Europe to be more present in the area of public health. From the beginning of this crisis I have said this many times: this is a necessity. We need more EU in the area of public health.”

As part of its “health union” package, the commission is proposing a major revamp for the Swedish-based European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) to allow it to collect and analyse the level of preparedness for a crisis in the member states.

During the pandemic, the ECDC was only able to offer technical guidance but it will in future make recommendations for the EU as a whole to adopt.

The agency will also be responsible for auditing national crisis response plans. It will deploy a pool of experts to member states when help is needed. The European medicine agency will be empowered to track potential shortages of medicines and medical devices.





No.26 article:
 Covid-19 has already put 3 million young Europeans out of work. The scars for these under-25s could take a decade to heal

A decade ago, the global financial crisis left deep scars in terms of destroyed opportunities and unemployment for young people. In Europe in particular, youth unemployment persisted. Now the Covid-19 crisis threatens to do the same thing to the under-25s. Yet, none of the leaders of France, Italy or Spain, nor the president of the European commission, prioritised youth unemployment in their latest policy speeches. At the highest political level, the focus must be on averting the risk of a lost generation. Bold policies will be needed.

During the financial crisis, the US youth unemployment rate increased from about 10% to 19%, while in the European Union it increased from 16% to 26%. The rate in the EU only returned to its 2008 level in 2018, while the spike in US youth unemployment was overcome more rapidly. Even in the recovery, some EU countries fared much worse than the EU average. In Greece, Spain and Italy, youth unemployment in 2019 was still higher than it was before the 2008 crash.

Another major surge in youth unemployment brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic could also take a decade or more to heal. The first signs are already visible: US youth unemployment was about twice as high in July as in July 2019. In Europe, youth unemployment has increased by less, but still increased from 15% to more than 17% in the first two quarters of 2020 – while unemployment among the over-55s actually fell. More worryingly, measures of labour market slack are up by some five percentage points, as are the percentages of young people who have even given up searching for a job. Some countries such as Spain or Croatia have been more severely hit. In fact, Spanish youth unemployment increased from a high 32% to almost 40% while the Croatian rate increased from 17% to 24%. In the UK, youth unemployment rose from 11% to almost 14%. With Europe in its second significant lockdown, the risk is that these numbers will rapidly deteriorate further.

Youth unemployment does long-term damage. Workers who are unemployed when young tend to earn significantly less over their lifetime. The young unemployed look at the future less optimistically. They also tend to leave the parental home later and start families later. On average, Italians leave their parents’ home only at the age of about 30, and it is no surprise that the Italian and Spanish fertility rates are among the lowest in Europe.

In short, Europe cannot afford to again forget its youth. The European institutions must contribute to the effort to avoid another lost generation, and national policymakers in particular need to do their bit.

The first big priority is to get the European macroeconomic policy stance right. One of the reasons for the slow recovery in youth employment in the EU after the financial crisis was the second recession that Europe fell into between 2011 and 2013. At the time, fiscal and monetary tightening prematurely choked off the recovery. So far in the response to Covid-19, European policymakers have not repeated that mistake and have provided impressive fiscal and monetary support. Fiscal policies will need to continue to support the EU economy in 2022 and 2023.

Second, policymakers need to set up targeted support programmes for the hiring and retention of young workers. The European commission has pledged that €22bn from the EU recovery fund will be used to support youth employment. But such funding for the EU’s three million young unemployed is insufficient. National policymakers will need to increase their budget lines to support the hiring of young people and the creation of job opportunities.

Third, 10 years ago, and despite pledges to the contrary, education and investment funding and spending on families was cut in many parts of Europe at the expense of the young. This time needs to be different. School closures have meant pupils missing out on teaching, affecting their lifetime earnings expectations. In particular, children from families with weak educational backgrounds have not been able to make up the loss of teaching. In that way, inequalities in opportunity have been further exacerbated. Many European countries are now paying a heavy price for their slowness in the digitalisation of schools and even universities. For instance, many German schools, after more than half a year of Covid-19, have not yet been able to put in place proper online teaching systems.

Massive increases in public debt are shielding business from bankruptcy, and to preserve economic structures. But if Europe wants to stay competitive, it needs to invest more in the economy of the future. There is no better investment than investment in Europe’s young people, who continue to suffer disproportionately from this pandemic.

Guntram Wolff is director of the Brussels-based thinktank, Bruegel



Before you post, we’d like to thank you for joining the debate - we’re glad you’ve chosen to participate and we value your opinions and experiences.

Please choose your username under which you would like all your comments to show up. You can only set your username once.

Please keep your posts respectful and abide by the community guidelines - and if you spot a comment you think doesn’t adhere to the guidelines, please use the ‘Report’ link next to it to let us know.

Please preview your comment below and click ‘post’ when you’re happy with it.





No.27 article:
US Covid response must tie economic recovery to virus control, experts say

Officials urged to emphasise how issues are inextricably linked after exit polls showed divided nation that view them as separate

Politicians and officials leading the US response to the Covid-19 pandemic must present economic recovery and virus control as inextricably linked, after exit polls showed a divided nation views the issues as separate, public health researchers and economists say.

An overwhelming majority of voters who cast their ballot in favor of president-elect Joe Biden listed the Covid-19 pandemic as their top issue, while Trump voters were far more likely to be concerned about the economy, exit polls found.

“It is possible to stop Covid-19 and to rescue us from social and economic ruin, we just have to have the will to do it,” said Gregg Gonsalves, an assistant professor of epidemiology at Yale School of Medicine, whose work focuses on improving responses to epidemic diseases.

Throughout the pandemic, he said, “economists were saying the same thing as public health – that you have to stop the virus.”

The calls for renewed public outreach come as more than 237,000 Americans have died of the virus, more than 10 million have been infected, and the coming weeks are likely to bring the worst outbreaks of the entire pandemic.

Public health officials said they must emphasize both that Americans should wear masks, social distance, avoid high-risk situations, and that no one in public health wants another economic lockdown. Dually, they said, the emphasis must be that the economy will not recover if the virus continues to spread uncontrolled.

“The economy is really, really important to public health officials,” said Dr Marcus Plescia, chief medical officer for the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials.

“Everybody in public health is concerned about the economic devastation as a result of having a pandemic,” he added. “But it’s the pandemic that’s causing that, not the response to the pandemic.”

Economists are also concerned about a divided electorate that viewed the public health and economic issues as separate. Williams Spriggs, an economics professor at Howard University and chief economist for the AFL-CIO, said his field failed to recognize the task ahead of them when the pandemic hit.

“What we can see from the data – it’s the disease that has slowed down economic activity,” said Spriggs. “Whether they’re told to stay at home or not, [the virus] has made people uncomfortable gathering in public spaces, getting on airplanes, staying in hotels.”

Exit polls are often messy, and even in normal years provide only a rough sketch of how different demographic groups vote. Experts believe 2020 may paint an even less reliable picture, because so many people cast their vote through mail-in ballots.

Further, Trump broadly outperformed pollsters’ expectations, raising broader questions about the reliability of the polls. Nevertheless, if current figures hold after the research has been validated, there is a stark divide in the US on how to combat the pandemic effectively.

Thirty-five per cent of voters ranked the economy as their top concern, more than double the number who ranked the pandemic as the most important issue facing the country. Further, people who saw the economy as the top issue also overwhelmingly split for Trump, 82% versus 17% for Biden, according to exit polls conducted by the New York Times.

Those who ranked the pandemic as their top issue overwhelmingly split for Biden, at 82% versus 14%. Biden voters were also more likely to have actually experienced the economic and health impacts of the pandemic, where Trump voters were more likely to earn more than $100,000 a year and rank their family’s economic situation as “better today”.

“Particularly early on, when we shut things down, that’s a very bold action on the economy and I think that really struck people,” Plescia said. “But maybe they lost sight of the fact there’s a reason we’re doing this.”

Some of the nation’s leading public health experts have been critical of their own ability to deliver complex messages to the public following a calamitous lockdown last spring.

“I don’t think all of us in the public health community have done a good job of clear messaging,” Dr Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, told NPR News. He added: “Control the virus and we can open up much more of the economy.”

Scientists and researchers are further hoping the end of a presidency known for fanning conspiracy theories, muzzling scientists and spreading misinformation will bring more Americans to a shared set of facts. In an analysis of news articles about the coronavirus, Trump fueled 38% of the misinformation claims, making him one of the largest sources in the world according to researchers at Cornell University.

One of Trump’s central lines of attack was that public health researchers and Biden wanted another lockdown, comparing health policies to a “prison state”. Similarly, Trump’s allies tend to position economic and social health as in opposition, rather than complementary.

Gonsalves described Trump’s strategy as “let the pandemic run its course and blame public health for the economic and social collapse [Trump] could have averted from the very beginning.”

Spriggs said some of the pandemic’s most consequential questions lay ahead for the Biden-Harris administration. “This disease has been so disruptive, and the real questions we haven’t been pushing is what happens after,” he said. “If we emerge and the only thing standing are Amazon and Walmart what does that mean?”





No.28 article:




No.29 article:
Suspicion in Devon town of face masks and 5G means take-up of vaccine may face resistance

Like many people living in or around Totnes in Devon, David, who is in his 70s, has his own theories about coronavirus and its origins. Sitting in the armchair of his house, he says the pandemic is a secret plot to impose a totalitarian world government and a nefarious effort to crush freedom. He scrolls through Facebook, which he recently signed up to, to show many with similar beliefs.

David came to many of these ideas recently. When the pandemic hit, he started looking for answers. “I’m friends with a few people who are active in researching what is going on. I quickly made contact with others putting posts on the internet.”

He is strongly opposed to 5G, believing mobile phone signals either transmit the virus or reduce our defences to it, and has said he would not accept a vaccine as it would involve injecting nanoparticles into the body that would allow people to be controlled. 

While such views are not the norm, they can be found around the country, and MPs have warned that misinformation about the pandemic is spreading “virulently” because the UK still lacks a law to regulate social media. It is a problem that has come into sharp focus since the announcement that a Covid vaccine could be within reach, with trials finding a new jab to be 90% effective.

Concern has been raised about the uptake of such a vaccine, or false rumours that might deter people from getting it. “Vaccine misinformation has been out there ever since the first vaccines were made,” said England’s deputy chief medical officer Prof Jonathan Van-Tam on Monday. “And it is exactly that, misinformation.”

People in Totnes are known for questioning “the mainstream narrative”, says its mayor, Jacqi Hodgson. The take-up for one dose of the MMR vaccine by five-year-olds was 78%, according to figures for 2018-19, well below the national target of 95%. Last year, campaigners persuaded the council to put a moratorium on the rollout of 5G after being inspired by the conspiracy theory that it is bad for your health.

Since the start of the pandemic, leaflets about the dangers of wearing masks have been slipped through doors, a weekly meeting takes place to discuss theories about the origins of the virus and since August protesters have regularly appeared in the town centre.

Hodgson says that some of those handing out leaflets encouraging people not to wear masks have become pushier. “They have been pushing leaflets on to people’s hands. One person insisted on giving me a leaflet and I said it was reckless not to encourage people to wear masks.”

“People have been gathering more and more [since the start of the pandemic] … They were holding rallies on Saturday afternoon in the market square and upsetting the market traders.”

The local council has even struggled to pedestrianise a part of the high street due to a backlash from those who believe the pandemic is a hoax.

Peter Shearn, the editor of Totnes Pulse, a community not-for-profit magazine, said: “There is a Facebook group for locals and it has become very aggressive and bitey, with people arguing. What has happened is people who were behind QAnon narratives [a global movement claiming there is a secret satanic network of child-abusing politicians and celebrities] hold hands with the very far left. It’s sort of gone full circle.”

One person who does not believe in wearing masks is Steve, who works as a psychotherapist. “Masks are used to maintain fear as it is obviously not a pandemic,” he says.

“When you break the statistics down … the average age of death from the virus is over life expectancy. Mental health suffers, the economy is destroyed and we know what happens with economic downturns: people die.”

A distrust of the scientific and governmental consensus on the pandemic can be seen nationally. A May study, funded by Oxford Health BRC, showed 60% of adults believe to some extent that the government was misleading the public about the cause of the virus. “We’re not just battling the virus,” said the WHO director-general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, in August. “We’re also battling the trolls and conspiracy theorists that push misinformation and undermine the outbreak response.”

Earlier in the summer, residents of Totnes and others in the South Hams area, the district the town is in, reported having leaflets dropped through their doors promoting the idea that mask-wearing was detrimental to health. They argued that wearing masks was linked to too much carbon dioxide in the blood and a weakened immune system.

Carole Boulanger, a consultant nurse from Royal Devon and Exeter NHS foundation trust, said that coronavirus was a “serious illness” that “people need to take seriously”.

“There are people who think it’s manufactured and there is some big plot, but we have Covid-19 in the area, in the country and in the world. It is causing a lot of illness and mortality for the population,” she added.

While the south-west has the lowest proportion of deaths of any area of England, infection rates have been rising in Devon since September, with 736 new cases between 1 and 7 November. There have been 5,935 cases in total.

Boulanger said that there was frustration in the south-west because infection numbers were low, and people working in the area’s vast tourist industry had experienced a huge hit to businesses. However, she added there should also be caution due to the high number of older people in the area who are at risk from the virus.

She said that there was also limited capacity in hospitals and the area would need to deal with normal winter pressures, as well as the virus this year, which meant people should take it seriously.

“Most people I am in contact with have either got it or had it … or their relatives are in the intensive care unit with it. That is a poignant way of appreciating that this illness is fact and not a hoax.”





No.30 article:
New species of primate identified in Myanmar – and is already endangered

Popa Langur, numbering only 200-250 in the wild and at risk of extinction, was genetically identified from London museum sample

In a rare find, scientists have identified a new species of primate, a lithe tree-dweller living in the forests of central Myanmar with a mask-like face framed by a shock of unruly grey hair.

The Popa langur – named for an extinct volcano home to its largest population, some 100 individuals – has been around for at least a million years, according to a study detailing the find, published on Wednesday in Zoological Research.

But with only 200 to 250 left in the wild today, experts will recommend that the leaf-eating species be classified as critically endangered.

“Just described, the Popa langur is already facing extinction,” said senior author Frank Momberg, a researcher at Fauna &amp; Flora International (FFI) in Yangon.

Throughout its range the lithe monkey with chalk-white rings around its eyes was threatened by hunting and habitat loss, he said.

The first evidence of the new species was found not in the wild but the backrooms of the London Natural History Museum where genetic analysis revealed that specimens gathered more than a century ago when Myanmar was a British possession called Burma were something new.

Samples of Popa bones collected by Momberg and his colleagues in the forest matched those from the museum and showed that the previously unknown langur was still roaming the wild.

The reclusive monkeys were finally captured on film in 2018, revealing their distinctive fur colouration and markings.

Trachypithecus popa, or T popa for short, has a grey-brownish and white belly, with black hands and wrists that look a bit like gloves.

Its agile tail – at nearly a metre – is longer than its body, with the creature weighing about 8kg.

“Additional field surveys and protection measures are urgently required and will be conducted by FFI and others to save the langurs from extinction,” said Ngwe Lwin, a primatologist with FFI’s Myanmar programme.

Scientists at the German Primate Centre in Goettingen, Germany co-led the research.

There are more than 20 species of langur in the world, several of them critically endangered.

The best known among them is the grey or Hanuman langur, named for the wandering monkey god prominent in the Hindu epic Ramayana.

At least two dozen primates have been discovered since the beginning of the century, many through genetic analysis revealing that species similar in appearance were in fact distinct.

Primates are divided into two suborders. Strepsirrhines, from the Greek for twisted nose, includes lemurs and lorisids. The second suborder, haplorhines, or “dry-nosed” primates, includes the tarsier, apes and langurs.

There are more than 20 critically endangered species of primate in the world today.

• This article was amended on 11 November 2020 to correct the misnaming of Fauna &amp; Flora International (FFI) and because an earlier version referred to samples of Popa “faeces” being collected by FFI; in fact it was samples of bones.





No.31 article:
Covid: care home called police after woman sneaked in to see husband

Patricia Hodges, 75, wanted to move Graham, 83, to another home after being denied visits 

A care home called the police when a woman who had been denied visits to her 83-year-old husband for eight months amid the Covid pandemic sneaked in to get him out.

Patricia Hodges, 75, used to visit her husband, Graham, daily at Wayside House in Bromsgrove, where he was being cared for with Lewy Body dementia. But her anguish at being prevented from seeing him from March to October, and a row over fees, sparked an attempt to move him to another home, she said.

The incident on 28 October followed a dispute between the Hodges and the care home, which began with requests for visits being denied. It ended with the home’s owner being accused of “holding” Graham Hodges over missing fees, which the home strongly denies.

Wayside House granted Patricia a visit the day before she tried to enter the home – the first in 221 days. By then the family had booked a new home and they were fearful of further isolation in the second wave of the pandemic.

The dispute highlights a dilemma facing care homes being asked to balance infection control with the mental health of residents and their families.

Last week a woman was arrested when she tried to release her mother from a care home in Humberside which had also stopped normal visiting. MPs are set to debate the issue in parliament on Wednesday.

“I rang the doorbell and I wasn’t going to be let in,” said Patricia, describing how a handyman had left a side door open and she entered to get her husband out. She was confronted by the care home owner, Rakesh Kotecha, who warned she was a Covid risk and subsequently called the police. Officers eventually asked her to leave the building where she was staging an impromptu sit-in.

In the car park, the Hodges argued to police that the home was exceeding its rights. Officers spoke by phone to social services and other professionals, who said there was no reason not to let Graham leave. He was finally allowed to move the next day.

“When Graham came out to get into the wheelchair taxi, he let out a loud cheer and then started weeping when he saw Bethan [his daughter] and the grandchildren and told them he loved them all and would be able to give them a kiss now,” said Patricia.

Kotecha said staff and residents could not be put at risk for one family to be able to visit, and that strict visiting restrictions and policies were needed to keep the home Covid-free.

“Of course we would love to have families visiting,” he said. “In the pre-Covid world we had no restriction on visiting hours at all.” He added that the home has now started allowing visits in a specially prepared room.

In June, Gethin Hodges, the resident’s son, had asked for a five-minute visit for his mother. He wrote: “My father is very frail and I don’t believe he will have many months ahead of him and it may well be the last chance my mum gets to see him.”

The home replied that only end-of-life visits would be possible and offered to facilitate video calls. It said: “Our concern is that if there is a second pandemic that by reopening our doors too soon, [we] might allow the virus into the home.”

The dispute developed when the Hodges declined to pay a 20% fee increase which the home said was to reflect increased costs from Covid such as for PPE.

In August, increasingly concerned about Graham’s wellbeing without visitors, the family gave the home a month’s notice. Kotecha said he wouldn’t allow an assessment of the resident’s health to be made by the new home because of £12,000 in owed fees. But he denied the family’s claim he was trying to “hold” Graham until he received payment.

He told the family: “It is the norm in the sector that another provider would not take a resident who has outstanding fees, as the new provider would not want to end up in the same position.”

Kotecha said the money “was not an issue as the care and safety for our residents is first and foremost … A move from his home was not going to be in his best interest as his health may well deteriorate”.

A fortnight later, Kotecha informed the family their August notice had “expired” and the home needed a new notice period to consider moving Graham. The family said it provided this on 1 October but Kotecha said he never received it. In late October, when the family said they were coming to collect him, the home said it still needed a period of notice.

“We had written to the family on several occasions asking them to provide a rolling notice which would have taken care of this issue,” Kotecha said. “They failed to do so. They were sent a reminder on 6 October that if they still wished to move [their] dad then they needed to provide a notice, which there was no response to.”

The family said it consulted Worcestershire county council social services and a solicitor who advised that the home had no rights to hold him, if it was doing so. Graham has now moved into a new home and is in a period of isolation before visits can begin.





No.32 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Mass testing will be carried out on campus before students will be allowed to leave between 3 and 9 December

Students in England will be given a six-day window next month in which to travel home before Christmas, with mass testing carried out on campus before they are allowed to leave.

A mass exodus will take place on staggered departure dates set by universities from 3 December to 9 December after England’s four-week lockdown, under plans announced by the Department for Education (DfE)on Tuesday night. Students testing positive would need to remain in self-isolation for 10 days.

In a major shift, the government said it would also instruct universities to then move learning online by 9 December so that students can have the option of returning home to study from there. It is not known what the plan is for after the Christmas period though a DfE spokesperson said details would be published “in due course”.

But concerns among university staff and students were immediately sparked by the plans for what the government said would be known as the “student travel window” as universities sought assurances on funding and protections from being sued before committing to plans for a mass testing scheme on campuses.

Dr Tim Bradshaw, chief executive of the Russell Group of universities, said the mandatory cut-off date for in-person teaching to deliver a “student travel window” would create practical challenges for universities, and called for clear guidance on a return to campus plan for the new year.

The testing could begin as early as 30 November under plans detailed in a letter from the universities minister, Michelle Donelan, who invited vice-chancellors to register their interest by the end of the week.

The plan envisages a week of testing between 30 November and 6 December, ending a few days after the lockdown in England is due to finish. Attempts are also being made to ensure the planning would be coordinated across the UK, with civil servants in Scotland holding discussions on Tuesday with universities there.

But university authorities are seeking clarity in a number of areas including how they would avoid being left open to the possibility of legal claims.

Among vice-chancellors there was widespread concern about the practicality of the arrangements and the logistics of mass testing of students.

One said he had been told it would take 40-50 full-time equivalent staff – if not more – to carry out the tests. Another said he was looking at using furloughed catering staff to do testing, but questions remained about space, cost and kit required, and what the plan might be for January.

Durham University is already running a pilot project for rapid Covid-19 testing - including identifying those who might be infectious but have no symptoms. The lateral flow tests (LFT), which delivers results in just 30 minutes, uses a nose and throat swab and they are self-administered.

So far, several hundred staff and students at two of Durham’s colleges have taken part in the voluntary pilot. The university is now exploring whether it is feasible to roll out mass testing across the whole institution before Christmas.

Sir David Bell, vice-chancellor and chief executive of the University of Sunderland, said infection rates had declined in universities, which reduced risks but warned that there was not much time. “Universities have worked successfully with councils and local public health authorities to manage the impact of the virus,” he said.

“Any arrangements that central government proposes must be capable of implementation and so there is a need for urgent discussions with local partners before we can decide what will work. Time is short and universities are being asked to make decisions at breakneck speed which we are capable of doing, provided they are in the best interests of our students.”

Under the testing plans, as understood by universities, preparations at testing sites would begin as early as next week while the test kits capable of giving results within an hour would be provided free of charge to universities. It follows pilot schemes at Durham and De Montfort Universities.

Meanwhile, around 65,000 students at Scottish universities, including thousands studying there from other parts of the UK, are expected to be asked to take two negative Covid-19 tests five days apart. Their testing dates and return home will be staggered to avoid a mass exodus.

The BBC reported only those testing negative twice in succession will be able to travel home immediately, under plans due to be unveiled later on Wednesday by Richard Lochhead, the Scottish universities minister.

The DfE said universities were expected to make plans to ensure students could travel home safely at the end of term, working with local public health officials and transport operators.

Universities UK, which speaks for 140 universities in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, said the government must now urgently turn its attention to working with the sector.

“With universities being asked to end in-person learning by 9 December, some students will now miss out on timetabled placements, practical classes and other in-person teaching near the end of term. Universities will need to work with students and government to manage the challenges this creates,” said a spokesperson.

Announcing the plans, Donelan said: “We know this Christmas will feel different, and following this incredibly difficult year we are delivering on our commitment to get students back to their loved ones as safely as possible for the holidays.

“We have worked really hard to find a way to do this for students, while limiting the risk of transmission. Now it is vital they follow these measures to protect their families and communities, and for universities to make sure students have all the wellbeing support they need, especially those who stay on campus over the break.”

callout-coronavirus

The Independent Sage committee of experts had warned in a report last week that without careful planning there were likely to be two new Covid-19 outbreaks as students travelled between towns and cities in the UK and internationally to go home for the Christmas break and to return again in the new year.

If possible, it recommended that students should self-isolate and/or be tested – ideally twice – before returning home, as well as when at home. Testing capacity must be increased to enable this to happen, it said.

A union representing academics and support staff said that the plans were welcome but were “riddled with holes”

Jo Grady, the general secretary of the University and College Union, said: “Allowing just a week for around 1 million students to travel across the country leaves little room for error. If the government instead told universities to move online now it would provide much more time to stagger the movement of students and better protect the health of staff, students and their wider communities.”





No.33 article:
Heavily subsidised domestic tourism campaign and colder weather being blamed for rise in cases

Officials in Japan have warned of an impending third wave of coronavirus infections amid a rise in cases blamed on colder weather and a government campaign to encourage domestic tourism.

As the prime minister, Yoshihide Suga, vowed to secure enough vaccines to cover Japan’s entire population, the number of daily cases continued to rise after several weeks of staying relatively stable.

Japan reported 1,284 new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, bringing its total to 111,222 according to a Kyodo news agency tally based on official data. The death toll stood at 1,864.

While Japan has avoided the large number of cases and deaths seen in the UK, US and other countries – with widespread mask wearing often cited as a factor – the decision to press ahead with a heavily subsidised tourism campaign in July appears to have contributed to a new wave of infections.

Cases are not only rising in Tokyo – the epicentre of Japan’s outbreak with more than 33,000 cases – but also in prefectures with large urban populations such as Osaka, Kanagawa and Aichi, whose governor, Hideaki Omura, said last week: “Effectively the third wave has arrived.”

Hokkaido, Japan’s northernmost main island, succeeded in containing a large outbreak after declaring a state of emergency in February, but this week saw daily cases rise above 200 for the first time since the start of the pandemic. Most of the island’s cases have been traced to Sapporo, its biggest city and home to a large nightlife economy.

Total infections in Hokkaido have reached 4,364 with health experts blaming cold weather for driving more people into poorly ventilated buildings and a rise in tourist numbers.

In response, hostess and host bars and clubs have been asked to close between 10pm and 5am and restaurants to stop serving alcohol after 10pm. “I don’t think Hokkaido is the only place that needs countermeasures to cope with lower temperatures and changes in the environment,” Kyodo quoted Hokkaido’s governor, Naomichi Suzuki, as saying.

Japan’s response since the beginning of the pandemic has emphasised mask-wearing and the need to avoid the “three Cs”: closed spaces, crowded places and close-contact settings – precautions that are harder to take in cold weather.

A government panel of experts has called for new measures to see Japan through the winter, warning that inaction could see a rapid rise in cases.

Speaking last week after the number of nationwide cases topped 1,000 for the first time in more than two months, Suga told senior party figures: “We need to deal with the situation with maximum vigilance.”

The chief cabinet secretary, Katsunobu Kato, raised the possibility that Hokkaido could be removed from Go To Travel, a ¥1.7tn (US$16bn) campaign that provides generous food, travel and accommodation subsidies for domestic tourists in an attempt to boost the world’s third-biggest economy.

But he was later contradicted by Suga, who said: “We’re monitoring the situation and we will carry out the campaign, taking into account the views of experts. Currently there are no plans to exclude Hokkaido from the programme.”

The campaign was launched in the early summer – initially without Tokyo’s involvement – despite warnings that a significant increase in domestic travel could spread the virus to parts of the country that had been relatively unaffected.

Kentaro Iwata, a specialist in infectious diseases at Kobe University hospital, speculated that the recent rise in infections was “a combination of the Go To campaign, complacency among people and politicians, with the additional potential factor of lower temperatures”.

“We need to be determined in lowering the infection rate,” Iwata told the Guardian, adding that he expected a rise in serious cases to “come later”.

“Sporadic measures will only prolong the problem. Decreasing opportunities to get infected is the simplest way to lower the number of cases, so politicians need to offer direct [financial] support to people who need it, not a travel campaign that is helping to spread the disease.”





No.34 article:
Wednesday briefing: Biden to Trump – you're embarrassing US

Johnson phones president-elect but tweet contains hidden gaffe … uni students given Covid escape window … Spears lawyers fail to free Britney

by  Warren Murray

Hello, I’m Warren Murray, and when it comes to news reporting we only stock the best – here are today’s offerings.

Joe Biden has said Donald Trump is “an embarrassment” for refusing to concede the election. The president-elect has vowed to move forward with the transition despite Trump lawsuits, Republican obstruction and attempts to mount a blockade of the mechanisms of the presidential succession. The General Services Administration run by a Trump appointee has yet to recognise Biden as the president-elect. Until the decision is made Biden’s staff cannot meet with their counterparts in the White House and other federal agencies, begin background checks for potential appointees or receive security briefings. But Biden said: “We don’t see anything slowing us down, quite frankly.”

Mike Pompeo, Donald Trump’s secretary of state – America’s most senior diplomat – has given a bizarre press conference in which he pretended Donald Trump had not been defeated, instead foreshadowing a “smooth transition to a second Trump administration”. Boris Johnson has phoned Biden with congratulations on becoming president-elect – but the PM’s congratulatory message on Twitter accidentally contained hidden text congratulating Trump instead.

A mail worker who made voter fraud claims that were seized upon by Republicans is understood to have admitted he was lying after being interviewed by US Postal Service investigators. Meanwhile supreme court proceedings have begun to determine the future of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, which the Trump administration is trying to have struck down. Two conservative judges have indicated that while parts of the healthcare regime may be unconstitutional, those parts are “severable” and can be removed while leaving the rest of it in place.

Coronavirus latest – University students in England will be given a six-day window next month in which to travel home before Christmas, with mass testing carried out on campus beforehand. They will leave on staggered departure dates from 3 December to 9 December under plans just announced by the Department for Education (DfE). Students testing positive would need to self-isolate for 10 days. It has emerged that a care home called police when a woman denied visits to her 83-year-old husband for eight months sneaked in to get him out. After discussions involving police and health officials he was allowed to be taken out the next day. The case highlights the dilemma that coronavirus precautions pose for care homes and families, which MPs are due to debate in parliament today. The US has recorded its seventh straight day of 100,000 new cases. More coronavirus updates from around the world at our live blog.

Midweek catch-up

&gt; China has passed laws to force pro-democracy lawmakers out of Hong Kong’s legislative council, effectively ripping up the “one country, two systems” model. As soon as the laws passed, the Hong Kong government expelled the Civic Party’s Alvin Yeung Ngok-kiu, Kwok Ka-ki and Dennis Kwok as well as Kenneth Leung of the Professionals Guild.

&gt; Downing Street is planning a total ban of online junk food advertising. It would cover foods deemed too fatty, salty or sugary but there are concerns it might affect not only traditional “junk food” but things like avocados, jam and cream. It would be the strictest such regime in the world and has shocked the UK ad industry.

&gt; An inquiry has raised serious concerns that the distribution of a £3.6bn towns fund for deprived areas was politically biased. The communities secretary, Robert Jenrick, has denied any role in selecting his constituency, Newark, for a £25m grant despite boasting about it during the general election.

&gt; In the Diana interview scandal, the graphic designer who says he mocked up bank statements for Martin Bashir has asked for an apology from the BBC. Matt Wiessler says he was secretly banned by the BBC and his career suffered after fakes he prepared innocently as props were used as leverage to obtain the interview.

&gt; A child from an ethnic minority background is far more likely to encounter an animal main character when reading a book than a character of their own ethnicity, an analysis has found. The number of books featuring Bame characters has reached 10% – up from 4% in 2017 but still low considering a third of primary-aged children are from Bame backgrounds.

‘Fierce desire to protect her’ – Lawyers for Britney Spears have failed in rare public court proceedings to have her father removed as trustee or “conservator” of her life and career. Judge Brenda Penny declined to suspend James Spears from the role he has held since 2008 when Britney was struggling with her mental health.

Britney Spears’s attorney, Samuel D Ingham, told the Los Angeles hearing: “My client has informed me that she is afraid of her father. She will not perform again if her father is in charge of her career.” James Spears’s attorney said he had a perfect record as his daughter’s conservator, which had seen her net worth go from debt to well over $60m, and he was motivated by “a fierce desire to protect her from those trying to take advantage of her”. The judge ordered that as requested by Britney a corporate fiduciary, the Bessemer Trust, would be added as co-conservator over her estate.

Power to ban foreign buyouts – Ministers are seeking sweeping powers to block takeovers by Chinese and other foreign companies on national security grounds. A bill is due to be published today that would let ministers retrospectively halt acquisitions up to five years after a deal is concluded. Some Conservative backbenchers want amendments to prevent takeovers on human rights grounds as well. Nils Pratley, the Guardian’s finance editor, writes that even before Huawei and 5G, the mood had cooled towards Chinese investment in Britain’s infrastructure, and nuclear power is one area where the effects will be felt: “The extreme laissez-faire approach has had its day.”

Biden brings climate cheer – Preparations for the next vital UN summit on the climate, one of the last chances to set the world on track to meet the Paris agreement, have been given a boost by the election of Joe Biden as US president. In the last few weeks China, the EU, Japan and others have committed to long-term targets on greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris climate agreement, which Biden has vowed the US will rejoin once Donald Trump is gone. The UN Cop26 summit, intended for this year before Covid happened, is to be held in 2021 in Glasgow. Jonathan Watts lists some of the obstacles to a global green recovery that will remain even in the post-Trump era, from China’s funding of dirty industries to big carbon’s lobbying power in Europe and, in the UK, climate sceptics in Boris Johnson’s inner circle.

James Le Mesurier took his own life a year ago today. The Guardian’s Martin Chulov describes the immense pressure on the co-founder of the White Helmets, aka Syria Civil Defence, as he saw the humanitarian organisation he built slipping away from him.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/10-70602-20201111tifwhitehelmets2.mp3 

At the age of seven she flew to Birmingham from Saint Kitts on her own – and became the first globally successful female songwriter. As she wins the award she once gave to Margaret Thatcher, Joan Armatrading looks back over her life and career.

Greg Clarke has been forced to quit as FA chairman in ignominious circumstances after a series of offensive gaffes to MPs left the reputation of his organisation seriously damaged. Rory McIlroy says he is playing well in practice at Augusta but happy to have the spotlight on others going into the Masters. Tiger Woods has voiced deep admiration for the remarkable transformation of Bryson DeChambeau’s body and career, with the 15-times major champion insisting the 27-year-old has made strides unheard of in golf. The England defence coach, John Mitchell, has urged the players to draw inspiration from African wild dogs for Saturday’s Autumn Nations opener against Georgia.

Defending champions Mumbai Indians claimed their fifth Indian Premier League title after thrashing Delhi Capitals by five wickets in Tuesday’s final in Dubai. Mason Mount says that the comparisons between him and Jack Grealish are unfair. The Football Supporters’ Association has been at the centre of fan organisation in the men’s game for decades and is now working to help supporter groups in the women’s game. The West Indies cricket squad will be banned from training and confined to hotel rooms after CCTV captured multiple breaches of New Zealand quarantine rules. And the Pittsburgh Steelers’ pursuit of a perfect season has a new opponent after quarterback Ben Roethlisberger and three other teammates were added to the team’s reserve/Covid-19 list.

Shares have mostly been higher in Asia-Pacific trading, following the worldwide rally sparked by hopeful vaccine news. Benchmarks advanced in Tokyo, Seoul and Sydney but edged lower in Hong Kong and Shanghai, where new Chinese regulations focused on technology companies prompted selling. You can expect $1.326 or €1.121 for a pound while the FTSE is trending 0.1% lower ahead of the opening bell.

More bad news in the Guardian if you need to see a doctor about something other than coronavirus: “GP services will be cut to allow millions to receive Covid vaccine”. The front-page picture is the FA boss Greg Clarke who has had to resign after insensitive comments about the race, gender and sexuality of players. The Times has “NHS plans to vaccinate one million every week” and the Express says “NHS vow: we’ll get vaccine out by Christmas”. The i has “Vaccine challenge revealed”, as in the scale of it.

The Metro says “Don’t screw it up!”, reporting predictions by the coronavirus taskforce member Sir John Bell of an end to the pandemic by spring “provided [the government] don’t screw up the distribution of the vaccine”. The Telegraph says “Vaccine drive to get under way on Dec 1”.

Polls are on the nose after the US election but that doesn’t deter the Mail from reporting its own: “UK says yes to jab … but you go first Boris!” – a sentiment that does not seem to arise from concern for the PM’s health. The Mirror goes it alone with a big investigative number: “Drug dealers ‘work in care homes to recruit kids’”. The FT’s having a day off from Covid as well with a story we’ve also covered: “EU hits Amazon with competition charges on handling of sellers’ data”. And oh dear, a certain type of headline is being seasonally inflicted upon us: “Good Elf” says the Sun, referring to what a vaccine before Christmas means for recipients, and showing Boris Johnson in an elf costume grasping a giant syringe.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.35 article:
New species of extinct monk seal identified from fossils in New Zealand

Previously unknown animal - that has been named after a sea in Lord of the Rings - radically changes scientists’ understanding of how seals evolved

Fossils found in New Zealand have led to the discovery of a previously unidentified species of extinct monk seal, which biologists say is the biggest breakthrough in seal evolution in seven decades.

The animal – named Eomonachus belegaerensis – was named after a sea in JRR Tolkien’s the Lord of the Rings, and has radically changed scientists’ understanding of how seal species have evolved around the world.

Eomonachus belegaerensis lived in the waters around New Zealand some three million years ago, and was 2.5 metres in length and weighed around 200-250kg.

Monash University palaeontologist James Rule, a PhD candidate in the Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, worked with a team of Trans Tasman scientists on his paper.

“This new species of extinct monk seal is the first of its kind from the Southern Hemisphere. Its discovery really turns seal evolution on its head,” Rule said.

“Until now, we thought that all true seals originated in the northern hemisphere, and then crossed the equator just once or twice during their entire evolutionary history. Instead, many of them appear to have evolved in the southern Pacific, and then criss-crossed the equator up to eight times.”

The equator usually acts as a barrier for marine animals crossing, Rule said, as the waters are so warm, so the discovery that seals crossed numerous times over their evolutionary history is significant.

It was previously thought that all true seals originated in the north Atlantic, with some later crossing the equator to live as far south as Antarctica.

Eomonachus shows that many ancient seals, including the ancestors of today’s monk, elephant and Antarctic seals, actually evolved in the southern hemisphere.

Dr Felix Marx, Te Papa Museum of New Zealand’s curator of marine mammals, said the discovery was a triumph for citizen science, as the fossils studied by the Monash team were collected by beach-goers in Taranaki between the years 2009-2016.

“This new species has been discovered thanks to numerous, exceptionally well-preserved fossils – all of which were found by members of the public,” Marx said.

“New Zealand is incredibly rich in fossils, and so far we have barely scratched the surface.”

Rule says now ancient monk seals have been discovered in New Zealand, it makes the research possibilities for all of the south Pacific much more urgent.

Traditionally the southern hemisphere is under-researched compared to the northern hemisphere, Rule said.

“I would like to see if there’s any monk seals to be found in Australia. Also, now that New Zealand has produced a monk seals I want to look for other seals [in NZ] that would be completely unexpected.”





No.36 article:
The country recorded a seventh consecutive day of more than 100,000 new cases, and one of the public health advisers recruited to president-elect Joe Biden’s transition team warned that those case numbers could double in the coming weeks under the leadership of Donald Trump.

Monday saw the US surpass 10m total cases – the highest number in the world, by far – and reach a death toll of 238,256. There were 111,433 new cases on Monday and 590 new deaths, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University.

Hospitalisations have risen to nearly 62,000 nationwide, according to the Covid Tracking Project, which saw the biggest single-day increase since 10 July. It found South Dakota had the highest hospitalisation rates in the US and said Illinois had reported more than 10,000 cases for four days straight.

In California, cases are at their highest levels in months. On Tuesday, the state announced several counties would revert back to more restrictive reopening rules as a result.

Biden has already warned the US is “facing a very dark winter” and that even with Pfizer’s announcement that it has a vaccine it believes is 90% effective, 200,000 more lives could be lost in the US in the next few months.

Alex Azar, secretary of health and human services, said on Tuesday the federal government will have enough of the vaccine by the end of December “to have vaccinated our most vulnerable citizens”. By the end of January, he told NBC, there will be enough for all healthcare workers and first responders, with March or early April targeted for a general vaccination programme.

Experts say cases could rise exponentially in the coming weeks. Michael Osterholm, director of the Centre for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota and a member of Biden’s Covid-19 advisory board, told CNN daily cases could soon double.

“We are watching cases increase substantially in this country far beyond, I think, what most people ever thought could happen,” he said, adding: “It will not surprise me if in the next weeks we see over 200,000 new cases a day.”

On Tuesday, Donald Trump tweeted purported quotes from a Fox Business journalist and his former White House doctor turned congressman-elect, Ronny Jackson, crediting the president with the possible arrival of a vaccine. He also retweeted a post describing Biden as an “ambulance chaser”.

Pfizer senior vice-president Kathrin Jansen told the New York Times the company did not participate in the government’s Operation Warp Speed or take any of its money.

The Food and Drug Administration said it had issued an emergency use authorisation for Eli Lilly’s monoclonal antibody therapy, called bamlanivimab, to treat mild to moderate cases in adults and children over 12.

On Tuesday, Osterholm told CBS a “perfect storm” was forming and that hospitals were “about to be overrun”.

“We’re going to see by far the darkest days of this pandemic between now and next spring when the vaccine becomes available,” he told CBS.

Top US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci told MSNBC he expects the FDA will probably put in for an emergency use authorisation of the Pfizer vaccine in the next week to week and a half. Providing it goes through, he said, doses should be available for highest-priority people in December.

Asked if he would take the vaccine if it was approved by the FDA, he said he would.

“I’m going to look at the data, but I trust Pfizer. I trust the FDA,” Fauci said. “These are colleagues of mine for decades, the career scientists. If they look at this data, and they say this data is solid, let’s go ahead and approve it, I promise you, I will take the vaccine, and I will recommend that my family take the vaccine.”

He also reiterated the importance of wearing a mask, saying: “You protect others. Their mask protects you, and your mask also protects you.”

Public health officials believe the federal government has not done enough to encourage Americans to take a vaccine or prepare them for what to expect.

“This needed to happen ‘yesterday’,” Daniel Salmon, director of the Institute for Vaccine Safety at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, told USA Today. “It’s like watching a train wreck happen.”

Across the US, states are struggling. In El Paso, Texas, officials have six mobile morgues and have requested four more, CNN reported. The state was approaching 1m infections. In Ohio the chief medical officer, Dr Bruce Vanderhoff, warned of an “unprecedented spike” in hospital use and a growing demand on staff.

“If we don’t control the spread of this virus, we won’t be able to care for those who are acutely ill without postponing important, but less urgent, care,” he said. “We anticipate that this kind of shift could happen in a matter of weeks if trends don’t change.”

In Utah, the governor Gary Herbert, warned of a “dire situation” in hospitals, declared a state of emergency, issued a mask mandate and restricted social gatherings.

“This is a sacrifice for all of us,” he said. “But as we slow the spread it will make all the difference for our overworked healthcare workers, who desperately need our help.”

Meanwhile, 28 employees of the election board in one of Missouri’s largest counties, Jackson, have tested positive for the coronavirus in recent weeks, and a director, Tammy Brown, a Republican, believes they got infected from voters.

Agencies contributed reporting





No.37 article:
Family doctors will be redeployed to more than 1,200 new seven-day-a-week clinics

GP services will be cut back well into 2021 so family doctors can immunise millions of people against coronavirus at new seven-day-a-week clinics, NHS England has said.

Health leaders warned that surgeries will not be able to offer their full range of care for patients from next month as doctors and nurses will be immersed in administering jabs at more than 1,200 mass vaccination centres across England, potentially including sports halls, conference centres and open air venues.

It came as Britain reported 532 new deaths within 28 days of a positive Covid-19 test on Tuesday, the highest daily figure since May. Some 20,412 people tested positive for Covid-19, down slightly from the previous day.

While Covid vaccinations are seen as crucial for allowing a gradual return to normality, there are growing concerns about pressure on an already stretched NHS and the toll on patients after much normal care was suspended during the first wave of the pandemic.

The Department of Health and Social Care has asked the NHS to be ready to deliver the vaccines by 1 December, but the Guardian understands it is unlikely any programme will be ready to roll out by then.

New research by the Health Foundation, published today, found that 4.7 million fewer people in England than usual were referred for a hip or knee replacement or cataract removal between January and August this year, with services closed and patients reluctant to attend hospital.

On Monday the first potential Covid-19 vaccine yielded promising interim results, with global trials showing 90% effectiveness. Britain has bought 40m doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, enough to immunise 20m people with two doses each, and hopes to begin rolling them out to the elderly and health care and care home workers within weeks.

NHS England has agreed with the British Medical Association that family doctors will play the lead role in a vaccination drive of a scale and complexity unprecedented in the NHS’s 73-year history, described by the health secretary, Matt Hancock, as a “mammoth logistical operation”.

In a letter to GP leaders confirming the deal, NHS chiefs accept that GP surgeries cannot operate as usual while their doctors are engaged in the immunisation effort. “We also recognise that the additional workload of a Covid-19 vaccination programme may require practices to prioritise clinical activity,” wrote Dr Nikki Kanani, NHS England’s medical director for primary care.

GPs will open at least 1,260 mass vaccination centres across England, 12 hours a day, seven days a week. They will be paid £12.58 each time they or a practice nurse administers one of the two doses every recipient will be expected to have, several weeks apart, of whichever vaccines have been approved by European and British medicines regulators – hoped to include the Pfizer/BioNTech candidate. At least 975 people a week will have one dose at every site.

Hancock announced on Tuesday that primary care services are to be given £150m to help them hire more GPs and expand the help they give patients affected by the disease, including those suffering from “long Covid”. It is unknown how much on top of that GPs will receive for dispensing Covid jabs.

However, doctors’ leaders voiced concern that the NHS does not have enough staff or infrastructure, such as freezers to store vaccines and lorries to transport them, and could become embroiled in the sort of “desperate scramble” for kit seen in the spring with personal protective equipment (PPE) and ventilators.

The head of the Royal College of GPs told the Guardian that widespread shortages of family doctors and the existing strain on surgeries meant hospital doctors would also have to help out.

Under new laws announced by the government, a wider range of healthcare workers – including midwives, paramedics, physiotherapists and pharmacists – are to be allowed to give flu and potentially Covid-19 vaccines.

“The workload and resource pressures that were facing general practice before the pandemic still exist, and they need to be addressed. GPs and our teams won’t be able to deliver this programme alone,” said Prof Martin Marshall, the chair of the college.

“We will need the support of other healthcare professionals in the community, and potentially from secondary [hospital] care colleagues, such as those delivering outpatient services.”

GPs also need “clarity on what work we should stop doing in order to create capacity to deliver the Covid vaccination programme”, he added.

Dr Nick Scriven, a past president of the Society of Acute Medicine, which represents hospital doctors, said NHS bosses and ministers will have to overcome “a series of challenges” to ensure the vaccine rollout succeeds.

“This is very complex stuff. Two jabs, three weeks apart, with people having to recover somewhere for 15 minutes after they have it – that is far more complex than administering the winter flu jab.

“This is an unprecedented undertaking for the NHS and the country. The NHS doesn’t have the kit and logistics to do this today. But it will be able to do it with enough notice. The sheer logistics may mean that the rollout of the vaccine takes longer than people imagine and expect. Perhaps that’s why Boris Johnson on Monday was urging people not to get too carried away.”

Ruth Rankine, director of the Primary Care Network at the NHS Confederation, said patients having less access to GP care because of the immunisation initiative was unavoidable. “Delivery of a vaccination programme on this scale from scratch means business as usual is not feasible, so public expectations will need to be managed at a national level.”

However, a senior Whitehall official said getting the vaccine to where it is needed should not pose problems because NHS England has spent months arranging cold storage transport vehicles. “That stuff definitely is happening,” the source said.

Richard Wilding, a professor of supply chain strategy at Cranfield University, said the NHS would need to acquire significant amounts of dry ice to to store and transport vaccines, as well as specialist containers of sufficiently low temperature. It would also need plentiful supplies of freezers, syringes, needles and PPE for those administering them, he added.

The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) has put NHS England in charge of overseeing delivery of the vaccine, which will be expanded next year to the rest of the population. That means that, unlike the sourcing of PPE and ventilators when the pandemic hit, NHS England is responsible for ensuring the drive has enough resources. It is due to publish its deployment plan next week.

A DHSC spokesperson said: “The NHS has vast experience delivering widespread vaccination programmes and an enormous amount of planning has taken place to ensure our health service stands ready to roll out a Covid-19 vaccine.

“This includes putting in place logistical expertise, transport, PPE and an expanded workforce to ensure we can deploy vaccines rapidly once they have met robust standards on safety and effectiveness and been approved by the medicines regulator.”

On Wednesday the European commission will formally authorise for EU member states the purchase of 300m doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine.







