No.1 article:
‘More People May Die’ Because of Trump’s Transition Delay, Biden Says

Adopting a graver tone, the president-elect said that President Trump’s refusal to authorize a transition could have deadly consequences.

WILMINGTON, Del. — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Monday sharpened his criticism of President Trump’s refusal to cooperate in an orderly transition, warning that “more people may die” from the coronavirus if the president does not agree to coordinate planning for the mass distribution of a vaccine when it becomes available.

It was a marked shift in tone for the president-elect, intended to pressure Mr. Trump after Mr. Biden and his team had played down the difficulty of setting up a new government without the departing administration’s help. The new criticism came as the White House national security adviser all but conceded that Mr. Biden would be inaugurated and acknowledged the importance of a smooth federal handoff.

“The vaccine is important. But it’s of no use until you’re vaccinated,” Mr. Biden said, pledging to work with Republicans to defeat the virus and spur an economic revival when he takes office. But he said the logistics of distributing vaccines to hundreds of millions of Americans were a vast challenge. “It’s a huge, huge, huge undertaking,” he said.

“If we have to wait until Jan. 20 to start that planning, it puts us behind,” Mr. Biden said. “More people may die if we don’t coordinate.”

Over the weekend, the president again refused to acknowledge Mr. Biden’s victory and on Monday morning tweeted, “I won the Election!” Without a concession from Mr. Trump, the official transition remains frozen — and could stay that way for months.

Mr. Biden made his comments at a news conference after he and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris had discussed reviving the economy at a virtual meeting with business and labor leaders, including Mary Barra, the chief executive of General Motors, and Satya Nadella, the head of Microsoft, as well as the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, Richard Trumka, and the United Auto Workers president, Rory Gamble.

“We all agreed that we want to get the economy back on track and get our workers back in the job by getting the virus under control,” Mr. Biden said. “We are going into a very dark winter. Things are going to get much tougher before they get easier. And that requires sparing no effort to fight Covid.”

Mr. Biden reaffirmed his support for a $3.4 trillion stimulus bill that House Democrats passed this year that Senate Republicans have rejected, though he offered no hint of a compromise that could break Congress’s monthslong deadlock.

But to do that, he said, will require new cooperation from Republicans, even those who have so far refused to publicly acknowledge Mr. Biden’s victory. Asked what he would say to members of the president’s party who have backed Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede, Mr. Biden said he would offer them an open hand.

“My message is: ‘I will work with you. I understand a lot of your reluctance because of the way the president operates,’” Mr. Biden said, adding that such conversations may not take place until Mr. Trump and his advisers have left office. “That’s a shame, but maybe that’s the only way to get it done.”

Mr. Biden praised the Republican governors of North Dakota, Ohio and Utah, who have each taken steps to lock down their states in response to the virus — and drawn attacks from Mr. Trump in the process. Monday morning, the president hinted in a tweet that he might support a primary challenge to one of them — Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio.

“Who will be running for Governor of the Great State of Ohio? Will be hotly contested!” Mr. Trump wrote.

Mr. Biden said during his remarks that he had “enormous respect” for the Republican governors, including Mr. DeWine, who have bucked a president of their own party to insist that people wear masks.

“It’s about being patriotic. It’s about saving lives for real. This is not hyperbole,” Mr. Biden said, adding, “There is nothing macho about not wearing a mask.”

By contrast, Mr. Biden was sharply critical of administration officials including Dr. Scott Atlas, the radiologist who has emerged as the president’s most trusted adviser on combating the virus. Dr. Atlas has mocked the idea of wearing masks and recently urged people to “rise up” in protest of tough new restrictions in Michigan and elsewhere that were put in place to slow the spread of the virus.

The president-elect said Dr. Atlas’s call for people to resist the restrictions went against the recommendations of health professionals across the country. “What are they doing?” Mr. Biden said. “It’s totally irresponsible.”

Mr. Biden also said that he would “set an example” for Americans who may be wary of getting vaccinated, saying that if promising vaccines continue to prove safe and effective, “I would take the vaccine.”

Mr. Biden blamed Mr. Trump for anxiety among some Americans about the safety of the vaccine. Polling has shown concern that Mr. Trump’s enthusiastic claims about the pace at which vaccines have progressed under his administration’s Operation Warp Speed initiative could reflect unsafe politicization of the scientific process.

“Look, the only reason people question the vaccine now is because of Donald Trump,” Mr. Biden said. “That’s the reason why people are questioning the vaccine, because of all the things he says and doesn’t say — is it truthful or not truthful, the exaggerations.”

Mr. Biden urged Americans to limit any Thanksgiving gatherings to groups of no more than 10 people, socially distanced and wearing masks, and after quarantining. He said his own family plans were uncertain.

But on the larger question of Mr. Trump’s claims to victory, Mr. Biden was almost dismissive.

“I find this more embarrassing for the country than debilitating for my ability to get started,” Mr. Biden said. Of Mr. Trump’s weekend tweeting, he added: “I interpret that as Trumpism. No change in his modus operandi.”

A spokesman for Mr. Trump called Mr. Biden’s comments about endangered lives from a delayed transition “irresponsible and not based on fact,” insisting that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has made its plan for distributing a vaccine publicly available.

The spokesman, Judd Deere, said the administration was prepared “to ship vaccine doses to every ZIP code in America” within 24 hours of approval by the Food and Drug Administration.

Mr. Biden’s comments came as governors across the country have begun issuing tough new restrictions on businesses, schools, bars and sports venues in an effort to slow the spread of the virus, prompting an increasingly aggressive backlash from Republicans, including some of Mr. Trump’s advisers.

In Michigan, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer’s decision to shut down casinos, movie theaters and indoor dining — and to halt in-person learning at high schools and colleges — for three weeks prompted Republican lawmakers to call for her impeachment. She said the remarks by Dr. Atlas were “irresponsible” and left her breathless.

Hours before Mr. Biden’s remarks, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, Robert C. O’Brien, went further than any other senior Trump official in a public forum when he said that Mr. Biden appeared to have won the election and pledged a smooth transition from his staff.

“Look, if the Biden-Harris ticket is determined to be the winner — and obviously things look that way now — we’ll have a very professional transition from the National Security Council,” Mr. O’Brien said.

Perhaps wary of the ire of a president who refuses to concede the obvious, however, even Mr. O’Brien spoke conditionally, falsely suggesting that the election’s outcome remains uncertain.

“If there is a new administration, they deserve some time to come in and implement their policies,” Mr. O’Brien said during a talk recorded last week and streamed on Monday as part of a conference hosted by the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

“And if we are in a situation where we are not going into a Trump second term, which I think people where I’m sitting in the White House would like to see, if it’s another outcome, it will be a professional transition — there’s no question about it,” he added.





No.2 article:
Tourism, Engine for N.Y.C. Economy, May Not Fully Recover Until 2025

A new forecast projects a rebound in visitors starting in mid-2021 and taking at least four years to return to pre-pandemic totals.

Double-decker sightseeing buses carried fewer than 10 passengers on runs around Manhattan on Monday. Big ferries arrived at the Statue of Liberty with their lower decks nearly empty. Some of the city’s largest hotels had few guests, while others were housing homeless men who had been cleared out of shelters to curb the spread of the virus.

The pandemic triggered a free-fall in tourism to New York City, one of the world’s most popular destinations. A new forecast predicts that the influx of tourists will not fully rebound for at least four years, a somber assessment that reflects one of the biggest challenges to the city’s recovery.

The surge in tourism in recent years has been a vital pillar of the city’s economy, supporting hundreds of thousands of workers across a range of industries, from hotels to restaurants to Broadway.

New York drew a record 66.6 million visitors in 2019 and was on pace for even more this year, according to the forecast released on Monday by the city’s tourism promotion agency, NYC &amp; Company. Now the city is likely to reach just one-third of last year’s total.

The collapse of tourism has been a key reason that New York’s economy has been hit harder than most other major American cities. Hundreds of restaurants, many of which rely on out-of-town visitors, and several large hotels have closed for good. Before the shutdown in March, the hospitality industry provided as many as 400,000 jobs and drew $46 billion in annual spending.

Seven months later, at the end of October, more than 1.3 million residents were collecting unemployment benefits: The city’s unemployment rate is 14.1 percent, more than double the national rate.

The challenge of luring visitors back to New York in significant numbers could become even greater with the virus surging again. The number of daily cases in the city has surpassed 1,000 for the first time since the spring.

Even when the pandemic ends, the return of international visitors, who stay longer and spend much more than domestic visitors, is likely to be sluggish. The number of foreign tourists in the city is not likely to return to its 2019 level before 2025, the forecast shows.

“It’s going to be a very slow build initially,” said Fred Dixon, the chief executive of NYC &amp; Company.

The revival depends on the distribution of an effective vaccine, Mr. Dixon said, which public health officials have said is not likely to happen until late spring or early summer. Until then, the flow of visitors will remain at a trickle, he said, auguring a difficult winter for many businesses.

The loss of tourism has been especially acute for less-educated workers, said James A. Parrott, director of economic and fiscal policy at the Center for New York Affairs. The hospitality industry added 130,000 jobs in 10 years before the pandemic, making it the largest employer of less-educated workers in the city, he said.

“The tourism boom in recent years meant that thousands of New Yorkers without a college degree saw substantial real pay increases,” he said. The predicted slow recovery “means New York City is likely to go without tens of thousands of jobs in hotels and restaurants that, before the pandemic, were providing steadily rising wages to New Yorkers without a college degree, 80 percent of whom are workers of color,” Mr. Parrott added.

Leisure and business travel skidded to a standstill in mid-March and has been on hold since then. NYC &amp; Company estimates that 12 million people visited the city this year before the shutdown, but the total in the ensuing nine months may only reach 10 million, a figure that includes all of the nurses and other essential workers who arrived in response to the coronavirus crisis.

More than 60 hotels have become temporary homes to roughly 9,500 homeless people who were moved out of crowded shelters to prevent the spread of the virus. The $120 a night per room the city pays hotels that have taken in homeless people has provided badly needed financial relief, though in certain neighborhoods the policy has been a source of contention.

The disappearance of visitors has ravaged business like TopView Sightseeing, which organizes bus tours of the city. Overall business has dropped more than 90 percent since before March, said Jonathan Hengal, senior director of sales and operations.

Before the pandemic, tours would hold more than 80 people — often reaching full capacity at 89. Now, 35 people might show up on the most crowded weekend days, while on a Monday afternoon numbers could fall below 10, Mr. Hengal said.

“It’s been devastating,” he said. “And we don’t know where this is going. Everything’s been incredibly uncertain.”

Statue Cruises, which ferries tourists to Liberty Island, has been carrying 8 to 15 percent of its pre-pandemic loads on weekdays, said Rafael Abreu, the company’s director of sales and marketing.

“It’s much worse than 9/11 or Hurricane Sandy,” Mr. Abreu said.

Still, there were some tourists to be found on Monday.

At Duffy Square at the northern edge of Times Square, Siria Hidalgo was taking photos with her boyfriend, Luis Miranda, 32. The couple had arrived in New York on Sunday from Puebla, Mexico. Ms. Hidalgo, 33, said the combination of low airfares and pleasant late autumn weather lured them to the city.

“We’re taking all the precautions, and we’re trying to be as safe as we can,” she said. “But once the weather gets colder and if things get even worse, it’s going to be even harder to travel. So we wanted to still come while we can.”

Talia Stewart, 31, held two bags from H&amp;M as she walked through Times Square. Ms. Stewart said she was visiting from Chicago for a friend’s 30th birthday. The celebration was initially envisioned as a night out at bars in Lower Manhattan, but instead, she and five others gathered on the rooftop of a friend’s apartment building to celebrate.

“We have no idea when we’re going to be able to see each other again,” Ms. Stewart said. “So we all got tested, we all kept masks on if we were close together, but it was important to not let the pandemic ruin everything for us.”

NYC &amp; Company counts all overnight guests and anybody who travels from more than 50 miles away as a visitor. After the shutdown, the agency abandoned its forecast for this year and beyond. Its new forecast calls for 38.2 million visitors in 2021, rising to 69 million by 2024.

But fewer than 5 million of those projected 2021 visitors will come from outside the country, the forecast predicts. And by 2024, that number will still not have returned to the 13.5 million international visitors the agency counted in 2018 and 2019.

The typical international visitor spends four times as much money during a visit as the typical domestic visitor does, Mr. Dixon said.

Given that the country’s borders have largely been closed since April, virtually all of those arriving in the city have been domestic visitors. In late summer, tourists began to dribble back, mostly for short weekend stays, Mr. Dixon said. But hotel industry officials said the quarantine restrictions that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo imposed on visitors from most states emptied out many rooms.

Mr. Dixon said he hoped his agency could accelerate the timeline for recovery with a coordinated promotional campaign once travel begins to pick up. Doing so will be onerous, though, because the agency has laid off nearly half of its staff of 140 employees and the city cut its funding twice this year.

The recovery will also be complicated by the dilemma businesses and performing-arts organizations will face in deciding whether to reopen to lure visitors or wait for them to reappear before starting up, he said.

Broadway has repeatedly extended the length of time it will remain closed. The earliest theaters are expected to open is May 30.

“Many look at Broadway as the dinner bell,” Mr. Dixon said. “As soon as that dinner bell rings, people are going to come far and wide.”





No.3 article:
Early Data Show Moderna’s Coronavirus Vaccine Is 94.5% Effective

Moderna is the second company to report preliminary results from a large trial testing a vaccine. But there are still months to go before it will be widely available to the public.

[Read more on Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine.]

The drugmaker Moderna announced on Monday that its coronavirus vaccine was 94.5 percent effective, joining Pfizer as a front-runner in the global race to contain a raging pandemic that has killed 1.2 million people worldwide.

Both companies plan to apply within weeks to the Food and Drug Administration for emergency authorization to begin vaccinating the public. Officials said the two companies could produce enough vaccine for a little more than 20 million people in the United States by sometime in December, with the first doses going to people with the highest risk, like health care workers, emergency medical workers and frail residents of nursing homes.

But a vaccine that would be widely available to the public is still months away, while the need for one is becoming increasingly urgent.

The pandemic has infected more than 53 million people around the world so far. U.S. cases are soaring, setting records every day. There have been more than 11 million cases and 246,000 deaths. Covid-19 is killing more than 1,100 Americans a day, and the last million cases occurred in just six days.

Some states and cities are reinstating lockdowns, restricting gatherings, issuing mask mandates, setting curfews for bars and restaurants, and closing schools once again. Hospitals in some areas are overwhelmed, scrambling to find enough beds for the severely ill. Major grocery chains like Kroger and Wegmans have begun reimposing limits on purchases of household supplies like paper towels and tissues.

Despite those sobering measures, the stock market rallied on Monday, fueled by Moderna’s news. But businesses and others braced for what could be a bleak holiday season with Covid’s grip on the nation’s citizens and its economy.

Public health officials greeted Moderna’s news with a modicum of excitement, especially when viewed alongside the data released last week by Pfizer, which, in collaboration with BioNTech, reported that its vaccine was more than 90 percent effective. The two companies were the first to announce interim data from large studies. Ten other vaccine makers are also conducting big Phase 3 trials, including efforts in Australia, Britain, China, India and Russia. More than 50 other candidates are in earlier stages of testing.

The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines far exceeded the Food and Drug Administration’s requirement that coronavirus vaccines be at least 50 percent effective to receive approval.

Moderna also reported on Monday that its vaccine had a longer shelf life under refrigeration and at room temperature than previously reported, which should make it easier to store and use.

Based in Cambridge, Mass., the company developed its vaccine in collaboration with researchers from the Vaccine Research Center, part of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the institute, said in an interview: “I had been saying I would be satisfied with a 75 percent effective vaccine. Aspirationally, you would like to see 90, 95 percent, but I wasn’t expecting it. I thought we’d be good, but 94.5 percent is very impressive.”

Researchers test vaccines by inoculating some study participants and giving others placebos, and then watching the two groups to see how many people get sick. In Moderna’s study, 95 people contracted the coronavirus: five who were vaccinated, and 90 who received placebo shots of saltwater. Statistically, the difference between the two groups was highly significant. And of the 95 cases, 11 were severe — all in the placebo group.

The 95 cases included 15 people 65 or older and 20 people who were Hispanic, Black, Asian or multiracial. The company said the vaccine appeared equally safe and effective in all the subgroups.

The results were analyzed by an independent data safety monitoring board, appointed by the National Institutes of Health.

At a news briefing on Monday, Dr. Fauci and Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, emphasized that the hopeful news did not mean people could let down their guard. On the contrary, they implored the public to “double down” on mask-wearing, social distancing, hand-washing and avoiding crowds, and to stay that course until vaccines become available.

That message was echoed by the head of the World Health Organization, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who said in a video, “A vaccine on its own will not end the pandemic.”

Stéphane Bancel, the chief executive of Moderna, said in a statement that the results had provided “the first clinical validation that our vaccine can prevent Covid-19 disease, including severe disease.”

Pfizer’s chief executive, Dr. Albert Boula, tweeted congratulations to Moderna.

But the companies announced the findings in news releases, not in peer-reviewed scientific journals, and did not disclose the detailed data that would allow outside experts to evaluate their claims. Therefore, the results cannot be considered conclusive. The figures on effectiveness may change as the studies continue.

The companies’ products open the door to an entirely new way of creating vaccines — and creating them fast. Both use a synthetic version of coronavirus genetic material, called messenger RNA or mRNA, to program a person’s cells to churn out many copies of a fragment of the virus. That fragment sets off alarms in the immune system and stimulates it to attack, should the real virus try to invade. Although a number of vaccines using this technology are in development for other infections and cancers, none have yet been approved or marketed.

“The fact that two different vaccines made by two different companies with two different kinds of structures, in a new messenger RNA concept, both worked so effectively confirms the concept once and for all that this is a viable strategy not only for Covid but for future infectious disease threats,” said Dr. Barry R. Bloom, a professor of public health at Harvard.

Natalie E. Dean, a biostatistician at the University of Florida, said an important finding was that the vaccine appeared to prevent severe forms of the disease. Pfizer did not release information about disease severity when reporting its results.

Researchers say the positive results from Pfizer and Moderna bode well for other vaccines, because all of the candidates being tested aim at the same target — the so-called spike protein on the coronavirus that it uses to invade human cells.

Dr. Bloom said that the success of the two vaccines meant that measures of immunity used in earlier phases of the studies — participants’ antibody levels — were reliable, and that other companies could use those measures as proof of effectiveness to shorten the testing and approval process for their vaccines.

It will be important to determine whether the vaccines work equally well in older and younger people, experts say. Researchers also want to know if the vaccines prevent people from spreading the virus — an ideal result that could help quash the pandemic.

Another big unknown is how long the immunity provided by the vaccines will last.

An additional concern is that both vaccines must be stored and transported at low temperatures — minus 4 degrees Fahrenheit for Moderna, and minus 94 Fahrenheit for Pfizer — which could complicate their distribution, particularly to low-income areas in hot climates. Although both vaccines are made of mRNA, their temperature requirements differ because they use different, proprietary formulations of fat to encase and protect the mRNA, Ray Jordan, a Moderna spokesman, said.

Other coronavirus vaccines being developed will need only refrigeration. If handled improperly, vaccines can become inactive.

But on Monday, Moderna said researchers had found that its vaccine had a longer shelf life in the refrigerator than previously thought: 30 days, not seven. And it will last 12 hours at room temperature, the company said.

Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease expert at Vanderbilt University, said the relative ease of handling the Moderna vaccine would give it a big advantage.

“This vaccine presents the opportunity of using doctors’ offices, clinics and pharmacies as vaccination sites,” he said, adding that he would not be surprised, should both vaccines become available, if vaccination sites requested Moderna’s.

So far, studies of the two vaccines have not found serious side effects, but participants have reported sore arms, fatigue, fever, and joint and muscle aches that last for a day or two.

Moderna’s study did not include children. Dr. Tal Zaks, the company’s chief medical officer, said the company planned to test it in them in the coming months, starting with adolescents.

Moderna said it would have 20 million doses ready by the end of 2020; Pfizer said it would have about 50 million by then — half for Americans. Both vaccines require two shots, so 20 million doses would be enough for 10 million people.

On Friday, Moncef Slaoui, the chief scientist for Operation Warp Speed, the Trump administration’s program to accelerate development of vaccines and treatments for Covid-19, said that if any early vaccine candidates received permission for emergency use, immunization could begin sometime in December.

The U.S. government will buy the vaccines and give them to the public for free. But both companies expect to profit, and not to provide their products at cost. Moderna said it would charge other governments from $32 to $37 per dose. The charge to the United States, which has already committed about $2.5 billion to help develop Moderna’s vaccine and buy doses, comes out to about $24.80 a shot, according to Mr. Jordan, the company spokesman.

Pfizer did not take any money from the U.S. government to develop or test its vaccine. But Operation Warp Speed has promised Pfizer $1.95 billion to provide 100 million doses, which comes out to $19.50 per dose.

Both of the companies’ vaccine candidates began large human trials on the same date, July 27.

Moderna had planned a first interim analysis of its trial data when the number of Covid-19 cases among participants reached 53. But the accelerating surge in coronavirus cases drove the number to 95, and it is likely to speed completion of the study, which was designed to stop after 151 cases.

The company announced on Oct. 22 that it had completed enrollment of its 30,000-person study, and that 25,650 participants had already received two shots. The company had slowed enrollment in September to ensure diversity among participants, and ultimately included 37 percent from communities of color, and 42 percent from populations considered at high risk because they were over 65 or had conditions like diabetes, obesity or heart disease.

As in Pfizer’s study, half of the participants were given the experimental vaccine and half a placebo shot of saltwater, with neither the patients nor their doctors knowing which one they had received. Moderna’s vaccine requires four weeks between shots, and Pfizer’s needs three weeks.

Dr. Zaks said Moderna’s study results were so strong that the company felt an ethical obligation to offer the vaccine to the placebo group as soon as possible, if the F.D.A. allows it.

Moderna said it could produce 500 million to one billion doses in 2021.

The company is working with the Swiss company Lonza and Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi of Spain to make doses of the vaccine outside the United States.

Dr. Bloom, the Harvard professor, noted that Moderna had never marketed a vaccine before, and he questioned whether the company had the capacity to manufacture hundreds of millions of doses.

Moderna has received a commitment of $955 million from the U.S. government’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority for research and development of its vaccine, and the United States has committed up to $1.525 billion to buy 100 million doses.

Moderna has already taken the early steps needed to apply to government agencies in Britain, Canada and Europe to market its vaccine, and the company has made deals to sell 50 million doses to Japan and unspecified amounts to Qatar and Israel.

Shares of Moderna rose nearly 10 percent on Monday, to almost $98 a piece by the market’s close.





No.4 article:
Trump Sought Options for Attacking Iran to Stop Its Growing Nuclear Program

The president was dissuaded from moving ahead with a strike by advisers who warned that it could escalate into a broader conflict in his last weeks in office.

WASHINGTON — President Trump asked senior advisers in an Oval Office meeting on Thursday whether he had options to take action against Iran’s main nuclear site in the coming weeks. The meeting occurred a day after international inspectors reported a significant increase in the country’s stockpile of nuclear material, four current and former U.S. officials said on Monday.

A range of senior advisers dissuaded the president from moving ahead with a military strike. The advisers — including Vice President Mike Pence; Secretary of State Mike Pompeo; Christopher C. Miller, the acting defense secretary; and Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — warned that a strike against Iran’s facilities could easily escalate into a broader conflict in the last weeks of Mr. Trump’s presidency.

Any strike — whether by missile or cyber — would almost certainly be focused on Natanz, where the International Atomic Energy Agency reported on Wednesday that Iran’s uranium stockpile was now 12 times larger than permitted under the nuclear accord that Mr. Trump abandoned in 2018. The agency also noted that Iran had not allowed it access to another suspected site where there was evidence of past nuclear activity.

Mr. Trump asked his top national security aides what options were available and how to respond, officials said.

After Mr. Pompeo and General Milley described the potential risks of military escalation, officials left the meeting believing a missile attack inside Iran was off the table, according to administration officials with knowledge of the meeting.

Mr. Trump might still be looking at ways to strike Iranian assets and allies, including militias in Iraq, officials said. A smaller group of national security aides had met late Wednesday to discuss Iran, the day before the meeting with the president.

White House officials did not respond to requests for comment.

The episode underscored how Mr. Trump still faces an array of global threats in his final weeks in office. A strike on Iran may not play well to his base, which is largely opposed to a deeper American conflict in the Middle East, but it could poison relations with Tehran so that it would be much harder for President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. to revive the 2015 Iran nuclear accord, as he has promised to do.

Since Mr. Trump dismissed Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper and other top Pentagon aides last week, Defense Department and other national security officials have privately expressed worries that the president might initiate operations, whether overt or secret, against Iran or other adversaries at the end of his term.

The events of the past few days are not the first time that Iran policy has emerged in the final days of a departing administration. During the last days of the Bush administration in 2008, Israeli officials, concerned that the incoming Obama administration would seek to block it from striking Iran’s nuclear facilities, sought bunker-busting bombs, bombers and intelligence assistance from the United States for an Israeli-led strike.

Vice President Dick Cheney later wrote in his memoir that he supported the idea. President George W. Bush did not, but the result was a far closer collaboration with Israel on a cyberstrike against the Natanz facility, which took out about 1,000 of Iran’s nuclear centrifuges.

Ever since, the Pentagon has revised its strike plans multiple times. It now has traditional military as well as cyberoptions, and some that combine the two. Some involve direct action by Israel.

The report from the International Atomic Energy Agency concluded that Iran now had a stockpile of more than 2,442 kilograms, or over 5,385 pounds, of low-enriched uranium. That is enough to produce about two nuclear weapons, according to an analysis of the report by the Institute for Science and International Security. But it would require several months of additional processing to enrich the uranium to bomb-grade material, meaning that Iran would not be close to a bomb until late spring at the earliest — well after Mr. Trump would have left office.

While the amount is concerning, it is far below the amount of fuel Iran possessed before President Barack Obama reached a nuclear accord with Tehran in July 2015. Late that year, under the terms of the accord, Iran shipped about 97 percent of its fuel stockpile to Russia — about 25,000 pounds — leaving it with less than it would need to build a single weapon.

The Iranians stuck to those limits even after Mr. Trump scrapped U.S. participation in the Iran accord in 2018 and reimposed sanctions. The Iranians began to slowly edge out of those limits last year, declaring that if Mr. Trump felt free to violate its terms, they would not continue to abide by them.

But the Iranians have hardly raced to produce new material: Their advances have been slow and steady, and they have denied seeking to build a weapon — though evidence stolen from the country several years ago by Israel made clear that was the plan before 2003.

Mr. Trump has argued since the 2016 campaign that Iran was hiding some of its actions and cheating on its commitments; the inspectors’ report last week gave him the first partial evidence to support that view. The report criticized Iran for not answering a series of questions about a warehouse in Tehran where inspectors found uranium particles, leading to suspicion that it had once been some kind of nuclear-processing facility. The report said Iran’s answers were “not technically credible.”

The International Atomic Energy Agency has previously complained that inspectors have been barred from fully reviewing some suspected sites.

It is not just the U.S. military that is looking at options. Mr. Pompeo, officials said, is closely watching events unfolding on the ground in Iraq for any hint of aggression from Iran or its proxy militias against American diplomats or troops stationed there.

Mr. Pompeo already drew up plans to close the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad over concerns of potential threats, although in recent days he appeared willing to leave that decision to the next administration. Mortar and rocket attacks against the embassy have waned over the past several weeks, and the task to shutter the largest American diplomatic mission in the world could take months to complete.

But officials said that could change if any Americans are killed before Inauguration Day.

Officials are especially nervous about the Jan. 3 anniversary of the U.S. strike that killed Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, the commander of Iran’s elite Quds Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, and the Iraqi leader of an Iranian-backed militia — deaths that Iranian leaders regularly insist they have not yet avenged.

Mr. Pompeo, who has been the most strident proponent among Mr. Trump’s advisers of hobbling Iran while the administration still can, has more recently made clear that the death of an American was a red line that could provoke a military response.

That would also increase tensions between Washington and Baghdad. Diplomats said Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi of Iraq would almost certainly object to the killing of Iraqis — even Iranian-backed militiamen — on Iraqi soil by U.S. forces who already face demands to leave.





No.5 article:
Platypuses Glow Under Blacklight. We Have No Idea Why.

What other secrets are they hiding?

When last we checked on the platypus, it was confounding our expectations of mammals with its webbed feet, duck-like bill and laying of eggs. More than that, it was producing venom.

Now it turns out that even its drab-seeming coat has been hiding a secret — when you turn on the blacklights, it starts to glow.

As noted last month in the journal Mammalia, shining an ultraviolet light on a platypus makes the animal’s fur fluoresce with a greenish-blue tint. They’re one of the few mammals known to exhibit this trait. And we’re still in the dark about why they do it — if there is a reason at all.

For most humans, ultraviolet light exists outside of the visible spectrum. But certain pigments can absorb it, drain off some of its energy, and re-emit what remains as a color that people can see. Many man-made things contain such pigments, including white T-shirts, Froot Loops and petroleum jelly.

A lot of living things do, too. Scorpions, lichens and puffin beaks all pop under UV light. Blue light, which is a notch away from ultraviolet, makes the undersea world look like an indoor mini golf course, and causes dozens of types of amphibians to glow green.

Mammals, though, seem to have generally gotten the short end of this paintbrush: So far, not many have been found to have coats or skin that fluoresce. But there are exceptions, all among nocturnal creatures. In the 1980s, for example, a few researchers uncovered a rainbow of opossums.

Then one night a few years ago, Jonathan Martin, an associate professor of forestry at Northland College in Ashland, Wis., was exploring the woods behind his house with a UV flashlight when he saw that a flying squirrel at his bird feeder appeared bright pink.

Dr. Martin and a few colleagues went to the Field Museum in Chicago to confirm that finding in some preserved specimens. It turns out all three North American flying squirrel species give off a bubble gum glow under UV light.

While they were there, Erik Olson, an associate professor of natural resources at the college, started “wondering how broadly distributed this trait might be,” Dr. Olson said. “Like, what about platypuses? That’s kind of as far from flying squirrels as you can get.”

After checking with the museum’s staff, the team went down to the basement, found the platypus cabinet, and flipped on their special lights. “And sure enough,” Dr. Olson said. They were eventually able to examine three platypuses: a male and a female at the Field Museum, and another male from the University of Nebraska State Museum. All gave off the same cool glow.

So did a road-killed platypus, discovered by a blacklight-wielding mycologist in northeast Australia this summer. Despite the sad circumstances of the finding, “we were elated to know that it was verified in a wild specimen,” Dr. Olson said.

So why would a platypus fluoresce?

“We really don’t know,” Dr. Olson said.

Other instances of life-form Lite Brite serve a clear purpose. Bioluminescence, for example, helps ocean creatures lure prey and find each other in the depths. And hummingbirds get information from the ultraviolet hues that some flowers reflect.

Fluorescence, though, is a bit more opaque. Because it’s a natural property of certain materials, “just finding fluorescence doesn’t mean it has any particular purpose,” said Sönke Johnsen, a sensory biologist at Duke University who was not involved with the study. Instead, he said, that glow could be incidental — “just something that’s there because it’s there.”

It’s unknown whether platypuses can perceive either UV rays or fluorescence, especially in natural light. One theory is that by absorbing and transforming UV light rather than reflecting it, platypuses can better hide from UV-sensitive predators.

But this is just a hypothesis, Dr. Olson said: “Our main goal is to document this trait,” in hopes that future research might shed more light. For now, his group plans to strategically investigate other nocturnal mammals, to see if they can add to their list.

They may have opened a few more museum cabinets already. “Stay tuned,” he said.





No.6 article:
Leftists and Moderates, Stop Fighting. You Need One Another.

In the Democratic civil war, both sides are partly right.

In 2004, I went to Ohio to cover John Kerry’s campaign to unseat George W. Bush. For liberals, the race felt existential. The Bush administration had lied America into war in Iraq, where an entirely predictable insurgency was raging. His military and C.I.A. were torturing people; the Abu Ghraib scandal had broken open in April.

A worshipful cult of personality surrounded the president, whose administration was nakedly disdainful of truth. Yet four years earlier Bush had lost the popular vote, in a race where progressives were divided and a decisive number voted third party. Surely, it seemed, with the right mobilization Democrats should be able to defeat him this time.

Liberal groups launched what Matt Bai described in The New York Times Magazine as “the largest get-out-the-vote effort ever undertaken to win a single presidential campaign.” It wasn’t enough. Democrats did increase their turnout, but Republicans increased theirs even more.

Reporting from Ohio megachurches and right-wing rallies, I could see that many conservatives were motivated by the specter of gay marriage, which had been recognized in Massachusetts a few months earlier. In the election, 11 states including Ohio — including Oregon — passed ballot initiatives against same-sex marriage. Postelection surveys showed that “moral values” beat out issues like Iraq and the economy as voters’ chief concern.

As I look back from 2020, two things seem obvious to me. L.G.B.T.Q. activists had justice on their side, even if the campaign for marriage equality caused a terrifying backlash before it triumphed. At the same time, it’s understandable why Democratic politicians like Barack Obama publicly opposed same-sex marriage in 2008, since to do otherwise risked producing permanent right-wing rule. Good policy and good politics are not the same thing.

The 2004 election illuminates some of the dilemmas faced by today’s Democrats, who are currently locked in an internecine battle between progressives and moderates. It’s a frustrating and destructive fight because both sides are partly right.

It’s the job of the activist left to push political limits, staking out positions that sound radical today but could, with enough work, seem like common sense in the future. But in the short term, an assertive left that garners national attention can threaten the political survival of Democrats who answer to a more conservative electorate.

In a postelection interview with The Times’s Astead Herndon, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez expressed frustration with those who are blaming leftists for Democrats’ down-ballot losses. “Progressive policies do not hurt candidates,” she insisted, noting swing-district Democrats who had co-sponsored Medicare for All legislation and the Green New Deal and had kept their seats.

But most candidates who endorsed those initiatives were in safer districts than those who didn’t. When moderate Democrats like Conor Lamb and Abigail Spanberger say that left-wing slogans are poisonous in their communities, people who don’t live in those communities should take them seriously.

Left-wing populists often believe that there’s a silent majority who agree with them, if only they can be organized to go to the polls. If that were true, though, an election with record high turnout should have been much better for progressives. Instead, 2020 was a reminder of something most older liberals long ago had to come to terms with: The voters who live in the places that determine political control in this country tend to be more conservative than we are.

Yet that doesn’t mean that the Democratic Party doesn’t need the left. Leaders like Bernie Sanders and Ocasio-Cortez were loyal soldiers in this election. After the primaries, they put aside their disappointment to rally voters whom Joe Biden might not have reached. One analysis showed that voting by young people was up 8 percent in 2020, and after the coronavirus, the issues young Biden voters cared about most were racism and climate change. The Democratic Party can’t afford to alienate the people inspired by Sanders and the Squad.

The Democrats’ loss in 2004 was devastating, but recovering from it didn’t mean moving right. At the time, even civil unions for gay couples were controversial — the Ohio ballot initiative was one of several that banned them along with same-sex marriage. Agitation for marriage equality turned support for such unions into the moderate liberal position, then into the centrist position. Then marriage equality became the law of the land.

Similarly, the Green New Deal made a climate plan like Biden’s, the most ambitious ever proposed by a major party presidential nominee, look moderate. Calls to defund the police are unpopular, but the slogan has already made other reforms — like changing the law to make it easier to hold police officers liable for misconduct — seem centrist and practical.

Moderates need radicals to expand their scope for action. Radicals need moderates to wield power in a giant heterogenous country with sclerotic institutions and deep wells of reaction. Neither camp could have defeated Donald Trump on its own. It’s frustrating now, as it was heartbreaking in 2004, that revanchist Republicans retain such a hold on America. But that’s all the more reason for Democrats to stop their counterproductive sniping and work together to beat them.





No.7 article:
Phoenix Suns Agree to Trade for Chris Paul

The trade sends Ricky Rubio and Kelly Oubre Jr. to Oklahoma City for Paul, the veteran point guard.

The long-awaited reopening of the N.B.A.’s trade market on Monday delivered an immediate blockbuster that will send Oklahoma City Thunder guard Chris Paul to the Phoenix Suns to join Devin Booker in what has the look of a dynamic backcourt.

Oklahoma City will receive the veterans Kelly Oubre Jr., 24, and Ricky Rubio, 30, from the Suns as the headliners of a package for Paul that also includes a 2022 first-round draft pick. The deal came together in the first hour after the N.B.A. permitted trades for the first time in more than nine months.

On Sunday, the rebuilding Thunder struck a verbal agreement to trade the reserve guard Dennis Schroder to the Los Angeles Lakers, according to two people familiar with the agreement. Oklahoma City will also acquire Danny Green and the No. 28 pick in Wednesday night’s draft for Schroder, meaning that Thunder General Manager Sam Presti — once the trades are made official — will have amassed 16 first-round picks over the next seven N.B.A. drafts through 2026.

“Chris has been the consummate leader and has left a tremendous legacy in a short period of time,” Presti said in a statement Monday announcing the trade.

Rubio, fresh off helping the Suns have a surprising 8-0 winning streak to close last season alongside Booker, appeared to react to the trade on Twitter with some exasperation: “…what a business,” he posted, followed by an upside-down happy face emoji.

The Thunder were one of last season’s overachievers after acquiring Paul in a trade with the Houston Rockets that netted two of those 16 future first-round picks as well as the right to swap first-round picks with the Rockets in 2021 and 2025. Yet it quickly became apparent, after the Thunder lost a first-round playoff series to the Rockets in seven games, that Presti was poised to commission a rebuild.

Coach Billy Donovan left the Thunder in September instead of trying to hash out a contract extension and was hired shortly thereafter as the coach of the Chicago Bulls. More recently, Presti told Paul and his representatives that they could try to find a trade partner that would appeal to the All-Star guard, according to a person with knowledge of the arrangement who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.

Paul, 35, who has two seasons and roughly $85 million left on his contract, wanted to remain in the Western Conference to be near his family, which stayed in Los Angeles last season while he played in Oklahoma City. Paul also has a strong relationship with Suns Coach Monty Williams, according to the person, after playing for Williams for one season in New Orleans.

In addition to reuniting with Williams, Paul will now team with the Suns’ young cornerstone duo of Booker and Deandre Ayton to try to restore Phoenix to Western Conference relevance. The Suns have missed the playoffs for 10 consecutive seasons, the second longest active playoff drought behind Sacramento’s 14. But Phoenix was one of the surprise stories of the N.B.A. restart at Walt Disney World near Orlando, Fla., after arriving with the second-to-worst record of the 22 teams participating yet only missing the postseason by a half-game after the 8-0 flourish.

The trade is the latest milestone event in an eventful year-plus for Paul. During the 2019 off-season, Houston gave up four draft assets to persuade Oklahoma City to absorb Paul’s contract. This off-season, after Paul played at an All-Star level for the Thunder, Oklahoma City was able to acquire a first-round pick in trading him away.

“Man, I’m 35 years old and I still get a chance to play basketball every day and say that’s my way of life,” Paul said last week when asked about trade rumors during an appearance in the Time100 speakers’ series. “That is crazy in itself, so regardless what happens, I’ll be ready.”

Paul averaged 17.6 points and 6.7 assists per game last season in earning his 10th trip to the N.B.A. All-Star Game. Oubre averaged a career-best 18.7 points per game for the Suns last season but did not play in the N.B.A. bubble while recovering from knee surgery; Rubio averaged 13.0 points and 8.8 assists in his first season with the Suns after signing a three-year, $51 million contract in July 2019.

Oklahoma City’s Schroder trade, as The New York Times reported Sunday, came together in part because the Lakers fear Rajon Rondo will command offers in free agency after a strong run in the playoffs, making it difficult for them to re-sign him given the reigning champions’ budget constraints. The Lakers see Schroder, who averaged 18.9 points and 4.0 assists per game as one of the league’s top sixth men last season, as a huge boost to their offense.

The Lakers also have interest in signing Milwaukee’s Wesley Matthews Jr. in free agency to replace Green’s defensive ability, 3-point shooting and experience, according to a person familiar with the team’s plans who was not authorized to discuss them publicly.





No.8 article:
David Toole, Disabled Dancer With Grace in His Hands, Dies at 56

He learned to dance expressively long after his legs were amputated. A premier disabled performer on stages around the world, he opened the 2012 London Paralympics.

David Toole was 26 when he found relief from his postal work in Britain in an unexpected way: as a novice dancer at a workshop, where he showed intuitive grace and athleticism while performing on his hands. His legs had been amputated in childhood.

“In warm-ups, he was shy, quite quiet,” Charlotte Darbyshire, who also danced at the workshop, said in a phone interview, recalling the workshop in Leeds, in northern England, in 1991. “But very quickly, he discarded his wheelchair, and was more comfortable on his hands. We were stunned, really. He was an incredible mover, with great balance and a natural gift for performance.”

Inspired, Mr. Toole told his mother about his newfound ambition.

“Can I just remind you,” she was said to have replied, “that you don’t have any legs?”

Undeterred, he became a leading disabled dancer in Britain performing with various troupes and achieved global renown as a featured dancer in the opening ceremony of the 2012 Paralympic Games in London.

Mr. Toole died on Oct. 16 at a hospital in Leeds. He was 56 and had been ill for the past year. His sister, Cathy Powell, said the cause was cardiac arrest.

Ms. Powell — who lived next door to her brother in Leeds — survives him along with her daughter, Mary, and son, Jack. Jack once created a poster for his uncle that said, “What a Difference a Dave Makes.”

Mr. Toole had immense hands and strong arms that allowed him to walk, roll, leap and jump across a stage with tremendous physicality and nuance, on his own or with partners.

“His body was so eloquent,” Alan Lane, artistic director of the Slung Low theater company, with whom Mr. Toole performed, said in an interview. “There was a quality of wonder, too. We took a show to a South African township, and a young lad thought Dave was a wizard — that what he was doing was a magic trick, that nobody else could move like that.”

David Vincent Toole was born in Leeds on July 31, 1964. His father, Terry, was a carpenter who performed music in pubs with his brother Douglas. His mother, Jean (Dawson) Toole, was an auxiliary maternity nurse and home care worker.

Dave was born with sacral agenesis, a congenital condition in which the lowest portion of the spine that forms the joint with the hips fails to develop. Severely malformed, his legs were amputated when he was 18 months old.

When he was 3 or 4, he experienced one of the first of many indignities he would feel as a disabled person when he was placed naked on a table as several doctors stared at him.

“I have a vague memory of being stood on a platform, being pointed at and talked about,” he told The Times of London in 2012. “It made me feel like the Elephant Man.”

Despite being physically different, Ms. Powell said in an interview, nothing fazed him as a child.

“I remember him using his arms to swing under the dining room table,” she said. “He’d have a skateboard or whatever. He wasn’t going to be left out.”

He attended a school for children with disabilities and later Park Lane College in Leeds before taking a six-month computing course at the University of Leeds. A job at the Royal Mail — Britain’s post office — typing postal codes felt like a dead-end from which he might never escape.

“I went to work, got home in the early afternoon, got drunk, went to sleep, woke up, got drunk some more, went to sleep again, woke up, went back to work,” he told The Yorkshire Post in 2013.

A former teacher gave him a leaflet promoting the dance workshop. Despite his initial reluctance to attend, once there he recognized that he had found his future.

The workshop evolved into the London-based Candoco Dance Company, which integrates disabled and nondisabled dancers. Mr. Toole attended a dance school, quit the Royal Mail and performed around the world with Candoco for seven years.

“Dancing with him, he was so totally alive,” said Ms. Darbyshire, Candoco’s artistic director.

After his time at Candoco, Mr. Toole played one of two street performers at a seaside resort in the DV8 Physical Theater’s stage production of “Can We Afford This?,” which had its premiere at the Sydney Olympics arts festival in 2000.

Four years later, it was adapted into a film short, “The Cost of Living.” In one scene, Mr. Toole spots a group of female dancers through the window of a studio, hops off his wheelchair, enters uninvited and engages in an intimate duet with one of the women. In another scene, he is followed over a grassy hill by a group of able-bodied dancers, who imitate his idiosyncratic way of hand-walking — a dramatic way to illustrate how Mr. Toole navigated his disability.

Lloyd Newson, who founded DV8 and directed the play and the film, said in a statement that Mr. Toole had “personified the concept of ‘differently able,’ or perhaps more appropriately, ‘exceptionally able.’&quot;

“David,” he added, “made you marvel at what a body, his body, could say and do.”

As an actor Mr. Toole also played a beggar in the film “Amazing Grace” (2006), a historical drama about the British slave trade, and a character called Man with No Legs in the HBO series “Rome” in 2007.

He had a more ambitious role in “The Johnny Eck and Dave Toole Show,” a stage production for the Slung Low company in 2013 held outdoors at the Royal Armories in Leeds. As a dancer and actor, he played Mr. Eck (1911-1991), a sideshow performer born without the lower half of his body because of sacral agenesis. Other performers narrated Mr. Toole’s story because he was too modest to tell it.

Mr. Toole admired Mr. Eck, telling the BBC in 2013: “He came before any of us and he opened the door for the other disabled people who are out and about and performing now.”

Mr. Toole seldom bragged about his achievements, even his role at the 2012 Paralympics.

“He didn’t tell us how big a part he was playing in the ceremony,” his mother told The Daily Telegraph soon after his performance at the event. “He just said, ‘You’ll see me’ and mentioned there would be a bit of flying and he would be in it for about three minutes.”

After a balletic solo accompanied by Birdy singing “Bird Gerhl,” Mr. Toole soared above a packed Olympic Stadium on wires in an aerial pas de deux.

His family watched on television.

“It was magical,” said his mother, who died this year. “We were just blown away by it.”





No.9 article:
Lockdowns, Round 2: A New Virus Surge Prompts Restrictions, and Pushback

California and Michigan moved to shut down indoor dining, and Philadelphia severely limited indoor gatherings. With more than 150,000 virus cases daily, the nation is shutting down again.

The scene was familiar: Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, addressing a rapidly escalating coronavirus surge in her state, stood at a lectern and somberly announced new restrictions meant to stop the virus from spreading out of control.

Within hours, the backlash began.

As the coronavirus crisis mounts with renewed force in the United States, surpassing 11 million total cases and threatening to overwhelm hospitals across the country, governors, mayors and other officials are ordering restrictions, and once again finding themselves in the crosscurrents of public health and economic crises.

California, Washington State, Michigan and Oregon have shut indoor dining back down, among other measures. In Chicago, a new stay-at-home advisory went into effect on Monday. In Philadelphia, Mayor Jim Kenney introduced a sweeping new set of coronavirus rules, including a ban on most indoor private gatherings, with a plea for understanding: “We do not take any of this lightly,” he said. “Believe me, more than anything in the world, I wish none of this was necessary.”

The new wave of restrictions comes at a time when health officials across the nation are reporting more new cases and more hospitalizations from the virus than ever before, and experts are warning that another 100,000 to 200,000 Americans could die from the virus in the next few months if significant action is not taken.

But the new restrictions are meeting resistance, and it has been especially fierce in Michigan, where Governor Whitmer, a Democrat, said on Sunday evening that she would shut down indoor dining, shutter casinos and movie theaters, and halt in-person learning at high schools and colleges for three weeks. A Republican state legislator quickly called for her to be impeached, and Dr. Scott Atlas, President Trump’s coronavirus adviser, urged people in the state to “rise up” in protest.

“The only way this stops is if people rise up. You get what you accept,” Dr. Atlas wrote on Twitter. On Monday, Ms. Whitmer said the statement left her “breathless.”

“It’s just incredibly reckless, considering everything that has happened,” said Ms. Whitmer, who faced fierce opposition for her coronavirus restrictions in the spring: Mr. Trump tweeted a call to “liberate Michigan” and protesters at the State Capitol chanted, “Lock her up.” She was later the target of an alleged kidnapping plot by an antigovernment extremist group, the authorities said.

Dr. Atlas said later on Sunday that he did not mean to incite violence.

The fraught political atmosphere is a return to an earlier era of the pandemic, when protesters who were angry about business shutdowns screamed without masks on at state capitols and Mr. Trump encouraged right-wing protests demanding the reopening of the economy. Those tensions faded in the summer after viral outbreaks cooled in many states. Governors made plans to open up businesses and restaurants, and some of the millions of jobs lost in the pandemic came back.

But now, the arc of the pandemic has returned to crisis levels nearly everywhere.

The country is now recording more than 150,000 new cases each day on average, more than ever before. More than 69,000 people are in the hospital with the virus, the highest number of the pandemic. Reports of coronavirus-related deaths are up 64 percent in the past month, to more than 1,100 people a day. And governors and mayors are returning to the lecterns and video streams where they held daily briefings in the spring, this time to announce urgent new restrictions and plead for compliance.

“It feels very similar to the spring,” said Crystal Watson, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. Dr. Watson said she worried that hospitals in many cities would soon become overwhelmed, as they were in New York City and other places on the East Coast during the spring peak.

“But it’s also much worse than the spring because this virus is now much more widespread,” she said. “It’s not just one region of the country experiencing the surge. It’s every state.”

As in the spring, the latest moves to buckle down have frequently been led by Democratic officials, who have tended to be more willing than Republicans to place restrictions on businesses and issue mask mandates. The governors of Michigan, New Mexico, Oregon and Washington who have announced new restrictions in the last few days are all Democrats.

So is Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, who said on Monday that his state was “pulling the emergency brake” on its reopening plan.

He moved most of California’s more populous counties back into the most restrictive tier in the state’s tiered reopening plan, meaning that indoor dining and some other businesses that had been allowed to reopen with limits would have to shut down again. Mr. Newsom added that the state was studying options for imposing a curfew.

But as the pandemic penetrates far and wide, reaching more rural areas and wide swaths of Republican-led states than it touched in the spring, Republican officials who had been hesitant about government overreach have also been wielding their authority more forcefully. The Republican governors of North Dakota and Utah imposed mask mandates last week; Iowa’s governor did the same on Monday, also announcing curfews at restaurants and bars and restrictions on the size of indoor and outdoor gatherings.

So far, few officials have returned to the most restrictive measure used in the spring, a complete stay-at-home order. But the Navajo Nation reinstated its stay-at-home order after health officials warned of uncontrolled spread of the virus in dozens of communities in the vast reservation.

The order, one of the most aggressive antivirus measures in the nation, took effect on Monday and is to last three weeks. During that time, all roads in the Navajo Nation are closed to visitors, residents must stay at home except for urgent trips, and most government offices will be closed. Essential businesses like gas stations and groceries are allowed to open, but only from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m.

Warning that serious action was needed to prevent a new wave of deaths, officials in Philadelphia announced sweeping measures on Monday to shut down indoor dining, gyms, museums and libraries, close down in-person learning at high schools and colleges through the end of 2020 and ban all indoor gatherings of people from multiple households, even in private homes.

“That means no indoor parties, group meals, football watching groups, no visiting between households, no indoor weddings, funerals, baby showers,” Dr. Thomas Farley, the city’s health commissioner, said. “We know that is a very strong policy, but this gets at the most important sites of spread.”

The virus killed about 1,700 people in Philadelphia in the early months of the pandemic, overwhelming the city’s funeral homes. With Covid-19 hospitalizations soaring again in the city, Dr. Farley warned that the virus could kill a similar number of Philadelphians this fall and winter if left unchecked.

Under the new rules, outdoor gatherings will be limited to 10 people for every 1,000 square feet of space, which Dr. Farley said meant barring fans from football games. Youth, community and school sports will be canceled. High schools and colleges were told to shift to remote learning, but child care centers and elementary and middle schools will be allowed to remain open.

“The bottom line is this: If we don’t do something to change the trajectory of this epidemic, the hospitals will become full,” Dr. Farley said. “They’ll have difficulty treating people, and we’ll have between several hundred and a thousand deaths by just the end of this year.”





No.10 article:
A ‘Perfect’ Pitcher, a Home Run Stealer and Two-Thirds of a Big 3

Mark Buehrle, Torii Hunter, Tim Hudson and Barry Zito headline this year’s list of first-time finalists for the Baseball Hall of Fame.

The Baseball Hall of Fame announced its new ballot on Monday, with 11 first-time candidates to go along with 14 holdovers, including four who got more than half of the votes from writers last winter: Barry Bonds, Roger Clemens, Curt Schilling and Omar Vizquel. At 70 percent, Schilling was the closest to reaching the 75 percent needed for election.

The new class seems unlikely to produce any players who will end up with a plaque in Cooperstown, N.Y., but all left an impression on the game. Here’s a quick salute to each of this year’s new finalists.

No pitcher has thrown two perfect games, but Buehrle flirted with doing it consecutively for the White Sox in July 2009. Five days after spinning one gem against Tampa Bay, he stayed perfect for 17 batters in Minnesota until a two-out walk in the sixth inning. Buehrle had a remarkable career, finishing with 15 consecutive seasons of at least 30 starts. He’s the only pitcher to bundle all of these achievements: 200 career victories, an All-Star Game start, a perfect game, another no-hitter and a World Series save.

A hard, biting curveball helped Burnett collect 2,513 strikeouts, nudging him into the top 40 on the career list, just above the Hall of Famers Christy Mathewson, Don Drysdale and Jack Morris. As a boy, Burnett said, his father never let him throw it — but his grandfather showed him how. “He said, ‘Throw it like this, throw the hell out of it, and it’ll break,’” Burnett said, comparing the stiff-wrist action to firing a gun. “He was an ornery, mean-but-lovable grandpa; one of those guys, you know? I threw the first one and it went flying, and he was like: ‘What the hell was that? Throw it like this!’ It’s the only hook I’ve ever thrown.”

A cluster of longtime future major leaguers blossomed in the Virginia Beach area in the 1990s, including David Wright, Justin and Melvin Upton Jr., Ryan Zimmerman and Mark Reynolds. But the oldest of the group was the trendsetter; as Wright puts it in his new memoir with Anthony DiComo: “The one we all looked up to was Michael Cuddyer.” A first-round pick by the Twins in 1997, Cuddyer played 15 major league seasons, won a batting title for Colorado in 2013 and became Wright’s teammate with the Mets in 2015, his last season. Cuddyer is one of three Mets whose final appearance came in the World Series, with Ed Charles and Willie Mays.

One morning in 2015, as he neared the end of his career, Haren reflected on the progression of his goals. He never assumed he would earn 153 victories and lead the majors in starts across his final 11 seasons. All he wanted was to use baseball as a way into college. “I think I got an 80 percent scholarship to Pepperdine, and I was like, ‘I really made my parents proud,’” he said. “I thought that was it. I was happy.” Yet there was so much more to come. As a freshman, Haren replaced an injured teammate in the Waves’ rotation. As a sophomore, he surprised himself by how hard he could throw. As a junior, he was drafted by the Cardinals. Two years later, he reached the majors. “I thought, ‘Wow, if I could stay, that would be amazing,’” Haren said. “Then I was like, ‘Wow, I could make enough money to last a lifetime.’ When I signed my first deal with Oakland, it was like six years and $13 million. I thought, ‘I can’t believe I probably will never have to work again because of this.’ My career just kept going from there. But I never grew up thinking, ‘Oh, I want to be a Hall of Fame baseball player.’ I mean, I loved baseball, but I never thought I would be where I am today.” Today, he is on the ballot for Cooperstown.

In 1999, when Hawkins was going nowhere as a starter for the Twins, he grooved a changeup to the Mariners’ Ken Griffey Jr., who walloped it deep into the upper deck at the Metrodome. Later, a clubhouse attendant told Hawkins that Griffey wanted to see him in the laundry room. When they met, Griffey asked why a pitcher with such a lively fastball didn’t seem to trust his best pitch. Hawkins had no answer. “I learned a lot by him telling me that,” Hawkins said in 2014, when he was the longest-tenured player in the majors. “My fastball was better than I thought it was. I used it to my advantage after that.” Hawkins lasted 21 seasons and made 1,042 appearances, 10th on the career list.

These statistical benchmarks are hardly locks for the Hall of Fame: 200 wins, 2,000 strikeouts, career earned run average below 3.50. But Hudson is one of just 15 pitchers to make his debut in the division-play era (since 1969) and meet all three standards. Six are in the Hall of Fame (Bert Blyleven, Roy Halladay, Randy Johnson, Greg Maddux, Pedro Martinez and John Smoltz), two are active (Zack Greinke and Justin Verlander) and the others are Vida Blue, Kevin Brown, Roger Clemens, Orel Hershiser, Rick Reuschel and Curt Schilling. Good company.

Few players were as universally beloved within baseball as Hunter, who collected Gold Gloves and warm adjectives in bulk over 19 seasons. “He’s charismatic, he’s funny, he’s very approachable and he goes about things the right way,” Justin Verlander said of Hunter during the 2013 American League Championship Series, when they played for Detroit. “What more can you ask for? He’s the consummate teammate and friend.” Even before he reached the majors, Hunter was inspiring the next generation. As a Twins farmhand in 1997, Hunter played catch with a local kid in the stands in New Britain, Conn. The boy, who was 7 years old at the time, made Hunter his idol and grew up to be a fellow All-Star center fielder: George Springer, now a prized free agent after seven stellar years with the Astros.

On July 23, 2015, the Pirates acquired Ramirez for the final two months of his career. Exactly 12 years earlier, when Ramirez was 25, they had traded him to the Chicago Cubs, for a minimal return, to clear his future $6 million salary. For a dozen years, Ramirez tormented his former team, swatting 304 homers for the division-rival Cubs and Brewers. In his last at-bat, as a pinch-hitter at age 37, he bounced into a double play as Pittsburgh lost a home wild-card game — to the Cubs, naturally. The Pirates have not been back to the playoffs since.

The greatest season of Swisher’s life started on the bench with the 2009 Yankees. Swisher was new to the team, acquired in an off-season trade with the White Sox, and did not unseat Xavier Nady as the everyday right fielder until mid-April, when Nady tore an elbow ligament. Swisher became a force in a championship lineup while Nady languished on the disabled list, but things were hardly awkward between the two. Nady let Swisher move in with his family for much of the season, and Swisher made himself comfortable. “In the morning he’d be sitting on the couch in just his boxers — no shirt, just his underwear,” Nady told Mark Feinsand and Bryan Hoch for their book, “Mission 27,” about the 2009 team. “I’d just wake up and I’d be dying laughing.”

As the final out of the 2009 World Series, Victorino ensured himself an eternal cameo in Yankees highlight videos. But he embodied a proud Phillies team in the way he fought when down to his last strike against Mariano Rivera, fouling off four cutters and taking two balls before finally grounding out to second. Four years later, in another Game 6, Victorino ripped a three-run double to send the Red Sox to their first clinching World Series game in Boston in 95 years.

Lots of players wear high uniform numbers now, but when Zito chose No. 75 for the A’s in the early 2000s, it stood out. His reasoning was eminently logical: “I’m really into numbers and symmetry,” he said, “and if you look at the 75, it creates a really nice shelf under my name.” Alas, Zito’s second team, the Giants, did not display players’ names on the back of their home jerseys. Zito hung onto 75 anyway, and while he mostly struggled in San Francisco, he made up for it with two October gems in 2012 to help win a championship. Now a full-time musician and singer, Zito is the only pitcher to play exclusively for two teams in the same metropolitan area and log at least 1,000 innings for both.





No.11 article:
‘How Did We Not Know?’ Gun Owners Confront a Suicide Epidemic

The toll of self-inflicted gun deaths has led to an unusual alliance between suicide-prevention advocates and gun-rights proponents.

SPOKANE, Wash. — Shanna Torp has never been uneasy around guns. Her father, a retired trucker, kept a gun in the cab when he was on the road. When Ms. Torp, a debt collector from Post Falls, Idaho, goes camping, she takes a rifle to ward off cougars and bears.

But after her mother died following heart surgery, her 80-year-old father became despondent, Ms. Torp told suicide-prevention workers at a gun show here last autumn. There had been several suicides in Post Falls, she said. She added pointedly: “And he’s got quite a few guns.”

Ms. Torp has reason to worry. Gun violence kills about 40,000 Americans each year, but while public attention has focused on mass shootings, murders and accidental gun deaths, these account for little more than one-third of the nation’s firearms fatalities. The majority of gun deaths are suicides — and just over half of suicides involve guns.

According to national health statistics, 24,432 Americans used guns to kill themselves in 2018, up from 19,392 in 2010.

People who kill themselves in this way are usually those with ready access to firearms: gun owners and their family members. Gun owners are not more suicidal than people who don’t own guns, but attempts with guns are more likely to be fatal.

Now, nearly a year after the coronavirus pandemic began, unleashing a tide of economic dislocation and despair, experts are bracing for a rise in suicides. Gun sales have risen steadily since March, and as shutdowns aimed at containing the virus have disrupted lives and led to social isolation, studies have shown an increase in anxiety and suicidal ideation.

“So many people are struggling right now,” said Jennifer Stuber, an associate professor of social work who helped found the University of Washington’s Forefront Suicide Prevention center. “The indicators are that a perfect storm is about to hit.”

She noted that people who purchase guns to protect themselves from civil unrest and a possible rise in crime “may actually be incurring more potential risk in terms of harm that can come to their family.”

The concern about suicides has led to an unusual alliance between suicide-prevention advocates and gun-rights proponents; together they are devising new strategies to prevent suicide in a population committed to the Second Amendment and the right to bear arms.

Gun shows across the country had started giving suicide-prevention booths space at their events before the coronavirus appeared. Now, the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a trade association for the firearms industry, carries a suicide-prevention video on the home page of its website, and invites suicide experts to give talks at online events.

Firearms retailers hand out postcards that carry suicide-prevention hotline numbers and list the telltale signs of depression, including changes in sleep habits, sudden weight loss and alcohol abuse. Posters urge customers to “Have a brave conversation” with a friend if they’re worried. The messages urge gun enthusiasts to keep their firearms locked, to store guns and bullets separately — and to offer to store firearms for a fellow gun owner who is going through a life crisis.

Retailers and gun-range operators are learning to ask questions of the new customer who doesn’t seem to know much about, or to be interested in, the gun he wants to buy. (Most suicides, especially gun suicides, are carried out by men.) Many gun shops have stopped providing loaner firearms to new customers to try out, as people have used these to kill themselves at ranges.

Jacquelyn Clark, owner of Bristlecone Shooting outside Denver, has changed her loaner policies, but said she still worried that customers could develop depression or dementia and do something rash. “That’s what keeps me up at night,” she said.

Many gun owners are unaware that gun suicides outnumber all other gun deaths.

Clark Aposhian, chairman of a lobbying group for gun owners in Utah, where suicides outnumber homicides by a factor of eight, said he did not believe the numbers when he first heard them: “How did we not know?” Mr. Aposhian blamed the media for hiding the truth and fostering an impression that most gun deaths are murders.

Some suicide-prevention experts wonder if there isn’t a contradiction in working with groups like the National Rifle Association, National Shooting Sports Foundation and Second Amendment Foundation. These groups do not support many measures that public health officials have called for, including universal background checks, mandatory waiting periods and so-called red flag laws.

But Kyleanne Hunter, the former vice president of programs for Brady (formerly the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence), noted that several gun-control groups count gun owners among their volunteers.

“We’re not going to crack this nut if we isolate gun owners from the conversation,” Ms. Hunter, a Marine Corps veteran, said.

Brett Bass also served in the Marines, where he became a rifle sharpshooter and pistol expert. A certified marksmanship instructor, he owns six handguns and four rifles.

But Mr. Bass, who is 37, has also known several men, including a fellow Marine with whom he served in Afghanistan, who killed themselves, and he has stored guns for close friends when they were severely depressed.

Mr. Bass works full-time for Safer Homes, Suicide Aware, a state-funded suicide-prevention program in Washington State led by the Forefront Suicide Prevention center. Since the pandemic started, the organization has rolled back in-person outreach at events like the Wes Knodel Gun &amp; Knife Show at the fairgrounds in Spokane, where Mr. Bass had a table in the corner late last year. He was surrounded by displays of firearms: antique bayonets and rifles laid out on zebra skin, historical pistols that look like props from old Westerns, and rows and rows of boxed ammunition.

At Mr. Bass’s booth, a poster implored visitors: “Stop by and have a conversation that may save a life.” The incentives were free merchandise: lockboxes for medication, high-end safes for handguns and expensive gun locks that could disable a shotgun or rifle. (All of the gear was donated by Boeing.)

To anyone who would listen, Mr. Bass explained that suicide was an impulsive act. Locking up a firearm could put the brakes on the impulse.

“It stops you for 10 minutes, and that gives you enough time to maybe change your mind,” he said.

He and Sabrina Votava, a local volunteer, hit the key messages quickly: Be alert to signs that a friend may be depressed. Ask the person if they are contemplating suicide.

If they say they are troubled, offer to take possession of their guns until the crisis passes. It’s not true that someone contemplating suicide will simply choose another method.

“People think, ‘There nothing I can do about it. If someone wants to commit suicide, I can’t stop them,’” said Ms. Votava, who lost two brothers to suicide. “But there’s a part of us that is wired for life, and if the attempt is aborted, the natural wiring kicks in.”

Public health experts liken the approach to taking the keys away from a friend who might otherwise drive home drunk.

“If you’re on a diet, do you want to have ice cream in your freezer?” Dr. Stuber said. “Clinicians will tell you, what’s most important is to remove the firearm from the individual. That person is in terrible pain, and they fixate on getting out of that pain. We’ve got to disrupt that.”

Dr. Stuber became interested in working with gun sellers after experiencing a devastating personal loss in 2011, when her 40-year-old husband, who was in the throes of a mental health crisis, killed himself with a gun he had just purchased. The couple, who had two young children, aged one and five, had never owned any guns.

“He passed the legal background check, and a couple of hours after he picked up the firearm, he ended his life,” Dr. Stuber said. “I realized the person who sold him the gun was one of the last people to see my late husband alive.”

Most gun suicides are carried out by people who are longtime gun owners; less than 10 percent are carried out by someone who recently purchased the gun.

In either case, Dr. Stuber says, firearm retailers are important allies in suicide-prevention efforts. A study she co-authored found that once gun retailers learned about the risks to their community, they were more willing to get involved and integrate information about suicide prevention into firearm safety training.

Mr. Aposhian, of the Utah Shooting Sports Council, is a prime example. When his own research confirmed what a local legislator, Steve Eliason, had told him — that 85 percent of gun deaths in Utah were suicides — he had “an epiphany of sorts,” he said.

“That was our family, our friends, our neighbors, our co-workers,” Mr. Aposhian said. “Utah has very permissive gun laws, but we also have a very low homicide rate. What we didn’t realize was we have a huge suicide rate.”

Since then he has played a leading role in state efforts to curb suicide. These include adding a suicide-prevention module to the training that is required for a permit to carry a concealed gun, a permit that is recognized by dozens of states outside Utah.

Whenever a friend or acquaintance is going through a difficult time, Mr. Aposhian said, “I ask that awkward question, ‘Are you thinking of harming yourself?’ The second question is, ‘Hey, why don’t I babysit your guns for a week?’”

Mr. Aposhian said he had stored guns for friends on numerous occasions, most recently for a family that owned many firearms. “There was a traumatic experience in the family, and they are big-time gun owners,” he said. He changed the combination on their electronic gun safe, and stashed other guns the family owned in his own safe.

“Friends don’t let friends in crisis have access to lethal means of harm,” Mr. Aposhian said. “It’s not a great bumper sticker, but it’s easy for people to accept.”

Some of the earliest efforts to engage gun retailers in suicide prevention started in New Hampshire in 2009, when state officials who were reviewing suicide reports noticed that within one week, three people had visited the same firearms store in Hooksett, N.H., purchased a gun and killed themselves.

“I was aghast,” said Ralph Demicco, who owned the store at the time. “We always prided ourselves as being a socially responsible gun store.”

Years earlier, when Mr. Demicco was just an employee at the store, he had reluctantly sold a gun to a woman who radiated unhappiness. But the store owner’s wife knew her and vouched for her. “Would you believe,” Mr. Demicco said, “the next morning, that same lady, to whom I sold a gun, took her 7-year-old daughter, drove to a remote location, and killed her daughter and herself.”

In the years that followed, Mr. Demicco said, he took action that he believed prevented suicides on dozens of occasions. In one case, he said, a well-dressed woman came in, walked straight to the counter, pointed to a handgun and said she wanted to buy it, without ever making eye contact with him.

“I said to her, ‘Should you be buying a gun?’” Mr. Demicco recalled. The woman started crying, he said, and confided that she had just been discharged from the hospital. He encouraged her to go home, and called her doctor on her behalf.

The discussions that brought public health experts and gun owners together in New Hampshire gave rise to the Gun Shop Project, a coalition of public health and mental health practitioners, firearm retailers and gun rights advocates, under the aegis of the New Hampshire Firearm Safety Coalition.

The project created suicide-prevention posters and fliers to distribute in gun stores that could be reproduced for free, on one condition, Mr. Demicco said: “You stick to the spirit and intent of our materials, which is not anti-gun but anti-suicide.”

The poster reads, “Concerned about a family member or friend? Hold on to their guns.” It lists warning signs that a person might be suicidal, such as depression, anger, reckless behavior, a recent breakup or other setback, substance abuse and talk of “being better off dead.”

At least 21 states now have similar suicide-prevention partnerships with gun owners, including New Mexico, Utah and Nevada, where suicide rates are among the highest in the nation. (The three highest are in Montana, Alaska and Wyoming, in that order.)

Whether such educational efforts will be successful in reducing gun suicides is still an open question. The National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention has estimated that 3,600 to 3,900 gun suicides a year could be prevented if even a small proportion of gun-owning families locked up their guns, and the risk of a suicide in a household with a gun was lowered to that in a gun-free home.

In Washington State, Dr. Stuber’s research has found that the brief suicide awareness interventions at community events led gun owners to be more diligent about locking up their firearms. In New Hampshire, the percentage of suicides occurring after recent gun purchases has declined slightly in recent years, although researchers say the drop cannot be clearly attributed to Gun Shop Project initiatives.

Research on legal restrictions on firearms is more plentiful. A new handgun law in Connecticut that requires a permit before a firearm purchase has been associated with a 15 percent reduction of gun suicides in that state, while the repeal of permit-to-purchase laws in Missouri has been associated with a similar increase in firearm suicides, a study found. State laws prohibiting the sale of firearms to youth were associated with a modest decrease in suicides among those aged 14 to 20, one study found. A study of handgun laws in all 50 states indicated laws restricting the purchase of handguns could have an even bigger impact on lowering suicide rates.

“When people say, ‘Why are you working with gun shops? They sell a terrible product’ — I get it,” said Catherine Barber, a senior researcher at the Harvard School of Public Health’s Injury Research Center and one of the founders of the Gun Shop Project. “But how are you going to save lives?”

And barriers remain, including the deeply ingrained message that gun owners have internalized, that they need quick access to firearms to protect themselves.

Ms. Torp, concerned about her father, picked up a pill lockbox for his insulin from the Safer Homes booth, as well as a handgun safe and a locking device for his Winchester Defender.

But, she said, she can’t keep all of the guns in the house locked up.

“If someone comes barreling through your door, you need a loaded gun,” she said. “You can’t be trying to open up a safe when you’re panicking.”

If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK). You can find a list of additional resources at SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources.

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.12 article:
Groupthink Has Left the Left Blind

A constricted view of the world leaves progressives surprised by the world as it is.

This year, several high-profile writers have left left-leaning publications after running afoul of what they describe as a pervasive culture of censoriousness, groupthink and intellectual-risk aversion. This month, Donald Trump once again stunned much of the liberal establishment by dramatically beating polling expectations to come within about 80,000 votes of another Electoral College victory.

It’s worth asking whether there’s a connection between the two — that is, between the left’s increasingly constricted view of the world and the increasing frequency with which leftists are surprised by the world as it is.

What, today, is leftism, at least when it comes to intellectual life? Not what it used to be. Once it was predominantly liberal, albeit with radical fringes. Now it is predominantly progressive, or woke, with centrist liberals in dissent. Once it was irreverent. Now it is pious. Once it believed that truth was best discovered by engaging opposing points of view. Now it believes that truth can be established by eliminating them. Once it cared about process. Now it is obsessed with outcomes. Once it understood, with Walt Whitman, that we contain multitudes. Now it is into dualities: We are privileged or powerless, white or of color, racist or anti-racist, oppressor or oppressed.

The list goes on. But the central difference is this: The old liberal left paid attention to complexity, ambiguity, the gray areas. A sense of complexity induced a measure of doubt, including self-doubt. The new left typically seeks to reduce things to elements such as race, class and gender, in ways that erase ambiguity and doubt. The new left is a factory of certitudes.

It’s from that factory that writers like Andrew Sullivan and Glenn Greenwald have fled, and from which many other independent-minded thinkers will, sooner or later, follow. For them, the loss isn’t devastating: They have large followings and can use new digital platforms like Substack to make a generous living.

For the new left — and the publications that champion it — the loss is much greater. It makes them predictable, smug and dull. It alienates readers. A current article on the New York magazine website is titled, “I Think About Björk’s Creativity Animal a Lot.” For gems such as this they got rid of Sullivan?

But worse than making it dull, the purge (or self-purge) of contrarians has made the new left blind.

According to the incessant pronouncements of much of the news media (including a few of my own), Donald Trump is the most anti-Black, anti-Hispanic and anti-woman president in modern memory. Yet the CNN exit poll found that Trump won a majority of the vote of white women against both Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden. He also improved his vote share over 2016 with both Latino and Black voters, while losing most of the advantage he previously had with college-educated white males — precisely the demographic his policies had supposedly done most to favor.

If the catechism of today’s left determined reality, none of this would have happened. Racial, ethnic or sexual identity would have trumped every other voting consideration. But as the Texas Democratic Representative Henry Cuellar recently told Axios: “Trump did a much better job at understanding Hispanics. Sometimes, Democrats see Hispanics as monolithic.” Latino voters in his South Texas district were particularly turned off by progressive rhetoric about defunding the police, opposition to fossil fuels and decriminalizing border crossings.

What is true of Cuellar’s constituency is true of everyone: People are rarely reducible to a single animating political consideration. Nor should they be subject to a simple moral judgment. Motives are complicated: It is perfectly possible to see Trump for the reprehensible man he is and still find something to like in his policies, just as it is possible to admire Biden’s character and reject his politics.

The apparent inability of many on the left to entertain the thought that decent human beings might have voted for Trump for sensible reasons — to take one example, the unemployment rate reached record lows before the pandemic hit — amounts to an epic failure to see their fellow Americans with understanding, much less with empathy. It repels the 73 million Trump voters who cannot see anything of themselves in media caricatures of them as fragile, bigoted, greedy and somewhat stupid white people.

It also motivates them. The surest way to fuel the politics of resentment — the politics that gave us the Tea Party, Brexit and Trump, and will continue to furnish more of the same — is to give people something to resent. Jeering moral condescension from entitled elites is among the things most people tend to resent.

Which brings me back to the flight of the contrarians. As the left (and the institutions that represent it) increasingly becomes an intellectual monoculture, it will do more than just drive away talent, as well as significant parts of its audience. It will become more self-certain, more obnoxious to those who don’t share its assumptions, more blinkered and more frequently wrong.

To the enemies of the left, the self-harm that left-leaning institutions do with their increasingly frequent excommunications is, ultimately, good news. The mystery is why liberals would do it to themselves.





No.13 article:
Instead of Regaining Momentum, Johnson Is Stalled at Home Again

The British prime minister begins 14 days of self-isolation after meeting with a lawmaker who tested positive for the coronavirus just as he tries to shake off bitter fighting within his administration.

LONDON — For Prime Minister Boris Johnson, this was supposed to be a critical week to reset his government after a tumultuous round of infighting that led to the abrupt ouster of his most influential adviser, Dominic Cummings.

Instead, Mr. Johnson began a 14-day quarantine in his Downing Street residence on Monday after being exposed to a member of Parliament who tested positive for the coronavirus.

The prime minister insisted he was “fit as a butcher’s dog” and was merely heeding the rules of Britain’s test-and-trace program. But Mr. Johnson’s enforced isolation will hobble his plan to regain momentum with public appearances and policy announcements after days of corrosive palace intrigue among his closest advisers.

The prime minister’s second close call with the virus — last April, he was hospitalized with a severe case of Covid-19 — deepens the sense of a government that cannot seem to get out of its own way.

The latest upheaval also comes at a pivotal moment in the negotiations for a post-Brexit trade agreement between Britain and the European Union. With the clock running down and major issues still dividing the two sides, Mr. Johnson will have to make difficult compromises in the next two weeks to break the deadlock.

The departure of Mr. Cummings removes an influential Brexiteer from the equation, but it also makes it harder for Mr. Johnson to cut a deal with Brussels without being accused of an instant Brexit betrayal.

Mr. Johnson’s exposure to the virus this time came during a meeting with Conservative lawmakers, one of whom, Lee Anderson, later developed symptoms and tested positive. A photo showed the two men standing barely three feet apart — neither wearing a mask — which raised questions about whether Downing Street practices proper social distancing, even after the outbreak that infected Mr. Johnson in March.

“The good news is that N.H.S. test-and-trace is working ever more efficiently,” Mr. Johnson said in a video in which he tried to promote the National Health Service’s much-maligned program. “The bad news is they pinged me and I’ve got to self-isolate because somebody I was in contact with a few days ago has developed Covid.”

As a recovered patient, Mr. Johnson said his body was “bursting with antibodies.” He did not broach the risk of re-infection, which, while possible, is rare. Mr. Johnson’s well-worn description of himself as “fit as a butcher’s dog” refers to a robust creature, well-fed on scraps from his master’s cutting board.

The same cannot be said for Mr. Johnson’s government, according to critics. The sudden loss of Mr. Cummings will deprive the prime minister of his most prodigious font of ideas and projects, even if critics also faulted the adviser for being a toxic, unyielding presence in Downing Street, clashing with other officials and straining Mr. Johnson’s ties with members of his party in Parliament.

The infighting cast an unwelcome spotlight on Mr. Johnson’s fiancée, Carrie Symonds, who previously worked as communications director for the Conservative Party. Ms. Symonds reportedly raised objections to the elevation of an ally of Mr. Cummings’s, Lee Cain. When that blocked Mr. Cain’s path, it set off a confrontation that resulted in the departure of both him and Mr. Cummings.

With a new lineup of advisers, Mr. Johnson’s allies hope he will recapture the more likable, easygoing image he enjoyed when he served as mayor of London.

This week, he plans to roll out a climate initiative and redouble his commitment to “level up” Britain’s economically challenged north with the more prosperous south. That is vital to Mr. Johnson’s political fortunes since the Conservatives won a landslide majority by breaking the Labour Party’s so-called “red wall” in those regions.

Mr. Anderson, the Conservative lawmaker who tested positive, is precisely the kind of figure to whom Mr. Johnson hopes to reach out. A onetime coal miner and Labour Party functionary in the district of Ashfield, Mr. Anderson, 53, ran as a Conservative in the last election and won a seat long held by Labour.

“It’s like the country is turning upside down,” Mr. Anderson said last year when he was canvassing voters. “As bizarre as it seems, Boris and Donald Trump connect with working-class voters. People like plain English.”

Mr. Anderson, on his Facebook page, said he lost his sense of taste on Friday, a day after he and four other lawmakers attended a breakfast meeting with Mr. Johnson. His positive test was returned on Sunday, which prompted the National Health Service’s contact tracers to get in touch with Mr. Johnson.

During his self-isolation Mr. Johnson plans to work from his apartment, which is above 11 Downing Street. He will also have access to his office at number 10 next door without walking through parts of the building where others work. Unlike his previous period in quarantine, Mr. Johnson will not have to live apart from his family.

Mr. Johnson will maintain a full schedule of events, conducted remotely, and hopes to use a video link to take part in Prime Minister’s Questions, his weekly grilling by the leader of the opposition in the House of Commons.

Although this is yet another critical week for the trade negotiations, analysts expect a meeting of European Union leaders on Thursday to be another in a succession of missed deadlines. Unlike many such negotiations, which come down to obscure details, this one has reached a politically charged endgame, with disputes over fishing rights, state aid rules, and guarantees of fair-market competition.

“It’s not insoluble, but we are in a holding pattern,” said David Henig, director of the U.K. Trade Policy Project at the European Center for International Political Economy, a research institute. “The political issues haven’t been resolved, and nothing is being done differently that makes one think that they can.”

“Some of these problems should have been solved and there should be narratives taking us toward a deal,” Mr. Henig added. “So the question is: What is going to change now that is going to make it happen?”





No.14 article:
Masatoshi Koshiba, 94, Dies; Nobel Winner Tracked Ghostly Neutrinos

A physics teacher had flunked him, denigrating his abilities. Dr. Koshiba set out to prove the teacher was wrong.

Masatoshi Koshiba, who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2002 for studies of the ghostly cosmic particles known as neutrinos, died on Thursday  in Edogawa Hospital in Tokyo. He was 94.

His death was announced by the University of Tokyo, where he had been a longtime professor. No cause was given.

Dr. Koshiba, widely known as “Toshi,” was a driving force in molding high-energy physics in Japan as it emerged from a postwar cocoon in the latter part of the 20th century.

“He’s responsible for putting Japan on the map in a big way,” said one of his collaborators, Dr. Eugene Beier, a physicist at the University of Pennsylvania.

Colleagues described Dr. Koshiba as a man who could get things done. Starting in the 1970s, using part of the Kamioka zinc mine in Japan, he spearheaded the building of a series of enormous underground tanks filled with ultrapure water and lined with phototubes for the purpose of detecting neutrinos, which can float through ordinary matter like moonlight through a window.

Deep in that cavern, shielded from outside interference by thousands of feet of rock, neutrinos streaming from the sun and elsewhere in the cosmos could be identified and some of the subtlest interactions of nature could be studied.

In 1987, one of these chambers, called Kamiokande, with its half-million gallons of pure water, recorded neutrinos streaming from a supernova explosion in a nearby galaxy, the Large Magellanic Cloud, confirming theories about how such explosions occurred and giving birth to a new field of neutrino astronomy.

This year, neutrino measurements at a successor chamber, Super Kamiokande, made headlines around the world for producing the first evidence that certain properties of neutrinos might explain why there is matter instead of empty space in the universe.

John Learned, a longtime collaborator and neutrino expert at the University of Hawaii, wrote in an email, “Koshiba represented for many the great tradition of the Samurai warrior in science, having the long view, fiercely competitive and amazingly competent.”

Masatoshi Koshiba was born on Sept. 19, 1926, in the coastal city of Toyohashi, in central Japan, the second child of Toshio and Hayako Koshiba. His mother died when he was 3, and his father, a military officer, married his deceased wife’s elder sister. They had two sons.

Dr. Koshiba grew up in Yokosuka, a city on Tokyo Bay, and attended an elite high school in Tokyo. He had been thinking of studying German literature at the University of Tokyo until he overheard his physics teacher, who had given him a flunking grade, denigrate his abilities.

“That statement made me furious, so I started studying physics,” Dr. Koshiba said in an oral history interview for the American Institute of Physics in 1997. “After one full month of concentrated work, I passed the physics department requirement, while the favorite student of the professor failed.”

After graduating from the university and two years of graduate study there, he went to the United States and dashed through the University of Rochester, earning his Ph.D. in physics in 1955 after only a year and eight months of study. He had hurried because he wanted the higher salary that a doctorate could command ($400 a month at the time) so that he could have more money to send back to his family in Japan.

After three years as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Chicago, Dr. Koshiba returned to the University of Tokyo. Shortly after moving back, he entered into a marriage, brokered by physicist friends, with Kyoto Kato, an art museum curator. She survives him along with a son, Shyun; a daughter, Mari Fujii; and two grandchildren.

Dr. Koshiba’s early research involved studying cosmic rays — high-energy particles flying from outer space — by placing detectors on high-altitude balloons. But he was to make his mark in the other direction — namely, underground.

He originally built Kamiokande in hopes of recording the disintegration of protons, the building blocks of ordinary matter, as predicted by an ambitious “grand unified theory” of particle physics. Phototubes lining the tank would detect flashes of light produced in the water by high-energy fragments flying away.

Neither Kamiokande, completed in 1983, nor a competing experiment in Michigan called I.M.B., saw any protons decay in the predicted time, scuttling the grand unified theory.

Dr. Koshiba and his collaborators then decided to convert Kamiokande to a neutrino detector.

Neutrinos had captured physicists’ imaginations since 1930, when Wolfgang Pauli predicted their existence out of desperation to account for a discrepancy in the process of radioactive decay. According to the theory worked out by Dr. Pauli and Enrico Fermi, neutrinos were virtually massless ghost riders of the sky, traveling at the speed of light and rarely interacting with other matter.

Yet space should be flooded with them. According to theory, nuclear reactions in the sun alone send 65 billion neutrinos through every square inch of Earth every second. But in the 1960s, when Raymond Davis, a researcher at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, set out to catch solar neutrinos in an underground vat of dry-cleaning fluid in an old gold mine in South Dakota, he counted only about a third as many neutrinos as theory had predicted.

If the Davis experiment was right, there was something wrong with theories of neutrinos or how the Sun worked. Dr. Davis was always confident of his method and measurements, but his experiment could not tell when the neutrinos arrived or where they were coming from.

That is where Dr. Koshiba’s Kamiokande came in. It would be able to track the time and direction of incoming neutrinos.

The conversion of the chamber to neutrino detector took two years, partly because the Kamioka zinc mine was full of radon gas, which would contaminate the detector.

The conversion was completed toward the end of 1986. Dr. Koshiba’s team had just started running their neutrino experiment when, on Feb. 23, a few dozen neutrinos from a supernova explosion 160,000 light years away in the Large Magellanic Cloud tickled the detector, illuminating for the first time the inner life of an exploding star.

“The lucky thing was that it happened one month before my retirement,” Dr. Koshiba recalled.

By 1990, the Kamiokande experiment had confirmed that neutrinos were indeed coming from the sun, and that there were only about a third as many as there should be, confirming the Davis experiment.

Dr. Koshiba and Dr. Davis shared the 2002 Nobel Prize in Physics with Riccardo Giacconi, an X-ray astronomer.

Meanwhile, experiments led by Dr. Koshiba’s protégé Takaaki Kajita at Kamiokande’s successor chamber, Super Kamiokande, and by Arthur McDonald at the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory in Ontario had confirmed that the apparent solar neutrino deficit was the fault of some bizarre property of the neutrinos. They come in three kinds and can oscillate from one form to the other as they travel along and become undetectable, behavior that astronomers and physicists think could be the key to many cosmic mysteries.

Dr. Kajita and Dr. McDonald went on to share the 2015 Nobel Prize in Physics. Many physicists believe that there are more Nobel prizes yet to be handed out in this field.

Dr. Koshiba, upon retirement, joined Tokai University in Tokyo for a couple of years and devoted himself to philanthropic and educational activities.

He was named distinguished university professor by the University of Tokyo in 2005. In a statement released by the university announcing Dr. Koshiba’s death, Sachio Komamiya, director of the International Center for Elementary Particle Physics, lauded him for nurturing talent.

“With his sharp intuition, passion for research and outstanding planning ability and leadership,” the statement said, “he has established the foundations of the related fields of his research in Japan.”





No.15 article:
Hungary and Poland Threaten E.U. Stimulus Over Rule of Law Links

The two illiberal governments, having been enabled by the bloc’s leaders and evaded punishment, now hold a 1.8 trillion euro package hostage.

BRUSSELS — When European Union leaders announced a landmark stimulus package to rescue their economies from the ravages of the coronavirus, they agreed to jointly raise hundreds of billions of dollars to use as aid — a bold and widely welcomed leap in collaboration never attempted in the bloc’s history.

But that unity was shattered on Monday when Hungary and Poland blocked the stimulus plan and the broader budget, cracking open one of the bloc’s most persistent, existential divisions over what a European Union democracy looks like.

The two eastern European countries said they would veto the spending bill because the funding was made conditional on upholding rule-of-law standards, such as an independent judiciary, which the two governments have weakened as they defiantly tear down separation of powers at home.

Their veto has thrown a signature achievement of the bloc into disarray, deepening a long-building standoff over its core principles and threatening to delay the stimulus money from getting to E.U. member states, if a new agreement can be reached at all.

Many E.U. nations are currently in the grips of a new round of nationwide lockdowns as a second wave of the virus has sent cases soaring in some places to levels rivaling the scourge last spring, inundating hospitals, shuttering businesses and leaving countries desperate to get their economies revitalized.

The show of force by Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary and, to a lesser degree his Polish counterpart, Mateusz Morawiecki, was the most prominent display yet of how the two members are now able to hold the bloc hostage on a major issue like protecting democratic values — and the E.U.’s relative powerlessness to stop them.

Mr. Orban has been emboldened by the tolerance of fellow European Union leaders, the impotence of the E.U. institutions to hold his government to account for violations of E.U. laws and standards, and the cover that President Trump, a close ally, has offered over the past four years, elevating both his policies and rhetoric on the global stage.

At an E.U. ambassadors’ meeting on Monday, the two eastern European governments effectively blocked the stimulus and budget package, sending shock-waves through the policymaking machine in Brussels and officials scrambling back to the drawing board to rescue the budget quickly.

E.U. leaders will now attempt to break the stalemate at a teleconference on Thursday, but it was not clear whether that would lead to a diluted version of the offending language to appease Hungary and Poland, or to further negotiations with the two countries and the European Parliament.

The 1.8 trillion euro, or $2.1 trillion, multiyear budget at stake contains at least 750 billion euros aimed at helping members’ economies out of the catastrophic recession unleashed by the coronavirus pandemic. Agreed upon in July after tough negotiations among national governments, the new budget was the first time that the E.U. had agreed to jointly issue debt and amounted to a groundbreaking change in the bloc’s willingness to mobilize resources collectively in a time of crisis.

But at the insistence of the European Parliament, which must approve spending, the budget bill passed earlier this month included language making the funds contingent on rule of law standards that the E.U. considers fundamental to its values. The item was clearly aimed at the Hungarian and Polish governments, which have defiantly chipped away at independent judiciaries among other democratic norms.

Hungary in particular has also resisted greater transparency in how Mr. Orban’s government spends E.U. subsidies, at times steering funds toward political allies in an environment of cronyism.

Both Hungary and Poland, undemocratic outliers, have enormous leverage because elements of the stimulus and budget package must receive the unanimous approval of member states.

Hungary and Poland, conversely, say it is the E.U. bureaucracy that is trying to coerce them.

“Without objective criteria, based on ideology, they want to blackmail countries without providing them legal remedy,” Mr. Orban said in an interview Friday criticizing the budget and stimulus bill. “This is not what we wanted. This is not why we created the European Union, so that there would be a second Soviet Union,” he added.

A delay in the bill beyond the end of November would push the deployment of the funding back into the new year, and would hurt the E.U. deeply. As the pandemic drags on, the bloc’s economy is sinking deeper into recession and national stimulus programs are rapidly depleting.

“When we have millions of E.U. citizens and businesses that need an E.U. lifeline and are on the brink of bankruptcy, to use this blackmail so they can throw out judges they don’t like and stuff money in their pockets, it’s the least solidarity-based action I’ve seen in the E.U.,” said Daniel Freund, a member of the European Parliament who participated in the stimulus and budget negotiations.

Hungary and Poland have long been in the European Commission’s cross hairs for such violations. They are the only two countries in the history of the E.U. to have been investigated by the Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, under the so-called Article 7 of its treaty, which allows for the suspension of a member state’s voting rights if it is found to be repeatedly violating fundamental E.U. values.

But the efforts to hold the two governments accountable have failed: ultimately, suspending one member’s voting rights would require a unanimous vote by the rest, and Poland and Hungary would always veto each other’s punishment.

In its first ever Rule of Law Report for Hungary in September, the European Commission noted the bloc’s yearslong concern over judicial independence, the “systemic lack of determined action to investigate corruption cases involving high-level officials or their immediate circle,” steps taken to curb media freedom, and attacks on civil society.

Responding to the report’s findings, Mr. Orban’s government circulated a document in Brussels, categorically rejecting the concerns raised by the Commission, adding that the report denied Hungary the right to a fair hearing.

European Commission officials lament the limits of the legal tools they have to force Hungary and Poland to change course. But experts have also been critical of European Union leaders, including Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, for enabling Mr. Orban’s behavior.

Ms. Merkel, whose country now holds the E.U.’s rotating presidency and shepherded the stimulus deal, was originally against the idea of tying E.U. funds to the rule-of-law mechanism as she and other E.U. leaders have shied away from opening more rifts that could further compromise the bloc in the aftermath of Britain’s departure.

“This veto demonstrates the dangers, or the cost, to the E.U. of not having stood up to these regimes earlier,” said R. Daniel Kelemen, professor of political science and law at Rutgers University.

“Now that they are consolidated autocracies, they can try to hold the E.U. hostage to keep their money coming,” he said.

Concerns over Mr. Orban’s authoritarianism have grown during the pandemic. He has used the crisis to continue consolidating power, and Hungary’s parliament extended Mr. Orban’s sweeping executive powers to combat the surge in coronavirus cases.

But critics charge that Mr. Orban has used his expanded authority to pursue measures that have nothing to do with the pandemic, like his desire to perpetuate a culture war against the L.G.B.T.Q. community.

Last week his government pushed forward with a sudden barrage of bills that, if adopted, would restrict marriage as an institution between a man and a woman and make it much more difficult for gay couples to adopt children. Some would also change election laws to strengthen Mr. Orban’s prospects to retain power and tweak the legal definition of public funds to obfuscate suspected cases of corruption.

Mr. Orban’s ascent to European culture warrior has also been bolstered by his close links to President Trump, whose defeat by Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the U.S. presidential election may now provide the E.U. with new chance to rein in the Hungarian leader, said Veronica Anghel, a Political Science Fellow at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and at the European University Institute.

“Having the U.S. back as an ally will give the E.U. another push to be less complacent with what’s happening in Eastern Europe,” Ms. Anghel said. “Biden is very interested in making democracy a theme in his agenda, and it’s likely he will look more closely at troublemakers in Eastern Europe.”

But, Ms. Anghel added, “It’s still the E.U. who makes the call.”





No.16 article:
N.C.A.A. to Host Men’s Basketball Tournament in One City for 2021

The event, which is typically spread across the United States, could be held in its entirety in Indianapolis, organizers said.

The N.C.A.A. will consolidate its usually sprawling men’s college basketball tournament to a single city in 2021 instead of holding the games at 13 sites across the United States, in hopes of limiting travel during the pandemic.

The N.C.A.A. announced Monday that it was in preliminary talks with local and state government officials to have Indianapolis host the 68-team Division I men’s tournament.

The men’s basketball committee that oversees the tournament determined that a single location would be more conducive to the “safety and well-being” of the event.

“We understand the disappointment 13 communities will feel to miss out on being part of March Madness next year,” said Kentucky’s athletic director, Mitch Barnhart, who leads the committee. “With the University of Kentucky slated to host first- and second-round games in March, this is something that directly impacts our school and community, so we certainly share in their regret.”

The tournament is usually spread throughout the country in March and April. Barclays Center in Brooklyn was scheduled to host three games in the middle of the tournament next year.

The 2020 men&#x27;s and women’s tournaments were among the first major sporting events in the United States to be canceled as the coronavirus spread in March.

The committee said that while limiting travel, it was looking for a location that could offer enough courts as well as housing and medical resources. The Final Four was already scheduled for April 3 and 5 at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, where the N.C.A.A. has its headquarters.

“The committee and staff have thoughtfully monitored the pandemic to develop potential contingency plans,” Mark Emmert, the president of the N.C.A.A., said. “The Board of Governors and my top priorities are to protect the health and well-being of college athletes while also maintaining their opportunity to compete at the highest level.”

The committee is not currently conversing with representatives from other cities, said David Worlock, the N.C.A.A.’s press officer, but he noted that could change. Officials are not planning to hold the entire tournament to a single, highly restricted site.

“We can’t operate in a bubble like, for example, the N.B.A. did this year with its postseason, though we will have similar protocols in place to protect the health and safety of those involved,” he said.

Discussions concerning the Division I women’s basketball tournament are still ongoing, said Lynn Holzman, the N.C.A.A.’s vice president for women’s basketball. That tournament generally uses more sites than the men’s tournament, with 16 teams hosting first- and second-round games that feed into regional sites and eventually the Final Four, which is scheduled for April 2 and 4 in San Antonio.

“The committee intends to maintain a field of 64 teams, and a variety of contingency plans — including reducing the number of first- and second-round sites or bringing the entire tournament to one location — are being considered,” Holzman said.

Indiana’s health department has reported an 11.7 percent positivity rate for virus tests over the last seven days. Daily cases have doubled in the state in the last 14 days compared with the daily average for the prior two weeks, and the state has had 87.6 cases per 100,000 residents over the past seven days.

In Marion County, where Indianapolis is, the positivity rate surpassed 10 percent last week, prompting the mayor and local health officials to institute more stringent social distancing protocols. Beginning Monday, indoor capacity for entertainment venues, gyms and fitness centers was cut to 25 percent. And Marion County health officials said they would need to approve any events that plan to host more than 50 people.

Still, Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb and Indianapolis Mayor Joe Hogsett seemed hopeful that they would be able to host the full tournament this spring.

“We are confident that, thanks to the collaboration of our city’s civic organizations and the strength of our hospitality industry, Indianapolis can rise to this challenge,” Hogsett wrote on Twitter.

“We know this change impacts others around the country, but we believe Indiana is uniquely positioned to host such a one-of-a-kind tournament,” Holcomb said in a statement emailed to The New York Times. “And do it safely.”





No.17 article:
Biden’s China Policy? A Balancing Act for a Toxic Relationship

As president, Joe Biden will face deep dilemmas, and a lot of unfinished business, stemming from President Trump’s multiyear onslaught against China.

WASHINGTON — In addition to a deadly pandemic and a weakened economy, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. will inherit one more challenge when he takes office in January: a toxic relationship with the world’s second-largest economy.

President Trump has placed tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars of products from China, imposed sanctions on Chinese companies and restricted Chinese businesses from buying American technology — a multiyear onslaught aimed at forcing Beijing to change its trade practices and as punishment for its authoritarian ways. He shows no sign of letting up in his final days in office: On Thursday, Mr. Trump issued an executive order barring investments in Chinese firms with military ties.

The hard choices for Mr. Biden will include deciding whether to maintain tariffs on about $360 billion worth of Chinese imports, which have raised costs for American businesses and consumers, or whether to relax those levies in exchange for concessions on economic issues or other fronts, like climate change.

Mr. Biden will need to walk a careful line. He and his advisers view many of Mr. Trump’s measures, which were aimed at severing ties between the Chinese and American economies, as clumsy, costly and unstrategic. They say they want to take a smarter approach that combines working with the Chinese on some issues like global warming and the pandemic, while competing with them on technological leadership and confronting them on other issues like military expansionism, human rights violations or unfair trade.

In a speech on Monday, Mr. Biden promised to make significant investments into American industry, including $300 billion in technology industries that he said would create three million “good-paying” jobs, as well as channeling more government dollars into purchasing American products like automobiles and pharmaceuticals.

“We’re going to invest in American workers and make them more competitive,” Mr. Biden said. He added that he would ensure that labor unions and environment groups were “at the table” in any trade negotiations and push for the United States, rather than China, to set the world’s trading rules, along with other democracies.

“The idea that we are poking our finger in the eyes of our friends and embracing autocrats makes no sense to me,” Mr. Biden said.

Even if Mr. Biden departs from Mr. Trump’s punishing approach, his administration will be eager to maintain leverage over China to accomplish its own policy goals. And the new administration will face pressure from lawmakers in both parties who view China as a national security threat and have introduced legislation aimed at penalizing Beijing for its human rights abuses, global influence operations and economic practices.

“This is likely going to be a period of continuing uncertainty on the U.S.-China front,” said Myron Brilliant, the executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “There is no question that President Trump has adopted a tough stance on China, and this probably doesn’t give President-elect Biden a lot of political flexibility early on, but we expect a significant departure in tone, style and process.”

Mr. Biden has given few details about his plans for U.S.-China relations, other than saying he wants to recruit American allies such as Europe and Japan to pressure China to make economic reforms, like protecting intellectual property. He has pledged to devote more resources to enhancing American manufacturing capacity, infrastructure and technological development, to ensure the United States retains an edge over China even as it invests huge sums in fields like telecommunications, artificial intelligence and semiconductors.

But Mr. Biden will face pressure from both parties not to revert to the approach that he and many of his predecessors had earlier embraced in trying to transform China’s economic practices by bringing it into the global economy.

Like many Democrats and Republicans in the 1990s and early 2000s, Mr. Biden argued that integrating China into the global trading system would force Beijing to play by international rules, to the benefit of American workers. In 2000, he voted to grant China permanent normal trading relations, which paved the way for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization and deeper global economic ties.

In 2016, Mr. Trump won the presidency in part by loudly rejecting that approach, arguing that the United States needed to isolate, not integrate, Beijing.

Two decades later, Mr. Biden acknowledges that China exploited the international system, and he has called for a more aggressive approach. Mr. Biden has said the United States must get “tough with China,” and referred to Xi Jinping, the Chinese leader, as a “thug.”

Congress is also relatively unified on taking a tough stance on China. Hundreds of China-related bills are circulating, including several bipartisan efforts that echo Mr. Biden’s emphasis on competing with China by investing in American industries like quantum computing and artificial intelligence.

Mr. Biden’s first moves could also be dictated by Mr. Trump’s final months. Many trade experts say they are concerned that Mr. Trump, who has promised to make China “pay” for not doing enough to contain the coronavirus, could amp up his economic fight. Several of Mr. Trump’s aides are bitter at China for its role as the source of the coronavirus, which they see as a major contributor to Mr. Trump’s loss, people familiar with their thinking say.

One area of focus is the trade deal that Mr. Trump signed with Chinese officials in January. While China has largely kept commitments to open up its markets to American companies and Mr. Trump’s advisers have continued to defend the pact, Beijing has fallen far behind schedule in its promise to buy an additional $200 billion of goods and services by the end of next year.

Mr. Trump’s most likely path will be to leave the deal intact, said Chris Rogers, a global trade and logistics analyst at Panjiva. But he wouldn’t rule out “a scorched-earth policy where China is declared to be in violation of its Phase 1 trade deal commitments and there’s a return to tariff escalation,” he said.

“President-elect Biden will be left holding the pieces if the deal is broken,” Mr. Rogers added.

And the president shows no signs of backing off a confrontational approach in other areas. On Friday, his administration is expected to begin economic talks with Taiwan that are likely to rankle Beijing. His advisers are considering other measures to punish China in the coming weeks, including sanctions related to China’s security crackdowns in Hong Kong and the Xinjiang region, where the Chinese government has carried out mass detentions and harsh policing of ethnic minorities.

“We are worried that he’s going to do some rash things that aren’t going to make sense for the future of the country or global stability,” said Rufus Yerxa, the president of the National Foreign Trade Council, which represents major multinational companies. “Given the history of President Trump’s use of executive authority, we’re taking nothing for granted in these next few months.”

Still, “most of what he could do is through executive orders and executive actions, which can be reversed by a Biden administration,” Mr. Yerxa added.

Whether Mr. Biden opts to roll back Mr. Trump’s more punitive measures will depend, at least in part, on China’s future behavior, including whether it pursues more aggressive incursions into the South China Sea, Taiwan and Hong Kong, people close to his campaign say.

Beijing has recently endorsed a policy of greater technological self-reliance and a stronger military to protect itself from a more antagonistic United States, and moved ahead with cementing other economic partnerships. On Sunday, China signed the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, a pan-Asian trade pact that includes Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Thailand and Vietnam, and will help cement China’s image as the dominant economic power in the region.

In his remarks Monday, Mr. Biden argued for America to regain leadership in the trade sphere.

“We make up 25 percent of the world’s trading capacity of the economy in the world,” he said. “We need to be aligned with the other democracies, another 25 percent or more, so that we can set the rules of the road instead of having China and others dictate outcomes because they are the only game in town.”

Mr. Biden’s appointments for trade and foreign policy posts could help determine his approach toward China, though it remains unclear whom he might nominate for such critical jobs as secretary of state and commerce and the United States trade representative.

Similar to Mr. Biden himself, many of his closest advisers have a moderate track record on trade and China, believing they can work with Chinese leaders on some issues even as they challenge them on others. But several of his national security advisers are more skeptical of China.

No matter the path, business groups, economists and others are hoping for a coherent strategy that does not result in the type of economic brinkmanship Mr. Trump appeared to thrive on.

While Democrats and Republicans have credited Mr. Trump with drawing attention to China’s security threats, and its unfair economic practices like intellectual property theft, his dealings with China have also been transactional and inconsistent. In an attempt to secure a trade deal, Mr. Trump lavished praise on Mr. Xi, delayed sanctions against China’s human rights violations for months and pardoned the Chinese company ZTE for running afoul of U.S. law. And he has employed racist and xenophobic language, like calling the coronavirus the “kung flu,” that has fueled attacks on people of Asian descent around the country.

“The Trump administration never did lay out a coherent, comprehensive, engaged trade strategy,” said Thea M. Lee, an economist and the president of the Economic Policy Institute. “It was much more scattershot: Throw up a tariff here, do a deal with China, disparate elements that didn’t seem to talk to each other.”

“But there are a lot of tools in that toolbox, and I would like to see the Biden administration be thoughtful and strategic about how to use them,” Ms. Lee said.





No.18 article:
As Tensions Among Republicans Mount, Georgia’s Recount Proceeds Smoothly

Election officials discovered about 2,600 new ballots, but they are not enough to affect the outcome of the presidential race in the state.

ATLANTA — Brad Raffensperger, Georgia’s secretary of state, on Monday accused fellow Republicans of trying to undermine the legitimacy of the state’s election in an effort to swing the results to President Trump, who narrowly lost the state to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and later demanded the hand recount.

Election officials in Georgia also announced Monday evening that they had discovered 2,600 ballots in Floyd County that had not been previously reported to the state, a notable but overall minor hiccup in what they otherwise described as a smooth recounting of the nearly five million ballots cast by Georgia voters during the presidential election.

The counting is expected to wrap up this week, and elections officials have reported few problems aside from the error in Floyd County, which is located in northwestern Georgia and voted heavily for Mr. Trump. Democrats said the recount had so far resulted in no substantive changes, at least none that would affect the lead currently enjoyed by Mr. Biden.

“The Floyd County situation was unfortunate,” said Gabriel Sterling, an official with the office of Georgia’s secretary of state. However, he added, “The majority of the counties right now are finding zero deviations from the original number of ballots.”

Mr. Raffensperger, in an interview with The Washington Post, said that Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina was among those Republicans seeking to challenge legally cast absentee ballots with the aim of helping Mr. Trump take the lead in a state in which he is losing by several thousand votes. According to Mr. Raffensperger, Mr. Graham asked about possible ways that ballots could be disqualified, including whether the secretary of state could reject all absentee ballots in counties that had a high number of signature mismatches on those ballots.

A spokesperson for Mr. Raffensperger declined to comment when reached Monday evening. Senator Graham, speaking to reporters on Capitol Hill on Monday, denied that he had suggested to Mr. Raffensperger that he find a way to throw out legally cast ballots.

“That’s ridiculous,” said Mr. Graham, who said that his conversation with Mr. Raffensperger covered questions about Georgia’s system of using signatures to verify the identity of voters who use absentee ballots. “I thought it was a good conversation,” Mr. Graham said. “I’m surprised to hear he characterized it that way.”

Mr. Raffensperger, a lifelong Republican, was stung last week when Georgia’s senators, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, both ardent Trump supporters, called for Mr. Raffensperger’s resignation, accusing him of mismanagement and calling the election he oversaw “an embarrassment.”

Mr. Raffensperger has said he would investigate any allegations of irregularities in the election, but insists that the process was sound and the results are valid.

Mr. Raffensperger also hit back at Representative Doug Collins, who is overseeing Mr. Trump’s efforts in Georgia and who accused the secretary of state of caving in to pressure from Democrats. Mr. Raffensperger called Mr. Collins a “liar” and a “charlatan.”

The extraordinary, labor-intensive effort to recount every vote in every one of Georgia’s 159 counties began Friday morning, and counties have until late Wednesday, just before midnight, to complete the work. As of Monday evening, 4.3 million ballots had been recounted, according to the secretary of state’s office, out of just under five million cast.

The secretary of state’s office declined Monday to release the results of the recounts from individual counties. But over the weekend Patrick Moore, a lawyer for the Biden campaign, said that Democrats had been keeping tabs on the county-by-county results and had found that while some discrepancies between the original counts and the recounts had emerged, they were minor and would not affect Mr. Biden’s front-runner status in the state.

“As expected, the counties that have completed their audit thus far have shifted vote totals but almost imperceptibly, and thus far in favor of Joe Biden,” Mr. Moore said during a telephone news conference.

With the newly discovered ballots in Floyd County, Mr. Biden’s lead will go from around 14,200 to around 13,300 votes, according to Mr. Sterling. The New York Times declared Mr. Biden the winner of Georgia’s 16 electoral votes on Friday, joining a number of major news organizations.

Mr. Sterling said that the Floyd County officials discovered the issue in the midst of doing the recount. Mr. Sterling called the error “gross incompetence” on the part of the Floyd County elections director, and said that Mr. Raffensperger had asked the director to step down.

It was the Trump campaign that demanded a hand recount last week in a letter to Mr. Raffensperger. Shortly afterward, Mr. Raffensperger ordered the recount, which his office said is technically an audit.

Even so, Mr. Trump this weekend disparaged the Georgia process on Twitter. “Their recount is a scam, means nothing,” he wrote. On Monday, the president wrote in a tweet that the recount was “meaningless” because “Georgia won’t let us look at the all important signature match.”

This last tweet was a reference to a discredited argument Mr. Trump had made previously concerning a consent decree that helped establish rules for verifying signatures on absentee ballots. But it would be impossible to check signatures in the hand recount because absentee ballots arrive in an envelope with the voter’s signature on the outside of the envelope; those signatures are checked by county elections officials, after which the envelopes are permanently separated from the ballots to ensure voters’ privacy.

The remaining paper ballots, which are being recounted around the state, are thus wholly divorced from the process of signature verification.

Fulton County — Georgia’s most populous county, which covers much of Atlanta — reported that it had completed its recount Sunday; officials noted few problems as they processed roughly 528,000 votes by hand, an effort that involved hundreds of workers who gathered to plow through stacks of ballots in a cavernous hall at Atlanta’s downtown convention center.

Some of Georgia’s other large counties also reported on Monday that the recount was going smoothly. DeKalb County, a populous suburban county on Atlanta’s eastern flank, finished its count of 370,000 ballots Sunday, a process that one county official described as “seamless.”

Ross Cavitt, a spokesman for Cobb County, said that the bulk of his county’s ballots had been counted, but that there was still work to be done Monday. “Nothing that indicates there’s going to be a substantial change in the results,” he added.

Counties that have already certified their vote totals will have to recertify them after the Wednesday deadline if there are discrepancies from the original tally.

The state faces a Nov. 20 deadline for certifying the overall results. After that point, by Georgia law, the second-place finisher may request another recount if the difference in the vote totals is within half a percentage point. (Mr. Biden currently leads by 0.28 percent.)

That recount would be performed by running the ballots through scanners, not by hand.





No.19 article:
Quotation of the Day: Tourists May Love New York, but May Not Be Back for Years

“Many look at Broadway as the dinner bell. As soon as that dinner bell rings, people are going to come far and wide.”

FRED DIXON, the chief executive of NYC &amp; Company, the city’s tourism promotion agency.





No.20 article:
I❤️NY in Crisis: How Do Tourist Shops Survive With No Tourists?

Like many souvenir stores in New York City, Memories of New York in Manhattan is packed with shirts. They bear the logos of the Yankees and select subway lines, images of the Brooklyn Bridge and, of course, the familiar “I ❤️NY” insignia that is a staple of city souvenir shops.

The store’s owner, Alper Tutus, said shirt sales are vital to his business. But since he reopened in August after closing in March because of the city’s coronavirus lockdown, he hasn’t sold a single one.

“Right now, it is absolutely zero sales, nobody’s buying,” said Mr. Tutus, 75, who opened the shop in the Flatiron neighborhood 25 years ago.

Surrounded by New York-themed shot glasses, N.Y.P.D. and F.D.N.Y. caps, and a sea of mugs, postcards and key chains, Mr. Tutus said he recently renewed his lease at $70,000 per month for his 6,000-square-foot shop. But with no real revenue, he has struggled to pay his rent.

For many tourists, no visit to New York is complete without a stop to pick up a T-shirt, cap or any other piece of memorabilia that celebrates the bustling, thriving global destination that the city is — or was, before the pandemic led to travel restrictions.

The rules decimated tourism in one of the country’s most popular big-city destinations and has led to a stark reversal in the surge of visitors to New York in recent years.

While the city has slowly reopened and some workers have returned to their offices, tourists have still largely stayed away, which means no customers for hundreds of souvenir shops throughout New York that remain glaringly empty of customers.

On Monday, the city’s tourism promotion agency projected that it would take four years for the number of visitors to New York to recover to the levels before the pandemic. International tourism will take even longer to bounce back.

 “It’s bad everywhere in the city, but other businesses like restaurants can still rely on local New Yorkers,” said Eicha Misfa, a manager at the I Love NY shop at Broadway and 38th Street, normally a bustling location near many theaters.

But Broadway theaters, a big reason many visitors come to New York, have been closed since March and are staying shut until at least May 30.

“Our business relies on tourists,” Ms. Misfa said. “We can’t survive without them.”

Or as a salesman at the Park Souvenirs and Gifts shop in Manhattan put it, “How do you sell tourist gifts when there are no tourists?”

Another employee there — neither would give their names because they were not owners or managers — said sales were down 90 percent. The employee was pessimistic that the store, just off Central Park South, could make it through the holiday season “unless a miracle happens.”

At K&amp;N Gifts, on Broadway and 52nd Street, a salesman, Tipu Syed, 20, said his boss paid $30,000 a month in rent. “I don’t know how he pays the rent or my salary, but I’m grateful to still have my job,” he said.

At 2 p.m. on a recent weekday, Mr. Syed stood near an array of window displays — from miniatures of the Statue of Liberty and Empire State Building to N.Y.P.D. dog vests — and said he had served two paying customers all day.

“There’s no one to buy anything,” he said, surrounded by an assortment of N.Y.P.D. baby bibs, I Love NY mugs priced at two for $9.99, and NYC baseball caps discounted to three for $10.99.

Midtown Manhattan has the city’s largest concentration of souvenir shops, whose lifeblood are the many tourist attractions in the area, like Rockefeller Center, the Empire State Building and especially Times Square. All of them have seen few visitors since the lockdown.

These days, employees at souvenir shops say they can count daily sales on one hand. They can be seen standing at shop entrances, trying to entice passers-by with discount prices.

At Playland Gifts — one of four souvenir shops on a single block of Seventh Avenue between 48th and 49th Streets — a salesman, Nazmul Islam, 42, stood next to a rack of $7 face masks emblazoned with “NYC” and said he had only two customers that day.

“The only people out here are New Yorkers and they’re not going to buy New York souvenirs,” he said.

At another I Love NY gift shop, on Broadway near 52nd Street, Akm Islam, a salesman, stood near the front door among shelves piled with snow globes of the Manhattan skyline and miniature Statue of Libertys.

“I’ve had customers say, ‘I can’t believe this is Times Square,’” he said, pointing to the empty sidewalks. “Look out there. Times Square is crying. It’s so empty.”

In 2019, New York’s tourism industry marked its tenth consecutive year of growth, with the city welcoming a record 67 million visitors. Before the pandemic struck, the city was projected to do at least as well this year, but now the city is expected to attract just 22 million visitors.  

This summer, the New York City comptroller’s office estimated that the city would miss out on at least $1.5 billion in taxable tourism sales for the next year.

NYC &amp; Company, the city’s tourism marketing agency, said tourism supports more than 400,000 jobs and accounts for almost $7 billion in state and local taxes. The collapse in tourism has ravaged hotels, restaurants, bars and many retail businesses.

“If you don’t have millions of tourists coming in every week into the city, there’s no way to sustain all of those tourist shops, so I think a lot of them are going to close,” said Nathan Harkrader, chief executive of CitySouvenirs.com and NYCwebstore.com, two online-only souvenir merchants.

The tourist boom allowed store owners to afford high rents by doing large volumes of sales of relatively inexpensive items because of the huge flow of visitors.

In some parts of New York, souvenir shops are as ubiquitous as Starbucks branches, Mr. Harkrader said, a level of saturation that makes it even tougher for shops to survive as tourist numbers drop.

Vendors his company buys from have sent him products they have retrieved from stores that have closed for good, perhaps as many as two dozen, Mr. Harkrader said.

Mr. Harkrader said his business had endured partly because customers who used to live in New York or who simply love the city wanted to purchase items to show sympathy and support for New York.

Other online customers have been would-be visitors whose trips were derailed because of the pandemic, he said. Puzzles have also been popular among people seeking things to fill the time at home.

And unlike brick-and-mortar stores faced with high Manhattan rents, Mr. Harkrader keeps his stock in a warehouse in Robesonia, Penn., where the monthly rent is $2,500.

With the end-of-the-year holidays approaching, souvenir shops would normally be gearing up for one of the busiest periods of the year. But with the virus surging again and many travel restrictions still in place, there is little chance of much holiday cheer.

“For a lot of them, that may have been their last chance to stay on,” Mr. Harkrader said.

Mr. Islam, the salesman at Playland gifts, said souvenir shops “can only hope things turn around soon.”

“Hope is all we have right now.”





No.21 article:
Using Wolves as First Responders Against a Deadly Brain Disease

Some scientists say that the predators are essential to curbing the spread of Chronic Wasting Disease because they pick off weak deer.

Are the wolves of Yellowstone National Park the first line of defense against a terrible disease that preys on herds of wildlife?

That’s the question for a research project underway in the park, and preliminary results suggest that the answer is yes. Researchers are studying what is known as the predator cleansing effect, which occurs when a predator sustains the health of a prey population by killing the sickest animals. If the idea holds, it could mean that wolves have a role to play in limiting the spread of chronic wasting disease, which is infecting deer and similar animals across the country and around the world. Experts fear that it could one day jump to humans.

“There is no management tool that is effective” for controlling the disease, said Ellen Brandell, a doctoral student in wildlife ecology at Penn State University who is leading the project in collaboration with the U.S. Geological Survey and the National Park Service. “There is no vaccine. Can predators potentially be the solution?”

Many biologists and conservationists say that more research would strengthen the case that reintroducing more wolves in certain parts of the United States could help manage wildlife diseases, although the idea is sure to face pushback from hunters, ranchers and others concerned about competition from wolves.

Chronic wasting disease, a contagious neurological disease, is so unusual that some experts call it a “disease from outer space.” First discovered among wild deer in 1981, it leads to deterioration of brain tissue in cervids, mostly deer but also elk, moose and caribou, with symptoms such as listlessness, drooling, staggering, emaciation and death.

It is caused by an abnormal version of a cell protein called a prion, which functions very differently than bacteria or viruses. The disease has spread across wild cervid populations and is now found in 26 states and several Canadian provinces, as well as South Korea and Scandinavia.

The disease is part of a group called transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, the most famous of which is bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease. Mad cow in humans causes a variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, and there was an outbreak among people in the 1990s in Britain from eating tainted meat.

Cooking does not kill the prions, and experts fear that chronic wasting disease could spread to humans who hunt and consume deer or other animals that are infected with it.

The disease has infected many deer herds in Wyoming, and it spread to Montana in 2017. Both states are adjacent to Yellowstone, so experts are concerned that the deadly disease could soon make its way into the park’s vast herds of elk and deer.

Unless, perhaps, the park’s 10 packs of wolves, which altogether contain about 100 individuals, preyed on and consumed diseased animals that were easier to pick off because of their illness (the disease does not appear to infect wolves).

“Wolves have really been touted as the best type of animal to remove infected deer, because they are cursorial — they chase their prey and they look for the weak ones,” said Ms. Brandell. By this logic, diseased deer and other animals would be the most likely to be eliminated by wolves.

Preliminary results in Yellowstone have shown that wolves can delay outbreaks of chronic wasting disease in their prey species and can decrease outbreak size, Ms. Brandell said. There is little published research on “predator cleansing,” and this study aims to add support for the use of predators to manage disease.

A prime concern about the spread of chronic wasting disease in the Yellowstone region is the fact that Wyoming maintains 22 state-sponsored feeding grounds that concentrate large numbers of elk unnaturally in the Yellowstone region. And just south of Grand Teton National Park lies the National Elk Refuge, where thousands of animals, displaced by cattle ranches, are fed each winter to satisfy elk hunters and tourists. Many wildlife biologists say concentrating the animals in such small areas is a recipe for the rapid spread of chronic wasting disease.

When cases of the disease among deer ranged from 5 to 50 percent in Wisconsin and Colorado, those states were considered hot spots. But if the disease gets into game farms like the ones in Wyoming, “prevalence rates skyrocket to 90 or 100 percent,” said Mark Zabel, associate director of the Prion Research Center at Colorado State University.

Prions are especially deadly. Unlike bacteria and viruses, prions can persist in soil for 10 years or more and endure on vegetation. Even if a herd dies out or is culled, new animals moving in can become infected.

The origin of the disease is unknown. Andrew P. Dobson, a professor of ecology and epidemiology at Princeton who has studied predator cleansing, believes the illness is largely the result of ecosystems with too few predators and scavengers.

He speculates that the disease may have come from deer living in proximity to sheep in Colorado or Wyoming, where it was first identified. Sheep have carried scrapie — effectively mad cow disease for sheep — for centuries. Dr. Dobson has theorized that after a contaminated animal died, it may have lain on the ground for a while in the absence of predators and scavengers, which would usually clean up carcasses.

Elk and deer must have calcium, he said, and they may have eaten the bones of a contaminated animal and spread the disease.

The absence of wolves throughout much of the West may also have allowed the disease to take off. “Taking the sick and weak removes chronic wasting disease from the population, because any animal showing any signs of it will get killed and eaten by the wolves,” Dr. Dobson said. “The rest of the carcass gets cleaned up by the coyotes, the bald eagles, ravens and bears.”

“Without predators and scavengers on the landscape, animal components last much longer, and that can definitely have an impact on the spread of disease,” Ms. Brandell said.

Restoring the population of predators in national parks and wild lands would go a long way toward healthier ecosystems with less disease, Dr. Dobson said.

Ken McDonald, chief of the wildlife division of Montana’s Fish, Wildlife and Parks Department, expressed doubts that wolves would prevent chronic wasting disease.

“Wolves help remove sick animals, but animals don’t get visibly ill for about 2 years,” he said. “So they are carriers and spreaders but don’t get the classic symptoms.”

Mr. McDonald said that maintaining a large enough wolf population outside of Yellowstone to control chronic wasting disease would require so many wolves that it would be socially unacceptable, especially to ranchers and hunters.

The state’s approach to controlling the disease, he said, is to increase the number of deer that can be killed in places where the disease is growing.

Ms. Brandell, however, said that wolves may detect the disease long before it becomes apparent to people, through smell or a slight change in the movement of prey, which could be beneficial.

“Wolves wouldn’t be a magic cure everywhere,” she said. “But in places where it was just starting and you have an active predator guild, they could keep it at bay and it might never get a foothold.”





No.22 article:
With Marlins Job, Kim Ng Is ‘Bearing a Torch for So Many’

Major League Baseball’s first female general manager said she had received an outpouring of support since her hiring was announced on Friday.

Since the Miami Marlins named Kim Ng as their new general manager on Friday, making her the first woman to hold that title in any of the major men’s sports leagues in North America, she said she had been flooded with well over a thousand emails and text messages of congratulations. The senders included current and former managers, scouts, front office executives, players, family and friends.

“I got calls and text messages from guys that I’ve known over the years who were just so excited to tell their daughters and wives,” Ng, 51, said from Marlins Park during her introductory news conference on Monday.

“And then I got voicemails from friends and front office executives with tears, just so happy that I had broken through, but really more for the sport and more about what it meant for us in society.”

A few messages stood out to Ng, namely a tweet from Michelle Obama, the former first lady, and another from Billie Jean King, the former tennis star.

“With 30 years’ experience as a baseball executive, she’s made history as the first woman and first Asian-American to hold the top post in a baseball operations department,” King wrote. “Progress!”

The words resonated with Ng because King and another former tennis star, Martina Navratilova, were two of her idols growing up in Queens, New Jersey and Long Island.

Long viewed as the woman who could break this gender barrier in Major League Baseball, Ng said she felt an enormous responsibility to continue serving as an example for girls and young women, particularly those interested in baseball, a sport dominated by white men.

“There’s an adage, ‘You can’t be it if you can’t see it,’” Ng said. “I suggest to them, ‘Now you can see it.’ And so I look forward to hearing all of their stories and just how inspired they are to now pursue a job in sports, a job in baseball and to reach for the stars.”

When Derek Jeter, the chief executive and a part owner of the Marlins, called Ng to tell her she had gotten the job, she said she felt a “10,000-pound” weight lifted off one shoulder. Then nearly 30 minutes later, she felt it had simply switched shoulders.

“I know that I am quite visible,” she said, adding later, “You’re bearing a torch for so many.”

Ng is believed to be the second person of Asian descent to lead an M.L.B. team. Farhan Zaidi, who was born in Canada to parents from Pakistan, was the Los Angeles Dodgers’ general manager from 2014 to 2018 and is now the San Francisco Giants’ president of baseball operations.

Ng, who worked as an assistant general manager for the Dodgers and the Yankees, and most recently as M.L.B.’s senior vice president for baseball operations, admitted feeling deflated over the years after interviewing for several general manager openings and not landing the gig.

She said it was difficult to go through those failures publicly and felt that sometimes the interviews were just about checking a diversity box. But she did them anyway because she wanted other team owners to consider minority or female candidates and to show other women in sports that this could be possible.

“I can’t think of anyone more qualified for the position than Kim,” said Bruce Sherman, the principal owner of the Marlins, who overcame a coronavirus outbreak to end a 17-year postseason drought during the 2020 season.

Ng said her experience working in Major League Baseball’s central office allowed her to learn the best practices of how teams operated in the amateur draft and the international market. And as she takes over a smaller-revenue club, she acknowledged that player development would be more important than ever.

After Jeter first reached out to Ng, the two talked a few times. He said it became evident to both of them that she was “a perfect fit.” Ng, who worked for the Yankees while Jeter starred for them, called him “fearless” as a player and now as an executive for hiring her.

She said her connection with other key Marlins officials helped her feel comfortable and will make her transition smooth: Marlins Manager Don Mattingly held the same position with the Dodgers when she worked there, and Gary Denbo, the Marlins’ vice president for player development and scouting, was a coach for the Yankees when she worked there.

“I just can’t wait to get working,” she said.





No.23 article:
Corrections: Nov. 17, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Tuesday, Nov. 17, 2020.

An article on Sunday about the ways houses of worship in New York are serving their communities during the pandemic misstated the surname of a deacon at St. Agatha’s Roman Catholic church in Brooklyn who died of Covid-19. He was Emilio Arteaga, not Artea. It also misstated the “zone” St. Agatha’s was placed in. It was an orange zone, not red.

A picture caption with an article on Saturday about American students who lack reliable internet access misstated the given name of a student in rural North Carolina. As the article correctly stated, she is Orlandria Lennon, not Orlandrie.

An illustration on Sunday about the effectiveness of masks in curbing the spread of the coronavirus misstated the size of an aerosol particle. The aerosol particle considered medium is 0.1 to 0.5 microns not &lt; 0.1 to 0.5 microns.

An article on Wednesday about charges faced by Ace Magashule, the secretary general of the governing African National Congress, misidentified a personal assistant to Mr. Magashule. The assistant, who has become a witness for the state, is Moroadi Cholota, not Refiloe Mokoena. Because of an editing error, the article also referred incorrectly  to an unnamed businessman accused of once paying a $3,431 bribe to Mr. Magashule. The businessman has since died; he is not facing court charges.

An article on Saturday about the newest members of Congress misstated the significance of Nancy Mace’s election as a representative for South Carolina. She is the first Republican woman to represent the state in Congress, but not the first woman to do so.

An article on Saturday about the likelihood that Republican-led state legislatures will choose members of the Electoral College to cast votes for President Trump in states won by President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. misstated the year that the Electoral Count Act was enacted. It was 1887, not 1876.

An article on Saturday about Bryson DeChambeau’s poor performance on the third hole at Augusta National on Friday misstated his score on the hole. He carded a triple bogey, not a double bogey.

An article on Friday about the Super Bowl halftime show this coming February misstated the number of followers that the musical artist the Weeknd has on Instagram. It is 25 million, not 2.5 million.

An article on Saturday about a musical history project led by Rhiannon Giddens included a statement from Ms. Giddens that misidentified the topic of a traditional song. It is the Swannanoa Tunnel, not the Cumberland Gap.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.24 article:
Biden Calls for Stimulus Ahead of a ‘Dark Winter’ for the Country

The president-elect looked to forge unity between business and unions in a speech on the economy.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. warned on Monday of a “very dark winter” ahead and called on Congress to pass a large economic stimulus package immediately to help workers, businesses, and state and local governments struggling to cope with the coronavirus pandemic.

Mr. Biden gave his first major policy speech since he won the election after participating in a virtual meeting with business and union leaders, including the chief executives of General Motors, Microsoft, Target and the Gap and the head of the United Auto Workers. The group, meeting over Zoom, discussed how to safely reopen the American economy when virus cases continue to surge across the nation, prompting renewed lockdowns.

The president-elect’s decision to highlight his meeting with labor groups and businesses underscores the immense challenge facing his administration, which will have to contend with a spike in coronavirus infections and deaths, a faltering economic recovery and a public weary of restrictions on everyday life.

Many businesses continue to struggle with reduced activity and are eager to bring workers — and customers — back, while unions continue to insist that corporations don’t needlessly expose workers to risk.

Participants said the discussion, which was closed to reporters, focused heavily on how to keep businesses operating and on workplace safety, including union leaders’ push for enhanced worker protections through the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

“The majority of the discussion with G.M. was on Covid protocols and the importance of keeping manufacturing running,” said a G.M. official familiar with the discussion. “There’s a lot of interest in how we are working with the U.A.W. to keep the work force safe and keep the plants running.”

Rory Gamble, the president of the autoworkers’ union, said in an interview that he had urged Mr. Biden to make sure OSHA issued “strong enforceable standards” to keep workers safe during the pandemic. Under the Trump administration, OSHA has declined to put out specific coronavirus-related regulations, opting instead for recommendations, and has largely avoided inspecting facilities outside of a few high-risk industries like health care and emergency response.

Mr. Biden sought to project unity among the group, saying, “We all agreed that we want to get the economy back on track, we need our workers to be back on the job by getting the virus under control.” But the United States is “going into a very dark winter,” he said. “Things are going to get much tougher before they get easier.”

To help businesses and workers make it through, Mr. Biden said, Congress needs to quickly pass another round of stimulus, but he offered no hint of the sort of policy compromise that could help break a partisan impasse in Washington over a new round of economic assistance. He instead reaffirmed his support for a $3.4 trillion plan that House Democrats approved in May and that Senate Republicans have rejected for months.

Mr. Biden said he hoped that a dozen or more Republican senators would join Democrats in passing the type of expansive package they approved in the spring. That aid included $1,200 checks to low- and middle-income Americans, new loans for hard-hit small businesses, state and local government assistance, and expanded federal testing and tracing programs.

As Mr. Biden warned of economic darkness, financial markets rallied Monday after the drugmaker Moderna announced that its coronavirus vaccine was 94.5 percent effective, fueling hopes that deployment of a highly effective vaccine could hasten the end of the pandemic and its economic damage.

The disconnect highlights the dangers for the economy in the coming months. Rising optimism for a vaccine could breed complacency among lawmakers when it comes to supporting the recovery, which is already losing steam and could be further hindered as critical spending programs expire at year end. It could also encourage individuals to disregard health officials’ warnings against activities that raise the risk of contracting the virus before a vaccine can be widely deployed.

States and cities have already begun to impose new restrictions on economic activity in an effort to tamp down the spread. Chicago announced a new “stay at home” order on Monday and advised residents to avoid travel, keep guests from their homes and cancel Thanksgiving celebrations. Gov. Gavin Newsom of California said on Monday that he was pulling an “emergency brake” to stop the state’s reopening plans.

A variety of indicators suggest that the recovery from the depths of the pandemic recession is nowhere near complete and that, in many ways, the economy is stalling or backsliding. Ten million fewer Americans are working now than in February. Supplemental benefits for the unemployed expired months ago, and federally funded benefits for the long-term unemployed are set to run out at year’s end barring congressional action.

Credit card data and other indicators suggest consumers began to pull back spending this month as infection, hospitalization and death rates from the virus surge nationwide.

Mr. Trump has refused to concede the results of this month’s presidential election, when he was defeated by Mr. Biden. But in the weeks after the vote, he has done little to champion additional stimulus for the recovery or mitigate the toll that the new wave of infections is exacting on the economy.

Widespread distribution of a vaccine that would allow Americans to resume anything close to normal levels of travel, dining out and other types of spending on services that have been crushed by the pandemic is most likely months away. Economists continue to call for a new and immediate round of aid from Congress to help people and businesses weather the difficult time before the rebound is complete.

There is little chance that lawmakers will use the lame-duck session after the election to approve anything close to the $3.4 trillion House bill that Mr. Biden championed on Monday. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has called for a “highly targeted” bill, and his Republican caucus has backed a package that would cost around $500 billion.

Republicans suggested that Mr. Biden’s comments had done little to sway them. “I don’t think it’s helpful,” Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri said, adding that Mr. Biden has “plenty to be thinking about right now” besides the scope of the relief package. A deal, Mr. Blunt said, “is less and less likely the more divergent views are out there.”

Senator Shelley Moore Capito, Republican of West Virginia, said she did not believe “it was a reasonable ask” for a package close to $3 trillion.

Business leaders in Washington have pressed the sides to compromise. “There’s no advantage for Democrats or Republicans in waiting until the new year,” Neil Bradley, the executive vice president and chief policy officer of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said this month.

Among the business and labor leaders Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris spoke with were Mary T. Barra, chief executive of G.M.; Sonia Syngal, chief executive of the Gap; Satya Nadella, chief executive of Microsoft; Brian Cornell, chairman and chief executive of Target; Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; Mary Kay Henry, president of the Service Employees International Union; and Lee Saunders, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.

Ms. Harris said the group “had an important conversation about the impact that this pandemic has had on workers, especially essential workers, frontline workers, who have risked their own health and the health of their families, and many who have given their own lives to keep us safe and keep our economy running.”

Mr. Trumka told Mr. Biden that the economy needed more investment in personal protective equipment and funding to retrofit businesses and schools so they have better ventilation and can meet social distancing guidelines. He also called for spending on more robust testing and contact tracing to contain the virus.

Mr. Saunders urged Mr. Biden to provide relief for states and cities, saying that when public service workers are laid off, local businesses suffer.

Mr. Cornell told Mr. Biden about the role that the retail industry plays for American consumers and said he hoped the government would provide “clear, consistent guidance around safety, regulations and the future rollout of a coronavirus vaccine.”

Target noted that it had kept its stores and supply chains operating during the pandemic — and that it was steering clear of politics.





No.25 article:
Trump Is Said to Be Preparing to Withdraw Troops From Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia

Facing the end of his time in power, the president is pushing to accelerate withdrawals from counterterrorism conflicts. He campaigned on ending the longstanding wars.

WASHINGTON — President Trump is expected to order the U.S. military to withdraw thousands of troops from Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia by the time he leaves office in January, using the end of his time in power to significantly pull back American forces from far-flung conflicts around the world.

Under a draft order circulating at the Pentagon on Monday, the number of U.S. forces in Afghanistan would be halved from the current deployment of 4,500 troops, officials said.

In Iraq, the Pentagon would trim force levels slightly below the 3,000 troops that commanders had previously announced. And in Somalia, virtually all of the more than 700 troops conducting training and counterterrorism missions would leave.

Taken together, the cuts reflect Mr. Trump’s longstanding desire to stop shouldering the cost of long-running military engagements against Islamist insurgencies in failed and fragile countries in Africa and the Middle East, a grinding mission that has spread since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

But the president’s aspirations have long run into resistance, as his own national security officials argued that abandonment of such troubled countries could have catastrophic consequences — such as when the United States pulled out of Iraq at the end of 2011, leaving a vacuum that fostered the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.

Mr. Trump has also repeatedly pushed to withdraw from Syria, but several hundred U.S. troops remain stationed there, partly to protect coveted oil fields held by American-backed Syrian Kurdish allies from being seized by the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. The current deliberations over withdrawals would not affect those in Syria, officials said.

The plan under discussion to pull out of Somalia is said to not apply to U.S. forces stationed in nearby Kenya and Djibouti, where American drones that carry out airstrikes in Somalia are based, according to officials familiar with the internal deliberations who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Keeping those air bases would mean retaining the military’s ability to use drones to attack militants with the Shabab, the Qaeda-linked terrorist group — at least those deemed to pose a threat to American interests. The smaller number of troops that would remain in Iraq and Afghanistan also would be sufficient to maintain some ability to carry out counterterrorism raids and strikes, officials said. The Afghanistan and Iraq troop decisions were reported earlier by CNN.

Mr. Trump said in a Twitter post last month that he wanted all 4,500 U.S. troops in Afghanistan home by Christmas, but top military and national security aides advised against such a precipitous withdrawal. The president eventually agreed to the smaller drawdown, officials said.

Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, Robert C. O’Brien, said last month that the United States would withdraw about 2,500 troops from Afghanistan by early next year — indirectly rebuking Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, for openly questioning that timeline.

Shortly before Mr. Trump fired Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper last week and installed Christopher C. Miller as the acting Pentagon chief, Mr. Esper had sent a classified memo to the White House expressing concerns about accelerating the troop drawdown in Afghanistan, a senior administration official said.

Conditions on the ground were not yet right, Mr. Esper is said to have written, citing continuing violence, the dangers a rapid pullout could pose for the remaining troops, the effect on alliances and fear of undermining peace negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan government. The memo was reported earlier by The Washington Post.

Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, delivered a thinly veiled warning to Mr. Trump from the Senate floor on Monday, suggesting that the president would put himself at risk of squandering his record of accomplishment in the Middle East and repeating the mistakes of former President Barack Obama, a predecessor he loathes.

“A rapid withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan now would hurt our allies and delight the people who wish us harm,” Mr. McConnell said. For a leader who has loyally stood by Mr. Trump on most domestic policy issues, the departure was notable.

“The consequences of a premature American exit would likely be even worse than President Obama’s withdrawal from Iraq back in 2011, which fueled the rise of ISIS and a new round of global terrorism,” Mr. McConnell said. “It would be reminiscent of the humiliating American departure from Saigon in 1975.”

Exiting foreign conflicts — and Afghanistan in particular — has been a central component of Mr. Trump’s “America First” agenda since he ran for office in 2016. That appeal has particularly animated his base of populist voters, many of them veterans who have grown weary of their roles in longstanding wars. The president views his record on this issue as important to any political future he might pursue.

Mr. Esper’s caution on troop reductions was one of several factors that led to his firing. After his departure, a group of new officials arrived, including Douglas Macgregor, a retired Army colonel and a fierce proponent of ending American involvement in Afghanistan.

It is unclear if the remaining NATO and allied troops in Afghanistan — about 7,000 people who primarily train government forces — would also withdraw. But officials said some in the country’s north and west were likely to do so, as they are reliant on American transport and, in some cases, protection.

That would leave American forces to advise from one key U.S.-Afghan command center, helping the Afghan military marshal its resources and plan its defenses. Much of the rest would be in about five smaller regional targeting teams — and composed of small detachments of Special Operations forces — that would help with targeting insurgent groups.

The proposal to draw down to about 2,000 to 2,500 troops in Afghanistan comes as the country’s forces are besieged in the south and the north. Morale is low among Afghan security forces, and the uncertainty has led local political leaders to cut deals with the advancing Taliban.

October was the deadliest month for civilians since September 2019, according to data compiled by The New York Times. More than 200 civilians were killed.

Peace talks in Qatar between Afghan and Taliban negotiators have stalled primarily because of the Afghan government’s reluctance to use the February deal as a guiding document for the discussions.

Afghanistan specialists said that the accelerated but partial withdrawal could complicate policy choices for President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his incoming national security team, but it was preferable to a complete pullout.

“Quickly reducing to 2500 would narrow Biden Admin options and undercut peace talks, but wouldn’t create the utter upheaval of going to zero that fast,” Laurel E. Miller, a former top State Department official who worked on Afghanistan and Pakistan diplomacy for both Mr. Trump and Mr. Obama, said on Twitter last week.

Most U.S. troops in Somalia, the war-torn nation in the Horn of Africa, are Special Operations forces stationed at a small number of bases across the country. Their missions include training and advising Somali army and counterterrorism troops and conducting kill-or-capture raids of their own targeting Shabab militants.

Mr. Trump’s push to leave Somalia before the end of his term comes at a delicate time: Somalia is preparing for parliamentary elections next month and a presidential election scheduled for early February. The removal of U.S. troops could complicate any ability to keep election rallies and voting safe from Shabab bombers. It also comes at a time of political turmoil in neighboring Ethiopia, whose army has also battled the Shabab.

The timing “could not be any worse,” said Brittany Brown, who worked on Somalia policy at the National Security Council under Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump. She said she did support pulling out of Somalia over all.

“This is not the time to do it, because this election is really important — this one matters a lot,” said Ms. Brown, who is now the chief of staff of the International Crisis Group, a nonprofit organization focused on deadly conflicts. “I hope this doesn’t send Somalia back into failed-state chaos, because this would embolden Al Shabab.”

It is not clear whether other parts of the U.S. government — such as C.I.A. operatives, the ambassador and other State Department diplomats who are based at a heavily fortified bunker at the airport in Mogadishu, the Somali capital — will also withdraw from Somali territory along with the military. 

Somalia has faced civil war, droughts and violence from Islamist extremists for years. The United States intervened in the country as peacekeepers at the end of the George Bush administration, but abandoned it not long after the “Black Hawk Down” battle in 1993, which killed 18 Americans and hundreds of militia fighters.

The Shabab, an Islamist terrorist group whose name means “the youth,” emerged around 2007 and has violently vied for control of Somalia with occasional attacks outside its borders, including an attack on the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, in 2013 that killed more than five dozen civilians and a deadly assault on an American air base at Manda Bay, Kenya, in January.

Shabab leaders pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda in 2012. In 2016, shortly before leaving office, the Obama administration deemed them part of the congressionally authorized war against the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 attacks. Under the Trump administration, the military sharply increased airstrikes targeting Shabab militants.





No.26 article:
After a Long Ride, Harley-Davidson Is Leaving India

NEW DELHI — Bhupender Singh crouched over a fuel tank inside a Harley-Davidson showroom. A row of motorcycles gleamed in the afternoon sun; one metallic red, another with a black matte finish and a slightly taller variant in blue.

The motorcycles were not for sale, but for repair. The dealership’s front door was locked. Harley-Davidson, the proudly American company, is giving up on India because of weak sales, after more than a decade of pursuing a huge but ultimately frustrating place to do business.

“It’s all over now,” said Mr. Singh, a service representative. “There are no bikes to sell anymore.”

The closure has dealt a blow to India’s ambitions to lure manufacturers, a campaign modeled on China’s success called “Make in India.” It has set back Harley-Davidson’s efforts to expand its popularity overseas. And it strands a small but devoted group of Harley devotees who are wondering how they will keep their prized rides rumbling.

“It’s like losing someone in your family,” said Sandeep Bharadwaj, the chief executive of a bus manufacturing firm, who spent more than $40,000 on his Fat Boy motorcycle. “We had a mental assurance that they were physically present and they could help us with spare parts.”

Companies looking for the next boom have long eyed India, a country of 1.3 billion people with an aspirational middle class. Setting up shop there, however, remains difficult. Roads and rails are inadequate in many areas. Land policies flummox construction. India’s red tape is infamous.

With his “Make in India” campaign, Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowed to reduce bureaucratic hurdles, invest in infrastructure and take other steps to draw high-end manufacturing jobs and design work.

Even before the pandemic, the campaign had been disappointing. Manufacturing contributes less to India’s economic output than it did a decade ago. The government has struggled to build an ecosystem for manufacturers, including infrastructure and industrial parks. Small suppliers who might help a big manufacturer flesh out a supply chain have a hard time getting credit.

“Harley came to produce for your market,” said C.P. Chandrasekhar, an economist and former professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. “If they’re not happy, they’ll just get up and leave.”

A spokesman for the Ministry of Commerce in New Delhi said that the government is trying to reduce the red tape for companies.

Despite the difficulties, any foreign manufacturer interested in India has to explore setting up shop here. The country has some of the steepest trade barriers among the world’s large nations. President Trump has repeatedly cited the high duties on Harley-Davidson bikes in his trade negotiations with New Delhi.

India dropped the tariffs on Harley motorcycles from 75 percent to 50 percent in 2018. Still, the government charges an additional 31 percent tax on two-wheelers, one of the highest in the world.

Harley-Davidson decided to put bikes together inside the country. The Milwaukee-based company sent knockdown kits — packages of parts to be assembled — for low-powered models, like the Street 750, to its factory outside New Delhi. The signature, higher-end motorcycles were still being shipped from the United States.

But sales dropped after an initial surge, and the India operation suffered from executive turnover. Harley-Davidson sold a total of 2,470 bikes in India in the 12 months that ended in March, almost half the number it reached five years ago, according to the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers, a nonprofit representing automotive manufacturers.

The company’s motorcycles also remained out of reach for many. Harley’s top model exceeds $88,000 in Delhi after taxes and licensing fees. That is 41 times India’s average yearly income, according to the World Bank.

People in India overwhelmingly prefer cheaper, lighter bikes that are easy to maneuver along the country’s potholed, traffic-choked roads. The most expensive bike from Hero MotoCorp, one of the country’s biggest manufacturers of motorcycles and scooters, costs around $1,500.

Harley-Davidson’s moves in India are part of a broader restructuring. Harley’s average customer is aging fast. Its sales have been stagnant and profitability has declined.

Under Jochen Zeitz, its new president and chief executive, the company is downsizing dealerships, restricting production to a handful of models and scrapping discounts to portray the bikes as an exclusive luxury item.

“That’s always a tricky proposition because customers can get turned off,” said Stephen Brown, a Chicago-based senior director at Fitch Ratings, a credit ratings agency. “It’s a delicate balance that they’re walking right now.”

The Harley name will not disappear from India entirely. The company said last month that it struck a deal to “sell and service” its motorcycles through Hero, the local company, which it said would also “develop and sell” motorcycles under the Harley brand. With the closure of its own factory, the fate of the Street 750, Harley’s most-popular bike in India, is not clear. Harley is also laying off about 70 workers.

India’s Harley enthusiasts are wondering what it means to them.

In 2014, Gaurav Gulati, a longtime Harley rider, was enticed by the company’s managing director in India to open a dealership in New Delhi.

Mr. Gulati wanted to go big. He scoured the city for an ideal spot and settled on an abandoned warehouse that he would transform into a chic Harley store with a cafe, a workshop, garage, lockers and even a shower for riders. By the time his outlet opened two years later, two of the company’s bosses in India had come and gone.

Mr. Gulati is one of 33 dealers who said they invested nearly $27 million in their dealerships, with some expanding as recently as February. He is sitting on a $1.2 million investment, which he made partly from his own savings and partly after borrowing from banks. He is still paying about $20,000 in monthly rent.

Neither Harley nor its new India partner, Hero MotoCorp, have approached Mr. Gulati to continue the term for his dealership, he said. His dealership agreement expires at the end of the year.

“I am devastated,” said Mr. Gulati, as he gazed at the outer wall of his store, which he decorated with red old-style bricks and graffiti. “It’s a mental torture. Where did I put my trust and faith? What am I going to do?”

Despite all of this, some of Harley’s die-hard fans in India are not giving up.

On a recent morning, Preetam Thakoor, a real-estate developer, and other riders from his Harley club took their bikes for a weekend ride. They rode in full gear, wearing American flag bandannas, dog tags and custom-made jackets emblazoned with their initials.

“It’s not about the machine,” said Mr. Thakoor, who bought the popular Street 750 model in 2014. “It’s the whole community, the bond that makes it special.”

Four years ago, Mr. Thakoor rode from India’s northernmost corner in Kashmir to its southernmost tip, Kanyakumari, a journey of more than 1,700 miles.

In the middle of that ride, he ran out of cash after Mr. Modi announced a sudden ban on high-value Indian bank notes, part of a national effort to stamp out corruption and get more Indians to use digital currency. A fellow Harley rider flew down from Mumbai to the southern city of Chennai to deliver him cash.

That camaraderie, is “a feeling you can’t describe in words,” said Mr. Thakoor.

It is not clear whether he can continue with his passion. Indian riders and dealers will have to find sources for crucial machinery: batteries, accelerator cables, silencers.

“There’s no jugaad in this case,” said Mr. Thakoor, referring to the Indian way of finding inexpensive solutions to big problems.

Harley, he said, “should’ve been here.”





No.27 article:
Liberals Envisioned a Multiracial Coalition. Voters of Color Had Other Ideas.

Democrats may need to rethink their strategy as the class complexities and competing desires of Latino and Asian-American demographic groups become clear.

The proposition seemed tailor-made for one of the nation’s most diverse and liberal states. California officials asked voters to overturn a 24-year-old ban on affirmative action in education, employment and contracting.

The state political and cultural establishment worked as one to pass this ballot measure. The governor, a senator, members of Congress, university presidents and civil rights leaders called it a righting of old wrongs.

“Women and people of color are still at a sharp disadvantage by almost every measure,” The Los Angeles Times wrote in an editorial endorsement.

Yet on Election Day, the proposition failed by a wide margin, 57 percent to 43 percent, and Latino and Asian-American voters played a key role in defeating it. The outcome captured the gap between the vision laid out by the liberal establishment in California, which has long imagined the creation of a multiracial, multiethnic coalition that would embrace progressive causes, and the sentiments of many Black, Latino, Asian and Arab voters.

Variations of this puzzle could be found in surprising corners of the nation on Election Day, as slices of ethnic and racial constituencies peeled off and cut against Democratic expectations.

“We should not think of demography as destiny,” said Professor Omar Wasow, who studies politics and voting patterns at Princeton University. “These groups are far more heterogeneous than a monolith and campaigns often end up building their own idiosyncratic coalition.”

Asian-American Californians opposed the affirmative action measure in large numbers. A striking number of East and South Asian students have gained admission to elite state universities, and their families spoke to reporters of their fear that their children would suffer if merit in college selection was given less weight. That battle carried echoes of another that raged the past few years in New York City, where a white liberal mayor’s efforts to increase the number of Black and Latino students in selective high schools angered working- and middle-class South and East Asian families whose children have gained admission to the schools in large numbers.

“There’s more texture to California blue politics than you might think,” said Lanhee Chen, a fellow at the conservative Hoover Institution at Stanford University and policy director for Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential run. “Identity politics only go so far. There is a sense on affirmative action that people resent being categorized by progressives.”

Latinos, too, appear sharply divided. Prominent Latino nonprofit and civil rights organizations endorsed the affirmative action proposition even as all 14 of California’s majority-Latino counties voted it down.

Latinos make up more than half of San Bernardino County’s population, although significantly fewer turn out to vote. More residents there voted on the affirmative action proposition than for president, rejecting it by a margin of 28 percentage points. In rural Imperial County, in the southeastern corner of the state, 85 percent of the population is Latino. The voters there who gave Joseph R. Biden Jr. a nearly 27-point margin of victory went against the affirmative action measure by 16 percentage points.

The results suggest that Democrats may need to adjust their strategy as the complexities of class, generation and experience, and the competing desires of these demographic groups become clear. Since the dawn of the 21st century, it has become commonplace for party leaders to talk of a rising demographic tide that is destined to lift the Democrats to dominance. That liberal coalition is seen as resting on a bedrock of upper-middle-class white voters, alongside working- and middle-class Black, Latino and Asian voters.

In broad strokes, that narrative held. Black voters, along with a shift in the white suburban vote, played a pivotal role in delivering Georgia to the Democratic column (although so closely that a statewide audit is taking place). So, too, Black voters in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia voted overwhelmingly for Democrats — as did well-to-do majority-white suburbs — and gave Pennsylvania and therefore the national election to President-elect Biden.

In Arizona, Latino voters piled up large margins for Mr. Biden and tipped the state narrowly into the Democratic column for the first time since 1996. Representative Ruben Gallego, the Democratic congressman from Phoenix who is a former Marine and a Harvard graduate, noted that several decades of aggressive tactics by Republican governors and white sheriffs had stirred activism among the young Latinos who dominate politics there.

“The Republicans caught Latino lightning in the bottle in Florida and South Texas, but not here,” Mr. Gallego said. “We are very politicized. It’s just important that white liberals don’t impose their thoughts and policies on us.”

Aside from those successes, however, the election presented complications wrapped one inside another for Democrats. In Texas and Florida, in California and in Colorado (where New York Times exit polls found that roughly 40 percent of white voters and 38 percent of Latino voters cast ballots for President Trump), the assumption that people of color would vote as a liberal Democratic bloc often proved illusory.

John Judis is a liberal writer and scholar who in 2002 co-wrote “The Emerging Democratic Majority,” which became a seminal text for those who saw the Democratic Party as a political tide rising. He has since backed off that a touch.

“‘People of color’ is a term that’s been adopted by the cultural left as a way of arguing that if these groups proportionately voted Democratic in the past, they will do so in the future,” Mr. Judis said. “I don’t see how you can make the argument.”

Viewing the Latino vote as monolithic fails, of course, to capture the often sharply varying politics and ethnicities of people hailing from nearly two dozen countries on two continents. The same is true when examining the behavior of Asian-American voters.

Philadelphia offers a snapshot: A record number of Latinos in the city, which is heavily Puerto Rican and Dominican, turned out and buoyed Mr. Biden. Yet exit polls also found that Latino voter support there for Mr. Trump leapt to 35 percent this year from 22 percent in 2016. In Milwaukee, an analysis by Urban Milwaukee reported an uptick in the Latino working-class vote for Mr. Trump, although a majority still favored Mr. Biden.

Along the Rio Grande in Texas, where some Mexican-American families, known as Tejanos, have roots that extend back four centuries, the vote margins shifted dramatically in 2020. Latino turnout soared, almost entirely to the benefit of Mr. Trump. Although Mr. Biden obtained more total votes in the four counties of the Rio Grande Valley than Hillary Clinton did in 2016, his margins of victory fell sharply.

The reasons offered for these results include poor field organizing by the Democratic Party, the cultural conservatism of some older Tejano families, and the fact that many in these often-dense counties find good-paying jobs with the Border Patrol.

Many voters, too, worried that Mr. Biden and the Democrats would impose a new coronavirus-driven shutdown, with dire consequences for the many thousands who own and labor for small businesses. Prof. Omar Valerio-Jimenez grew up in the Rio Grande Valley and teaches history at the University of Texas at San Antonio. Several of his old friends and cousins voted for Mr. Trump.

“They faced this challenge: Do they continue to open our stores and restaurants and churches, which lets us pay our bills,” he said, “or do we quarantine and not have the money to pay our bills?”

Muslim voters also confounded Democratic strategists with their support for Mr. Trump reaching 35 percent, according to The Associated Press. This, too, is a constituency difficult to pigeonhole, as it encompasses Africans, Arabs, South Asians and Europeans.

“A sizable number of Muslims have experienced Donald Trump and to the surprise of Democrats they said, ‘We want more of that,’” Shadi Hamid of the Brookings Institution said.

Analyzing vote shifts is a tricky business, particularly when trying to gauge why some Latino, Black or Arab voters moved from supporting a liberal Democratic candidate like Mrs. Clinton in 2016 to voting for a populist authoritarian Republican like Mr. Trump. Some analysts pointed to the appeal among male voters — regardless of color or ethnicity — of Mr. Trump’s masculine persona. Others mentioned the performance of the national economy, which had hummed along until the plague arrived.

There were small, intriguing changes in the Black vote as well. The Times’s exit polls in Georgia found that 16 percent of Black men voted for Mr. Trump. (Compared with 7 percent of Black women there.) And to chart the votes along the so-called Black Belt in Mississippi, which includes 10 counties along the Mississippi River, was to find that although Mr. Biden won handily, his margin in nearly every county was two to three percentage points smaller than Mrs. Clinton’s.

The unanswered question is whether the 2020 election will be a one-off, the voting patterns scrambled by an unusually polarizing president who attracted and repelled in near equal measure. If it signals something larger, political scientists noted, some Latino and Asian voters might begin to behave like white voters, who have cleaved along class lines, with more affluent residents in urban areas voting Democratic while a decided majority of rural and exurban residents support Republicans.

Then there is California, where the sands of change blow in varying directions. In 2018, Democrats swept the Orange County congressional seats. In 2020, the Republicans have rebounded and taken at least two of those seats.

The Republican candidate Michelle Steel, who is Korean-American, came out against the affirmative action proposition, a stance that proved popular with her Asian-American constituents, as well as many white voters. And on election night, Ms. Steel rode that support to a narrow win against the incumbent Democratic congressman, Harley Rouda.

“This is the challenge for liberal Democrats,” Professor Wasow said. “In a diverse society, how do you enact politics that may advance racial equality without reinforcing racial divisions that are counterproductive and hurt you politically?”





No.28 article:
Spain’s Other Covid Casualties: Undetected Cancer Cases

A raft of lawsuits has emerged from a health care system where the struggle to fight the pandemic has led to neglect of other serious conditions.

MADRID — Last March, as the coronavirus was tearing across Spain, Lídia Bayona Gómez started to suffer bouts of vomiting and coughing.

A nursing home worker, she treated herself as a potential Covid-19 case, isolating and getting herself tested. The results came back negative, twice. With her weight dropping and her urine turning red, she made repeated attempts to see a doctor and in late April, on a phone consult, one told her to stay home and prescribed medicine for gastroenteritis and a urinary tract infection.

But the pain kept getting worse and in late June, her sister took her to an emergency hospital unit. In mid-July, she underwent a 12-hour surgery to remove two cancerous tumors, one from an ovary and the other from the bile ducts. She died in the hospital nine days later, at age 53.

It was not an isolated tragedy.

Hospitals and other health care centers have been forced to devote most of their resources to Covid-19 patients, and doctors are warning that a growing number of cases of cancer and other serious illnesses are going undetected, which could end up costing many more lives. That toll is beginning to be reflected in lawsuits.

The details of Ms. Bayona Gómez’s care are part of a lawsuit brought by her sister, Fátima Bayona, who wants Spain’s public prosecutors to charge the local health authorities in the northern city of Burgos with gross negligence. Last month, the prosecutors said they would investigate the death.

Several other suits have been filed just in Burgos, including one by a woman who learned she had terminal cancer after trying for seven months to get access to a hospital for testing.

Carmen Flores, the president of an association that helps patients or their relatives take legal action, said her association had helped file more than 50 lawsuits since September, when Spain and other countries were hit by a second wave of Covid-19. She said her workload was growing exponentially as a result of medical errors and oversights stemming from doctors’ focus on Covid-19 at the expense of other illnesses.

Unlike in some other countries, Spain’s government does not report how many medical lawsuits are filed each year. But Ms. Flores said that, judging by her monitoring of courtroom filings across the country, the number appears to have risen so far this year by at least 30 percent.

Some lawsuits accuse doctors of refusing to see patients in person. But others assert that doctors rushed to the wrong conclusions or did not want to touch patients as part of their examinations because of the risk of catching Covid-19.

For the most part, however, doctors say they are just overworked.

Doctors in many countries have warned that the pandemic may have exacerbated other health problems, either through diversion of resources or because, especially in its initial stages, people were afraid to seek help for other conditions.

The main doctors’ body in Britain, the British Medical Association, said hospitals there received more than 250,000 fewer urgent cancer referrals than normal in April, May and June. A survey of U.S. cancer patients published in April found nearly one in four reporting delays to their care because of the pandemic.

But Spanish medics say the crisis there has exposed particular weaknesses in the country’s health care system.

“In Spain, we have long been proud of having become the best in the world in specialties like transplants, but this pandemic is now also making us realize how much we have neglected our primary health care,” said César Carballo, a doctor in the emergency unit of the Ramón y Cajal hospital in Madrid.

“We have had thousands of our professionals who have left to work overseas, and we really need to make it more attractive for them to work here again.”

The staff shortage has been particularly worrying in places like Madrid. The capital region’s leader, Isabel Díaz Ayuso, has been building a new hospital. But she is struggling to find health care professionals to work in it at a time when health labor unions are forcefully expressing discontent.

Last month, Spanish doctors staged a nationwide walkout to protest their working conditions and to warn the authorities against hiring additional doctors without adequate qualifications.

“It will cost us a lot of time, money and effort to rebuild the foundations of our health care system,” said Dr. Carballo. “You cannot find new doctors in just a couple of months.”

Ms. Flores, from the association that helps patients take legal action, echoed those concerns.

“This virus is at least, hopefully, making us understand that primary health care cannot keep functioning adequately when staff and investments have been steadily cut,” she said.

In another case of undetected cancer, Lydia Sainz-Maza Zorrilla, a radio journalist, has chronicled the final months of her sister, Sonia. She was 48 when she died in August of colon cancer after failing for three months to see a doctor in person. Instead, she received bad advice over the phone from her local health care center.

“Our public administration has used Covid as a perfect excuse to keep doctors on the phone and remove completely the possibility that they can diagnose patients properly,” Ms. Sainz-Maza Zorrilla said.

“If her doctor had actually seen her and touched her, I’m absolutely sure that my sister would be alive today, because colon cancer is terrible but you don’t need to die of it like she did,” she added.

Last month, Verónica Casado, the regional health minister, told a news conference that she was sorry “if there was something that had not been done well” in terms of treating Ms. Sainz-Maza Zorrilla. On Oct. 6, public prosecutors opened an investigation into her death from colon cancer.

While doctors and nurses are confronting the second wave of Covid-19 with better protective gear than in the spring, their morale appears to be lower.

“I simply cannot give a patient adequate attention when I have recently had to see 100 people in a single day,” said Patricia Estevan, a doctor in a public health care center in Madrid.

Manuel Franco, a professor and researcher in epidemiology at the University of Alcalá de Henares and an adjunct professor at Johns Hopkins University, said, “We have health care workers who are now not only exhausted but also angry because they have seen some improvement in the protocols since last spring, but not the hiring of more people that was promised.”

Still, a few of the recent lawsuits also underscore the danger for patients who end up receiving treatment in a hospital overstretched by the influx of Covid-19 patients.

Jesús Pinos is suing a hospital in the northern city of Santander after the death of his grandmother, María Delia Laguatasig Iza, who was mistakenly made to wait for her appendicitis surgery in a corridor filled with Covid-19 patients.

Although she had tested negative for the coronavirus before her surgery, she received a Covid-19 diagnosis a week later, eventually dying from it.

The hospital did not respond to a request for comment. Public prosecutors in Santander opened their own investigation on Oct. 26.

“She was the victim of some disastrous medical mistakes that you would never expect in a modern and functioning health care system,” Mr. Pinos said. “What is clear is that she entered hospital without Covid, was then sent home coughing and finally died from this virus.”





No.29 article:
As Brazil’s Covid Crisis Eases, Bolsonaro Sees Rising Popularity

President Jair Bolsonaro’s cavalier handling of the coronavirus pandemic drew outrage. But as the curve in Brazil has flattened, his political standing has strengthened.

RIO DE JANEIRO — President Jair Bolsonaro seemed to be on a political suicide mission during the early weeks of the coronavirus crisis in Brazil.

As the daily death toll turned Brazil into one of the epicenters of the pandemic, he openly dismissed the loss of life as inevitable and lashed out against social distancing. A judge ordered the president to wear a mask, a measure Mr. Bolsonaro was reluctant to follow, claiming that his “athletic background” would guarantee a prompt recovery.

With the economy in a tailspin, the far-right president picked fights with Congress, powerful governors and even some of his most popular ministers.

His cavalier conduct generated talk of impeachment, of an institutional breakdown and even of an eventual prosecution at The Hague.

Now, with Brazil’s caseload and death toll down significantly since peaking in July, Mr. Bolsonaro’s popularity is starting to rise. Yet the easing of the pandemic came largely because Brazilians did not follow his lead.  

Mr. Bolsonaro’s strengthened standing among the electorate stands in contrast to other leaders in the region who heeded the scientific consensus about lockdowns, social distancing and masks, and have seen their popularity decline.

Feeling emboldened, Mr. Bolsonaro chided the press last week for continuing to focus on the pandemic, which has killed more than 163,000 people in Brazil.

“I regret the deaths, but we need to be done with this thing,” an exasperated Mr. Bolsonaro said  during a Nov. 10 event at the presidential palace. “We need to stop being a country of sissies.”

Far from facing impeachment, Mr. Bolsonaro — who has always been a deeply polarizing figure in Brazil — now has his highest approval rates since taking office in January 2019. While roughly a third of Brazil’s electorate sided with him back in May, that figure rose to 40 percent in September.

In neighboring Argentina, by comparison, President Alberto Fernández, who imposed among the strictest lockdowns in the world, saw his approval rate crash from 57 percent in March to 37 percent last month. President Sebastián Piñera of Chile and Iván Duque of Colombia have also faced falling approval ratings after bumps of support early in the pandemic.

Mr. Bolsonaro’s rising political fortunes came as Brazilians adhered to mask wearing guidelines and quarantine measures — despite his open hostility to them — that eased the severity of the virus. Warmer weather, which allowed people to spend less time indoors, further reduced the contagion.

The effects of business shutdowns and quarantines were softened by a generous cash assistance program Congress had passed. Mr. Bolsonaro also has claimed credit for that outcome, even though he had initially favored significantly smaller handouts.

Jairo Nicolau, a political scientist who recently published a book about Brazil’s political rightward shift, said Mr. Bolsonaro appeared to be hopelessly isolated when the virus was ripping through the country starting in March.

But his political instincts and tactics have often been underestimated, Mr. Nicolau argued. And like President Trump, he said, Mr. Bolsonaro has managed to bypass mainstream press outlets to reach his base of supporters.

“Bolsonaro has a very loyal electorate, quite similar to Trump’s, and has forged a strong emotional bond with them,” he said. “I don’t think that Bolsonaro is a great strategic thinker, but he has demonstrated a kind of intelligence, an ability to capture people’s mood in any given moment, and play it right. He is no fool.”

As Mr. Bolsonaro was arguing that quarantines would do more harm than good, promoting an anti-malaria pill as a miracle cure for the coronavirus and running around the capital without wearing a mask, lawmakers in Congress were debating the size of an emergency assistance package.

Mr. Bolsonaro’s administration initially took the position that the government should provide no more than about $37 per month in cash payments. Lawmakers across the political spectrum called that sum woefully insufficient for Brazilians who were dealing with business shutdowns amid quarantine measures imposed by governors.

But when Congress approved a cash benefit three times higher than the sum Mr. Bolsonaro had proposed, the president presented it as a gesture from his government and hailed it as “the biggest aid program for the neediest in the world!”

Djamila Ribeiro, a political philosopher, said Mr. Bolsonaro did not deserve credit for the popular assistance program, which led to a significant reduction in poverty.

“Yet people think it was the president’s doing, not that it was the result of a fight that was waged in Congress,” she said. “Many people don’t understand who has prerogative over what.”

Mr. Bolsonaro’s office did not respond to questions for this article. In a recent interview, Vice President Hamilton Mourão said the government could have done a better job providing guidelines on prevention measures early in the pandemic. But he argued that much of the criticism the government received for its handling of the pandemic was “politicized” and that some of the most dire predictions did not come to pass.

“The health system was able to cope efficiently,” he said. “There were fears that people would end up dying in hospital hallways and that people would die on the streets and that never happened.”

Experts said Mr. Bolsonaro’s surprising political strength might be temporary. In municipal elections held Sunday, several of the candidates he backed did poorly. He faces formidable challenges, including a corruption investigation targeting one of his sons and other relatives, the looming end of cash payments that have kept Brazilians afloat as the economy contracts, and the pandemic continues to kill hundreds of Brazilians per day.

 

Dr. Fátima Marinho, an epidemiologist at Vital Strategies, a global public health organization, said that while Brazil had so far avoided a new wave of cases, a smattering of upticks in certain states were cause for concern.

“All the models point to a reduction,” she said. “But we’re anticipating problems in certain cases as we start to see very concrete signs” of a resurgence.

Manaus, the capital of the state of Amazonas in the north, is among the regions where the virus appeared to be under control, but hospitals are seeing a new influx of patients.

Dr. Marinho said the trouble spots were in parts of the country where many people resumed their normal routines and began throwing weddings and birthday parties again.

“The virus began circulating again and that led to new hospitalizations,” she said.

Eager to change the subject, Mr. Bolsonaro this week turned his attention to the American presidential election. Mr. Bolsonaro, who openly rooted for Mr. Trump, whom he idolizes, is among the few leaders in the region that has not congratulated President-elect Joseph. R. Biden Jr. or even acknowledged his victory.

The Brazilian president and Mr. Biden have traded barbs over Brazil’s environmental policy and the future of the Amazon, which has experienced a rise in deforestation on Mr. Bolsonaro’s watch. During a debate, Mr. Biden warned that Brazil would face economic consequences if it doesn’t rein in the destruction of the rainforest. His campaign plan on climate change promised to “name and shame global climate outlaws.”

Mr. Bolsonaro has signaled little interest in striking a more cordial tone with the incoming American president. During a speech, he said his country would give diplomacy a try to fend off American plans for the Amazon. But failing that, he said, Brazil would respond with “gunpowder.”

Amy Erica Smith, a political scientist at Iowa State University who studies Brazil, said that at first glance Mr. Bolsonaro’s saber rattling against Mr. Biden might seem ludicrous. But suspicion about foreign conspiracies to control the Amazon have deep roots in Brazil, and Mr. Bolsonaro’s call to arms may resonate with many of his countrymen, she said.

“Over time, he has managed to sway public opinion in his favor,” Ms Smith said. “His confrontation with Biden could work, especially if Biden manages it badly.”





No.30 article:
They Are Also 2 Wild and Crazy Guys

Steve Martin wanted to make cartoons, but he can only draw stick figures. He teamed up with the illustrator Harry Bliss, and the result is their new book, “A Wealth of Pigeons.”

Most nights, from the witching hours of 2 a.m. to 4 a.m., Steve Martin finds himself awake, his thoughts spinning. He lies in bed and imagines absurd scenarios: a family of cows sitting down to a fancy dinner; a duck carrying a rifle; a washed-up Tarzan pitching reverse mortgages on television.

He jots the ideas down on his iPhone and turns the best ones into cartoons.

Martin — a comedian, actor, writer, producer and Grammy Award-winning bluegrass banjo player —  is one of the entertainment world’s most overachieving multi-hyphenates. He has written essays, a memoir, novels, plays, screenplays, stand-up monologues, songs, sketch comedy and short fiction. But cartoons, which he calls “comedy’s last frontier,” were among the few comic mediums that eluded him, in part because he lacks an essential skill.

“I can’t draw,” he said. “I’m one of the few artists where the paper becomes less valuable when I draw on it.”

As an aspiring cartoonist with no artistic ability, Martin was in a tough spot. So last year, he contacted the illustrator and cartoonist Harry Bliss and asked if he wanted to work together.

Bliss was interested. Over the next six months, they created around 200 cartoons, many of which appear in their new collection, “A Wealth of Pigeons,” which Celadon Books will release on Nov. 17.



The comics vary in style and tone, from absurd, silly and whimsical cartoons featuring talking animals and bored aliens, to more meta, philosophical ones about the creative process and the elusive, subjective nature of comedy.

One cartoon shows an astronaut planting a flag on Mars, thinking, “I just hope this doesn’t define me.” Another shows a scowling woman with her suitcases heading out the front door, as a swamp monster looks at her sadly and asks, “Is it the slime?” In another, two moles stare at a mountain in the distance, and one says, “It started out as a molehill, but then I just kept going.”

The medium’s constraints appealed to Martin. “What I like about them is they’re so tight and they’re so clean,” he said. “It works or it doesn’t.”

For Martin, writing punch lines for cartoons was trickier, in a way, than delivering a joke in front of an audience.

“You don’t get to try them out. A joke onstage, you will go out and try it and it will work or it won’t, and then you add something to it, but you have feedback,” he said. “Here, there’s virtually no feedback.”

During a joint video interview, Martin and Bliss described their collaboration and how they build on each other’s ideas.

“The feeling of success is really interesting when you just land on it,” Martin said. “It’s almost like, I don’t know how to describe it, it’s a little pop and you go, ‘Oh yeah, that’s an idea.’”

“It’s a eureka moment,” Bliss suggested.

“Yeah, I guess so,” Martin said, sounding skeptical. “Except it’s less than that. They found gold.”

Sometimes, Martin sends Bliss a description of an image, with a caption he has in mind, and they workshop it a bit over email.

“Art museum, mother and child looking at a painting. Mother: ‘My kid could do that.’ The kid is a tiny little Picasso wearing a smock and holding a palette,” Martin wrote to Bliss earlier this year. “Lots of variables here. They could be looking at a Rembrandt and the kid is a tiny Rembrandt, or looking at an abstract and the kid is a tiny Pollock.”

Bliss ran with it. “Might be funny with a NY stylish mother standing and saying this to another adult friend (on her left), but she’s holding the hand of a tiny, bald, Jackson Pollock with his signature black T-shirt and cigarette?” he replied.

“I LOVE the cigarette,” Martin responded.

Other times, Bliss sent Martin an image in need of a caption. In one, a dog hides behind a tree, speaking into a walkie-talkie and hatching a plot to kidnap a squirrel.

Martin sent Bliss some options, including: “This is badger, come in centipede,” “This is cowboy, come in sidewinder” and “This is Roulette, come in Yahtzee.” “Eventually, they landed on a variation: “This is Blackjack, come in, Yahtzee.”

Occasionally, when Bliss can’t visualize exactly what Martin has in mind, he has asked him for a rough sketch. When Martin had an idea for a cartoon that debunks the myth of Sisyphus, Bliss couldn’t quite picture it, so Martin sent him some stick figures, with lines like, “Real Name Manny.”

As collaborators, Martin and Bliss have a sort of odd-couple dynamic. “He’s a country boy, and I’m a city boy,” Martin said.

Bliss, 56, who publishes his cartoons and illustrations in The New Yorker and in a syndicated single-panel comic that runs in newspapers, is a nature lover who lives in Cornish, N.H. (in J.D. Salinger’s former home). On Instagram, Bliss posts images of birds and trees and videos of himself chopping wood and microdosing LSD, along with glimpses of his work in progress.

Martin, 75, is best known for his comic turns in films like “Father of the Bride” and “The Jerk,” and for his stand-up and sketch comedy. He’s also an art and literature lover who has made a career detour toward writing books, with his memoir, “Born Standing Up,” his novella “Shopgirl,” and his novels “An Object of Beauty” and “The Pleasure of My Company.”

“You can see how respectful the collaboration is. It’s not Harry drawing Steve’s ideas, or Steve captioning Harry’s cartoons,” said Françoise Mouly, the art editor of The New Yorker, who helped connect Martin with Bliss. “It’s two guys trying to make each other laugh.”

Martin has written comics before, in secret. Years ago, he used to ghostwrite punch lines and comic scenarios for a cartoonist, who published some of their creations, in The New Yorker. Martin never took credit for the cartoons, and he declined to name the cartoonist, who died five years ago. “I’d rather keep it a secret because it was private between me and him,” he said.

He missed working on cartoons and felt like he had little to lose at this stage of his career by giving it a try in public, as half of a cartoonist team.

“Early on, writing had a lot of pressure and a lot of consequences, and now it’s a very different thing. This is actually really fun,” Martin said. “Earlier in life, everything’s riding on everything. Now, there’s nobody saying, “It’s not a good move.”

For Bliss, who normally works alone, collaborating with a famous comedian was a daunting prospect at first. But Martin put him at ease by assuring him that he would defer to the comedic logic of the medium.

“One of the things early on that Steve emailed me was that he has no ego about capitulating to serve the cartoon,” Bliss said in a follow-up phone interview. “To say ‘No, this doesn’t work’ to Steve Martin is a hard thing to wrap my brain around. It’s not that it’s not funny in most cases, it’s that his idea doesn’t translate to the form.”

“A Wealth of Pigeons” includes some self-referential comic strips that show Bliss and Martin at work. In one, they fight over whether or not a cartoon is funny, with Bliss telling Martin, “You’re no Charlie Chaplin” and Martin countering, “And you’re no Rembrandt.” In another, Martin throws out suggestions that Bliss blithely shoots down as derivative. 

Bliss and Martin are currently working on a second book together. On a recent rainy afternoon, as they took a car together from a TV interview to promote the book, they came up with three or four cartoon ideas while they were driving. One grew out of a conversation they were having about bicycles. Martin wondered aloud why it took so long for humans to invent the wheel.

“We both agreed that there are so many examples of the wheel in nature, it should have been invented right off the bat,” Bliss said. “Steve goes, ‘OK, caption: “the invention of fire,” and people are celebrating by burning a wagon wheel.’”

Bliss sent him a sketch a few days later.





No.31 article:
Peru Chooses 3rd President in a Week Amid Street Protests

The naming of Francisco Sagasti as president was not expected to immediately quell popular anger at the country’s legislators, whom many Peruvians see as corrupt — and responsible for the turmoil.

Peru’s legislature on Monday selected the country’s third president in a week, seeking to stanch growing street protests over lawmakers’ decision to remove a popular president from office last week.

Addressing the nation, the country’s newest leader, Francisco Sagasti promised to help the country move away from bitterness and “toward a moment of happiness, of hope.”

But the decision to name Mr. Sagasti, an engineer, academic and first-time legislator, as the country’s new president was not expected to immediately quell popular anger at the country’s lawmakers.

Many in Peru see the legislators as venal, corrupt — and responsible for adding political turmoil to the economic and public health crises the country was already facing.

The problem Peruvians confront now is that the same deeply unpopular and inexperienced Congress is charged with moving the country beyond these emergencies.

“God willing, they have finally chosen a better leader,” said Eduardo Carita, 47, walking toward Congress on Monday to join a protest just before the announcement, “but truthfully I have little faith in them.”

Peru’s political tensions erupted into open conflict last week, when Congress relied on an archaic constitutional clause to remove Martín Vizcarra, a well-liked president, for “moral incapacity,” just five months before new elections.

Mr. Vizcarra had earned the support of a majority of Peruvians — and the enmity of much of the legislature — by leading efforts to clean up the country’s notoriously corrupt establishment. About half of Congress is under investigation for crimes that include bribery and money laundering.

His unexpected removal from office, and the swift swearing in of a new president, Manuel Merino, the head of Congress, left Peruvians suffering from a severe economic downturn, and from one of the world’s highest coronavirus death rates, in the hands of a leader few knew or trusted.

The population poured its anger into the streets, and Mr. Merino resigned after less than six full days in office. At least two people died during protests over the weekend.

Mr. Sagasti, who is also unknown to most Peruvians, is among the few politicians who voted against Mr. Vizcarra’s ouster last week, which may win him favor in the eyes of many Peruvians.

But he now faces the task of working with Congress, a 130-person unicameral body made up mostly of first-time lawmakers.

Approximately 68 of the 130 legislators are under investigation for activities that include fraud and other types of corruption. One lawmaker is accused of homicide, with a trial set for later this month. Another is accused of running under an assumed name to hide her past legal trouble.

Yet another made headlines this week, shortly after Mr. Vizcarra’s ouster, when she accidentally said she would continue to work “in favor of corruption.” (She quickly corrected herself to say that she would work against wrongdoing.)

Peru’s Congress has become a “a Molotov cocktail,” built on unstable ingredients mixed together from years of misguided policy, said Hugo Ñopo, a senior researcher at the Lima-based think tank Grade.

The first ingredient, Mr. Ñopo said, was a weak and fragmented party system that encouraged politicians to shift alliances to suit their interests, instead of following ideologies.

The second was the lack of stringent limits on campaign financing, allowing businesses to pour money into candidates and buy influence. And the third was a 2018 referendum, passed by voters, that limited congressional service to a single term.

That last measure was meant to help remove bad actors from politics, said Mr. Ñopo. Instead, those now in office “have fewer incentives to create stability or to make good judgments,” he said. “In fact, they now have more incentive to steal more quickly.”

Alexandra Ames, a political analyst in Lima, said the events of the past few days are just one symptom of a larger problem.

“The precariousness of our electoral system and our political parties have brought us to permanent crisis of legitimacy,” she said.

In the last four years, the country has witnessed five attempts to remove the president, one successful attempt to dissolve the congress, and four presidents.

Part of the problem, Ms. Ames said, is that Peruvian law allows anyone to run for Congress, with no restrictions based on criminal records. Once elected, lawmakers gain immunity from prosecution, she added.

Now, she said, with just one term in office, lawmakers have all the incentives to spend their limited time pushing through personal agendas instead of governing. “The incentives are very short term and egoistical.”

The Constitutional Court, which is meant to provide the last line of defense in times of political crisis, has been conspicuously silent during the past weeks’ political battles, Ms. Ames said.

When asked why, she pointed out that its members are elected by Congress.

What is perhaps most notable about the events of the last few days is that politicians appear to have actually listened to protesters.

Many of them were young people who have lost work or have been forced to drop out of school amid the pandemic.

On Monday, just before lawmakers voted for Mr. Sagasti, Silvia Miranda, 52, stood on the street by the congressional building, where she changes money for a living.

“The 105 members of Congress who voted in favor of removing the president weren’t thinking about Peruvians,” she said. “Congress has fooled us, the adults. But it won’t be able to fool the young people.”





No.32 article:
New Virus, Old Enemy





No.33 article:
Trump Administration, in Late Push, Moves to Sell Oil Rights in Arctic Refuge

The lease sales could occur just before Inauguration Day, leaving the administration of Joseph R. Biden Jr. to try to reverse them after the fact.

The Trump administration on Monday announced that it would begin the formal process of selling leases to oil companies in a last-minute push to achieve its long-sought goal of allowing oil and gas drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.

That sets up a potential sale of leases just before Jan. 20, Inauguration Day, leaving the new administration of Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has opposed drilling in the refuge, to try to reverse them after the fact.

“This lease sale is one more box the Trump administration is trying to check off for its oil industry allies,” said Adam Kolton, executive director of the Alaska Wilderness League, in a statement. “But it is disappointing that this administration until the very end has maintained such low regard for America’s public lands, or the wildlife and Indigenous communities that depend on them.”

The Arctic refuge is one of the last vast expanses of wilderness in the United States, 19 million acres that for the most part are untouched by people, home instead to wandering herds of caribou, polar bears and migrating waterfowl. It has long been prized, and protected, by environmentalists, but President Trump has boasted that opening part of it to oil development was among the most significant of his efforts to expand domestic fossil fuel production.

The Federal Register on Monday posted a “call for nominations” from the Bureau of Land Management, to be officially published Tuesday, relating to lease sales in about 1.5 million acres of the refuge along the coast of the Arctic Ocean. A call for nominations is essentially a request to oil companies to specify which tracts of land they would be interested in exploring and potentially drilling for oil and gas.

The American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, said it welcomed the move. In a statement, the organization said that development in the refuge was “long overdue and will create good-paying jobs and provide a new revenue stream for the state — which is why a majority of Alaskans support it.”

The administration’s announcement establishes a tight timeline for lease sales, with the earliest they could occur being on or about Jan. 17. The call for nominations will allow for comments until Dec. 17, after which the bureau, part of the Interior Department, could issue a final notice of sales to occur as soon as 30 days later.

Normally the bureau would take time to review the comments and determine which tracts to sell before issuing the final notice of sale, a process that can take several months. In this case, however, the bureau could decide to make the entire coastal plain available and issue the notice immediately.

An Interior Department spokesman, Conner Swanson, did not respond to emailed questions about the timing of the call for nominations, which was first reported by Bloomberg News. Mr. Swanson referred only to a Bureau of Land Management news release announcing the move. In the release, the bureau’s state director for Alaska, Chad Padgett, said the call for nominations “brings us one step closer to holding an historic first Coastal Plain lease sale.”

Any sales would be subject to review by agencies in the Biden administration, including the bureau and the Justice Department, a process that could take a month or two. That could allow the Biden White House to refuse to issue the leases, perhaps by claiming that the scientific underpinnings of the plan to allow drilling in the refuge were flawed, as environmental groups have claimed.

In 2017, in a reversal of decades of protections, the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress opened the refuge’s coastal plain to potential oil and gas development.

The coastal plain is thought to overlie geological formations that could hold billions of barrels of oil, although that assessment is based on data collected in the 1980s. Only one exploratory well has ever been drilled in the refuge, and a New York Times investigation found that the results were disappointing.

Should sales proceed, it is unclear how much interest drilling in the refuge will attract from oil companies. It would be at least a decade before any oil would be extracted, and by then the drive to wean the world from fossil fuels may have lessened any need for it. Arctic oil production is also difficult and costly; companies may decide it’s not worth the effort financially. They also may fear the potential impact to their reputations by drilling in such a pristine place.

In August, the Interior Department announced that it had accepted a final environmental review of the lease-sale plan and would begin preparing to auction off acreage. At the time, Interior Secretary David Bernhardt said he believed that sales could occur before the end of the year.

Environmentalists and other opponents, including a group representing an Alaska Native tribe, the Gwich’in, who live near the refuge, filed suit, claiming that the Interior Department did not adequately take into account the effects of oil and gas development on climate change and on wildlife.

The Gwich’in are especially concerned about the effects on herds of Porcupine caribou, which roam throughout that part of Alaska and neighboring areas in Canada and use the coastal plain for calving. The Gwich’in, who have spiritual ties to the animals and rely on them for food, say even exploratory drilling and its accompanying road building and other activities, could affect calving and ultimately the survival of the herds.

Others, including many scientists, are concerned about the survival of polar bears, which come to land from their natural habitat, sea ice, as the ice melts and retreats northward. The subpopulation of bears in the area is already among the most threatened of any in the world.

Scientists fear that even preliminary exploration, in the form of a seismic survey to get a better sense of the petroleum reserves beneath the coastal plain, could disturb, injure or even kill bears and their cubs in winter dens as trucks and other heavy equipment roll across the tundra.

Plans for such a survey have recently been revived by the Bureau of Land Management. They have been proposed by an Alaska Native village corporation, the Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation, using a contractor, SAExploration, that had been part of a similar proposal in 2018 that went nowhere.

If the bureau gives final approval to the plan, it could begin by the end of this year. Even if the survey proceeds, however, it will not be finished until well after the sales take place.





No.34 article:
Lindy McDaniel, Ace Reliever for Mediocre Teams, Dies at 84

Over 21 seasons — including eight with the Cardinals and six with the Yankees — he was one of the game’s most dependable closers but never made the postseason.

Lindy McDaniel, who pitched for 21 years in the big leagues and became one of baseball’s most dependable relievers in spite of the mostly mediocre teams he labored for, died on Saturday in Carrollton, Texas. He was 84. 

His death, at an urgent care center, was caused by Covid-19, his son Dale said.

A lanky right-hander who generally relied on breaking stuff, McDaniel pitched for a total of five teams in both leagues — his longest stints were with the St. Louis Cardinals and the Yankees — and had success out of the bullpen as both a long man and a closer in an era before pitching specialization.

He was just 19 when he began his career with the Cardinals in 1955, and by 1957 he was in the starting rotation, winning 15 games as a sinker baller with a sidearm-to-three-quarter delivery. In June that year, his 18-year-old brother, Von, made his debut with the team, shutting out the Brooklyn Dodgers on two hits in his first start and then one-hitting the Pittsburgh Pirates a few weeks later.

St. Louis fans were giddy at the prospect of the brothers at the top of the rotation, and comparisons were drawn to the previous Cardinal star siblings, Paul and Dizzy Dean. Life magazine proclaimed them “the Amazing McDaniel Boys.” But things didn’t go that way. Von McDaniel’s star fell as quickly as it had risen, and he was gone from the majors for good in less than a year. (Von died of a heart attack in 1995 at 56.)

As for Lindy, his success as a starter was also short-lived. The Cardinals’ manager, Solly Hemus, in May 1959 sent him to the bullpen, where he began throwing overhand. The change in motion changed his career as well.

McDaniel led the National League with 16 saves in 1959 and 27 in 1960, when he made the All-Star team. The Sporting News named him baseball’s top reliever.  Over his last 16 seasons, he started just 15 times.

“When I threw with that sidearm motion, I didn’t have enough speed to strike out batters whenever I was in a jam,” McDaniel told Arthur Daley of The New York Times in 1961, adding: “As a sidearmer I had a sinker, curve and slider. As an overhander, I have a fastball, curve, forkball and changeup curve.”

McDaniel was traded to the Chicago Cubs after the 1962 season and had a splendid first year with them, winning 13 games and saving 22, again a league high. Another good season was his first with the San Francisco Giants, in 1966, when he won 10 games in relief with an E.R.A. of 2.66; at one point he threw 20 ⅓ consecutive scoreless innings.

McDaniel began a six-season stint with the Yankees in 1968, a lean stretch for the team as stars from its glory years of the 1950s and early ’60s, like Mickey Mantle, were fading. In his last season in the Bronx, at 37, McDaniel went 12-6 and pitched 160 ⅓ innings (including three starts in 47 appearances) with an E.R.A. of 2.86 for a team that finished under .500. He closed out his career playing for the Kansas City Royals for two seasons.

His career included some curiosities and exceptional highlights. On May 10, 1959, he pitched for the Cardinals in both games of a doubleheader against the Cubs. He was the losing pitcher in the first game and the winner in the second while the Cubs’ Elmer Singleton won the first and lost the second, a symmetrical happenstance that, according to the website baseball-reference.com, had occurred only twice before.

Pitching for a lowly Yankees team in August 1968, he retired 32 consecutive batters over four games. That same year, he pitched seven perfect innings — the 9th through the 15th — in a 19-inning game that ended in a tie against the first place (and eventual world champion) Detroit Tigers.

All told, McDaniel was 141-119 with 174 saves in 987 appearances. Only five times in 21 seasons did his team finish as high as second place. He never played in the postseason.

Lyndall Dale McDaniel was born in Hollis, Okla., on Dec. 13, 1935. His parents, Newell and Ada Mae (Burk) McDaniel, were deeply observant Christians, and his mother, in particular, required a good deal of persuading before allowing her son to play professional baseball.

McDaniel, a multisport athlete, attended the University of Oklahoma on a basketball scholarship before signing with the Cardinals for $50,000 (about $485,000 in today’s money) as a so-called bonus baby, the designation for amateur players who signed large contracts and were required to be placed on a major league roster rather than be sent to the minor leagues. (Different versions of the bonus baby rule were in effect, on and off, from 1947 to 1965.)

During his baseball career he studied for the ministry at Abilene Christian University in Texas and Florida Christian University and was eventually ordained by the Church of Christ. He preached in several congregations during and after his career, and for many years published a newsletter (later a blog), “Pitching for the Master,” with reflections on religion and baseball. Most recently he was an elder of the Lavon Church of Christ, a 50-member Texas congregation about 35 miles northeast of Dallas. McDaniel’s marriage in 1957 to Oral Audrey Kuhn ended in divorce in 1979. His second marriage, to Mary Alice Sewell, ended with her death in 2008.

In addition to his son Dale, from his first marriage, McDaniel is survived by his third wife, Nancy (DeShazo) McDaniel; two other children from his first marriage, Jonathan McDaniel and Kathi Watters; his second wife’s children, whom he adopted, Susie Miles and Joey McDaniel; 11 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.

In a 2014 entry on his blog, McDaniel recalled the highlight of his career. On June 6, 1963, with the Giants visiting Chicago, he came out of the Cubs’ bullpen in the 10th inning of a tie game with the bases loaded and one out and promptly picked Willie Mays off second base. He then struck out the Giant catcher Ed Bailey to end the inning. As the leadoff hitter in the bottom of the 10th, McDaniel hit the ball over the center field fence — one of the three home runs he ever hit — to win the game, elevating the Cubs into a first-place tie with San Francisco.

“Not a bad afternoon’s work at the ‘friendly confines of Wrigley Field’, as Ernie Banks would call it,” he wrote. “For one brief moment all was joy in Chicago land.”





No.35 article:
Academy Museum Gives Debbie Reynolds Her Due as a Costume Conservator

When the “Singin’ in the Rain” actress was alive, the film academy turned up its nose at her fabled costume collection. Now it has gone to her son with hat in hand.

LOS ANGELES — For decades, Debbie Reynolds begged Hollywood to help her preserve and exhibit her vast collection of golden age costumes. “These pieces are cultural touchstones that still carry the energy of the stars who performed in them,” she once said, referring to legends like Elizabeth Taylor and Judy Garland. “There is magic in every thread, button and bow.”

The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences turned her down — five times. Reynolds quoted an uninterested David Geffen in her 2013 memoir as once saying, “Why don’t you just sell that stuff?”

In debt, she finally had no other choice, auctioning Marilyn Monroe’s ivory-pleated halter dress that blew upward in “The Seven Year Itch” for $4.6 million and Audrey Hepburn’s lace Royal Ascot number from “My Fair Lady” for $3.7 million — prices that shocked moviedom’s aristocracy and proved Reynolds had been right. Also sold, in some cases to anonymous overseas collectors, were Charlton Heston’s “Ben-Hur” tunic and cape, the acoustic guitar Julie Andrews strummed in “The Sound of Music” and every hat that Vivien Leigh flaunted in “Gone With the Wind.”

Hollywood didn’t give a damn.

Now, four years after she died at 84, there has been a plot twist in the Debbie Reynolds costume collection saga, one that she would undoubtedly find both maddening and satisfying: The Academy Museum of Motion Pictures, set to open on April 30 and costing $482 million, finds itself caring about her collection — at least the part that is left, which includes iconic costumes she wore in movies like “Singin’ in the Rain.” Also remaining are screen garments created for Mary Pickford, Deborah Kerr and Cyd Charisse, as well as rare memorabilia from classics like “The Wizard of Oz” and “The Maltese Falcon.”

“There are still amazing pieces,” Bill Kramer, the museum’s director, said by phone. Reynolds passed the items to her son, Todd Fisher, a major collector in his own right, who has long focused on film cameras and lenses, or “cinema glass.” Fisher also inherited “Star Wars” memorabilia owned by his sister, Carrie Fisher, who died a day before their mother in 2016.

“I approached Todd about a year ago with the idea of naming our museum’s conservation studio after his mother, who was so key to our history, not only as an artist — acting, dancing, singing, her comedy — but also as a collector and preservationist,” Kramer said. “It turned into a conversation about how we might be able to work with Todd and the collection to bring Debbie’s legacy — and Todd’s and Carrie’s — into the museum in a tangible way.”

So far, Fisher has agreed to lend the Academy Museum one item from his own collection: a set of seven Bausch and Lomb Baltar lenses used by Gregg Toland, the fabled “Citizen Kane” cinematographer. But Fisher, 62, said more items would come, as long as the Debbie Reynolds Conservation Studio exists on the museum’s lower level next to the Shirley Temple Education Studio.

“My mother was one of the most forgiving people ever,” Fisher said. “She would never want me to hold a grudge just because I have knowledge of all the missed opportunities — how the people running the academy in the past were never willing to step up and support her. She would have wanted me to share these important artifacts with future generations. So, as long as they are properly recognizing my mother for her contribution to this discipline, I agreed to provide access to whatever I have access to.”

Fisher continued: “I’m still here, and I know where a lot of it is — where key pieces ended up. I’m still here, and I still have some of it.”

The academy, founded in 1927, started collecting films and materials related to them in 1929. Its vast holdings include more than 100,000 titles, including obscure documentaries and early American movies; roughly 10 million photographs; 80,000 screenplays; 50,000 posters; and tens of thousands of production and costume design drawings.

But the actual garments never ranked. Deborah Nadoolman Landis, founding director of the David C. Copley Center for Costume Design at the University of California, Los Angeles, pointed out that an Oscar was not awarded for the art until 1949 and costume designers were not able to secure their own membership branch within the academy until 2013.

“I think it was institutionalized sexism,” Landis said. “Our field was considered women’s work and treated with disrespect.” Landis has been a member of the academy since 1988. Her costume design credits include “Raiders of the Lost Ark” (you can thank her for Indy’s fedora and jacket) and “Coming to America,” for which she was nominated for an Oscar.

Some costumes and props from Hollywood’s early decades have only survived because electricians, makeup artists and other behind-the-scenes workers took items home (or scavenged them from garbage bins) and passed them down as family heirlooms. In some instances, studios cut up old costumes to use as floor rags. Reynolds started her collection in 1970, when Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer sold the contents of seven soundstages; she emptied her bank accounts to buy hundreds of items, including Elizabeth Taylor’s pink and yellow racing silks from “National Velvet” and Leslie Caron’s plaid schoolgirl outfit from “Gigi,” complete with wool cape and straw hat.

“Debbie sat on my sofa and cried when she had to sell,” Landis said, recalling the first of three Reynolds auctions in 2011 and 2014. “The academy bought nothing. It was a tragedy.”

Kramer noted that the Academy Museum had recently purchased an array of costumes in private transactions, including Marlene Dietrich’s evening robe from “Blonde Venus” (1932), Gene Kelly’s sweater and slacks from “An American in Paris,” and a denim and flannel outfit worn by Kathy Bates in “Misery.” Leonardo DiCaprio, Steven Spielberg and Terry Semel, the former Warner Bros. chief, teamed in 2012 to buy a pair of ruby slippers from “The Wizard of Oz” for the museum, which was then pointed toward an opening in 2017. (Four pairs, size 5, are known to survive.)

And some things have recently been gifted in full or part to the museum, including Bela Lugosi’s floor-length “Dracula” cape. (Museum conservators have worked to restore it. The black wool exterior and taupe silk crepe lining tore apart over the years, likely the result of changing humidity.) “It is important to us as a museum to be able to restore and safeguard this artifact, especially knowing that much of the material history of the classic horror cycle has been lost forever,” Jessica Niebel, exhibitions curator, said in a statement last year.

Props donated to the museum include one of the “Rosebud” sleds made for “Citizen Kane.” (Three were made. Two were burned during filming.) A full-scale fiberglass “Jaws” shark, salvaged from a junkyard in 2016 and restored, will be on display.

Designed by Renzo Piano, the Academy Museum, which announced on Friday that it had reached its pre-opening fund-raising goal, hopes to attract more than 800,000 visitors a year. To do so, Kramer must appeal to two discordant audiences, offering scholarship for academy members (and students and film snobs) and sparkle for the masses. Approached in the right way, costumes could serve both needs — as Landis demonstrated in 2012, when she curated Hollywood Costume, an exhibition at the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum in London. (The Los Angeles County Museum of Art was initially approached with the exhibition idea and passed.)

The New York Times called Hollywood Costume “extraordinary” and “intelligent.” The exhibition, which finally made its way to Los Angeles in 2014 with Kramer’s help, turned into a blockbuster, ranking as one of the biggest draws in the V &amp; A’s 168-year history.

It included at least eight showstopping pieces from Reynolds’s original collection.





No.36 article:
Why the 2020 Election Makes It Hard to Be Optimistic About the Future

If we can’t face up to a pandemic, how can we avoid apocalypse?

The 2020 election is over. And the big winners were the coronavirus and, quite possibly, catastrophic climate change.

OK, democracy also won, at least for now. By defeating Donald Trump, Joe Biden pulled us back from the brink of authoritarian rule.

But Trump paid less of a penalty than expected for his deadly failure to deal with Covid-19, and few down-ballot Republicans seem to have paid any penalty at all. As a headline in The Washington Post put it, “With pandemic raging, Republicans say election results validate their approach.”

And their approach, in case you missed it, has been denial and a refusal to take even the most basic, low-cost precautions — like requiring that people wear masks in public.

The epidemiological consequences of this cynical irresponsibility will be ghastly. I’m not sure how many people realize just how terrible this winter is going to be.

Deaths from Covid-19 tend to run around three weeks behind new cases; given the exponential growth in cases since the early fall, which hasn’t slowed at all, this means that we may be looking at a daily death toll in the thousands by the end of the year. And remember, many of those who survive Covid-19 nonetheless suffer permanent health damage.

To be fair, the vaccine news has been very good, and it looks likely that we’ll finally bring the pandemic under control sometime next year. But we could suffer hundreds of thousands of American deaths, many of them avoidable, before the vaccine is widely distributed.

Awful as the pandemic outlook is, however, what worries me more is what our failed response says about prospects for dealing with a much bigger issue, one that poses an existential threat to civilization: climate change.

As many people have noted, climate change is an inherently difficult problem to tackle — not economically, but politically.

Right-wingers always claim that taking climate seriously would doom the economy, but the truth is that at this point the economics of climate action look remarkably benign. Spectacular progress in renewable energy technology makes it fairly easy to see how the economy can wean itself from fossil fuels. A recent analysis by the International Monetary Fund suggests that a “green infrastructure push” would, if anything, lead to faster economic growth over the next few decades.

But climate action remains very difficult politically given (a) the power of special interests and (b) the indirect link between costs and benefits.

Consider, for example, the problem posed by methane leaks from fracking wells. Better enforcement to limit these leaks would have huge benefits — but the benefits would be widely distributed across time and space. How do you get people in Texas to accept even a small rise in costs now when the payoff includes, say, a reduced probability of destructive storms a decade from now and half the world away?

This indirectness made many of us pessimistic about the prospects for climate action. But Covid-19 suggests that we weren’t pessimistic enough.

After all, the consequences of irresponsible behavior during a pandemic are vastly more obvious and immediate than the costs of climate inaction. Gather a bunch of unmasked people indoors — say, in the Trump White House — and you’re likely to see a spike in infections just a few weeks later. This spike will take place in your own neighborhood, quite possibly affecting people you know.

Furthermore, it’s a lot easier to discredit Covid deniers than it is to discredit climate-change deniers: All you have to do is point out the many, many times these deniers falsely asserted that the disease was about to go away.

So getting people to act responsibly on the coronavirus should be much easier than getting action on climate change. Yet what we see instead is widespread refusal to acknowledge the risks, accusations that cheap, common-sense rules like wearing masks constitute “tyranny,” and violent threats against public officials.

So what do you think will happen when the Biden administration tries to make climate a priority?

The one mitigating factor about the politics of climate policy I can see is that unlike fighting a pandemic, which is mainly about telling people what they can’t do, it should be possible to frame at least some climate action as carrots rather than sticks: investing in a green future and creating new jobs in the process, rather than simply requiring that people accept new limits and pay higher prices.

This is, by the way, possibly the biggest reason to hope that Democrats win those Georgia runoffs. Climate policy really needs to be sold as part of a package that also includes broader investment in infrastructure and job creation — and that just won’t happen if Mitch McConnell is still able to blockade legislation.

Obviously we need to keep trying to head off a climate apocalypse — and no, that’s not hyperbole. But even though the 2020 election wasn’t about climate, it was to some degree about the pandemic — and the results make it hard to be optimistic about the future.





No.37 article:
Catch the Vibe: Club Culture Comes to Life at Lincoln Center

The choreographer Ephrat Asherie unveils her short film “UnderScored,” which pays homage to the history of the underground scene and its veterans.

It’s more than just another dance film born during the pandemic, because it is more than a dance. It’s a celebration of a culture: the underground scene of New York City.

“UnderScored,” by Ephrat Asherie, is also a rush, gliding across the screen like a wave of motion. The progression of rhythm, of bodies, of momentum are thrilling. It doesn’t matter that the video, shot on the Lincoln Center campus, is short (it flies by at just under three minutes); it has layers of club culture and spirit embedded within it.

Ms. Asherie has never made something so authentically herself. And its sheer exuberance? Well, that is Ms. Asherie.

“When I think about this little video, it does feel like we’ve been confined for so long, but here we are,” she said in an interview. “Here’s the potential of growth and movement for us in our community.”

A choreographer with a passion for club life and social dance forms — house, breaking, vogue — Ms. Asherie, like many in the field, found herself with a dance and no place to show it. “UnderScored,” part of her multifaceted project exploring the lineage of street and club dance, was originally scheduled to premiere in October at Works &amp; Process at the Guggenheim. Instead it became a video project, one of four in a series directed by Nic Petry in collaboration with the artists and presented by Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and Works &amp; Process. It will be available indefinitely starting at 7:30 p.m. Eastern time on Sunday. (When performances resume, it will eventually be shown in its complete form.)

Of course, for a dancer like Ms. Asherie, the pandemic has affected more than her work in the concert dance world. “The nightlife scene in New York City has been hit so hard,” she said. “It’s really been incredible to see how D.J.s and promoters are doing their thing on Twitch or on Instagram.”

The underground scene, Ms. Asherie says, allows you to access a different part of yourself. “It’s like a spiritual thing,” she said. “It’s feeling, it’s a body thing. It’s a soul thing, right? These are all lyrics that you hear over and over again in house songs, too, because it’s trying to get at the thing that’s intangible — that’s the reason we are all there congregating.”

”UnderScored” is a homage both to that world and to its veterans, and it features appearances by two of them: Michele Saunders, 77, and Archie Burnett, 61. Ms. Asherie said that the recent deaths of two important street dance innovators, Don Campbell and Tyrone Proctor, were on her mind. “I just felt like, let’s collaborate with the elders when they’re here,” she said. “Why are we waiting to celebrate them?”

She and the dancers worked on the choreography in a bubble residency at Kaatsbaan Cultural Park in Tivoli, N.Y., but being on site at Lincoln Center made her understand exactly how she wanted it to look: shot, basically, in one take. “It was exciting to have this feeling of wanting to be in conversation with the space,” she said. “It was so clear to me when I got there: Oh, I want this to feel like one sweeping movement, because so much of what we’ve done has been interrupted by the pandemic.”

Mr. Petry, a dancer who heads the media company Dancing Camera, understands the relationship between choreography and the camera. “Often the hardest part for me is that the dance is the dance and you want it to remain true to what it is,” he said. “What was so fun and so great about Ephrat is how collaboratively she was interested in working. She was like, ‘Let me do something that would really work for this part.’ So it was actually making something new, which is very exciting.”

“UnderScored,” set to Sam One’s pulsating track “Kitalé,” feels urgent and alive: a visceral response to the moment. “The reason I’ve been riding my bike like a maniac in the pandemic is because I need to move through space,” Ms. Asherie said. “As dancers, I feel like our whole sense of time and space has shifted so dramatically. When this opportunity came up, I was like, how do we take up space? How do we show that we’re here?”

Ms. Asherie, known in the dance world as Bounce, spoke about her film, which transports the cast from confined spaces to the open air, about what it’s like to dance with trees (and other household objects) and about the importance of her club elders.

What follows are edited excerpts from that conversation.

What was the biggest challenge in shooting “UnderScored”?

It’s a huge space to cover. You can plan in your head, but ultimately it’s also this dialogue with the videographer. It was so much about the moment and the joy of creating something so unexpected in a short amount of time after you’ve been alone and overthinking everything so much. The thing about the one-take feel is that it’s the closest to a performance.

How did you choose the sites for your dance?

I knew right away that I wanted to be in the slats on the side of the [Metropolitan Opera] house, because that is also very much how confined we’ve been and separated from one another — and then slowly we break out of that.

What is the root of the choreography in that opening moment?

We called it the “’rona phrase,” because I made it in my living room. I was like, we just need to be dancing. This is at the top of the pandemic; I’m like, we’re just going to make a really long phrase, and every time we have rehearsal, I’m going to add four, five, six, seven, eight counts. And we’re going to do it every time we rehearse to keep our stamina up. The slats are really reflective of our Zoom squares and our confinement in those squares. So that phrase represents the beginning of our experience in this time.

The film unfolds like chapters to me. How did the section in the trees happen?

We need to frolic. There are trees! You can’t not use them.

I also have a weird amount of standing lamps in my apartment. At one point, I put all three of them on the floor, and I was like, these are my dance partners right now. I was moving through these lamps. And this was before the Lincoln Center thing was in my mind, but then I saw the trees and I was like, oh my God — people don’t even know, but we were dancing by ourselves with our lamps. Or whatever — with our brooms! I’m sure everybody did some kind of crazy stuff like that. We all did it.

What do Michele Saunders and Archie Burnett represent here?

They’re the ones that have paved the way. If you ever see footage of the Paradise Garage, Michele was in it. She was there all the time in full-out costume — die-hard, like going to the club with a suitcase and multiple outfits to change her costume. At Kaatsbaan, we would rehearse all day and then we’d go back and have big family dinners, and then Archie and Michele would dance for hours in the living room. That kind of energy — that is the reason there is a club scene.

What does that mean to you?

It’s like celebrating the reason that we’re doing what we’re doing. The energy that they share with us is so generous and magnanimous. I’m never going to leave a party early again ever. Once we’re back at the club, I’m staying until closing every single night. So that’s why. Because we are because of them.





No.1 article:
Republican senator Chuck Grassley tests positive for coronavirus

Grassley, 87, the senior senator from Iowa, said earlier in day that he was quarantining after being exposed to the virus and would work virtually as he waits for results of a test. He did not say how he was exposed.

Then later in the afternoon he confirmed that he had been infected.

“I’m feeling well and not currently experiencing any symptoms, but it’s important we all follow public health guidelines to keep each other healthy,” Grassley said in a statement.

The Iowa Republican is the president pro tempore of the Senate, meaning he presides over the Senate in the absence of Mike Pence – the vice-president of the US is also the president of the Senate – and is third in the line of presidential succession, behind Pence and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, should anything befall the president and leave him unable to carry out his job.

The president pro tempore is the senator in the majority party who has served the longest.

By missing votes this week, Grassley will break a 27-year streak of not missing a single Senate vote. According to his office, the last time he missed a vote was in 1993, when he was in Iowa assisting with relief efforts after severe flooding.

Grassley was unable to vote on Tuesday on Judy Shelton’s controversial nomination by Donald Trump to the Federal Reserve’s board of governors. Her confirmation ended up being blocked for the time being, with some Republicans, including Grassley, absent and some joining Democrats in voting “no”.

Grassley was first elected to the US House in 1974 and then to the Senate in 1980. He is the chairman of the Senate finance committee and is expected to become the top Republican on the Senate judiciary committee when a new Senate session begins in January.

Before quarantining, Grassley had spoken on the Senate floor without wearing a mask.

Last week he bucked the president when he joined the call for Joe Biden to receive daily intelligence briefings, with those briefings currently withheld from the president-elect because the Trump administration refuses to acknowledge Biden’s victory in the election and Trump’s election campaign is mounting long-shot legal challenges to the result.

Grassley was asked by CNN whether Biden should have access to classified briefings. “I would think – especially on classified briefings – the answer is yes,” Grassley said.





No.2 article:
Experts say the federal government, led by the lame duck president Donald Trump, has “checked out”, weeks away from what would be early vaccine approvals.

On Tuesday, a coronavirus taskforce update from the office of Mike Pence made no mention of transition efforts involving the president-elect, Joe Biden, as Trump has refused to concede defeat. Last weekend, leading public health expert Dr Anthony Fauci said Trump had not attended a taskforce meeting in five months.

“We should not find ourselves in this position,” Dr Ashish Jha, dean of Brown University’s school of public health, told NBC on Tuesday. “We’re 10 months into this pandemic, everybody knew this was coming, and again our federal government just didn’t prepare in the last couple months.

“It has decided to completely check out.”

According to Johns Hopkins University, 166,045 cases were recorded in the US on Monday, with 995 deaths. It was the 14th day in a row with more than 100,000 cases.

The latest increase comes ahead of one of the most important holidays in the American calendar, Thanksgiving, which experts have repeatedly warned could lead to a “chain reaction” of super-spreader events as families celebrate indoors.

Experts have said Americans should wear masks, social distance, avoid indoor gatherings and not gather members of different households together. Jha said his own family had canceled traditional Thanksgiving plans, which usually involve his elderly parents.

“We’re so close to a vaccine rollout, this is not the time to start making bad choices,” he said.

Meanwhile, medical experts advising the president-elect, Joe Biden, on the pandemic fear that the federal government’s delay in recognizing Biden’s election victory could be compromising the US response to the virus, the experts said on Tuesday.

Vivek Murthy, co-chair of Biden’s Covid-19 taskforce, said the experts had not been able to speak to current administration officials dealing with the virus, even as infections surge in many parts all across the nation.

And that could damage the incoming administration’s ability to distribute a vaccine, for example, Murthy said.

“We need to talk to those individuals, we need to work together with them,” Murthy said on a call with reporters.

The Biden team were unable to access real-time data, including on hospital bed capacity and the amount of drugs and equipment in government stockpiles, said Murthy, a former US surgeon general.

American doctors and nurses, in a letter published on Tuesday, urged the Trump administration to share detailed information.

“Real-time data and information on the supply of therapeutics, testing supplies, personal protective equipment, ventilators, hospital bed capacity and workforce availability to plan for further deployment of the nation’s assets needs to be shared to save countless lives,” said the letter, signed by the leadership of the American Medical Association, the American Nurses Association and the American Hospitals Association.

In the last week, the US has recorded on average 150,000 new coronavirus cases a day, according to the Covid Tracking Project. During a summer peak in southern and western states, positive tests reached a high of about 70,000 a day.

Hospitalizations have also reached an all-time high. More than 73,000 Americans are currently hospitalized, compared with roughly 60,000 in summer peaks. The pandemic has also reached a wider area, worsening nursing shortages.

Deaths are expected to rise. They are considered a “lagging indicator”, because it often takes several weeks for people to die after contracting Covid.

The worst death rates from Covid-19 happened in the spring in north-eastern states. With hospitals overwhelmed, more than 2,000 people died per day. Today, more than 1,000 a day are dying and the number is rising.

Governors and mayors are taking measures to curb the pandemic but the restrictions are markedly different from those imposed across the board this spring.

In Michigan, the Democratic governor, Gretchen Whitmer, placed restrictions on restaurants, casinos, sporting events, gyms and in-person classes for high school and college students. However, young children are still in school, an acknowledgment that they are both less likely to spread the disease, and of the need to maintain childcare.

“You don’t need a national lockdown, what you need is targeted, focused efforts on the things we know really are spreading the disease,” said Jha. “It’s good to see some states doing it, and I wish other states would follow suit quickly.”

A vaccine rollout is inching closer. Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna have announced early data which showed their vaccines could be more than 90% effective. This is far better than experts’ early expectations.

However, advisers to Biden emphasized data must be independently analyzed before vaccine approval can be given. Furthermore, the two promising vaccines are also the most logistically difficult to distribute, because they require extreme cold storage.

“There’s a lot of work still in front of us to make sure these vaccines are still available to all Americans,” said Dr Rick Bright, a former head of US Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority.

Bright became a whistleblower during the Trump administration, and has since been appointed to Biden’s coronavirus advisory board.

“It’s important that the new team has all the information the current team has,” he said about the transition, which has been held up by Trump’s refusal to concede defeat.

“Lives are at stake here.”





No.3 article:
Penalties had been put on hold in England and Wales amid concerns about fairness

Police forces can resume handing out £10,000 fines for breaches of coronavirus regulations, the National Police Chiefs’ Council (NPCC) has said following discussions with the government.

It comes after an emergency order was made to stop officers handing out the fines to Covid rule-breakers, amid concerns the government’s flagship deterrent is unfair.

Officials are scrambling to stop the crackdown on large gatherings in England and Wales, which was announced by the prime minister this summer, from imploding after serious problems emerged.

Scores of £10,000 on-the-spot fines have been issued for those organising anti-lockdown protests, student parties, raves and large weddings. The fines are part of measures to enforce rushed-through Covid legislation banning gatherings of more than 30 people.

But many of those who challenged the penalties in court had the penalties reduced to hundreds of pounds instead after judges decided the level of fine should be determined by an individual’s ability to pay, according to a source with knowledge of police discussions.

On Tuesday evening police issued a new statement saying the issue had been resolved after forces had the option of issuing a £10,000 fines again, but would have to explain that people could fight it in court. The NPCC said: “People found to be in breach of the regulations relating to gatherings of over 30 people will be made fully aware of their options when faced with a £10,000 FPN (fixed penalty notice), to ensure fairness.”

On Friday, forces were told of the “urgent” problem in a letter from the NPCC and told to stop issuing the FPNson those blamed for organising gatherings of more than 30 people.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

The letter, seen by the Guardian, said: “With immediate effect we are asking all forces to cease issuing FPNs with a £10,000 fine of enforcement.” It said forces could instead issue court summonses or make arrests.

The letter from the NPCC to all chief constables and heads of criminal justice in England and Wales reveals behind-the-scenes concerns about flaws in the rushed measures.

A joint ethics committee of police, prosecutors and court officials had met and decided to order the halt, it said. “This arises from the issue of a significant inequitable position for those who elect to pay the fine, versus those who do not and progress to the courts and are subject to means-testing on conviction.”

The instruction says all £10,000 fines currently in process should be reviewed and officials would see whether the system of FPNs could be reformed and reinstated.

In a sign that the rules may be deemed unfair, the letter adds: “We wish to ensure that all persons subject to enforcement action under this particular regulation are treated equally and fairly ...”

Among those fined £10,000 were Piers Corbyn, the brother of the former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, who led an anti-lockdown protest in August. The organisers of a 1,000-strong rave in east London and a wedding for 80 people in Essex last month were also fined.

An NPCC spokesperson said: “On Friday 13 November we advised all forces to temporarily take enforcement steps by way of summons rather than by issuing a fixed penalty notice to the value of £10,000 for offences relating to gatherings of over 30 people under Covid regulations.

“We gave this advice because of a potential disparity between those who opt to pay the FPN and those who see their case reach the court where the FPN would be means-tested against personal income. We are working with government to urgently address this matter, and once rectified, we intend to advise that forces resume issuing £10,000 FPNs wherever appropriate.”

West Midlands police said on Tuesday it would stop issuing £10,000 fines, having handed out 13 so far. David Jamieson, the region’s police and crime commissioner, said he had been left embarrassed.

In a letter to the policing minister, Kit Malthouse, Jamieson wrote: “There are, apparently, concerns of inequalities between those who opt to pay the fine and those who opt to go to court, where the defendant is then subject to means-testing before a fine is imposed.

“My force has so far issued 13 of these large fixed penalty notices as means of ensuring government regulations are enforced in the way you intended. The fact that the government has failed to provide our hard-working police officers with workable Covid legislation, I view with utter dismay.

“I feel thoroughly embarrassed that I have been personally supporting the government’s actions, which, at best, are questionable.”

A government spokesperson said: “It is right that we have a strong deterrent. We are working with forces to ensure people are fully aware of their options when faced with a FPN. If someone chooses not to pay their FPN, the matter may be considered by a court and the individual could be subject to a criminal conviction.”





No.4 article:
Murder risk in England and Wales much higher for black people

Study shows homicides five times more likely than for white people and up to 24 times in 16-24 age group

Black people in England and Wales are more than five times as likely as white people to be victims of homicide, new research shows.

Austerity was potentially a significant factor, although more research was needed, said Prof Lawrence Sherman, co-author of the study, which examined data between 2000 and 2020. The study, by Cambridge University’s Institute of Criminology, found that Asian people were twice as likely as white people to be homicide victims.

The study analysed the homicide rate for every 100,000 people for different ethnic groups in England and Wales, and found it had fluctuated over the last 20 years. In the early 2000s the number of black people killed was at its peak, at 10 people for every 100,000 of population. The rate then dropped to as low as three people per 100,000, and began to increase from 2013.

Latest analysis put the homicide rate for black people at five for every 100,000 people, but it was even higher for black youngsters aged 16-24, who during the last 20 years were 10.6 times more likely to be killed than their white counterparts. Even more alarmingly, that had increased, and in 2018-19 young black people were 24 times more likely to be homicide victims than young white people.

The Cambridge team could not answer exactly why there was such a disparity, but Sherman said there were multiple factors, including the effects of austerity, poverty and racism.

He said: “The massive drop in black victimisation we find from 2001 to 2012 may have been due to police targeting illegal gun ownership by criminal networks, such as Operation Trident in the Met. It is also possible that a variety of changes in policing nationally after 2012 can help explain the rapid increase in black homicide victimisation since then.

“But in the absence of controlled tests of the kind undertaken in the US, it is impossible to identify how much of the overall disparity is due to policing versus other causes, such as austerity cutbacks in youth services. Austerity may be a very big factor in driving these disparities over the last decade.”

Sherman called for greater use of evidence in making policing decisions, saying: “Policing requires reliable evidence, and changing levels of risk are a vital part of preventive policing. Simple statistics show us that the risks of becoming a murder victim are far from equal.

“We need more data analysis of this nature to inform police resource allocation, and promote a more fact-informed dialogue with communities across the country.”





No.5 article:
We would like to hear from key workers in the UK. You can get in touch by filling in the form \nbelow, or by contacting us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or\n adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your \ncontributions and one of our journalists may contact you to discuss \nfurther. 

Dozens of councils miss deadline to nominate ‘hot homes’ for people discharged with virus

Covid patients could be left to languish in hospital and block NHS beds amid delays in setting up “hot” care homes dedicated to receiving them, health chiefs have warned.

A plan to reduce care home coronavirus outbreaks by setting up “hot homes” to receive infected people discharged from hospital is running late after dozens of councils missed a government deadline to nominate locations.

By the end of October every area of England was supposed to have at least one facility approved for Covid-positive discharges, the government pledged last month. It was part of an attempt to prevent a repeat of the spring pandemic, which killed more than 18,000 residents after thousands of patients were discharged into care homes without tests.

But as hospital admissions with Covid continue to rise, only 67 out of 151 local authorities have one set up, according to figures from the Care Quality Commission (CQC).

NHS Providers, which represents NHS trusts, said the delays were adding to discharge problems, causing increasing patient stays and a growing number of “super-stranded” patients.

“While the new discharge requirements are well-intentioned and aimed at protecting the most vulnerable in care homes, the challenge of implementing the changes has created blockages across mental health, acute and community beds,” said Miriam Deakin, the director of policy and strategy at NHS Providers.

“Trusts are telling us that a combination of insurance and CQC assurance approvals for the new designated spaces are adding delays.”

The shadow care minister, Liz Kendall, said the shortfall presented a threat to the NHS. There were already nearly 15,000 people in hospital with Covid and the daily rate of admission was the same as on 20 April.

“The lack of places to discharge patients isn’t just bad for them but also for the NHS, which desperately needs all capacity to treat Covid patients and bring down the huge backlog in cancer and other waiting times,” she said. “The government must set out what it will do to ensure places are available in every part of the country as a matter of urgency.”

The instruction to set up designated care settings for people discharged from hospital with coronavirus came from the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC).

It had already updated guidelines on the admission of Covid-positive patients, which now state that no care home will be forced to admit anyone if they are unable to cope with the impact of the person’s Covid-19 illness. If they refused, it would be the local authority’s responsibility to find alternative accommodation.

Some care homes and councils are understood to have faced difficulties securing affordable insurance and finding suitable facilities.

Tuesday’s figures showed 46 councils in England have not nominated a potentially “Covid-safe” facility for inspection by the CQC. This included 25 councils that said they would not take part in the scheme but would make alternative arrangements, understood to include using community hospitals.

callout-coronavirus-key-workers

As of 13 November, only 74 “hot homes” have been set up and approved, with 936 beds. Councils proposing alternatives, such as working with NHS facilities, report having identified just over 700 beds.

Kate Terroni, the chief inspector of adult social care at the CQC, said: “It is our role to ensure that proposed locations for the designate scheme, which is an initiative led by DHSC, are safe for people with a confirmed Covid-19 test result to be discharged into. By the end of November we will have completed 500 infection prevention and control inspections, including at all approved designated locations.”

A spokesperson for the DHSC said: “Our ambition is for every local authority to have access to at least one CQC-designated setting as soon as possible ahead of winter and we are working closely with the sector as we put these arrangements in place to ensure we deliver the right care for everyone.”





No.6 article:
Papua New Guinea PM calls opposition leader &#x27;scumbag&#x27; amid political power struggle

James Marape faces chaos amid bitter fighting over who can command a majority in a parliament now suspended until April

The bitter arm-wrestle for control of Papua New Guinea’s government has descended into chaos with a half-full parliament passing a budget, then deferring parliament for more than five months.

Prime Minister James Marape’s grip on power has been marginally improved by Tuesday’s events, but remains tenuous and the coming weeks are likely to be racked by private and public machinations over who can command a majority on the floor of the house.

Marape has called MPs who moved against him “constitutional rapists” and opposition leader Belden Namah a “political scumbag”.

PNG has endured days of chaos and instability at the heart of the government. On Friday, dozens of government members, including at least nine ministers, abandoned Marape to sit with the opposition and seize control of parliament.

The opposition then voted that day to suspend sittings until 1 December, the first opportunity to move a motion of no confidence in Marape. (PNG’s constitution protects new prime ministers against no-confidence votes for 18 months).

With parliament abandoned, over the weekend the opposition decamped to Vanimo, in the north of New Guinea. A rumour – ultimately false – circulated that city would be placed under lockdown because of a Covid outbreak.

But the country’s speaker of parliament, Job Pomat, then declared the motion to suspend parliament invalid and insisted MPs return.

Parliament then sat on Tuesday – though with the opposition unable to return from Vanimo, the chamber was left with just 49 of its 111 members present. The brief sitting passed the Marape government’s 19.6bn kina budget (US$5.45bn) for next year.

Parliament was then adjourned until 20 April, ostensibly buying Marape five months before he can next be challenged.

The former prime minister Peter O’Neill – widely seen as deeply involved in the plot to oust Marape – attempted to obtain a stay order to prevent the parliament’s budget sitting, but Justice Makail in the supreme court refused to grant it.

An emboldened Marape – describing himself as a “Huli Chief” – told opposition leader Belden Namah to bring on any challenge.

“A Huli doesn’t surrender in a fight, you have to kill me on the battlefield and I will die with dignity. I would rather die in battle for the values I stand for than succumb to the call of a political scumbag.

“And if you do kill me, I can rest assure you, and your cronies, I have kindled a fire in the gut of many … who will carry the fight on to take back our country’s resources from the hands of greedy few elites who play this game under the pretext of people’s interest.

“Don’t ask me to resign, come and get it off me in the battlegrounds of Waigani [the suburb that houses PNG’s parliament].”

Marape loyalist and police minister Bryan Kramer said he expected dissenting government members to return to the fold. “The government is focused on running the country and expects members who initially crossed the floor to eventually rejoin its ranks to move on with the job of serving our people.”

East Sepik governor Allan Bird told the Guardian the sitting to pass the budget was legal, meeting the parliamentary quorum requirement of 37 members.

“The rules to pass the budget are by a simple majority of those present … we broke no laws today.”

Opposition leader Namah did not respond to requests for comment from the Guardian. He was meeting lawyers, but was losing numbers from his breakaway coalition. Previously dissident ministers, such as William Duma, have rejoined the government’s group.

An opposition spokesman said it was “seeking legal redress” to recall parliament sooner.

The parliamentary intrigue and government unrest exacerbates an acutely difficult time for PNG, as the country wrestles with Covid-19 lockdowns, a long-running dispute over control of the country’s second-largest mine Porgera, and an already straitened budget that has forced the government to seek emergency loans from Australia.





No.7 article:
Gabriel González Andersson acted as middleman for deals with Florida-based company

A Spanish businessman was paid more than $28m (£21m) in taxpayers’ money to act as a middleman in the sale of personal protective equipment to the UK government by a Florida-based jewellery designer, according to a US court document.

The document, filed in Miami, states that Gabriel González Andersson stood to earn a further $21.3m in consulting fees, also to be borne by UK taxpayers, for three more PPE contracts between the company Saiger and the government. Saiger was set up this year by Michael Saiger, the owner of the jewellery company Miansai, in response to the coronavirus pandemic.

In May, Saiger, whosejewellery is sold in more than 35 countries, told the Council of Fashion Designers of America that Miansai’s business had slowed. He said: “I am spending my days procuring PPE supplies for local charities, shelters and governments.”

According to the court document, by drawing on contacts in China, Saiger’s new company “was able to secure a number of lucrative contracts with the government of the United Kingdom”. It says that Andersson “did very well under this arrangement, and for his assistance in the completion of two contracts, was paid more than $28m”.

The US court case concerns a dispute between Saiger and Andersson relating to three further contracts agreed in June to supply millions of gloves and gowns to the UK, under which Andersson was to be paid an additional $21.3m in fees.

The contracts signed between Saiger and Andersson specified that he would provide services including “sourcing the manufacturer, due diligence and coordinating logistics”. 

The details raise fresh concerns about the vast sums of money the UK government has paid during the coronavirus crisis to private companies. PPE contracts signed with other companies, include one worth £252m signed in April with Ayanda Capital, which describes itself as specialising in currency trading and offshore property, and 11 with Pestfix, primarily a pest control business.

Separately, in the UK, Good Law Project and EveryDoctor launched legal proceedings on Tuesday against the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) over the award of PPE contracts worth more than £250m in total to Saiger.

One of the contracts, entered into on 4 June for £70.5m of gowns (of which $16m was due to go to Andersson according to the US document) was for the supply of 10.2m gowns, approximately the entire number of gowns used by NHS England for the duration of the coronavirus pandemic, but was offered without any advertisement or competitive tender process, the claimants say. They also allege that the government overpaid Saiger for gowns under this contract, relative to the prevailing market price.

Jolyon Maugham QC, director of Good Law Project, said: “At last we can all see – in simple black and white – the staggering sums flowing from public coffers to private pockets. Who could blame individuals for joining the queue if government is handing out free money? But you and I – and our children – are going to have to pay higher taxes because government’s incompetence handed fortunes big enough to last generations to obscure foreign businessmen.

“We consider the award of this contract, as with so many others this government has entered into, to be unlawful. If the answers from government aren’t good enough, and we expect they won’t be, we will issue proceedings.”

Dr Julia Patterson, of the campaign group EveryDoctor, said: “It is quite simply heartbreaking to NHS staff to see this mismanagement of public funds exposed.”

The claimants say notices of the contracts were not published until five months after the contracts were awarded, in breach of the law which requires government to make the details available within 30 days. The measures are designed to reduce the risk of fraud and improve value for money by allowing proper scrutiny of how taxpayer cash is spent.

A DHSC spokesperson said: “Proper due diligence is carried out for all government contracts, and we take these checks extremely seriously.”

Andersson’s lawyer, Jonathan Morton, declined to comment on the US proceedings when contacted by the Guardian.





No.8 article:
Tolls of 731 and 435 respectively in past 24 hours come amid calls for tougher rules in Italy

Italy and Spain have both recorded their highest daily coronavirus death tolls of the second wave, reporting 731 and 435 deaths respectively over the past 24 hours.

Italy, the first western country hit by the virus, has logged 46,464 Covid deaths while Spain has logged 41,688.

Such high Italian daily death figures have not been seen since 3 April, when the country was still in lockdown. The Spanish toll is well up on last week’s previous second-wave record of 411 deaths.

The second wave has already killed 9,000 people in Italy, where the alternative approach to a nationwide lockdown has so far shown little success. The number of total infections passed 1m last week and cases are rising at more than 30,000 a day.

Early in October the government introduced a coloured three-tiered system to combat the virus. Regions are divided into three zones – red for the highest risk, then orange and yellow.

In the red zones – which include Lombardy, Tuscany, Calabria, the autonomous province of Bolzano, Liguria, Piedmont and Aosta Valley – residents can only leave home for work, health reasons, essential shopping or emergencies. In the orange and yellow zones, slightly less severe restrictions were introduced.

A leading physician said on Tuesday that the government may have to make them tougher.

“Next week we’ll know if the [contagion] curve has stabilized or has started to come down,” Andrea Crisanti, the director of microbiology and virology at the University of Padua, told the news agency ANSA.

“If it does not come down, it will be necessary to do something else. The social and emotional price is immense – 9,000 people have died since the start of the second wave, we must not forget that.”

The Veneto region on Tuesday registered 100 deaths, its highest daily toll since the beginning of the pandemic.

Intensive care unit (ICU) doctors said the strain on units during the second wave was almost unbearable in high-risk red zones.

Antonino Giarratano, head of the ICU doctors association SIAARTI, told TV channel Rai 3: “It has been stated that the pressure on intensive care is sustainable but in fact in the red regions the pressure is almost unsustainable, and in the orange ones it is very, very heavy.”

Covid-19 and the containment measures have pushed Italy’s economy into a deep contraction.

The Italian retailers association Confcommercio said on Tuesday that consumer spending plunged again in October, dropping 8.1% year on year. Tourism-linked businesses were hardest hit, with recreation services down 73.2%, hotels down 60% and bars and restaurants down 38%, it said.

In Spain, which has been under a new state of emergency since the end of October, the total number of cases has passed the 1.5m mark to reach 1,510,023. More than 219,000 cases have been diagnosed over the past fortnight alone.

Although the number of cases per 100,000 people is decreasing across Spain as a whole, infection levels remain high in some regions: there are 798.3 cases per 100,000 people in Castilla y León, compared with a national average of 465.9.

Hospitals are also under pressure, with 32.5% of Spain’s ICU beds occupied by Covid patients. Fernando Simón, the head of the national health emergencies centre, said that while infection rates appeared to be coming down, “this trend we’re seeing is not a victory”.





No.9 article:
Berhane Woldegabriel obituary

Born in Adi Cheganow, Eritrea, to Woldegabriel Woldegiorgis, a police officer, and his wife, Weizro Tebereh Adane, Berhane attended Prince Mekonnen high school in the capital, Asmara, before moving to Ethiopia to train to be a teacher at Debre Berhan. After gaining his diploma he worked in various schools and went on to study at Addis Ababa University.

War and political upheaval meant he was never able to return to Eritrea for more than a few days. Eventually, in the late 1970s, he finally decided to get away from the repression of the Mengistu regime in Ethiopia, escaping by foot into Sudan, where he lived for the next 13 years.

In Sudan he wrote for the magazine Sudanow and worked for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, helping with the settlement of Eritrean refugees in Sudan. In 1990 the Sudanese government marked him out for his critical writing and he was forced to seek sanctuary in the UK.

From 1993 onwards Berhane took on various jobs, most recently at Soas University of London as a lecturer in Tigrinya and Amharic. He also helped refugees who had arrived in Britain from Eritrea and from other countries, including Uganda and Iraq. 

In the 90s he founded a charity, the Eritrean Education and Publication Trust (EEPT), which helps people from the Horn of Africa to develop their work and life skills and promotes conciliation techniques. He was also part of the group Initiatives of Change, which, in conjunction with EEPT, has built up relationships between Eritrean opposition groups and civil society in the diaspora. 

Three years ago Berhane gave up his post at Soas to work with Save the Children to help refugees making the boat crossing from Africa to Europe. By then in his 70s, he trained for his role by rolling off rafts into the sea at Dover. Once in the Mediterranean he descended into rubber rescue dinghies as the first person to assure traumatised people that they were now safe.

Berhane was a modest man, noted for his warmth, erudition and wit. He had great political insight and the gift of being able to provide subtle encouragement both to his many friends and to the groups he supported and developed. He loved people regardless of nationality or creed. 

He is survived by five children, Yemane, Medhanie, Fewien, Hadish and Jonathan, two grandchildren, Raphael and Abigail, his sister Haimanot in London, and seven other siblings abroad.





No.10 article:
Mind our language: Bulgaria blocks North Macedonia&#x27;s EU path

Sofia raises opposition to neighbour’s accession hopes citing failure to respect history

A row over the historical roots of North Macedonia’s language has led to Bulgaria blocking talks over the newly renamed country’s accession to the EU.

During discussions by EU ministers on Tuesday, Bulgaria raised its opposition citing a failure of its neighbour to respect a shared history. It wants official EU documents to avoid mention of the “Macedonian language”, which it insists derives from Bulgarian.

North Macedonia – which added “North” to its name in February to satisfy the Greeks as part of its successful efforts to join Nato – has also fallen foul of Bulgaria’s demand for guarantees that it will not support any claims for a Macedonian minority in Bulgaria.

The development will be a huge source of frustration in Skopje, the former Yugoslav republic’s capital.

It had been hoped that EU membership talks would follow soon after joining Nato but after a videoconference meeting of EU ministers, Ekaterina Zaharieva, Bulgaria’s foreign minister, said her government would not back the opening of talks, which had been due to begin at an intergovernmental conference next month.

“Bulgaria, at this stage, cannot back the draft of the negotiation framework with the Republic of North Macedonia,” she said.

Germany’s EU affairs minister, Michael Roth, said the issue would not be sent to the 27 heads of state and government for discussion but he hoped a “reasonable solution” would be found bilaterally.

“There can be bilateral conflicts with North Macedonia and Bulgaria, for example, and also issues of importance with central and eastern Europe,” he said. “We want to be helpful and we want to clear the path as much as possible so we can start on the intergovernmental conference.

“They have already done a lot and they have their claims. They want to be part of this European community. It is a long, difficult path but it has to get started with negotiations.”

As Macedonia, the country applied for EU membership in March 2004 and it was given candidate status the following year. The European commission has recommended opening accession talks since 2009.

North Macedonia is now expected to offer further guarantees to Bulgaria that it will deliver on a 2017 friendship treaty with Sofia that deals with the thorny historical issues.

The European commission’s vice-president, Maroš Šefčovič, said it was important to move the accession talks with North Macedonia and Albania to show that the EU was open to enlargement.

He said: “Efforts need to be redoubled. We want the intergovernmental conference to take place as soon as possible.”





No.11 article:
Frenchman was part of team from Jetman Dubai famous for doing stunts wearing jetpacks

One of Dubai’s “jetmen”, whose flights over the world’s tallest building and alongside a jumbo jet with engines strapped to his back have wowed watchers online, died on Tuesday while training in the desert, his organisation said.

Vincent Reffet, 36, of Annecy, France, was killed during training, Jetman Dubai said in a statement. The organisation did not elaborate, though it said it was “working closely with all relevant authorities”.

“Vince was a talented athlete, and a much-loved and respected member of our team,” its statement said. “Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and all those who knew and worked with him.”

Reffet had Base jumped off the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the world’s tallest building at 828 metres (2,716ft), setting a world record. Base is an acronym for building, antenna, span and earth, the four categories of object from which people jump. He had also earned gold medals while competing as a free-flying skydiver and competed as an extreme athlete sponsored by Red Bull.

Extreme sports were in his blood as his parents were also skydivers.

“I believe that if you dream big and if you love what you do, everything is possible,” Reffet said.

But the public in Dubai came to know Reffet best as part of Jetman Dubai, founded by the Swiss adventurer Yves Rossy, whose athletes zip across the sky with a four-engine, carbon-Kevlar wing strapped to their backs. The wings can fly 30 miles (50km), have a maximum speed of over 248mph (400km/h) and can reach an altitude of 6,100 metres (20,000ft).

Under the brand of XDubai, which is associated with the crown prince of Dubai, Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the jetmen have flown past the Burj Khalifa and other sites around the city state.

In 2015, Reffet and Rossy flew alongside an Emirates Airbus A380 double-decker jetliner over Dubai.

“It’s the sensation of freedom. Already, you know, when I am skydiving, I have like this feeling of freedom like I can pretty much go where I want, but always going down,” Reffet told Associated Press in 2015. “[But] with this machine I can fly like a bird.”





No.12 article:
Pfizer launches Covid-19 vaccine delivery trial in four US states

The drugmaker, whose vaccine candidate has 90% efficacy, will run the programme in Rhode Island, Texas, New Mexico and Tennessee

Pfizer has launched a pilot delivery program for its experimental Covid-19 vaccine in four US states, as the drugmaker seeks to address distribution challenges posed by its ultra-cold storage requirements.

The US drugmaker said it had selected Rhode Island, Texas, New Mexico, and Tennessee for the program because of their differences in overall size, diversity of populations and immunisation infrastructure, as well as the states’ need to reach individuals in varied urban and rural settings.

“The four states included in this pilot program will not receive vaccine doses earlier than other states by virtue of this pilot, nor will they receive any differential consideration,” Pfizer said in a statement.“We are hopeful that results from this vaccine delivery pilot will serve as the model for other US states and international governments, as they prepare to implement effective Covid-19 vaccine programs.”

A week ago, Pfizer released initial data on its vaccine developed with German partner BioNTech SE that showed it to have an efficacy of more than 90%.

Pfizer’s vaccine must be shipped and stored at -70 degrees Celsius (-94°F), significantly below the standard for vaccines of two-to-eight degrees Celsius (36-46°F).

Earlier on Monday, rival Moderna Inc said its experimental vaccine had 94.5% efficacy in preventing Covid-19 based on interim data from a late-stage trial, boosting hopes that vaccines against the disease may be ready for use soon. Moderna’s vaccine does not require ultracold freezing, a factor that could prove to be major advantage over Pfizer’s product.

Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines use a new technology called synthetic messenger RNA to activate the immune system against the virus.

Experts have raised concerns about the distribution challenges associated with Pfizer’s vaccine due to its specialised storage requirements.

Riding a swell of optimism that a vaccine may soon control the coronavirus and the economic destruction it has caused, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose to a record Monday for the first time in nine months. Leading the way were stocks of companies that would benefit most from an economy busting out of its forced hibernation, such as airlines, movie theatres and banks. Pandemic-winning stocks that benefited from lockdown orders like Amazon and Zoom Video Communications lagged as they no longer looked like the only safe bets to play.The Dow jumped 470.63 points, or 1.6%, to 29,950.44. It surpassed its prior closing record of 29,551.42, set in February before pandemic panic sent stocks plunging.

With Reuters and AP

• This article was amended on 17 November 2020 to clarify that results of vaccine trials at this stage refer to “efficacy” – the performance of an intervention under ideal and controlled circumstances – not “effectiveness”, which describes performance under real-world conditions.





No.13 article:
Thailand protests: clashes cause chaos outside parliament

In practice, this means open discussion or critical reporting about the royal family is considered illegal.

The military junta, which seized power in 2014, has been criticised for using the law –&nbsp;which can see people jailed for up to 15 years on each count – to stifle opposition.&nbsp;

In 2015, a man was jailed for 30 years&nbsp;over six Facebook posts and the local printer of the New York Times refused to publish&nbsp;an edition with a story on the king.

Skirmishes break out between rival groups as police fire water cannon and MPs flee in boats

Skirmishes break out between rival groups as police fire water cannon and MPs flee in boats

Thailand’s riverside parliament was surrounded by chaos as police repeatedly fired water cannon at pro-democracy protesters, clashes broke out between the demonstrators and royalist counterparts, and MPs abandoned the scene in boats.

Five people were treated for gunshot wounds, including at least two students, after the most violent clashes since a youth-led movement emerged in July. A total of 55 people suffered injuries in the protests, according to Bangkok’s Erawan emergency medical centre.

For months, a youth-led protest movement has held escalating demonstrations calling for democratic reforms. They have demanded the removal of the prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, a former army general, and have breached longstanding taboos to call for an accountable and transparent monarchy. Dozens have faced legal charges for taking part in the rallies.

On Tuesday, as lawmakers considered whether to debate several proposals to amend the constitution – an issue central to protesters’ demands – thousands gathered outside the Thai parliament, which had been blocked off with razor wire and concrete.

Protesters outside parliament mocked the military-backed government by bringing giant inflatable ducks to the rally, which some joked would float down the river to an otherwise inaccessible parliament.

The ducks, nicknamed by some as their “navy force”, were instead used to shelter from blasts of water cannon, which in some instances contained chemical irritants.

Teargas was also used on pro-democracy protesters, who wore hard hats and goggles for protection. Groups of demonstrators could be seen coughing and pouring water over their faces to ease the stinging.

“Stop accusing us of violating the law, you [the police] are violating the law by hurting people,” Parit Chiwarak, a prominent student leader also known as Penguin, said through a megaphone later in the evening.

“We are fighting for a better future of our country and for everyone so don’t fire water cannon on us.”

A police spokesman said water cannon were used because protesters were attempting to break into a restricted area.

Despite a heavy police presence around parliament, skirmishes broke out between royalists, who wore yellow shirts, and pro-democracy protesters during the afternoon. Both sides threw stones and water bottles after police retreated from one of the barricades, the first major clash between royalists and the student-led movement. 

Skirmishes occurred again later in the evening, when gunshots were fired. In one video, shared widely on social media and apparently filmed among yellow shirt royalists, a speaker warns the opposing side to control their crowd, and not to throw a firecracker. What sounds like several gunshots are fired. A person close to the camera, far from the front line, watches on saying “shoot them, shoot them”.

Mint Suttawan, an MP for the progressive opposition party Move Forward, told the Guardian she had visited two injured students at Rama 9 hospital. Both had been shot in the leg but were conscious, she said. They had attended the demonstration as protest guards for the pro-democracy movement – volunteers who stand on the front line to manage the crowds and ensure demonstrators’ safety.

Royalists held a counter-demonstration earlier in the day, where they urged lawmakers not to change the constitution.

“Amending the constitution is going to lead to the abolition of the monarchy,” the royalist leader, Warong Dechgitvigrom, told reporters.

Protesters have said they do not want abolition of the monarchy, but believe it should be brought under the constitution. They have also called for the removal of harsh defamation laws that protect the royal family from criticism. Anyone who “defames, insults or threatens the king, queen, heir apparent or regent” can face up to 15 years in prison.

Strict lèse majesté laws make it a crime to criticise, defame or insult members of Thailand's royal family.

In practice, this means open discussion or critical reporting about the royal family is considered illegal.

The military junta, which seized power in 2014, has been criticised for using the law –&nbsp;which can see people jailed for up to 15 years on each count – to stifle opposition.&nbsp;

In 2015, a man was jailed for 30 years&nbsp;over six Facebook posts and the local printer of the New York Times refused to publish&nbsp;an edition with a story on the king.

Surrounded by the unrest, several MPs and senators left parliament in the afternoon on boats from a pier behind the building. On Wednesday they are expected to vote on which, if any, of seven constitutional amendment bills should be debated.

The most controversial, which aims to undo the changes introduced under military rule, has been put forward by the human rights NGO iLaw. It says the 250 military-appointed senators should be replaced with elected officials, and does not, like other proposals, prevent changes to parts of the constitution that relate to the monarchy. However, despite receiving about 100,000 signatures it is unlikely to pass.

The royal palace has not responded to the protests, although the king has said of demonstrators “we love them all the same”. In recent comments, he described Thailand as the “land of compromise”.





No.14 article:
Letter: Lord Sacks on HIV/Aids

By speaking out, he enabled many not to feel excluded by their sexual orientation or having to conceal their state of health.





No.15 article:
Trump withdrawal plan could tip Afghanistan towards more violence

Attacks up since September amid fears Taliban biding their time until US forces leave

Donald Trump’s plan for a swift withdrawal of over half the US troops in Afghanistan comes at a dangerous time for a country officially in peace talks, but grappling with escalating bloodshed and shrinking financial support from foreign donors.

Attacks are up by 50% since negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban began in September, a recent US government report found, above average levels for this time of year.

The top US general on the ground, Austin Scott Miller, has warned that insurgent assaults are “not consistent” with the withdrawal agreement the US and the Taliban signed in February and “undermine the ongoing Afghan peace talks”.

The violence has also reportedly demoralised Afghan forces, who have been ordered to stay on the defensive as part of the peace process. Frequent Afghan government calls for a Taliban ceasefire or reduction of violence as a sign of insurgent goodwill during the talks have gone unheeded.

A string of targeted city assassinations has picked off talented reporters, human rights activists and moderate religious leaders. A female delegate to the peace talks was also targeted over the summer, although she survived the car bombing with minor injuries.

Many of these killings have gone unclaimed, but together the murders have sent a chilling message about the risks of fighting for rights like press freedom and women’s education, carved out by a generation of Afghans since the Taliban were toppled in late 2001.

Critics of the talks have long raised fears that the Taliban are more interested in buying time until American forces leave than in trying to reach a political settlement.

They fear that an overly hasty withdrawal of American troops, who currently provide air cover and other military aid for Afghan forces, and logistical support for Nato allies with troops on the ground, could tip the country towards greater violence.

“The US government is fully entitled to draw down as it wishes (even if it goes back on its commitment to the Afghans). However, if you are going to do it, do it responsibly!” Saad Mohseni, director of the Moby Group, Afghanistan’s largest private media company, said on Twitter. “Burning down the house on your way out is not what we expected from an ally.”

History offers a grim precedent from 30 years ago, when Russian troops withdrew from the country in 1989, leaving the government they had backed to fight alone against US-supported insurgents.

Although the previous decade had seen bitter fighting and atrocities by both sides, the years of civil war that followed unleashed new levels of death and physical destruction on the country, and culminated in the Taliban’s rise to power.





No.16 article:
Abiy Ahmed says deadline for surrender has expired, paving way for push on Tigray’s capital

Ethiopian troops will launch a “final and conclusive” offensive against rebels in the northern region of Tigray before the end of the week, the country’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, has said, as fears grow of a major humanitarian crisis.

In a series of social media posts on Tuesday, Abiy said that a three-day deadline for rebel troops to surrender had expired, paving the way for a final push on Mekelle, Tigray’s capital.

Abiy is under increasing pressure from African countries and international powers to end the two-week conflict, amid concerns that the war will destabilise Ethiopia and the fragile Horn of Africa region.

Since he launched military operations in Tigray 13 days ago, hundreds of people have been killed and tens of thousands displaced. As many as 27,000 refugees have arrived in Sudan, with 4,000 more crossing from Ethiopia every day.

“This is the largest influx into east Sudan in 20 years. It is very, very sudden. This is a full-scale humanitarian crisis that has unfolded in two weeks,” said Dana Hughes, spokesperson of the United Nations refugee agency in Nairobi.

“They are arriving exhausted, scared. They had to flee very quickly, often with just the clothes on their backs. They heard the fighting and just had to go.”

The UN is also worried by reports of thousands on the move within Tigray as populations attempt to escape clashes across much of the region.

“We are getting reports of large numbers of displaced people. But there is a communications blackout, a lack of fuel and cash … It is a very difficult situation,” Hughes said.

At the weekend, Tigrayan forces fired missiles into the neighbouring country of Eritrea in an apparent attempt to internationalise the conflict and force outside intervention to bring it to an end.

The UN, the African Union and others have called for talks, but Abiy has resisted, saying the war in Tigray was irreversible and aimed at “enforcing the rule of law”.

The Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) topples Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam, the head of a communist junta that ruled the country from 1974. The coalition group is led by the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), guerrilla fighters who marched from their homeland in Ethiopia's north to the capital, Addis Ababa.

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

Diplomats in Addis Ababa say Abiy is determined to oust the leaders of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPFL), the ruling party in Tigray, and impose a new government before ending the conflict.

But military experts believe there is a significant risk that Ethiopian national troops could be drawn into a long and brutal guerrilla war against battle-hardened Tigrayans who are fighting in their mountainous homeland.

Ethiopian troops are believed to have taken control of the town of Alamata, six miles into Tigray from Amhara, the neighbouring province that is loyal to the central government and a launchpad for the offensive. Mekelle, the Tigrayan capital, is 110 miles further north through rugged terrain. Tigrayan officials said that fighting was continuing around the town on Tuesday.

Witnesses who have recently left Tigray said much of the fighting was taking place in the west of the region, with fierce clashes around the towns of Dansha and Humera, where a garrison of national forces is thought to be under siege by local troops.

Observers have been worried by the readiness of Abiy, who won the Nobel peace prize last year, to risk a lengthy civil war against well-armed forces in the region.

Though only seven million people live in Tigray out of a total Ethiopian population of 110 million, much of the government troops’ equipment is kept in the province and Tigrayan forces could dig in as the military advanced into the more mountainous terrain towards Mekelle.

“I would guess as the Ethiopian army enter the highlands, heavier fighting is likely to start,” Matt Bryden, the founder of Sahan, a Nairobi-based regional thinktank, told Reuters.

With communications mostly down and media barred, it is not possible to independently verify assertions made by any side. The exact position of individual military units is also unclear.

Tigrayan leaders had accused the government of targeting a sugar factory and a dam.

Abiy launched military operations after he accused local authorities of attacking a military camp and attempting to loot military assets. The TPLF denies the charge and has accused the prime minister of concocting the story to justify the offensive.

Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the TPLF, has called on the UN and African Union to condemn the offensive, accusing federal troops of “waging this war on the people of Tigray” with attacks on civilian infrastructure.

“We are not the initiators of this conflict and it is evident that Abiy Ahmed conducted this war as an attempt to consolidate his personal power,” he added.

On Tuesday, the Nobel committee said in a statement that it is “deeply concerned” about the situation in Ethiopia, and it called for all parties involved to “end the escalating violence”.

Abiy was appointed leader of the ruling coalition of Ethiopia and so prime minister in 2018. Though his sweeping reforms won widespread praise, they have allowed old ethnic and other grievances to surface.

The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s governing coalition for decades before Abiy came to power, and Tigrayan leaders complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions and blamed for the country’s problems.

The postponement of national elections owing to the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated tensions and when parliamentarians in Addis Ababa voted to extend officials’ mandates, Tigrayan leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal.





No.17 article:
European parliament &#x27;should stop Strasbourg sittings to hit carbon-neutral goal&#x27;

Monthly trip from Brussels by 2,400 MEPs and staff standing in way of hitting 2030 target

The EU must consider establishing Brussels as the sole base of the European parliament, breaking its historic links to Strasbourg, to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030, an internal report has advised.

The decision would involve a treaty change and a major row with the French government but the study’s authors say it is clear the EU needs to “rationalise” despite the symbolic importance of the Alsatian city as a symbol of Franco-German reconciliation.

The parliament sits in Strasbourg for three and a half days 12 times a year, involving a monthly grand déménagement of 2,400 MEPs, assistants, drivers and parliament staff, along with journalists and lobbyists. MEPs and their staff otherwise work in Brussels and their constituencies.

The report, commissioned by the parliament’s environment committee, argues that the Covid-19 pandemic has provided an “image on how working and operational conditions of the European parliament could look like in 2030”.

To the frustration of the French president, Emmanuel Macron, the parliament has not sat in Strasbourg since February because of the health crisis. He has recently claimed that if the parliament does not return to Strasbourg, the EU will be “screwed”.

According to the authors of the report, a decision on the future of Strasbourg, which only has a small number of permanent staff working even during normal times, should be taken within six to nine years.

“Instead of its current three sites [Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg], in a carbon neutrality pathway, it is evident that the European parliament needs to consider operation in one site,” the authors from the EU’s directorate general for internal policies write. 

“Although the emission difference for the MEPs’ travel from their home to Brussels or Strasbourg is not big, additional emissions are associated for example with the travelling of staff, stakeholders, journalists, lobbyists, etc.”

The reassessment is said to be one of a number of measures necessary to achieve domestic carbon emission neutrality by 2030, a target passed in a resolution of the chamber, the report says.

The parliament claims to be emission-neutral on the basis that it offsets its carbon footprint through financial payments to energy conservation projects in Ghana, Uganda and Malawi.

The report notes that the European parliament has made repeated recommendations in favour of ending the Strasbourg sittings.

Previous economic studies have found that terminating the link with the French city could generate annual savings of €114m plus a one-off saving of €616m if the buildings were sold off.

The seats of the parliament are determined under article 341 of the 1992 treaty on the functioning of the European Union. The formal seat of the European parliament is in Strasbourg, and Brussels and Luxembourg are “working places”. Luxembourg hosts the parliament’s secretariat.

Any modification would require a treaty change, with the consent of all the member states.

In September, Macron told students in Lithuania that he was “fighting tooth and nail for the idea that the European parliament should meet in Strasbourg”.

“If we accept that the European parliament only meets in Brussels, we are screwed – because in 10 years everything will be in Brussels and people will only speak among themselves in Brussels,” he told students at the University of Vilnius. “But Europe does not represent this idea, the idea is for everyone to respect each other, for one to go toward the other”.







No.18 article:
In the UK, 60% of respondents have a favourable view, the highest on record

More people hold a favourable view of the European Union than not in every member state surveyed in a new poll, while positive opinions in Britain – which left the bloc in January – are the highest on record.

A Pew Research Center study of eight EU countries also found more than half of respondents felt confident Germany’s Angela Merkel and France’s Emmanuel Macron would do the right thing, but far fewer showed as much trust in Boris Johnson.

The survey of Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and Sweden, carried out from mid-June to late July between the first and second waves of Covid-19, found a median of 66% of people polled approved of the EU.

Positive ratings were stable or higher in almost all countries, Pew said, ranging from a low of 58% in Italy to a high of 73% in Germany – the highest figure recorded there since the centre first posed the question in a survey in 2004.

In the UK, which formally left the EU on 31 January this year to enter an 11-month transition period, 60% of respondents said they now held a favourable view of the bloc, an increase of six percentage points over last year and a historic high for Pew’s global attitudes survey.

More than half of respondents in nearly every EU member state polled expressed confidence in the leaders of the EU’s two heavyweights, Merkel and Macron, to do the right thing in world affairs.

Confidence in Merkel’s leadership had increased significantly since last year in Germany, where it was up seven percentage points, the Netherlands (up six) and Italy (up six), while in Spain it reached a historic high, Pew said.

Confidence in Macron also increased substantially over the past year in Italy, where it rose by nine points, Sweden (up six) and the UK (up nine). Trust in Britain’s prime minister, Boris Johnson, however, was significantly lower.

Across the eight EU countries surveyed, a median of 36% of respondents said they were confident he would do the right thing in world affairs. Even in the UK, trust in Johnson, at 51%, was lower than confidence in both Macron (64%) and Merkel (76%).

The survey confirmed Britain’s extreme polarisation over the EU. About 71% of UK respondents aged 18 to 29 felt positively about the bloc, for example, compared with only 49% of those aged 50 and older – a 22-point division of opinion that was the largest of any of the nine European countries surveyed.

There was a similar 21 percentage point difference between respondents with a post-secondary school education and those without, and another of 29 points between people who identified on the political left and those on the right – both also the biggest divides in all the European countries covered.

The first survey of the UK since its departure also found 64% of respondents there felt the EU had done a good job handling the coronavirus outbreak – significantly more than the 46% who said the British government had dealt well with the pandemic.

In fact, Pew said, the British public stood out for having the worst assessment of their own country’s response to Covid-19 but also one of the most positive views of the EU’s response.

Despite the fact that Europe was home to some of the strictest measures to control the spread of the virus, including full national lockdowns, the survey suggested people in most EU nations approved not only of their national governments’ initial response to the pandemic, but also of how the EU had handled it.

Across the eight EU member nations, a median of 61% said the EU had done a good job dealing with the crisis. Approval was highest in Germany and the Netherlands, where 68% of respondents in each country approved of the bloc’s efforts. At least half or more in every EU country surveyed approved of the EU’s response.





No.19 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Exclusive: headteachers in city warn of ‘major threat’ to public services unless schools are allowed to partially close

One in four children in Hull are absent from school due to a rapid rise in coronavirus cases, official figures show, as headteachers in the city have warned of a “major threat” to public services unless schools are allowed to partially close.

Figures seen by the Guardian show that 27.6% of pupils were not in school on Monday – compared with about one in 10 across England – equating to about 12,000 children at home.

The data, which has been submitted by school leaders to the Department for Education, shows that just over half of the city’s 97 schools were partially closed on Monday.

Hull is battling what the city council leader has described as an “astonishing and terrifying” rise in Covid-19 cases, which have jumped 10-fold in five weeks to become the highest in England.

Its infection rate stands at 776.4 per 100,000 people, nearly triple England’s average and far higher than other Covid hotspots such as Oldham (598 cases per 100,000) and Blackburn with Darwen (597).

Schools across England are suffering increased disruption due to the pandemic, according to national figures released on Tuesday, showing that about 600,000 pupils were at home last week for Covid-related reasons and almost two-thirds of secondary schools affected.

Department for Education figures revealed that school attendance fell from 89.3% to 86.5% in the space of a week. The proportion of primary schools affected, reporting one or more pupils in self-isolation, doubled from 11% to 22%.

Secondary schools continued to be worst affected, with 64% sending one or more pupils home to self-isolate as of last Thursday, up from 38% the week before.

Teaching unions expressed alarm at the latest increases and said the situation was not sustainable.

Geoff Barton, the general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, called for schools to be allowed to use a planned rota system, with groups rotating between school and home, which would be less disruptive:

“The government has to recognise reality. The current situation is unsustainable,” he said.

Hull’s Learning Partnership, which comprises almost all of the city’s schools, has asked the health secretary, Matt Hancock, to allow them to be able to close for all but vulnerable children and the children of key workers.

In a letter sent by the city’s three Labour MPs, the headteachers said they were committed to keeping all schools fully open but that “as a matter of some urgency” some need to be able to restrict attendance “in order to maintain high quality provision and the morale of all those in education”.

They write: “It is now clear that it has become increasingly difficult to maintain fully open schools due to significant staff absences. The incidence of Covid-19 is at alarming levels in the community … There is a concern that if children of key workers cannot be prioritised for attendance there will be a major threat to the infrastructure in the city.”

callout-coronavirus

Mike Whale, the Hull district secretary for the National Education Union, said the number of school staff self-isolating was “really significant”. The city could “grind to a halt” unless schools were able to open only for children of key workers, he said, due to an increasing number of police, NHS, council staff and fire officers having to stay at home with their children.

Fifty-three of the city’s 97 schools had sent home full year groups or “bubbles” on Monday. The attendance rate was 72.4%, according to data supplied by 78 of the schools, compared with an average of 89% in England’s state schools.

The cause of the exponential rise in cases is thought to be in part because Hull managed to avoid the worst of the first wave and went into September with low immunity, compared with other badly affected northern cities such as Manchester, Liverpool and Newcastle.

Diana Johnson, the Labour MP for Kingston Upon Hull North, said schools must be given the ability to partially close: “If staffing levels are greatly reduced because of Covid infections, schools could close. Before facing that, school leaders want to be able to move to a position where they could protect vulnerable and key worker children being in school. This seems a sensible and pragmatic move as the numbers of infections in the city are so high.”

A spokesperson for the Department for Education said: “The chief and deputy chief medical officers have been clear the balance of evidence is firmly in favour of schools remaining open, and have highlighted the damage caused by not being in education to children’s learning, development and mental health.”





No.20 article:
Cuts would decrease military presence from 4,500 to 2,500 in Afghanistan and from 3,000 to 2,500 in Iraq

The Trump administration is reportedly planning to cut the US military presence in Afghanistan by almost half, before Joe Biden takes over the presidency in January.

The intended troop cuts, according to several US news organisations, would almost halve the force in Afghanistan from 4,500 to 2,500, and the presence in Iraq from 3,000 to 2,500.

The reports come a week after a purge of senior Pentagon officials and their replacement by Trump loyalists with little relative experience. Critics said that an accelerated withdrawal could further destabilise an already tenuous peace deal with the Taliban, encouraging the rebels to believe they can take power, and demoralising the Afghan government.

The Republican Senate leader, Mitch McConnell, said a hasty withdrawal would “hurt our allies and delight the people who wish us harm”.

“The consequences of a premature American exit would likely be even worse than President Obama’s withdrawal from Iraq back in 2011, which fueled the rise of Isis and a new round of global terrorism,” McConnell said.

Some analysts suggested, however, that it was unclear whether the orders will be implemented as fast as Trump would like in order to secure his legacy on ending America’s “endless wars”, and that it would have only symbolic significance weeks, or even days before Biden enters the White House on 20 January.

There was agreement, nevertheless, that the reported Trump plans do not represent the “conditions-based” withdrawal the administration outlined in its February deal signed in Doha with the Taliban.

The former defence secretary, Mark Esper, was abruptly fired after reportedly resisting an accelerated timetable for withdrawal, saying conditions for withdrawal had not been met by the Taliban.

“The Taliban in Doha tell anyone who cares to listen that the US promised to hand over control of Afghanistan to them so they do not really need to negotiate – the Afghan government delegation will have to surrender to them,” Michael Semple, a former EU envoy to Afghanistan, said.

He added: “The Taliban are bound to exploit any further troop withdrawal to boost their victory narrative. They can tell their own troops, and those of the Afghan government, that the US withdrawal is not conditional on Taliban stopping fighting, because the US has OK’d the Taliban capture of Kabul, which is what they are working towards.”

“It just doesn’t make sense,” Semple, now a professor at Queen’s University, Belfast, added. “Nobody wants to put the Taliban back in power, but the Taliban are pushing very hard to get back in power, and they are arrogant enough to think that they can sweep the lot.”

Laurel Miller, a former acting US special envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, said much would depend on how any withdrawal orders were implemented.

“I would want to know the effects on military operations in terms of base closures, and what does it mean in terms of air power,” Miller said. “And I would assume that [the defence department] is going to try to hedge this through use of contractors, and maybe even some creative accounting about what counts as the number of troops deployed in Afghanistan versus in the theatre more broadly.”

Andrew Watkins, a senior analyst on Afghanistan at the International Crisis Group, said he had been told by US officials that there would still be a “full counter-terrorism and offensive strike capability across the country, even at a headcount of 2,500”.

“Politically, we are so close to the inauguration of the Biden administration that the impact this reduction may have made, say a year ago, could just breeze past most of the actors on the ground, as they wait to see what comes early next year,” Watkins said.

“Certainly, the Taliban will view the additional drawdown favourably, but they have already sharply changed their tune [from aggressively victorious to conciliatory] in the days since the US election results became more clear. That suggests they may continue to hedge, to wait and see what Biden will do – – rather than take Trump’s order as a ‘green light’ for any drastic action.”

The Nato secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, said in a statement on Tuesday: “We now face a difficult decision. We have been in Afghanistan for almost 20 years, and no Nato ally wants to stay any longer than necessary. But at the same time, the price for leaving too soon or in an uncoordinated way could be very high.”

Nato has fewer than 12,000 troops from dozens of nations in Afghanistan helping to train and advise the country’s national security forces. More than half are not US troops, but the 30-nation alliance relies heavily on the US for transport, air support, logistics and other assistance.





No.21 article:
Large-scale raids link last year’s Green Vault robbery to giant gold coin theft in 2017

The break-ins were old-fashioned in their execution, the loot extravagant in value.

Now investigators have concluded that the perpetrators behind two of the most spectacular heists in recent German history probably hail from the same organised crime syndicate.

Arrests made in large-scale raids in Berlin’s Neukölln district on Tuesday morning link last year’s historic jewel heist at a Dresden museum to the same “Lebanese mafia” family whose members were sentenced earlier this year over the theft of one of the world’s largest gold coins from a Berlin museum.

In an operation involving 1,638 officers, police searched 18 apartments, garages and vehicles, and arrested three German citizens they suspect of involvement in the break-in at Dresden’s Grünes Gewölbe or Green Vault Museum in November 2019, when robbers forced their way into the museum and got away with at least three sets of early 18th-century jewellery.

At least one of the prime suspects detained on Tuesday was also involved in the high-profile heist at Berlin’s Bode Museum on 27 March 2017, when thieves used a wheelbarrow and a skateboard to abscond with the “Big Maple Leaf,” a 100kg commemorative coin issued by the Royal Canadian Mint worth some $4.5m.

“I can confirm that one of the suspects has already been sentenced because of the theft at the Bode Museum”, said Jürgen Schmidt, spokesperson for Dresden state prosecutor, in a press conference on Tuesday morning.

The suspect has been named by German media as Wissam Remmo, 23, a member of one of a number of Neukölln-based families with Lebanese roots whose reputation for mafia-like organised crime inspired 2017 German TV drama “4 Blocks”.

Remmo was sentenced to four-and-a-half years in prison over the Bode Museum heist in January but had not yet started his sentence after lodging an appeal.

“There is a link to clan criminality,” said Schmidt, while adding that the term was one used by German media rather than a category relevant to investigators. Local politicians in Berlin complain the term has stigmatised families of whom only a small percentage engages in criminal behaviour.

Saxony police later on Tuesday issued photographs of two further members of the Rammo family, both aged 21, wanted for serious gang robbery and arson.

The break-in at Dresden’s Green Vaults has been described as the “biggest art heist in modern history”. Security camera footage showed two men breaking into the museum through a grilled window in the early hours of 25 November 2019, then breaking a glass case with an axe. Officers were on the scene five minutes after the alarm sounded, but the thieves escaped.

The stolen jewels were worth up to €1bn (£900m), Bild newspaper reported at the time, without giving a source. It said a nearby electricity junction box had been set on fire, cutting the power supply to the whole area before the heist.

The thieves fled the scene in an Audi S6, which they then set on fire in an underground car park before driving to Berlin in a second getaway car, a Mercedes disguised as a taxi.

While the method of the break-in was old-fashioned, police say they were able to identify suspects thanks to CCTV cameras and DNA analysis of traces left behind in the burnt-out car.

The whereabouts of the stolen jewels remains unclear. Dresden state prosecutor spokesperson Schmidt said the objective of the “Epaulette” special commission was still to retrieve the stolen artworks, though there are fears the precious stones could have already been recut and sold on the black market.

The Green Vault’s collection was amassed in the 18th century by Augustus the Strong, elector of Saxony and later king of Poland, who commissioned ever more brilliant jewellery as part of his rivalry with King Louis XIV of France.

One of its best-known treasures – the 41-carat Dresden “Green Diamond” – was on loan at New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art at the time of the break-in.

The treasures of the Green Vault survived allied bombing raids during the second world war, only to be seized by the Soviet Union. They were returned to Dresden, the historic capital of the state of Saxony, in 1958. 





No.22 article:
Russia discovers ‘road of bones’ on frozen highway in Siberia

Human skull and other remains buried in sand near Irkutsk may date from 1917-22 civil war

A “road of bones” has been discovered in Siberia, where officials have opened an inquiry into how a human skull and other remains appeared on a frozen highway near Irkutsk.

The remains, which may be a century old, were buried in sand that was spread over a local road to improve traction on black ice. So far, the bones of at least three people have been discovered, a Kirensk city official told Russian state television, adding that they may date back to Russia’s 1917-22 civil war.

Photographs of the frozen remains first emerged on social media, where locals argued over whether the bones had come from a nearby cemetery or from a ravine rumoured to have been used as a mass grave.

“Sand with skulls and bones has been spread on the roads in Kirensk,” wrote Nikolay Trufanov, a local legislator for the ruling United Russia party in a Facebook post.

“According to preliminary information, utility workers took sand from territory near a cemetery. I can’t even describe how monstrous it is.” He said he hoped those responsible would be punished.

Human remains are occasionally unearthed during construction and roadworks in Russia, mainly near second world war battle sites in the west of the country. The remains of at least 10 people suspected to have been Red Army soldiers were discovered in 2014 during construction of a local highway in Kursk region. In 2018, construction workers in neighbouring Latvia unearthed human remains that led to the discovery of nearly 150 bodies.

The discovery in Siberia drew closer comparisons to the famous Kolyma highway, a 1,250-mile road from near Yakutsk to Magadan that was built under Stalin using gulag labour. The highway is nicknamed the “road of bones” for the estimated 250,000 lives lost in the building of the remote roadway.

The bones discovered in Kirensk have been collected and work on the road has stopped, Russian media reported. Investigators are looking into a local contractor suspected of collecting sand from close to a burial plot and failing to inspect it before spreading it on the road.





No.23 article:
Researchers worry PFAS, commonly found in the bodies of Americans, will reduce the immunization’s effectiveness

The successful uptake of any vaccine for Covid-19, a crucial step in returning a sense of normalcy after a year ravaged by the coronavirus pandemic, could be hindered by widespread contamination from a range of chemicals used in everyday products.

Small amounts of per- and polyfluoroalkyl (or PFAS) chemicals are commonly found in the bodies of people in the US, as well as several other countries. These man-made chemicals, used in everything from non-stick pans to waterproof clothes to pizza boxes, have been linked to an elevated risk of liver damage, decreased fertility and even cancer.

But scientists warn some of these chemicals can also cause another little-known but potentially significant defect by reducing the effectiveness of certain administered vaccines. This impediment could cast a shadow over efforts to roll out a Covid-19 vaccine to enough people that restrictions on day-to-day life are eased.

“At this stage we don’t know if it will impact a corona vaccination, but it’s a risk,” said Philippe Grandjean, an adjunct professor of environmental health at the Harvard School of Public Health. “We would have to cross our fingers and hope for the best.”

Research led by Grandjean has found that children exposed to PFAS had significantly reduced antibody concentrations after given tetanus and diphtheria vaccinations. A follow-up study of adult healthcare workers found similar results. Meanwhile, a certain type of PFAS, called perfluorobutyrate (or PFBA), accumulates in the lungs and can heighten the severity of illness suffered by people who are infected with Covid-19, separate research by Grandjean, yet to be peer-reviewed, has suggested.

German company BioNTech and the US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer provoked a surge of optimism over an impending Covid vaccine after announcing a contender was 90% effective in preventing people from falling ill with the disease. The scientist behind the vaccine has predicted it will “bash the virus over the head” and help lift the pandemic that has crippled much of the world since the beginning of the year.

The Pfizer vaccine is based on messenger RNA genetic material and it’s uncertain if PFAS contamination would disrupt its efficacy in patients. But there are several other vaccine contenders that are formulated around the protein spikes of the virus, similar to vaccines for tetanus and diphtheria, and they may well also have poor results in people who have ingested PFAS.

“People with high exposure to PFAS have a non-protective and very low antibody levels after four vaccinations for diphtheria and tetanus,” Grandjean said. “So if a vaccine for Covid is similar, the PFAS will likely inhibit the response from a vaccine. But it is an unknown at this stage.”

The US president-elect, Joe Biden, has promised to crack down on PFAS pollutants by classifying them as hazardous substances. It is estimated more than 200 million Americans eat food and drink water laced with PFAS, known as “forever chemicals” as they linger long in the body, with hotspots found in areas around military bases where the chemicals are used in firefighting foam.

Despite this, only a few states require drinking water to be largely free from PFAS, a situation that a Biden-controlled Environmental Protection Agency will probably intervene in with new federal limits.

Any new regulation of PFAS will now have an added urgency, with a Covid vaccine expected for the vast majority of Americans by mid-2021. “I do worry constantly about exposure for both known and unknown PFAS, and the impacts they are having on both our immune systems and on our health in general,” said David Andrews, a senior scientist at the Environmental Working Group. “PFAS exposure is an urgent public health crisis.”





No.24 article:
The latest storm hit just two weeks after Hurricane Eta, which caused havoc across the same parts of Central America. The presidents of Honduras and Guatemala have called on wealthier countries to help deal with the cost of the climate crisis

• This video was amended on 17 November 2020 to remove unrelated footage&nbsp;that had been mistakenly included in a report by the Associated Press





No.25 article:
Chinese county reconsiders threat to ban dog walking after backlash

Weixin authorities had pledged to destroy pets over repeated rule breaches

A Chinese county has been forced to reassess a ban on people walking their dogs in public after the extreme attempt to stop pet-related incidents and disputes triggered an angry backlash.

The policy directive from authorities in Weixin, Yunnan province, said all dogs must be kept inside and repeated breaches would result in the destruction of the animal.

An enforcement official said the directive was prompted by a string of incidents, including unaccompanied dogs biting members of the public.

“Lately there have been a few cases in the county with dogs injuring people, and dog owners not taking care of their dog’s waste. Some of them have even fought with cleaners,” Wu said.

The policy was scheduled to take effect on Friday but the “strong backlash” from the community had prompted authorities to reconsider it, an official in the local supervision administration said.

Disputes over pets have repeatedly made the news in China, resulting in various restrictions including a one-dog rule in the city of Qingdao, Sixth Tone reports.

Reports of Weixin’s policy were viewed more than 200m times on Chinese social media, drawing thousands of comments, many agreeing there needed to be stronger regulation around pet ownership but criticising the severity of the restrictions.

“If all forms of dog walking are prohibited in the urban area, isn’t that directly equivalent to declaring a ban on dog keeping?” Ms Li, a Weixin resident, told local media.

“The dogs of the whole county shouldn’t have to bear the consequences of the misbehaviour of a few dog owners.”

Animals Asia, an animal welfare NGO, said studies showed dogs needed to be walked at least once a day. “But like many countries, the onus should be on the dog owner to keep their animal under control,” it said.

“We hope local authorities can work with the general public to ensure dogs live in harmony with the local community, and that dog walking would be included as part of any long-term solution to issues relating to dog/human interaction.”

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang





No.26 article:
Peru's week of protests – in pictures

Peru’s capital is reeling from an intense week of pro-democracy protests marked by accusations of police brutality. The impeachment of former president Martín Vizcarra unleashed nationwide demonstrations and what analysts have called Peru’s worst political crisis in more than a decade





No.27 article:
Madeleine McCann suspect Christian Brückner injured in German court

Suspect, who is serving time for drug conviction, sustains two broken ribs in incident

A suspect in the disappearance of Madeleine McCann, the British toddler who vanished from a Portuguese resort 13 years ago, sustained two broken ribs in an incident in a German court, authorities have said.

The incident occurred after Christian Brückner, who is serving time for a drug conviction, was taken to Braunschweig state court on Monday for a routine hearing on that case.

The court’s spokeswoman, Jessica Knab-Henrichs, said Brückner was treated in a hospital briefly then returned to the court where the hearing was carried out.

The incident was under investigation and further details would be released on Tuesday, she said.

Although Brückner is a suspect in the McCann case, prosecutors have said they do not have enough evidence to hold him on the McCann case alone.

In addition to the drug-trafficking sentence, which Brückner will have finished serving in January, he was convicted in 2019 of the 2005 rape of a 72-year-old American woman in Portugal and sentenced to another seven years. That conviction is under appeal.

McCann was three at the time of her disappearance from an apartment in 2007 while her family were on holiday in Praia da Luz in the Algarve.

German authorities said in June they had identified the 43-year-old German citizen as a suspect in the case and were investigating him on suspicion of murder.





No.28 article:
Brazilian leftists seek to emulate US Democrats&#x27; unity to beat Bolsonaro

Removing far-right president is top priority for many Brazilian leftists – but can they build the united front needed to defeat him?

When glad tidings of Donald Trump’s undoing reached Flávio Dino’s 18th-century palace in north-eastern Brazil, he felt delight.

“Trump was such a toxic figure,” said the Communist party governor of Maranhão state, a leading light of the Brazilian left. “Trump’s defeat is a victory for humanity.”

For many Brazilian leftists, Joe Biden’s triumph has also provided a possible blueprint for how their far-right president, Jair Bolsonaro – who relishes his depiction as South America’s “tropical Trump” – might be vanquished when Brazil’s presidential elections come around in two years’ time.

“Trump’s defeat is a harbinger of Bolsonaro’s defeat,” claimed Alessandro Molon, a Brazilian Socialist party congressman.

Molon, the lower house leader of Brazil’s opposition, said Trump’s loss showed unequivocally that “authoritarianism, extremism and fascism can be defeated here in Brazil, just as they have been defeated in the US”.

The million-dollar question is: how?

Dino said the message from Biden’s success was clear: unity and moderation were essential if Brazil’s left wanted to win over voters who backed Bolsonaro in 2018.

“To combat rightwing extremism and contemporary, 21st-century fascism, you have to broaden your forces,” insisted Dino, one of the main defenders of a united front against Bolsonaro at the next election involving politicians and voters from left and centre-right.

Dino contrasted Biden’s win with Labour’s 2019 meltdown against another pro-Trump populist, Boris Johnson.

“Corbyn took a more leftwing position, undoubtedly with a more progressive programme, but faced electoral difficulties,” he said diplomatically. “Biden took a more centrist stance, secured the support of the left, and managed to win. When you look at these two situations … what comes across is that when you expand, you achieve better results.”

Dino claimed recent events in Bolivia, where the softly spoken technocrat Luis Arce helped the left regain power, and Chile, where a huge majority voted to ditch its Pinochet-era constitution, reinforced the value of pragmatic inclusiveness.

“That’s the key message we must take from the last two years and apply to the next two: the need for the left to be as united as possible and to put forward a political programme that can attract other sectors of politics and, above all, society.”

Dino is not alone in making such arguments.

Molon urged Brazil’s left, which was buoyed by some positive results in Sunday’s municipal elections, to replicate the temporary Democratic party truce that saw progressives such as Bernie Sanders back Biden. “We’ve got to make Trump a one-term president,” Sanders declared in April as he endorsed his centrist rival.

That armistice is now over, with centrists and progressives such as Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez sparring over why the party’s win was not more resounding. But Molon said ideological differences could not obstruct a more urgent objective: denying Brazil’s far-right president a second term. “It’s already enough to have let a foolish, reckless, unhinged man govern Brazil for four years. We can’t let our mistakes hand him another four.

“We need to follow the same logic [as the Democrats] … What was done in the United States needs to be done here too,” Molon said.

One of the most influential figures of the Brazilian left, the former Workers’ party (PT) president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, seemed to endorse that message last week.

“[Brazil] doesn’t need a grotesque figure like Bolsonaro governing our country,” Lula told supporters, adding: “I can assure you that if it’s up to the PT and me, we’ll have an alliance of the entire left.”

But many observers doubt PT chiefs will want to relinquish their longstanding leadership role and allow a rival party’s candidate to spearhead the 2022 campaign against Bolsonaro.

The PT remains the largest of Brazil’s seven left or centre-left parties, but it has also become a bogeyman which many voters blame for one of the worst recessions and greatest corruption scandals in Brazilian history.

“It wasn’t Bolsonaro who won the [2018] election. It was the PT that lost it. Lots of people voted for Bolsonaro just to defeat the PT,” Molon claimed.

Molon, who quit Lula’s party in 2015, urged former colleagues to show the same “magnanimity” Sanders showed in supporting Biden.

“It’s time to put the country first, and to save Brazil by allowing another … leader to emerge to unite the progressive forces of the opposition and defeat Bolsonarismo,” he said.

“This doesn’t mean it needs to be a centrist candidate – it could be a progressive, but … it can’t be someone who frightens [voters] or has a high level of rejection, either because of themselves or their party,” Molon added, in a clear reference to Lula and the PT.

Thomas Traumann, a political commentator, agreed Brazil’s left could learn from the Democrats’ unity and courage in agreeing: “OK, let’s get rid of Trump and then see what we do.”

But self-interest and infighting left him pessimistic they would behave similarly – let alone attract politicians and voters from the centre-right. “It’s basic maths: to beat Bolsonaro you’re going to need the support of people who voted Bolsonaro,” Traumann said.

Dino urged Bolsonaro’s rivals to collaborate, even without absolute ideological “convergence”, and warned Brazil would pay an “unimaginable price” if they did not.

“Brazil’s overseas reputation and soft power will be annihilated. The environment will suffer irreversible damage.

“That’s why we have to take our mission of defeating him so seriously. We have to do everything we can to stop Bolsonaro winning in 2022.”





No.29 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Jenrick says government wants significant easing of controls to have ‘more normal’ December

The UK government is reviewing England’s tiering system to decide which coronavirus restrictions should be put in place when the national lockdown ends on 2 December, the communities secretary has confirmed.

Robert Jenrick said ministers wanted to see a “significant easing” of coronavirus controls to have “a somewhat more normal December”, but that it was too early to say which tiers particular areas would move into.

However, he said any extension of the lockdown would require a vote of parliament.

“It is our hope and expectation that that won’t be the case and that people in England will be able to move back into the tiered system,” he told Sky News.

“There will be a review. That work is undergoing on what those tiers look like and how local areas go back in but that will very much depend on the data. We will have to make decisions nearer the end of the month once we have got the most up-to-date information possible.

“So it is too early to say which tiers people will be able to go into. But we all want to see a significant easing of the measures in all parts of England at the beginning of next month.”

He told LBC: “We are doing the heavy lifting in November so that we can have a somewhat more normal December.” He said early data showed the tiered system had slowed rates of infection.

Jenrick added that the government wanted “greater consistency” in a potential post-lockdown tier system.

He told BBC Breakfast: “In tier 3 there was a baseline of measures, which the chief medical officer and others have always said was only the beginning, and we then asked local areas to consider whether they would be willing to go further than that, some did, some decided not to.

“So I think in the new tiers we would like greater consistency and we will have to look at the evidence to see which of those measures was actually the most impactful on the virus so that we take the most evidence-based approach that we can do.

“We haven’t come to a conclusion on that yet, to be perfectly honest, but we will be within the next week or so.”

However, Dr Susan Hopkins, an epidemiologist, told the Downing Street press conference on Monday that tier 1 coronavirus restrictions had “little effect”, while the impact of tier 2 varied in different places.

Hopkins, who is advising the government’s Covid-19 response, said it would have to consider strengthening the measures “to get us through the winter months until the vaccine is available for everyone”.

That goal of securing a vaccine moved a step closer after early data showed a new jab to be almost 95% effective in protecting against the virus.

At Monday’s press briefing, the health secretary, Matt Hancock, said “great advances in medical science are coming to the rescue”, but admitted the UK had secured only 5m doses of Moderna’s vaccine.

callout-coronavirus

“While there is much uncertainty, we can see the candle of hope and we must do all that we can to nurture its flame,” he said.

In Scotland, the first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, was due to make an announcement on Tuesday over lockdown restrictions. She has said that areas with “stubbornly high” levels of the virus could be temporarily placed under more severe restrictions to give more flexibility for a “limited and careful easing” of the rules over Christmas.





No.30 article:
Capturing Madrid's history – in photographs

A new book, Madrid, celebrates the daily life, urban landscape and the unique character of the Spanish capital. The city’s history and its protagonists are represented in work by Alfonso, Ramón Masats, Joana Biarnés and Alberto García-Alix, among others





No.31 article:
Work features images by some of the most famous photographers of the past century

One warm June weekend 61 years ago, a scruffily bearded Argentinian on his way from Cuba to Cairo stopped over in Madrid. With almost a day to kill between flights, he did what any tourist of the time would have done: explored the city, visited a bullring, had breakfast and did a little shopping.

He was, however, no ordinary tourist. A photograph taken very early that Sunday morning shows the unmistakable figure of Che Guevara standing in boots, beret and battle fatigues, one hand hooked over his belt and the other clutching a newspaper.

The image, shot by a teenage photographer, is one of 160 pictures in a book chronicling the Spanish capital’s richly turbulent social, political and cultural history from 1900 to the present day.

In its glossy pages, a Zeppelin flies over Gran Vía in 1930 – presaging the German and Italian warplanes that would darken Madrid’s skies later the same decade; the Beatles take a cigarette break before a concert at Las Ventas bullring; seven models sprint through the mushrooming suburbs of the 1970s, and the capital parties through the post-dictatorship cultural boom known as La Movida madrileña.

Intended as a family photo album for an entire city, the book – called simply Madrid – features images taken by some of the most famous Spanish and foreign photographers of the past century, among them Alfonso, Joana Biarnés, Robert Capa, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Alberto García-Alix, Cristina García Rodero, Ramón Masats and Gerda Taro.

As the writer Antonio Muñoz Molina points out in the book’s prologue, “many voices and many eyes are needed to tell the story of a city over time, a simultaneous yet successive Madrid, forever trapped in the same noisy racket, in a conflictive, needy state that endures despite the changing times and fashions, inhabited by people who embrace tragedy and merriment with equal fervour, alway beleaguered by the quest for food and festivity”.

One of the city’s rare moments of silence comes in the book’s potent final photograph, in which the normally heaving Paseo de la Castellana lies utterly deserted during the Covid-19 lockdown earlier this year.

The enforced confinement of the spring and early summer allowed the project’s editors, César Martínez-Useros and Miriam Querol, to whittle down the 2,500 pictures they had drawn from a variety of archives.

“It was a fun way to spend the lockdown but, at the same time, it was really difficult because we couldn’t be sitting working at the same table,” says Martínez-Useros, the editorial director of La Fábrica publishing house, which produced the book with support from Madrid city council.

While the capital is not exactly under-photographed, La Fábrica felt it had never got the photographic biography it deserved.

“There are a lot of photo books about picturesque Madrid, or secret Madrid, but there wasn’t a book that showed the Madrid that the great masters of photography had shot,” says Martínez-Useros.

“The idea wasn’t to show a picture-postcard, beautiful Madrid, but to show it as Spanish and international photographers saw it.”

Their lenses offer a moving and often mischievous view of the city – and one that questions some of the old cliches. One of Martínez-Useros’s favourite pictures shows two bullfighters posing coquettishly behind fans in 1967 – “we’re back in some of the hardest days of the Franco era, but here we have two toreros camping it up”.

As the editor notes, the fact that so few interior shots are included in the book is testament to madrileños’ love of streetlife.

“You see a lot of different social classes in the book, and, as in life, they’re intermingled,” he says. “Madrid isn’t a city like Paris or London, where the separation of classes is very marked. It’s mixed like all cities are, but all those points of view converge on the streets. The streets are the common area and one that belongs to everyone.”

The veteran photographer César Lucas has four photographs in the book.

Although Lucas has photographed everyone from Buster Keaton to Sean Connery, Brigitte Bardot and John Lennon, his shot of Che Guevara – which only found a wider audience following an exhibition in the 1980s – remains among his best known works.

Now 79, Lucas had turned 18 a few days before a colleague called and asked if he’d like to help cover Guevara’s brief stopover in June 1959.

“To tell the truth, I didn’t know very much about Che Guevara then so when I heard he was coming, I looked through the papers to see how I should act around him but it wasn’t like nowadays – there was no Wikipedia,” he says.

“I didn’t speak to him a lot because I wouldn’t have known what to say to him. Shit, I was just 18. I could never have imagined what he’d go on to become, or that the picture I took that day would become part of history.”





No.32 article:
Concern over ‘rat runs’ comes as staff at BEIS threaten to walk out over lack of Covid safety

It is said to be a “Covid-secure workplace”, but attempts to protect against the spread of the virus at No 10 are being hampered by narrow “rat runs” through the sprawling townhouse, staff have said.

Insiders said there were “pinch points” where ministers and officials cannot pass more than 1 metre apart within the Downing Street building, which includes the prime minister’s official residence and offices.

It comes as unionised staff in the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) said they could walk out in December over the lack of Covid safety in their own Whitehall office.

Focus has fallen upon Westminster’s safety measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 after Boris Johnson and six more MPs were forced to self-isolate at the start of a crucial week for the government.

Photographs apparently showed Johnson standing less than 2 metres from Lee Anderson, the Ashfield MP who tested positive on Sunday, and with neither wearing a mask. The prime minister’s spokesperson insisted no social distancing rules had been broken.

Insiders said that upon entering No 10, visitors are expected to wear a mask and are offered hand sanitising gel. Staff are not expected to wear masks at their desks at all times.

One-way systems have been introduced to the building and screens have been erected between desks, but there are some corridors where staff cannot help but pass each other at less than 1 metre apart, a source said.

“There are plenty of narrow corridors and most are still in use. Some have to be used to both enter and leave a set of rooms, so sometimes people pass each other at close quarters. There is only so much you can do in such an old building,” the source said.

Johnson is continuing to work from his office in No 10, which he can reach from his apartment above No 11 through the garden without meeting others.

When the prime minister tested positive for coronavirus in March, he was quarantined in the flat above No 11 where he lives, and while he kept working for the early stages of his illness. He did not use the office.

Concerns were raised about the number of cases of Covid-19 among Johnson’s inner circle and across Westminster in March. His former aide Dominic Cummings; the health secretary, Matt Hancock; England’s chief medical officer, Prof Chris Whitty; the chief Brexit negotiator, David Frost; and health minister Nadine Dorries all contracted the virus or showed symptoms.

Speaking on Monday, the prime minister’s spokesman said Johnson’s conduct when meeting MPs was within the rules.

Asked if the prime minster had broken any rules by standing too close to Anderson to pose for the photograph, the spokesman said: “I’m not sure how it’s possible to reach that judgment”, before adding that the two men stood side by side, mitigating any risk.

In Whitehall, staff working in security, cleaning and postal services at BEIS’s head office on Victoria Street will be balloted for possible strike action in December, the Guardian has established.

The Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS) said it was because their contractor, ISS, was refusing to wind down support services, preventing people from shielding safely. The overwhelming majority of those staff are from the BAME community, which has been disproportionately affected by the Covid-19 global pandemic, the union said.

Most civil servants in the department are working from home. However, BEIS, a key department dealing with the UK’s exit from the EU, which is reaching a crucial juncture this week, is allowing some staff to come into the office, forcing support staff to attend and unnecessarily endangering their health.

A PCS spokesperson said: “The union believes BEIS should put more restrictions on the numbers of people coming in to Victoria Street than present and wind down the office operation further so support staff can shield safely at home.”

It emerged earlier this month that an employee in the business secretary Alok Sharma’s inner circle received a positive Covid result, after a union health and safety inspection report identified concerns over social distancing in his office. Sharma was not told to self-isolate by NHS test and trace.

The Public and Commercial Services Union general secretary, Mark Serwotka, said BEIS was continuing to put members “at unnecessary risk by not allowing support staff to stay at home”. He added: “Most civil servants are working well from home and there should be no need for our support staff to continue to put themselves in harm’s way. It is understandable that our contracted-out members have no faith in the minister or this government’s handling of the corona pandemic.”

BEIS and ISS were approached for comment.

• This article was amended on 18 November 2020. On the basis of information supplied by PCS, an earlier version incorrectly stated that BEIS “was insisting staff come into the office”, rather than allowing them to attend. This has been amended in the text, and a further PCS statement has been added to clarify its position.





No.33 article:
Tuesday briefing: Vaccine success boosts Oxford jab hopes

Moderna reports Covid vaccine works well … four astronauts reach ISS in milestone SpaceX mission … Lewis Hamilton UK’s most influential black person

by  Warren Murray

Good morning – Warren Murray inoculating you against ignorance of the news this morning.

Hopes are rising for a Covid jab to end the pandemic in the UK after a second company, Moderna, confirmed over 90% effectiveness of its vaccine in trials. The UK has secured 40m doses of Pfizer’s vaccine, and has rushed to reserve 5m of Moderna’s, but Britain has the most riding on the inoculation being developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, of which it has reserved 100m doses. A source at the Department of Health and Social Care said the results from the Oxford vaccine trials were “imminent” and it could be one of the first to be rolled out.

Pfizer has launched a pilot delivery programme for its experimental Covid-19 vaccine in four US states, as it seeks to address distribution problems posed by its ultra-cold storage requirements. It has to be shipped and stored at -70C, compared with 2-8C for most other vaccines. California’s governor has pulled the “emergency brake” on reopening efforts amid a surge in cases. South Korea is to tighten its pandemic measures after health authorities reported more than 200 new infections for the fourth day in a row. Follow further developments at our global live blog.

‘Looks amazing’ – The first fully crewed SpaceX Dragon capsule has just docked with the international space station. The Crew Dragon dubbed Resilience arrived after a 27-hour automated flight from Nasa’s Kennedy space centre in Florida carrying Commander Mike Hopkins and his crew – Victor Glover, Shannon Walker and Japan’s Soichi Noguchi.

During docking preparations the crew beamed down views of New Zealand and the Pacific 250 miles below. “Looks amazing,” Mission Control radioed from SpaceX HQ in Hawthorne, California. “It looks amazing from up here, too,” Hopkins replied. After lengthy disembarking procedures the four astronauts exchanged hugs and laughed with those already on board. The quartet will remain at the ISS until replacements arrive on another Dragon capsule in April. It is the first full mission involving a privately owned “human-rated” spacecraft, and the first ever carrying four people into space.

Devolution ‘disaster’ – Politicians across the spectrum have reacted angrily after Boris Johnson dismissed Scottish devolution as “a disaster north of the border” and “Tony Blair’s biggest mistake”. No 10 later tried to spin the remark – made during a Zoom call with around 60 northern Conservative MPs – as a criticism of Blair’s failure to foresee the rise of separatists in Scotland. Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish first minister, responded on Twitter saying: “Worth bookmarking these PM comments for the next time Tories say they’re not a threat to the powers of the Scottish Parliament – or, even more incredibly, that they support devolving more powers. The only way to protect &amp; strengthen @ScotParl is with independence.” Ian Murray, Labour’s shadow secretary of state for Scotland, insisted that “devolution is one of Labour’s proudest achievements”.

‘Stunned’ – The Georgia secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, has said that Senator Lindsey Graham asked whether it was possible to invalidate legally cast ballots after Donald Trump was narrowly defeated in the state. Raffensperger was “stunned” by the question from his fellow Republican, the Washington Post has reported. Graham has said he was only asking about how signatures are verified for absentee ballots. The president-elect, Joe Biden, has warned that “more people may die” in the pandemic because of Trump’s refusal to cooperate in the transition to a new administration. In today’s Guardian long read, Gary Younge traces Trump’s desperate attempts to stop black and minority votes.

Flea killer poisons rivers – The highly toxic insecticides fipronil and imidacloprid, used on cats and dogs to kill fleas, are poisoning rivers across England, a study has revealed. The discovery is “extremely concerning” for water insects, and the fish and birds that depend on them, say University of Sussex scientists. Both substances have been banned on farms for some years, but there are 66 licensed veterinary products containing fipronil and 21 containing imidacloprid in the UK, many of which are sold without prescriptions. There are about 10m dogs and 11m cats in the UK and many pets are treated every month whether it is needed or not. Both are nerve agents that get washed into sewers and then waterways where they break down into even more toxic substances. “There isn’t a regulatory process for this particular risk and clearly there needs to be,” said Prof Dave Goulson, a member of the study.

Stopes rebrand – The Marie Stopes International (MSI) family planning clinics worldwide are to change their name to MSI Reproductive Choices because of their founder’s association with the eugenics movement. Among her writings, the author and women’s rights campaigner of the early to mid-20th century called for new laws that allowed the “hopelessly rotten and racially diseased” to be sterilised and wrote fiercely against interracial marriage. Stopes opened Britain’s first clinic offering birth control advice to married women in 1921, in the face of fierce opposition from the Catholic church and the male-dominated medical establishment.

The outgoing US president is continuing to dispute the result of the US election and, far from offering his concession, is instead claiming victory. Lawrence Douglas describes what Trump’s behaviour means for the country.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/16-74971-20201117tiftrump.mp3 

Lewis Hamilton has just been named Britain’s most influential black person, in a year in which he equalled the record of seven F1 world championships. Many believe he is the greatest driver of all time – and this year, more than ever, he has been leading the fight against racism.

Gareth Southgate wants a rethink on the Premier League’s limit of three substitutions per side per match as he fears players could suffer serious injury in the hectic fixture schedule caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Lewis Hamilton has been named as the most influential black person in Britain after a year in which he combined record-breaking achievements on the track with raising awareness of racial injustice. Hollywood stars Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney are on the cusp of owning Wrexham after fans voted overwhelmingly in support of their proposed takeover.

Ireland have been dealt a major blow after Johnny Sexton was ruled out of Saturday’s match against England with a hamstring injury, but Billy Burns says there will be no split loyalties if he gets the nod at fly-half against the country he used to represent. Novak Djokovic’s pursuit of a sixth ATP Finals title to match the absent Roger Federer got off to a low-key start against Diego Schwartzman, his 6-3, 6-2 victory in the opening round-robin match of the Tokyo 1970 Group arriving with a smattering of applause from family and friends.

Asian shares have risen after the Dow Jones hit a record high on the back of the latest vaccine news. The pound is worth $1.321 and €1.114 while the FTSE is trending downwards by 20-30 points ahead of the open.

The Guardian splashes with “Scramble for vaccines amid fears Britain may miss out on supplies”. Our print edition’s front page also has “Concerns raised over No 10 Covid measures” after an infectious mingle led to Boris Johnson going into self-isolation again. The i says “New vaccine hope for end to pandemic” and the Metro has a Yosserish “Gizza jab mate”, saying Britain is “back of the queue” for the Moderna vaccine.

The Times says “Vaccination rescue plan is given a fresh boost” while the FT’s effort is a similar staid “Moderna vaccine’s 94% efficacy in trial boosts hope for Covid battle”. The Telegraph has “Lockdown looms over Christmas” accompanied by a picture of a finger-wagging Matt Hancock at the Covid briefing podium.

The Mail leads with “You CAN hold Granny’s hand at Christmas” – about care home visiting arrangements while the Mirror reports “Families given Xmas care home hope”. The Express has “Evicted!”, saying an ex-nurse aged 78 is having to leave her aged care home because of an “unauthorised window visit” by her daughter.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.34 article:
Storm hits Caribbean coast less than two weeks after Hurricane Eta carved a swathe of destruction 

Hurricane Iota has made landfall on Nicaragua’s Caribbean coast, threatening catastrophic damage to the same part of Central America already battered by equally strong Hurricane Eta less than two weeks ago.

Iota had intensified into a dangerous Category 5 storm early on Monday, but the US National Hurricane Center (NHC) said it weakened slightly to Category 4, with maximum sustained winds of 155mph (250km/h). It made landfall about 30 miles (45km) south of the Nicaraguan city of Puerto Cabezas, also known as Bilwi.

The storm came ashore just 15 miles (25km) south of where Hurricane Eta made landfall on 3 November, also as a Category-4 storm. Eta’s torrential rains had saturated the soil in the region, leaving it prone to new landslides and floods, and residents were also worried about about a storm surge with Iota..

Iota’s outer edge had already been hitting the Caribbean coasts of Nicaragua and Honduras with torrential rains and strong winds.

In Bilwi, business owner Adán Artola Schultz braced himself in the doorway of his house as strong gusts of wind and rain drover water in torrents down the street. Wind ripped away the metal roof structure from a substantial two-storey home and blew it away like paper.

“It is like bullets,” he said of the sound of metal structures banging and buckling in the wind. “This is double destruction,” he said, referring to the damage wrought by Eta. “This is coming in with fury,” said Artola Schultz.

Cairo Jarquin, Nicaragua emergency response project manager for Catholic Relief Services, visited Bilwi and smaller coastal communities on Friday. In Wawa Bar, Jarquin said he found “total destruction” from Eta. People had been working furiously to put roofs back over their families’ heads, but now Iota threatened to take what was left.

“The little that remained standing could be razed,” Jarquin said. There were other communities farther inland that he was not even able to reach due to the condition of roads. He said he heard that Wawa bar was evacuated again Saturday.

Evacuations were conducted from low-lying areas in Nicaragua and Honduras near their shared border through the weekend.

The Nicaraguan vice president, Rosario Murillo, who is also the first lady, said that the government had done everything necessary to protect lives, including the evacuation of thousands.

Iota is the record 30th named storm of this year’s dangerously busy Atlantic hurricane season. It’s also the ninth storm to rapidly intensify this season. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms.

Iota was forecast to drop 10 to 20 inches (250-500 mm) of rain in northern Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala and southern Belize, with as much as 30 inches (750mm) in isolated spots. Costa Rica and Panama could also experience heavy rain and possible flooding.





No.35 article:
Fighting in north-west region threatens to destabilise country and draw in foreign powers

The conflict pits Ethiopian government forces and allied militia against troops loyal to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front, which is the ruling party of the Tigray region. Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, launched military operations in Tigray on 4 November after he accused local authorities of attacking a military camp and attempting to loot military assets. The TPLF denies the charge and has accused Abiy of concocting the story to justify the offensive.

The region is in the mountainous north-west corner of Ethiopia, and borders Eritrea and Sudan. There are about 7 million inhabitants, out of a total Ethiopian population of 110 million, but the region has played an outsize role in the country’s recent history.

Each has very different narratives. In general terms, the Tigrayan leadership claim Abiy is an authoritarian bent on centralising power away from the regions, which enjoy a significant degree of autonomy under the constitution. The prime minister and his supporters say the Tigrayan leadership are hardliners who threaten the cohesion of the country and want to take power.

Analysts say the confrontation could have been avoided. The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s governing coalition for decades before Abiy came to power in 2018 and pushed through widespread changes designed to open up the media and the economy, but which also stirred ethnic tensions.

Tigrayan leaders complain of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, purged from top positions and generally blamed for the country’s problems. The postponement of national elections owing to the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated the dispute, and when parliamentarians in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, voted to extend officials’ mandates, Tigrayan leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal.

With reporters banned from the combat zone and communications largely cut, it is difficult to know. There have been air raids and artillery fire across a wide area, forcing tens of thousands of peopleto flee. Many reported fierce clashes.

Ethiopian government forces appear to be making some headway with twin advances along the main road to Mekelle, the Tigrayan capital, and the Sudanese border towards the strategic town of Humera. There have also been reports of atrocities targeting civilians by both sides.

A long time. The Ethiopian National Defence Force (ENDF) has about 140,000 personnel and plenty of experience from fighting Islamist militants in Somalia and rebel groups in border regions, plus a two-decade border standoff with Eritrea.

But many senior officers were Tigrayan, and much of the ENDF’s most powerful weaponry is based in Tigray. Tigrayans also have a formidable history of martial accomplishments. They spearheaded the rebel march to Addis Ababa that ousted a brutal Marxist dictatorship in 1991 and bore the brunt of a 1998-2000 war with Eritrea, during which hundreds of thousands of people were killed. Their region is mountainous and rough terrain, ideal for guerilla-type warfare with local knowledge and support.

The big worry is that the conflict destabilises Ethiopia, which is already riven with ethnic tensions, and draws in regional powers. Either development could be hugely detrimental to one of the most fragile regions in Africa. Eritrea is already involved in the conflict, with the TPLF firing missiles at the Eritrean capital, Asmara, and troop movements reported on its border with Tigray.

Most analysts believe Sudan, which is in the middle of its own democratic transition, will support Abiy. But there is always the prospect of the conflict getting out of control and – especially if powers in the Gulf or further afield become involved – turning part or all of Ethiopia into a “Libya in east Africa”, as one expert put it.

Not for the moment. Abiy, who won a Nobel prize last year for ending hostilities with Eritrea, seems set on forcing the TPLF leadership out of power, and even out of Tigray and Ethiopia altogether. Ethiopian government officials have said that to negotiate would be to “incentivise impunity”.





No.36 article:
South Korea facing &#x27;crisis&#x27;, says PM, as Covid measures tightened

Chanting and singing at concerts banned amid daily case rises and fears for the looming winter flu season

South Korea has strengthened social distancing measures amid a rise in new coronavirus cases, with the country’s prime minister warning that action was needed to avoid a crisis with the arrival of the winter flu season.

The country has won widespread praise for preventing a serious Covid-19 outbreak through a combination of mass testing, vigorous track and tracing and isolation, coupled with social distancing and mask wearing.

But the decision to implement stricter rules on distancing comes after health authorities reported more than 200 new infections for the fourth day in a row on Tuesday.

The country added 230 more cases, raising the total to 28,999, according to the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA). The death toll remained unchanged at 497, it added.

“Our anti-coronavirus efforts are facing a crisis, and the situation is particularly serious in the Seoul metropolitan area,” the prime minister, Chung Sye-kyun, told a meeting of senior health officials.

“Today’s decision will cause greater inconvenience in our daily lives. But we all know from experience that there will be an even bigger crisis if we don’t act now.”

Officials have identified clusters in offices, medical facilities and small gatherings in the densely populated greater Seoul area, which is home to around half of South Korea’s 52 million people.

The level 1.5 measures – the second lowest on a scale of five – will go into effect in the Seoul metropolitan area from Thursday, according to the Yonhap news agency.

While there will be no new restrictions on most daily activities, facilities considered at a higher risk of spreading the virus, such as bars, clubs, concert halls, must implement stricter measures, including putting greater distances between tables and installing partitions.

In addition, political rallies, concerts and festivals must have no more than 100 people in attendance, and chanting, singing and eating are banned.

Churches – which have been identified as the source of several large clusters throughout the pandemic – and sports events must keep attendance to a maximum of 30% of capacity, while school classrooms should be no more than two-thirds full.

The KDCA warned that the pace of transmissions could accelerate in the run-up to the flu season, and identified year-end socialising and nationwide university entrance exams due to be held early next month as potential risk factors.





No.37 article:
Solomon Islands government preparing to ban Facebook

Communications minister claims move is intended to address ‘abusive language’ but observers say it is linked to China’s influence

The Solomon Islands government is preparing to ban Facebook – an attempt, it says, to limit “abusive language” and “character assassination” but which critics argue is an attempt to curtail criticism of the government.

If implemented Solomon Islands would join China, Iran, and North Korea as outlawing Facebook. Other countries have temporarily blocked it, including the island nation of Nauru which prohibited Facebook in 2015 but unblocked access in 2018.

A submission on the ban was brought to cabinet on Monday by the Solomons’ prime minister, Manasseh Sogavare, and the communication and civil aviation minister Peter Agovaka. It was not clear when the proposed ban might be implemented, for how long, or how the government intended to legislate or enforce it. A spokesman told the Guardian the government intended to make a statement.

Facebook is popular across the archipelago and is used as a primary means of communication by tens of thousands of islanders daily.

The government itself also uses Facebook widely to disseminate information, particularly around public health during the Covid-19 pandemic. National addresses by the prime minister are also broadcast on Facebook.

But the government’s rationale for the ban is that Facebook is leading to a deterioration in civic behaviour: the platform is being used to abuse political leaders, or to access harmful or dangerous material.

“Abusive language against minister, prime minister, character assassination, defamation … all these are issues of concern,” Agovaka told the Solomon Times newspaper.

“The use of the internet now in Solomon Islands needs to be properly regulated to safeguard our young people from harmful content … even young kids are able to download harmful stuff from the internet.”

Agovaka argued the ban was not an attack on freedom of expression, saying freedom of the press remained protected by law.

Facebook has also been cited as a factor in riots that gripped the capital, Honiara, in 2019. The social media platform was alight with anti-government rhetoric in the days after Sogavare’s election and was used by rioters to organise and congregate.

But observers say China has influenced the government’s decision. Facebook has been, officially at least, banned in China for more than a decade.

In September 2019 Solomon Islands switched from recognising Taiwan to instead embrace diplomatic relations with Beijing. The Solomons are home to a significant Chinese population and Beijing’s influence in the Melanesian archipelago – with the exception of Malaita, the most populous island and which remains loyal to Taiwan – has been steadily growing.

The opposition MP and foreign relations committee chairman Peter Kenilorea Jr said the ban on Facebook was a “direct and brazen assault on the freedom of expression” guaranteed by the Solomons’ constitution.

“Reports of a ban or suspension of FB is a grave concern for Solomon Islands, a democratic country. Cabinet is now strangling the very right it should be upholding. This decision should be condemned by all freedom-loving Solomon Islanders.”

Kenilorea said the proposed ban was an attempt by the government to shield itself from criticism and accountability. “As leaders, we… need to be held accountable by the electorate that place us in positions of power. We need to face the music from time to time. This is democracy.”

Facebook has been approached for comment.





No.38 article:




