No.1 article:
Small Cracks Emerge in G.O.P. Support for Trump’s Baseless Fraud Claims

President Trump retains a powerful hold on his party. But a growing number of Republican elected officials and party leaders have signaled they will indulge his conspiracy theories for only so long.

The first small cracks have begun to appear in the Republican wall of support for President Trump and his unfounded claims of voter fraud in the 2020 election, with a growing number of elected officials and party leaders signaling on Thursday that they would indulge Mr. Trump’s conspiracy theories for only so long. A few were willing to openly contradict him.

Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio said that it was time to call Joseph R. Biden Jr. the “president-elect.” The Republican attorney general of Arizona said that Mr. Trump would not end up winning his state, despite the president’s protestations. And on Capitol Hill, several Republican senators have begun, in measured tones, to say that Mr. Biden should be entitled to classified intelligence briefings as the incoming commander in chief or that it is time to recognize he will soon be certified as president-elect.

Asked when he believed Mr. Trump should accept the result, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, even set a deadline for the president to acknowledge reality: Dec. 13 — the day before the Electoral College delegations cast their votes for president.

Influential party financiers and strategists have begun to weigh in, as well.

“The president does a disservice to his more rabid supporters by insisting that he would have won the Nov. 3 election absent voter fraud,” said an editorial in The Las Vegas Review-Journal, a newspaper owned by the family of the Republican megadonor Sheldon Adelson. “That’s simply false.” Mr. Adelson and his wife, Miriam, have given more than $75 million to super PACs supporting Mr. Trump.

Karl Rove, the Republican strategist, published a Wall Street Journal op-ed essay under the headline, “This Election Result Won’t Be Overturned.”

Mr. Trump has a long memory, a penchant for seeking revenge on those who cross him and overwhelming support among the base of Republican voters. The fact that so few prominent Republicans are willing to break publicly with him, even in defeat, is the latest sign of his enduring hold on the Republican Party — now and into the future.

“When you look at the number of votes that he got, you look at the kind of enthusiasm that he engenders, I mean — he’s going to be a very, very significant figure whether he’s in the White House or not,” said Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri. “I don’t know who else would be considered the leader, if not for him.”

No prominent potential Republican candidate for president in 2024 — including Mr. Hawley — has criticized Mr. Trump for his refusal to acquiesce to the transition of power. Most have stayed silent or given Mr. Trump, who has spoken privately about running again in four years, latitude and support without parroting his most baseless conspiracies. Vice President Mike Pence, who followed Mr. Trump to the lectern on election night, tried to sound as if he was standing firmly with the president without echoing his false claims of victory.

But with Mr. Biden now leading in enough states to deliver him as many as 306 Electoral College votes — the same sum Mr. Trump won in 2016 and declared a “landslide” — and with no credible evidence of electoral malfeasance, Republicans are gingerly beginning to acknowledge the reality of Mr. Biden’s win. The former vice president leads by more than 20,000 votes in Wisconsin, 53,000 in Pennsylvania and 148,000 in Michigan — comparable to or larger than Mr. Trump’s winning margins in those states four years ago. And in the popular vote, Mr. Biden is now ahead by more than five million votes. 

“There is an inevitable logic to this,” said Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary under President George W. Bush, who has congratulated Mr. Biden on his win on Fox News. “None of these recounts and allegations are going to turn this election around.”

Democrats argue that indulging Mr. Trump’s recalcitrance is undercutting faith in the nation’s democratic institutions and undermining the incoming Biden administration’s legitimacy.

Former President Obama called it a “dangerous path” in an interview with CBS’s “60 Minutes,”  according to excerpts released Thursday. He said he was troubled that “Republican officials who clearly know better are going along with this.”

On Thursday, the president made new baseless accusations about a voting software company. Groups representing government election and security officials, including in the Trump administration, as well as private sector election vendors, issued a joint statement declaring, “There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised.”

Mr. Trump’s strategy is a familiar one that he has deployed since the first full day of his administration. Then, he demanded that his press secretary, Sean Spicer, march out to the White House Briefing Room to declare his inauguration crowd was the largest in history, despite clear evidence to the contrary. Now, he wants Republicans to ignore the election results to declare him the 2020 winner anyway.

When Secretary of State Mike Pompeo predicted earlier this week, with a grin, that there would be “a smooth transition to a second Trump administration,” Mr. Trump favorably reposted the video on Twitter.

The political and rhetorical safe space that many Republicans have retreated to is a call to “count every legal vote,” insinuating there was a raft of illegal ballots that no evidence has shown exist. (There are also more extreme Democratic fears of G.O.P. state legislatures appointing rogue electors who might ignore the results in their states, but Mr. Biden’s campaign has been dismissive of such talk.)

For now, Senate Republicans are especially leery of crossing Mr. Trump before the two Georgia runoffs on Jan. 5 that will determine control of the chamber, realizing they must mobilize Mr. Trump’s base without him on the ballot. There are fears that Mr. Trump might attack either Senator Kelly Loeffler or Senator David Perdue for being insufficiently loyal.

Both senators signed an unusual joint statement calling for the resignation of the Republican secretary of state in Georgia, a move widely interpreted as currying Mr. Trump’s favor. 

“It’s pretty clear that the president doesn’t give a damn about the Senate majority or those two senators, so they know it would not be anything to turn on them and crush turnout,” said Brendan Buck, who served as a top adviser to the last two Republican House speakers, Paul D. Ryan and John A. Boehner. “We’ve always been talking about how the president has taken over the party. But here is an example where is he holding base G.O.P. voters hostage to force Republicans to participate in his charade.”

Senator Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, said Republican fealty to Mr. Trump revealed that the party was “now a full-on cult of personality.”

“I think they understand that Trump will continue to dominate their politics for the next decade and they’ve all made a decision that they can’t survive personally if they get crosswise with him,” he said. “That’s a devastating development for our country.”

Mr. Murphy said undermining the legitimacy of Mr. Biden’s win had real-world consequences. “If there is a lingering belief among 40 percent of the country that Joe Biden’s election was fraudulent, it does make it very hard to do even the nonpartisan things, like distribute a vaccine,” he said.

The Trump campaign continues to bombard supporters with urgent requests for cash for his “election defense fund,” but the fine print of those appeals shows that the president is actually looking ahead to his own future, collecting cash primarily for a new political action committee, not an account devoted to legal and recount expenses. The first 60 percent of every donation goes to Mr. Trump’s new PAC, Save America, and 40 percent goes to the Republican National Committee.

Only after the PAC gets $5,000 from an individual would any money wind up in the Trump recount fund.

Bob Bauer, a top lawyer for Mr. Biden, has dismissed Mr. Trump’s legal filings and tweets as “theater.” As Mr. Trump continues to whip up fears of a stolen election, even some aides and allies  privately acknowledge that Mr. Trump has lost.

The reality is that Mr. Trump is not just the president but also a major publisher and distributor. In the week after the election, his postings dominated Facebook, accounting for the 10 most engaged status updates in the United States, and 22 of the top 25. “I WON THIS ELECTION, BY A LOT!” was his top post.

Mr. Trump also posted the most engaged link on Facebook that week, a solicitation for cash to fight the election results.

Inside the Republican Party, the president remains a singular influence. He effectively anointed Ronna McDaniel for another term as chair of the Republican National Committee with a tweet this week.

Several R.N.C. members echoed Mr. Trump’s fraud claims on Thursday.

“It is possible the true winner will never be known,” said Rob Steele, an R.N.C. member from Michigan, where some Republican lawmakers are demanding a “thorough audit” of the election.

Most were happy to hold off recognizing Mr. Biden as the president-elect until Dec. 14 — if then.

“Parties always belong to the last presidential nominee until the next presidential nominee comes along,” said Mr. Fleischer, the former White House press secretary. “It will not be Donald Trump’s party once Republicans have a new nominee in 2024.”

“Unless,” he added, “it’s Donald Trump.”





No.2 article:
N.Y.C. Schools May Close Again, a Grim Sign of a Global Dilemma

The school system, the nation’s largest, has had strikingly few virus cases. Even so, the mayor may end in-person classes because the city’s overall rate is surging.

[Read more on NYC school closings due to Covid-19]

New York City has more students in classrooms — about 300,000 — than virtually any city in the country. Transmission of the virus in schools has been strikingly low. And one of the city’s top health officials has declared that the public schools are among the safest public places around.

Yet for all those hopeful signs, Mayor Bill de Blasio is on the brink of shutting down all classrooms across the school system, by far the nation’s largest, as New York confronts a second wave of the virus after months when the city’s success at curbing the outbreak made it the envy of the country. The closure could happen by Thanksgiving, if not sooner.

The move — which is now regarded by some City Hall officials as a question of when, not if — would be perhaps the most significant setback yet for the city’s recovery since the bleak days of spring, when it was a global center of the pandemic and all the schools were shuttered.

New York’s agonizing decision reflects a divisive debate raging in almost every country over the importance of reopening schools while the outbreak grinds on. That fight has sometimes seen parents, teachers, politicians and epidemiologists stake out conflicting positions and has raised difficult questions about the health threats of returning schoolchildren to classrooms — and the educational and economic risks of keeping them out.

The city’s approach stands in stark contrast to the strategy adopted in much of Western Europe, where keeping schools open has been a political and societal priority, even as governments have imposed strict lockdowns on public life, shutting or imposing restrictions on restaurants, bars, museums and theaters.

Germany, for example, has deemed schools and day care centers “essential services,” allowing them to remain open with precautionary measures like distancing, mask-wearing and open classroom windows.

But New York City, which may close its classrooms before indoor dining is paused and before nonessential office workers are asked to stay home, has adopted a policy typical of many big American cities. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, not the mayor, has the power to prohibit indoor dining; on Thursday, several Democratic candidates for mayor, including Scott M. Stringer, the city comptroller, pushed for a pause.

Last month, Boston canceled in-person classes, which had been offered to high-needs students for just a few weeks. On Tuesday, Philadelphia shelved plans to reopen schools later this month. Both those cities still allow some indoor dining. San Francisco, which paused indoor dining this week, has never reopened its schools for in-person instruction, despite a low transmission rate.

After schools across the globe closed this spring, it quickly became clear that online learning would have severe consequences for students’ academic progress and mental health, for the lives and livelihoods of their parents and for the pace at which cities and countries could begin to recover from the health and economic catastrophes the virus had unleashed.

Roughly 10 months into the pandemic, a growing number of public health experts say elementary schools in some places can be opened safely, and many educators and parents are raising urgent concerns about the inadequacies of remote learning. But many teachers and families also remain deeply worried about whether returning to classrooms will then bring the virus back into their homes.

The city seems headed toward closing schools because Mr. de Blasio announced over the summer that the entire school system would automatically go to all-remote instruction if 3 percent of coronavirus tests done in the city were positive over a seven-day rolling average.

He did so as part of an attempt to reassure anxious parents and educators that the city would keep schools safe — and to avert a strike by the city’s powerful teachers’ union, which was then warning that schools would be unsafe come fall.

At that time, the city’s positivity rate hovered around 1 percent or below. But in recent weeks, the virus numbers have been rising fast, with the city’s average positivity rate reaching 2.5 percent on Wednesday. The rate for schools is just 0.17 percent, according to the most recent data.

Still, the mayor is sticking with his pledge, City Hall officials said, and the city is now developing strategies for how to close down schools — and then reopen them again once the numbers improve.

“Closing the schools would probably be the single policy most likely to jolt the public into realizing how serious this current situation is,” said Mark Levine, who chairs the City Council’s health committee. “If you recall the spring, it was that moment when we closed the schools when the city really said, ‘Oh, my God, this is real.’”

In recent days, the mayor has implored New Yorkers to help slow the spread of the virus — and thus keep schools open.

“We reopened so much of the life of the city, the businesses, the employment, people got their jobs and livelihoods back, schools opened,” he said during a news conference. “Can we sustain this if we can fight back this second wave and end up where we are or better? Yes.”

School closure would mean that all 1.1 million public school students in the city would learn remotely until the numbers improve. Though almost all city schools are open, the vast majority of parents have decided to keep their children learning from home for now, including significant percentages of Asian-American, Latino and Black families. About a quarter of city students are splitting time between remote and in-person instruction under the city’s hybrid system.

There is little consensus nationally about reopening schools. In fact, many districts in other states have stayed open even though they are in regions with much higher rates of infection than New York’s.

In Iowa, Gov. Kim Reynolds has said schools should remain open as long as the average positivity rate in that region of the state is under 15 percent, an extremely high threshold that public health experts have criticized.

On Tuesday, the state granted waivers to several districts, including Iowa City and Des Moines, to go remote for two weeks. But restaurants, bars, gyms and movie theaters remain open.

New York City has among the most conservative thresholds for closure in the country.

Mr. de Blasio’s 3 percent figure is lower even than the one set by Mr. Cuomo, who said this summer that schools in a region where the seven-day average test positivity rate exceeded 9 percent would be forced to shutter. The state Education Department has approved the city’s reopening plan, which included the 3 percent closure threshold, and Mr. Cuomo has given districts wide latitude to determine how they reopen schools.

Still, the governor could intervene at any point and order that the schools be kept open.

The World Health Organization has recommended that cities consider general shutdowns when the seven-day average positivity rate reaches 5 percent.

A growing body of evidence suggests that children under 10, at least, are not superspreaders, as they were initially feared to be, and that the spread of the virus from schools to local communities is not more prevalent than from bars, restaurants or other businesses.

Research from around the world has also shown that elementary schools have seen only limited outbreaks. New York City has reopened schools for all grades, but many high schools have asked students to learn at home if they are able, which has kept many thousands of high school students out of classrooms over the last few weeks.

With such research in mind, a growing number of public health experts have said that local leaders should prioritize keeping elementary schools open as much as feasible even as they consider imposing restrictions on other parts of society.

Uché Blackstock, an emergency medicine physician in New York City and the founder of Advancing Health Equity, an organization focused on bias in health care, said the city should reconsider the 3 percent threshold.

“We need to prioritize schools, and we need to think about innovative and safe ways to keep as many schools open as possible,” she said, pointing to research showing that schools were not “key drivers” of infections. Dr. Blackstock said her own children are back in city classrooms and that their experience has been excellent so far.

Whether schools can safely reopen depends foremost on how widespread the virus is in the community and on safety measures districts have in place.

In New York, classrooms that once seated 30 children now accommodate nine to allow for social distancing. Masks are required throughout the day, and there is random testing in each school once a month. Over 100,000 tests conducted in more than 2,800 schools over roughly the last month turned up only 174 positive cases.

“What we see so far is that you are less likely to encounter somebody with infection in a school than you would be outside the school and not just by a little, but by a lot,” Dr. Jay Varma, the mayor’s senior adviser for public health, said at a news conference at the end of last month.

Even Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, has acknowledged that schools are safer than he anticipated.

“We thought our biggest problem was going to be the safety,” he said in a recent interview, adding that education officials have been “phenomenal” in addressing those issues. Mr. Mulgrew said he was now concerned about academic quality in schools.

But Mr. Levine, the City Council health committee chairman, said one of the main goals of a school shutdown would be to prevent hundreds of thousands of students, parents and school employees from riding public transport to schools each day while the virus is surging.

“We need people to start limiting their movement again,” he said.

The uncertainty around schools has led to enormous anxiety for educators and parents, who spent the summer unsure if their children would return to classrooms come fall.

But Mr. de Blasio recently announced that parents who have so far opted for remote-only classes would have only one more opportunity to choose in-person learning for the rest of the school year. Families have only until Sunday to decide whether they want their children to have any in-person instruction, probably until at least September.

By the time those children are scheduled to return to classrooms in the next few weeks, the entire school system may already be closed.





No.3 article:
Election Officials Directly Contradict Trump on Voting System Fraud

A group of federal, state and local officials working with a Department of Homeland Security agency declared flatly that the election was the most secure in the nation’s history.

WASHINGTON — Hours after President Trump repeated a baseless report that a voting machine system “deleted 2.7 million Trump votes nationwide,” he was directly contradicted by a group of federal, state and local election officials, who issued a statement on Thursday declaring flatly that the election “was the most secure in American history” and that “there is no evidence” any voting systems were compromised.

The rebuke, in a statement by a coordinating council overseeing the voting systems used around the country, never mentioned Mr. Trump by name. But it amounted to a remarkable corrective to a wave of disinformation that Mr. Trump has been pushing across his Twitter feed.

The statement was distributed by the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, which is responsible for helping states secure the voting process. Coming directly from one of Mr. Trump’s own cabinet agencies, it further isolated the president in his false claims that widespread fraud cost him the election.

The statement also came as a previously unified Republican Party showed signs of cracking on the question of whether to keep backing the president.

Across the country, election officials have said the vote came off smoothly, with no reports of systemic fraud in any state, no sign of foreign interference in the voting infrastructure and no hardware or software failures beyond the episodic glitches that happen in any election. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s lead in the popular vote has expanded to more than five million, and he remains on track to win a solid victory in the Electoral College.

The group that issued the statement was the Elections Infrastructure Government Coordinating Council, which includes top officials from the cybersecurity agency, the U.S. Election Assistance Commission and secretaries of state and state election directors from around the country. The group also includes representatives from the voting machine industry, which has often been accused of being slow to admit to technological shortcomings and resistant to creating paper backups.

“While we know there are many unfounded claims and opportunities for misinformation about the process of our elections, we can assure you we have the utmost confidence in the security and integrity of our elections, and you should, too,” the officials added in their statement. “When you have questions, turn to elections officials as trusted voices as they administer elections.”

In 2020, in part because of the vastly increased use of mail-in ballots, more than 92 percent of votes had some form of paper backup that can be used in audits or recounts.

The council was responsible only for the security of the actual election infrastructure — the voting machines, the scanners and the counting systems for ballots. So its statement did not encompass the full range of Mr. Trump’s accusations — rebutted by elections officials across the country — of other types of voting fraud, most notably that mail-in ballots were manipulated to give an advantage to Mr. Biden.

But Mr. Trump’s tweet on Thursday morning, citing an unsubstantiated report from One America News Network, which has backed Mr. Trump’s claims without skepticism, suggested that machines made by Dominion Voting Systems systematically deleted 2.7 million votes. His post immediately generated a warning from Twitter.

The basis of Mr. Trump’s claim was an error made in a county in Michigan, which initially miscounted a vote total in Mr. Biden’s favor. It was a human error, and it was quickly caught and corrected.

The Dominion software was used in only two of the five counties that had experienced Election Day hiccups in Michigan and Georgia. In every instance, there was a detailed explanation for what happened, most of it human error. In none of the cases did software affect the vote counts.

The council’s statement on Thursday was prompted by repeated “baseless claims of voter fraud that none of us have seen any evidence of,” said one the federal officials who signed it, Benjamin Hovland, the chairman of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission.

Mr. Hovland said that the group was aware of Mr. Trump’s tweet about the Dominion systems before it published its statement, but that it was only one of many statements that had disturbed the group for days.

“Because of this politically motivated rhetoric, these baseless accusations, you’re seeing harassment of election officials, you’re seeing threats toward elections officials — completely unacceptable,” he said. “We’ve seen these accusations time and time again. We’ve seen them by this president from the very start.”

“What you see happening right now,” Mr. Hovland added, “is playing right into the hands of our foreign adversaries who want to see us lose faith in our democracy.”

It was not the first time that government agencies have taken on Mr. Trump’s falsehoods. In July, the Food and Drug Administration warned against the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat the coronavirus after Mr. Trump had embraced its use. The president was angry, but the head of the agency has survived.

Many of the charges of fraud, illegal voting and software troubles have come from Mr. Trump and his sons.

Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, called for “total war” in Georgia over what he claims is election fraud. Eric Trump shared conspiracy theories that poll workers in Arizona gave Trump voters Sharpie pens that could not be read by ballot scanners, a claim that was quickly debunked by Arizona’s secretary of state. The president’s supporters have sent death threats to poll workers in Pennsylvania.

Yet both before and after Election Day, Mr. Trump has been repeatedly contradicted — though never named — by the Department of Homeland Security’s cyberagency, as it has sought to dispel disinformation. The agency’s director, Christopher Krebs, had led the charge to secure election machines, registration systems and tabulation systems across the 50 states, sending experts to help and testing systems for vulnerabilities.

Mr. Krebs also argued that his agency had to counter the “hacking of minds as well as infrastructure,” and he created a “rumor control” page on his agency’s federal government website. It has repeatedly contradicted Mr. Trump, explaining why mail-in ballots do not lend themselves to fraud, and how states assure that the dead do not cast ballots.

Mr. Krebs, a former Microsoft executive with a quick wit and a willingness to resist political pressure, did not back down when these efforts created a backlash in the White House. And he was praised in public recently by the acting secretary of homeland security, Chad F. Wolf, for the “rumor control” effort.

Mr. Krebs has widely been rumored to be on the hit list of officials who may be fired by the White House, along with the C.I.A. director, Gina Haspel, and the F.B.I. director, Christopher A. Wray. But so far, the boom has not been lowered.

One of Mr. Krebs’s top deputies, Bryan Ware, the assistant director for cybersecurity, submitted his resignation on Thursday. Valerie Boyd, a senior official for international affairs at the Department of Homeland Security who also worked at the National Security Council in the Obama administration, was ousted after the White House asked for her resignation, according to a homeland security official.

In a statement, Lily Adams, a spokeswoman for the Democratic National Committee, said, “It has always been clear that this election was free, fair and secure, and now even Trump’s own Department of Homeland Security has fact checked his lies.”





No.4 article:
Trump Rebuffs Biden Transition Team, Setting Off Virus and National Security Risks

Some Senate Republicans said the president-elect should be given intelligence briefings, and transition team members found workarounds for the president’s stonewalling.

WASHINGTON — President Trump’s refusal to allow President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his transition staff access to government offices, secure communications and classified briefings prompted growing warnings on Thursday, including from Republicans, that keeping Mr. Biden in the dark potentially endangers the country.

On Capitol Hill, several Senate Republicans insisted that Mr. Biden should at least be given access to the President’s Daily Brief, the compendium of the nation’s most closely guarded intelligence secrets and assessments of threats like terrorist plots and cyberattack vulnerabilities. Their call amounted to an acknowledgment that Mr. Biden would be declared the victor in the election.

“I don’t think they need to know everything,” Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, a member of the Senate Republican leadership, said of Mr. Biden’s advisers. “I think they do need to know some things, and national security would be one of them.”

“President-elect Biden should be receiving intelligence briefings right now — that is really important,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, a member of the Intelligence Committee and one of the few Senate Republicans to publicly acknowledge Mr. Biden’s victory. “It’s probably the most important part of the transition.”

Giving Mr. Biden and his top aides access to the daily briefing, as Mr. Trump got right after his election four years ago, would address only a fraction of the problem. Mr. Biden will confront an array of complex dilemmas: bruised relationships with foreign allies, a weak economy and a sluggish recovery, perhaps the most high-risk period yet of the coronavirus and a need to distribute a vaccine to 330 million Americans.

The president-elect’s team is concerned that it is being shut out of planning for the vaccine distribution, a huge undertaking that the incoming administration expects to inherit the moment Mr. Biden is sworn in. His advisers said they have not had access to the details of Warp Speed, the project that has vaccine distribution planning well underway, and understand little about its workings.

It is focusing on logistical challenges and policy questions, one senior Biden adviser said, like how to prioritize who gets a vaccine and how to make distribution equitable along racial and socioeconomic lines — a priority of Mr. Biden’s, but one rarely discussed by Mr. Trump.

“Every day Senate Republicans continue to indulge the president in the delusion he didn’t just lose the election, they are undermining faith in our democracy, putting our national security at risk and impeding the response to the Covid-19 health and economic crises,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.

Mr. Trump’s stonewalling is already creating modest risks in the president-elect’s dealings with foreign leaders: Mr. Biden made his first contacts on unsecured telephone lines, without State Department translators or briefings about what those leaders might seek from him.

Aides to Mr. Biden said that so far, the risks were manageable. Mr. Biden’s decades of experience in Washington, including 17 years as the chairman or ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, means little will take him by surprise. But given the global tumult in the past four years, as one Biden adviser put it, “The risk is that we don’t know what we don’t know.”

Deprived of access to secure government communications by the Trump administration, Mr. Biden’s team of more than 500 former officials and outside experts has embraced workarounds, talking over encrypted apps like Signal to shield their conversations from the Chinese and meeting in outdoor coffee shops with government officials they once worked alongside.

The conversations are circumspect because of rules on both sides limiting their exchanges of information, participants said. But the Biden team will be relying on deep connections and old friendships that have kept up throughout the Trump administration, often with parts of the bureaucracy that Mr. Trump has referred to as the “deep state.”

It may be weeks until Mr. Biden’s so-called agency review teams, made up of longtime government officials with deep roots in the bureaucracy, are let into the government departments that a Biden administration will run starting at noon Jan. 20. Some issues can wait until a formal “ascertainment” is declared, giving them access to the offices and classified material that some parts of the administration have prepared, including the Department of Homeland Security and the intelligence agencies.

Combating Covid-19 may be the most urgent issue for Mr. Biden. His team hopes to carry out a national testing strategy, but it will have to start from scratch because the Trump administration does not have one. Biden advisers are seeking guidance from groups including the Rockefeller Foundation, which has drafted a national testing plan and is partnering with states and cities to expand testing efforts.

And access to the Trump vaccine distribution plan will become increasingly important as Mr. Biden’s inauguration approaches so his team can take over without any hiccups, said the senior adviser, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal transition details.

Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, said she believed the Trump administration should share vaccine distribution plans with Mr. Biden, ensuring that “as the president-elect is able to come in and bring with him a transition team, that there is that flow of information that we typically see when we have transitions.”

Experts in both national security and health security see the pandemic as a national security threat. They note that China and Russia are expanding their sphere of influence by promising vaccines to other countries in need.

“The Biden team is going to be responsible for that on Jan. 20,” said Dr. James Lawler, an expert in global health security at the University of Nebraska, who joined with a former Navy secretary and a former Trump homeland security adviser in an opinion article on Wednesday in The Washington Post. “It’s as important as what we’re doing with our strategic nuclear forces and what current threat assessments are around the world.”

Other matters also have a short time fuse. The last remaining arms control treaty between the United States and Russia, called New START, expires days after the inauguration. Mr. Biden has expressed a willingness to renew it, but his national security staff has had no access to the detailed discussions between the national security adviser, Robert C. O’Brien, and his Kremlin counterpart, or to a team of State Department negotiators who have dealt with Russia on questions like future inspections and verification.

An array of newer threats persist, as well, like terrorist plots or brewing cyberattacks. The 9/11 commission concluded that the short transition caused by the Florida recount in 2000 hampered the Bush administration’s ability to deal with Qaeda plots. At the time, President-elect George W. Bush discussed the dangers of abbreviated briefings in an interview with The New York Times at his ranch eight days before his first inauguration.

In many ways, what is happening now, officials said, is a reverse of four years ago — when President Barack Obama’s team was ready with detailed briefings and simulations of potential crises (including a pandemic flu), and Mr. Trump’s advisers were unwilling to receive them.

Mr. Trump’s incoming national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, who was fired within a month, did sit for reviews of urgent national security threats with Susan Rice, his predecessor. But other officials refused briefings, apparently not wanting Mr. Obama’s worldview to taint theirs. Secretary of State John F. Kerry never met with his successor, Rex W. Tillerson. Ernest J. Moniz, the Obama energy secretary, never gave his full brief to Rick Perry, the former Texas governor, who was coming in to oversee, among other things, the remaking of America’s nuclear weapons arsenal.

Now, Mr. Biden has loaded his transition team with many of the same officials who were ready to brief the Trump appointees. But they have not gotten far.

With Mr. Trump unwilling to recognize the election result and authorize the ascertainment that allows formal transition to begin, the White House Communications Agency is forbidden to run secure lines to Mr. Biden’s house in Delaware. That creates a risk that some of his conversations could be vulnerable to foreign eavesdropping. His team cannot use the government transition email system, and intelligence agencies have warned that the transition operation is a prime target for Chinese, Russian, North Korean, Iranian and other hackers.

The refusal of the General Services Administration to recognize Mr. Biden as the president-elect has also all but halted transition work inside the Pentagon and intelligence agencies.

Even as congressional Republicans avoided acknowledging Mr. Biden’s victory, they began to push back at the Trump administration’s refusal to grant Mr. Biden classified intelligence briefings, in their first significant sign of recognition of Mr. Biden and the need for a transition.

“I see no problem,” Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said on Thursday when asked about whether Mr. Biden should receive those briefings.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, told reporters, “Yes, I think so,” when pressed as well.

Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma and a member of a key Senate oversight committee, told reporters that without an update from the General Services Administration by Friday, he planned to push for answers on the process for beginning to share information with transition officials.

“Both sides had access to the intel information through the whole campaign,” Mr. Lankford said, refusing to confirm that Mr. Biden is the president-elect because of the Trump campaign’s outstanding legal challenges and the need for states to formally certify results. “Both sides need to have access to the information because we don’t know who the president is going to be, so allow that part of this process to still continue just for the sake of national security.”

The prolonged transition will have other consequences, like delaying the start of background checks for many senior and midlevel officials, said John B. Bellinger III, a former Bush administration official.

“We felt behind from the beginning,” Mr. Bellinger said.

Senior national security officials awaiting completed background checks could not start their jobs until the spring and summer of 2001, a delay that made it difficult to hold senior-level meetings and make tough policy decisions, including regarding Al Qaeda and the Taliban, Mr. Bellinger said. Citing those transition delays, the 9/11 commission made recommendations to smooth presidential transitions and expedite clearances.

Fulsome briefing memos from the outgoing administration are also important, Mr. Bellinger said, even if a new administration is planning big policy changes.

“Incoming administration officials always want to fix policies they think are broken,” he said. “But it is important for them to know what the outgoing administration was already doing and why problems that may look easy to fix from the outside may not be quite so easy.”





No.5 article:
As Hong Kong Opposition Quits Council, Pro-Beijing Forces Reign

Establishment lawmakers were already discussing which policies they could fast-track, while the pro-democracy camp pondered its next move.

HONG KONG — Hong Kong’s legislature on Thursday opened, unusually, on time.

The meetings had been starting late for months, consistently delayed by demands for roll calls from the pro-democracy opposition that had few other ways to stall the agenda of the Beijing-backed government. But those opposing lawmakers had all just resigned after the ouster of four colleagues.

Unfazed, the remaining pro-Beijing camp got to work, reviewing a bill on parking spaces and discussing flu vaccines. The opposition could only stand outside for one final protest, hanging two banners criticizing Hong Kong’s chief executive — and then taking them down just a few minutes later before security could do so.

The scene encapsulated the city’s new political landscape, with the opposition almost totally gutted. The pro-Beijing lawmakers were already preparing which policies to fast-track, free of any encumbrances, while the pro-democracy bloc was left grasping for a next move. The imbalance made it all but certain that the government could push through contentious proposals, such as voting rights for Hong Kong residents in mainland China.

The collapse of the legislative opposition was just the latest blow to Hong Kong’s beleaguered pro-democracy movement, after China imposed a new national security law this summer that helped silenced mass anti-government protests and set off widespread uncertainty about the fate of the city. In the months since, the Legislative Council had been one of the last bastions of formalized, legal dissent in the city.

Now, it is unclear what avenues of resistance remain, as Beijing exerts ever more control over the Chinese territory. People in both camps have been left wondering whether the resignations would be an effective form of protest, or amount to unilateral disarmament.

“I think it’s the wrong move for them, but it’s up to them,” said Leung Chun-Ying, one of the city’s former chief executives and a vocal supporter of Beijing. “I think they’ll be in the wilderness for a long time.”

The mass resignations, the first in the legislature’s history, were prompted by the central Chinese government’s move on Wednesday to give the Hong Kong authorities broad power to remove lawmakers deemed insufficiently loyal. Minutes later, Hong Kong officials disqualified four pro-democracy lawmakers accused of supporting foreign attempts to undermine the government.

The remaining 15 members of the “pan-democratic camp” — a coalition of representatives of different parties and independents who support greater democracy — then announced they would quit in solidarity.

In the immediate aftermath, even pro-establishment lawmakers seemed disoriented. Andrew Leung, the president of the Legislative Council, said the departing lawmakers still had items on the agenda that he had to determine how to handle.

But the establishment quickly announced that it would make full use of its new dominance to advance a slew of priorities that otherwise would have met fierce resistance.

Regina Ip, a pro-Beijing lawmaker, said she looked forward to expanding voting rights in city elections to Hong Kongers who live in mainland China. The proposal had been loudly criticized by opposition lawmakers as an attempt to bolster the numbers of pro-Beijing voters, particularly after the establishment suffered a major defeat in last year’s district council elections.

Mrs. Ip said she also wanted to introduce motions to clarify that Hong Kong had never had separation of powers. Pro-democracy groups had claimed the separation was an important element of “one country, two systems,” the political framework that gives Hong Kong civil liberties that do not exist in mainland China. But Mrs. Ip and other allies say the system has always been dominated by the executive branch.

And she was eager to promote changes to Liberal Studies, the high school curriculum that many establishment figures blame for turning young people against the government. The government has already appointed a task force to overhaul the course of study.

“We won’t be likely to run into the same obstructionist roadblocks as before,” Ms. Ip said. “I think we can return to a more normal state of affairs.”

While the pro-democracy lawmakers, as the minority, never had much power to block a government-backed proposal, they had deployed filibusters, calls for quorum and other legislative tactics to hamstring proceedings. It has always been nearly impossible for the pro-democracy camp to win a majority, as Hong Kong’s system is set up to favor the establishment.

Some politicians seemed almost gleeful at the new state of affairs. Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief executive, said on Wednesday that the government felt “all the more excited” that its bills could be passed efficiently.

Mr. Leung, the former chief executive, said Hong Kong could finally see “what the proper functioning of a legislative council should look like.”

“We need patriots. All countries need patriots holding these key political positions,” he said. “I think it’s an important opportunity and an important window for the government to get things debated and approved, hopefully.”

The window could be brief. Hong Kong is slated to hold legislative elections next fall for all 70 seats. The elections were set to take place this September, but the government postponed them, citing the coronavirus pandemic — though critics said it was an attempt to forestall sweeping pro-democracy wins.

Even so, it is unclear whether any dissenting figures will stand for those seats. The government had already disqualified a dozen pro-democracy figures, including sitting lawmakers, from running.

As the 15 lawmakers handed in their resignations on Thursday, many expressed a sense of uncertainty about what they could do next.

Lam Cheuk Ting, who unfurled the banners mocking the chief executive, struck a defiant note at first. He said he would keep the banners, because he would have “plenty of use for them in the future” as he continued to criticize Mrs. Lam (Mr. Lam is not related to Mrs. Lam.)

But when asked about his plans after resigning, he said he needed time to discuss with colleagues, as well as his family.

He also has legal considerations. Mr. Lam will face trial after he was arrested in August on accusations that he instigated a mob attack during last year’s protests, even though a New York Times investigation showed that he had acted as a mediator, and was later among those beaten and injured by the attackers.

Eight other opposition lawmakers were arrested earlier this month over a heated meeting in May, when legislators physically clashed over control of a key committee. No establishment lawmakers were arrested.

“This year is stunning enough,” Mr. Lam said. “Let’s not talk about next year yet.”

Some departing lawmakers said they planned to return to their day jobs, finding ways to channel them into forms of protest. Dennis Kwok, one of the four ousted legislators, said he would continue working as a lawyer, taking on human rights cases. Wu Chi-wai, who resigned, said he would stay on as head of his political party.

But Mr. Wu acknowledged that their efforts outside of the legislature would most likely be more fragmented.

The pro-democracy camp had discussed keeping their seats, to be able to question government officials, draw on the resources of their offices and have access to official information, said Claudia Mo, another lawmaker who stepped down.

But she said the group ultimately decided that it was more important to show solidarity with their ousted colleagues, and to make clear that they saw the legislature increasingly as a rubber stamp for Beijing.

Even some lawmakers who supported the disqualification of the four lawmakers expressed concern about the mass resignations, indicating that the Legislative Council could lose legitimacy without an opposition faction. Felix Chung, the leader of the pro-Beijing Liberal Party, told reporters that the mass departures were “not healthy.”

“Everywhere in the world, the government always has opposition voices,” Mr. Chung said, as word spread on Wednesday of likely resignations. “If they all leave, I don’t know what will happen to Hong Kong.”

But Tommy Cheung, another Liberal Party member, disputed the idea that the pro-democracy members’ exits would leave the legislature with one voice. He noted that members of his party, which advocates business interests, had fought the government on raising the minimum wage and on granting statutory paternity leave.

“We were basically the opposition when it comes to nutrition labeling,” he said.





No.6 article:
Uneasy Under Lockdown, Pubs in England Count the Days Till Christmas

LONDON — At the Crooked Well, a neighborhood pub in south London that prides itself on its food, the Christmas menu is already decided. There will be venison and beef stews. But whether the stews will actually be served is another question.

Under a new lockdown planned to last a month, pubs in England have closed again. From Nov. 5 to Dec. 2, restaurants, gyms and nonessential shops are being shuttered by the government’s efforts to suppress a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.

Britain’s first lockdown lasted more than three months, followed by an ever-changing array of restrictions since. No one knows how long this lockdown will really last.

The two nights before it took hold, “we were crazy busy, it was like the whole of London was out,” said Hector Skinner, one of the owners and the manager of the Crooked Well. “Now, I don’t know. I really don’t know. I feel like it’s going to go on for longer.”

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tried to sell the new lockdown to pandemic-weary Britons by saying it would, hopefully, allow families to be together over the holidays. But, he conceded, “Christmas is going to be different this year, very different.”

And that’s the problem for the hospitality industry, which fears losing out on a crucial month. Some 20 to 30 percent of a year’s revenue is made around Christmas and the holidays, according to the British Beer and Pub Association. At the Crooked Well, a good week in December would bring in double the best week in the summer.

If pubs can’t reopen in December, “then these businesses won’t survive January and February, which are like graveyard months for us,” said Emma McClarkin, the chief executive of the industry trade group, which represents about 20,000 pubs.

Britain’s pubs have been whipped around by the government’s attempts to, on the one hand, curtail the pandemic and, on the other, bolster an economic recovery.

When the virus swept through Britain in March and April, filling hospital beds and killing thousands, a lockdown shutting schools, offices and nonessential shops was accepted with stoicism. But the pub closings caused the most gloom. It was the first outright closing in their history. Describing the move as “extraordinary,” Mr. Johnson said it took away “the ancient inalienable right of freeborn people of the United Kingdom to go to the pub.”

In those early days of the pandemic, there was a point when Mr. Skinner and his co-owner, Matt Green-Armytage, figured their business was only a month away from folding. They asked family members for financial support, laid off some staff and eventually opened a BBQ takeaway service at the Crooked Well. That kept some money coming in until they were allowed to reopen.

Then came a boom. In August, the government encouraged people to leave their houses and go out to eat, offering to pay up to half-off their meals in pubs and restaurants. By 8 on the first night of the “Eat Out to Help Out” discount, the Crooked Well had run out of food.

Two months later, virus rates had begun to soar again. Facing new restrictions including a 10 p.m. curfew, the pub industry was again fighting for survival, Ms. McClarkin said. Last month, Young &amp; Co.’s Brewery and Fuller’s, two large pub chains, each announced plans to lay off 500 employees. Greene King, another large chain, planned to cut 800 jobs, and Marston’s said 2,150 of its furloughed employees would lose their jobs.

While revenues have yo-yoed, some pubs came up with a new pitch to get customers through the door: They became work spaces. For a set price, officeless office workers sick of working from home could rent a table.

At the Crooked Well, during the day when the pub used to be closed, there was unlimited tea and coffee, a breakfast and lunch service, three different Wi-Fi networks to ensure the best connection, and a pint of beer or a glass of wine to mark the end of the workday, all for just 15 pounds a day.

The new service was a success. Some customers chose to set up their laptops basking in the natural light of the Victorian building’s large windows, or in corners under warm lamp lights. There was soft music, a quiet hush and strong coffee.

Last month, Young’s added a booking option for working from 11 of its locations in London, offering charging points, internet, sustenance and the odd printer for between £10 and £20 a day. Fuller’s, which owns more than 200 pubs in Britain, just began to roll out its “work from pub” offering.

At the Euston Flyer, a Fuller’s pub near its namesake train station, Jerry Magloire, the manager, was working out the pricing in late October for his “work from pub” plan. He was ready to try anything to increase the number of customers, he said. A week later, Mr. Magloire was back on furlough.

The second lockdown isn’t expected to be as economically painful as the first one. For one, it’s less strict. Pubs and restaurants can stay open this time for takeout, and after a government U-turn, that includes alcohol.

That doesn’t mean they will. Fuller’s has decided to shut all their pubs throughout this lockdown. “The experience that you get in that pub doesn’t necessarily lend itself to takeaway,” said Jane Jones, the company’s marketing director. Instead they are  focused on reopening in time for the holidays: Turkeys have been ordered, and pubs have been asked to buy Christmas trees from local sellers.

Mr. Johnson has said that when the lockdown ends, England will return to the three-tiered system of local restrictions, with the third tier the strictest. “Tier 3 is a nightmare for us,” Mr. Skinner said, because different households can’t socialize.

Fuller’s shared that sentiment. Leaving lockdown for Tier 3 wouldn’t be good, especially because pubs that don’t serve “substantial meals” have to close. “It’s such an important part of our trading year, we have to be open for Christmas,” Ms. Jones added.

The Crooked Well has been shoring up its finances with a small-business grant, a government-backed loan and a cut in business taxes. It also began a crowdfunding campaign in September, raising £21,000 in 28 days. Some of the money will go toward awnings and outdoor heaters to fend off the rainy and windswept British winter. More important, it will pay for a lawyer to help the pub’s owners prepare for a review of their rent with their landlord in January.

“We have a very aggressive landlord,” Mr. Skinner said. The landlord, he said, has warned the pub against seeking protection under a moratorium that bars eviction from commercial properties for unpaid rent, a government benefit to help renters during the pandemic that has been extended twice to the end of the year. 

During lockdown, the pub will open only on Sundays to sell boxes with large shareable meals, ranging from £38 for a whole roasted chicken with all the trimmings to £120 for a leg of lamb that will serve a whole table and have plenty of leftovers for the week.

And there’s a financial cushion thanks to the extra revenue brought in over summer and fall from the work-space initiative and a refurbishment of the upstairs event space into a second dining room with eight tables. The staff has been furloughed after the government extended the wage-subsidy program. But Mr. Skinner is still worried about the rent.

“We put ourselves in quite a good financial position, but the rent isn’t going to go away,” he said. If the lockdown lasts only a month, “we can handle it,” he added. “But if it continues for longer and longer, then things really do start to get scary and bleak again.”





No.7 article:
For Aging Masters Champions, Pandemic Cannot Mute Augusta’s Call

Despite the coronavirus crisis, many of the older men who won the Masters reunited at the tournament that helped make them famous. Some are even playing.

AUGUSTA, Ga. — The men met for dinner at Augusta National Golf Club on Tuesday night. They donned their green jackets, asked after grandchildren, cracked wise, drank wine and thought back to the long-ago shots that were their meal tickets now.

They gathered because that is what most men who won the Masters do during tournament week. And despite the coronavirus pandemic, it was unfathomable to many of golf’s princes that they would miss a meeting of one of the most hallowed fraternities in sports.

“I’m going to put my mask on and drive over there,” Tommy Aaron, the 83-year-old champion from 1973, said by telephone last week, his voice as soft as his intentions were firm.

“You never know when your last trip to Augusta is going to be,” observed Charles Coody, 83, who won in 1971.

“I don’t get to see the guys too often anymore,” said Bob Goalby, the 1968 champion who is now 91. “What brings you back is your friendship with the guys. Even though you don’t play anymore, you get kind of enthused about seeing the place and seeing the young guys practice on the range.”

No other golf tournament attracts its most cherished alumni quite like the Masters, and many former champions submitted to nasal swabs to be able to gaze upon the greens again. Some older winners — more than half of the 33 living Masters winners are at least 60 years old — considered walking part of the course, free of dense crowds because of the pandemic, for the first time in years.

Still, seven winners are absent this week, with at least some missing for pandemic-related reasons, including misgivings about travel. Sergio Garcia, the 2017 victor, withdrew from the tournament after he tested positive for the virus.

&quot;It’s always sad when some people are not there, but to look at it in a positive light, so many were there,” said Gary Player, 85, who won the Masters three times and spoke at Tuesday’s dinner.

Indeed, the pandemic hardly seemed to rattle most of the winners, many of whom saw the golf and Augusta’s traditions as too great to ignore, even in 2020. Sixteen past champions are playing this week and even though Player and Jack Nicklaus are not, they started the tournament with a ceremonial tee shot around daybreak on Thursday. Nicklaus and his wife, Barbara, tested positive for coronavirus in March.

“I just played three months in a row, so why wouldn’t I come here?” asked Bernhard Langer, who turned 63 in August and won in 1985 and 1993. “I can social distance. I don’t have to hug anybody or whatever or do high-fives.”

Others who are competing had feared that they would not make it because of travel restrictions.

“It seemed very hard because I was marooned in Scotland for seven months, eight months,” said Sandy Lyle, the 1988 champion. But there he was at sunset on Monday, practicing putts and hoping to string together sufficiently low scores to make the Masters cut, set this year at the low 50s, for the first time since 2014.

“We’re still getting through this,” Lyle, 62, added about the pandemic. “We’ve got to be very happy that we’re even playing golf for prize money right now.”

So to look around Augusta National this week was still to spot winners, an exercise made easier than usual because of this year’s ban on spectators. Fred Couples, the 1992 winner, and Tiger Woods practiced together, as did Langer and Lyle. A few minutes after Vijay Singh, the champion in 2000, started hitting at No. 1 on Tuesday morning, Patrick Reed, who won 18 years after Singh, started a round from nearby No. 10.

More came for the Champions Dinner, a closed-door rite of the tournament for past winners and the club chairman.

“Once I found out that I knew a lot of the players were going, some of the older ones, I was all in,” said Mark O’Meara, who won in 1998 and was among those who flew to Georgia this week. “To be fortunate enough to be a Masters champion, it’s probably the right thing to do, even though I’m not going to play.”

Tuesday’s dinner, paid for by reigning champion Woods, included his menu selections of sushi and fajitas. This year, to allow for more distancing, the men dined in the clubhouse’s Trophy Room instead of its library, the place settings spaced farther apart than in the past.

“You almost had to holler across the table, so it got a little noisy in there,” Goalby said on Wednesday afternoon. “But it was still the same dinner, same thing.”

In the hours and days before the meal, younger players with standing invitations — the new guard of champions — said they were unsurprised that the game’s elders had made the trip back.

“What a pleasure to talk to these guys and hear stories,” Bubba Watson, who won in 2012 and 2014, said as he recalled his hosting stints. “One day, 40 years, 30 years from now, I’ll be the guy telling random stories.”

That recounting is part, many older winners said, of a sentimentality that they cannot ever seem to shake, no matter how long ago they won a green jacket.

“It’s a calling, you might say,” O’Meara, 63, said. “It’s kind of a calling to come home to a place that, at one point or another, you were able to win.”





No.8 article:
Quotation of the Day: Vaccine Will Travel Complicated Route From Lab to Masses

“The challenge, of course, that’s out there is: Are people going to go get vaccinated? It would be a shame that we did all this work, and then we don’t have the public trusting that there’s a safe vaccine.”

TANYA ALCORN, an executive at Pfizer overseeing the supply chain for a potential coronavirus vaccine.





No.9 article:
Twitter says it labeled 0.2% of all election-related tweets as disputed.

Twitter said on Thursday that it had labeled as disputed 300,000 tweets related to the presidential election, or 0.2 percent of the total on the subject, even as some users continued sharing misleading information about the outcome.

The disclosure made Twitter the first major social media platform to publicly evaluate its performance during the 2020 election. Its revelations followed intense criticism by President Trump and other Republicans, who have said Twitter’s fact-checking efforts silenced conservative voices.

Twitter, Facebook and Google have faced scrutiny since their platforms were used during the 2016 presidential race to mount misinformation campaigns intended to sow division between Americans and discourage them from voting. The companies vowed that this year’s election would be different, and spent billions of dollars to revamp their policies.

At Twitter, the changes were sweeping. The company permanently banned political advertising last year, began labeling content that misled viewers about the electoral process or its outcome and slowed down users’ ability to retweet content.

Twitter said some of the measures, like labeling misleading tweets, were somewhat effective. Other changes did not appear to have an effect, so Twitter said it would reverse them.

Twitter’s labeled the 300,000 tweets from Oct. 27 to Wednesday, the company said. The labels warned viewers that the content was disputed and could be misleading. Twitter restricted just 456 of those messages, preventing them from being shared and from getting likes or replies.

Twitter labeled many of the tweets — including dozens from Mr. Trump — within minutes of their posting. Seventy-four percent of the people who saw the labeled tweets viewed them after the label was added, Twitter said.

Many of Mr. Trump’s messages were labeled. Between Election Day and Friday afternoon, Twitter labeled about 34 percent of Mr. Trump’s tweets and retweets, according to a New York Times tally. “Twitter is out of control, made possible through the government gift of Section 230!” Mr. Trump tweeted last week, referring to a law that grants some legal protections to social media companies.

Roughly a third of users appeared receptive to the warnings from Twitter by not sharing the messages, while others continued to share the messages. The company reported a 29 percent decrease in “quote-tweeting,” in which users shared the labeled messages with their followers.

“These enforcement actions remain part of our continued strategy to add context and limit the spread of misleading information about election processes around the world on Twitter,” the company’s head of legal and policy, Vijaya Gadde, wrote in a blog post.

The high-profile changes showed that social media companies are still evolving their content moderation policies and that more changes could come. Misinformation researchers praised Twitter for its transparency but said more data was needed to determine how content moderation should adapt in future elections.

“Nothing about the design of these platforms is natural, inevitable or immutable. Everything is up for grabs,” said Evelyn Douek, a lecturer at Harvard Law School who focuses on online speech.

“This was the first really big experiment in content moderation outside of the ‘take down or leave up’ paradigm of content moderation,” she added. “I think that’s the future of content moderation. These early results are promising for that kind of avenue. They don’t need to completely censor things in order to stop the spread and add context.”

Facebook, which initially said it would not fact-check political figures, also added several labels to Mr. Trump’s posts on its platform. Although Twitter was more aggressive, other social platforms may copy its approach to labeling disputed content, Ms. Douek said.

While Twitter will continue labeling misleading tweets about the election, it said it would roll back other changes. The company will turn back on its algorithms that recommend tweets to users, and allow topics to trend without adding context to them.

In October, Twitter said it would disable the algorithms, letting users discover content on their own. The company also said it would add context to every trending topic so users could know at a glance why a topic was gaining popularity. Both changes were celebrated by misinformation researchers.

But Kayvon Beykpour, Twitter’s head of product, said on Thursday, “We found that pausing these recommendations prevented many people from discovering new conversations and accounts to follow.” Although adding context to trending topics resulted in a “significant reduction” of reports on the topics, it also limited how many topics could be allowed to trend, he added.

“We’ll continue to prioritize reviewing and adding context to as many trends as possible, but won’t make this a requirement before a trend can appear,” Mr. Beykpour said. “Our goal is to help people see what’s happening, while ensuring that potentially misleading trends are presented with context.”

One other change will remain, at least for now. Twitter said it would continue slowing down retweets. The tactic may have reduced the spread of misinformation, the company said, adding that it will continue to study the outcome.





No.10 article:
The Word at MoMA Is ‘Rotation, Rotation, Rotation’

The Museum of Modern Art’s permanent collection is on the move. It’s not leaving the building but it’s in motion as never before. On Saturday, MoMA will unveil what it calls the Fall Reveal, a rehang of about a third of its holdings, or 20 of 60 galleries. This is the first phase of an ambitious plan to regularly rotate the entire collection. In short, the result bodes extraordinarily well.

There are some wonderful acquisitions to be appreciated and some pieces that have been in storage so long they might as well be new. Given its own stand-alone gallery on the fifth floor for the first time, Gerhard Richter’s wrenching “October 18, 1977” takes on a new prominence. This 1988 suite of 15 blurry gray paintings about the capture, suspicious deaths and funeral of the Baader-Meinhof anarchist group meditates, appropriately, on the power of the state. Also here you’ll find the architect Hermann Finsterlin’s rarely exhibited “Study for a House of Sociability” in polychrome plaster and paint from around 1920, which presages Frank Gehry, Milan’s Memphis designers and Frank Stella.

In the buildup to the reopening of its newly expanded building last October, the Modern announced a philosophical reorientation that broadened its focus to a global, rather than just Western, history of modern art. Its traditionally siloed art mediums would also be integrated; painting and sculpture would share space with photography, design, works on paper, film and music. But perhaps most exciting was the ambitious plan to switch out a substantial chunk of the collection every six months. For an institution where permanent collection displays once lasted, largely untouched, for 5 or 10 years, this pace was tantamount to warp speed.

Visitors would see more of the museum’s riches — as long as they kept coming back. Curators would engage with these riches more deeply, in cross-departmental teams. Perhaps curatorial thinking would move faster under the pressure.

This first Fall Reveal indicates how the museum pulled off this prodigious effort. The collection is still spread through three levels and proceeds chronologically from the fifth floor (1880s-1940s), to the fourth (1940-1970) to the second (1970-present) — with the same group of galleries on each floor reinstalled each time. In addition, while the art changes, the galleries on four and five remain dedicated to a fairly defined style, period or medium. You will encounter new examples of design or photography, Dada or Pop Art in pretty much the same place. The rehang has more holdovers in terms of artists and even artworks than I expected. But the overlay of the previous and the current installations can create a pleasant sense of familiarity: Was this here last time? In this gallery? On this wall?

Admittedly, certain irritants persist: Some galleries still studiously avoid helpful names of art movements, opting for phrases that are bland or vague. The fourth-floor gallery, with a mix of what most people would recognize as Pop Art, was previously “From Soup Cans to Flying Saucers” and is now “Domestic Disruption.” No offense, but maybe the museum needs its own writers’ room.

Otherwise, the first Fall Reveal mostly feels like a good settling in, another step in a process whereby visitors, curators and art are getting to feel at home in the new Museum of Modern Art. Here are some of the standout galleries, floor by floor.

The fifth floor display is temporarily two galleries short for the next week or two. A large one will be devoted to Parisian art and design between the World Wars, another to Weimar portraiture. I’m looking forward to seeing Gabriele Münter’s “Woman in Thought II,” a painting from 1928 acquired last year, and perhaps writing about these spaces later.

According to the Laws of Chance This is the first of the rehung galleries on the fifth floor and once again it concentrates on Duchamp and his Dadaist confreres. Appropriately, it has been installed according to chance. The melody that wafts through the gallery is one of Duchamp’s earliest uses of chance: the 1913 “Erratum Musical,” composed (for three voices) by drawing notes from a hat. Following suit, the curators established the sequence of the works on view by drawing their titles from a hat, too. It looks surprisingly normal except for the wince-worthy placement of two wall vitrines side by side.

A Modern Media World This photography gallery now centers on images commissioned for magazine ads, book illustrations and social documentation, and later elevated by MoMA to art. (The display offers the relatively humble publications in which they originally appeared.) The numerous photographers include Paul Outerbridge, Germaine Krull, Andre Kertesz and Tina Modotti, whose exquisite “Telephone Wire, Mexico,” from around 1925, is both spiritual and abstract. Also on view is a sleek black Bakelite radio the size of a small tombstone, designed in 1933 by Serge Chermayeff.

Abstraction and Ornament This gallery offers the most surprises with a dense presentation of some of the wonders of the museum’s holdings in early modernist design. An imposing cluster at the center of the gallery includes a 1927 wall hanging in a syncopated geometry of white, black and gray by Anni Albers; a large window grille — possibly for a store window — in sinuous ribbons of wrought iron by Antoni Gaudí; two colored glass windows by Frank Lloyd Wright; and an elevator grille from the Chicago Stock Exchange designed by Louis Sullivan in 1893 that points the way to the lean, playful elegance of Alexander Girard in the 1950s.

When the entire museum was reshuffled last year, the fourth floor galleries too often resembled a lot of art in search of a curator, but the 2020 revisions here mostly click.

Everyday Encounters As before, the first gallery concentrates on postwar American, European and Japanese artworks from the 1950s and early ’60s, at the nexus of performance, painting and popular culture, but it achieves a better balance. It tilts away from American father figures like Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg — though they too look perfectly impressive here — toward artists of recent renown. Especially prominent are the radical painters of the Japanese Gutai group: Atsuko Tanaka (who performed with light bulbs and gives abstract painting a similar electricity); Kazuo Shiraga, who painted exclusively with his feet; and the lesser-known Tsuruko Yamazaki, whose wild little abstraction in aniline dye on tin is a recent acquisition.

Carolee Schneemann’s “Four Fur Cutting Boards” (1962-63), a dynamic kinetic sculpture that is also a painted screen and stage backdrop, was acquired in 2015 but is being shown for the first time since then, and is a sly riff on Mr. Johns’s and Mr. Rauschenberg’s efforts. The gallery’s percussive soundtrack comes from Cecil Taylor’s 1968 video, “Les Grandes Répétitions,” which shows this great jazzman improvising madly at the piano, supported by several instrumentalists.

Gordon Parks and “The Atmosphere of Crime” This gallery replaces an exhibition of abstract photography with one of the most disturbing displays in the reshuffling for its combination of beauty and malevolence. At its center is the series of dark, gorgeous, dour and heart-rending color photographs that Gordon Parks shot for a 1957 spread in Life magazine challenging stereotypes of criminality. Shot in prisons, police stations, dank hallways, and dodgy streets, they uncover the institutional evil central to this country and its impact on marginalized people. Surrounding photographs document multiple American tragedies: Oswald and Ruby, Ted Kennedy’s car floating by the bridge to Chappaquiddick Island; and Ethel and Julius Rosenberg on their way to jail.

Domestic Disruption This gallery, focusing on Pop Art, is far less discombobulated than its previous iteration, corroborating more convincingly the internationalism that is a recurring subtext on this floor. Tom Wesselmann’s scaled up “Still Life #57” (1969-70) is one of his best installation paintings, not least for containing no nudes. It is in dialogue with Noah Purifoy’s “Unknown,” a balletic assemblage-painting in which a parasol armature radiates across saturated bands of green, yellow and red. To the other side stands Beatriz González’s “Lullaby,” a metal baby crib, painted enamel green with an appropriated image of mother and child. Also part of the improvement: works by Thomas Bayrle, Betye Saar, David Hockney and Henry Darger.

Touching the Void This gallery stresses a stripped-down abstraction in two- and three-dimensions that the label refers to as “a poetics of bare form” practiced by artists from around the world, and called Minimalist in this country. Look for Lee Ufan’s luminous brush strokes, Simon Hantaï’s ingeniously tie-dyed allover field of color and several works by the great Gego (Gertrud Goldschmidt) which lead off a field of 15 artists, of whom only three are American.

The rehang in this section diverges from the upper floors in that all the art was removed and the curators began with a clean slate, assembling cohesive arrangements of work primarily from the 1980s and ’90s in four themed galleries.

The Sum of All Parts centers on art as incremental evidence of the body moving through life with works by Sue Williamson, Adrian Piper and the astounding video veteran Theo Eshetu.

Assembly Here, the assemblage tendencies of the American artists Cady Noland, Jimmie Durham and David Hammons are pitted against one another. All work with different found objects to consider aspects of their country’s history and peoples.

After the Wall The section’s largest gallery delves illuminatingly into art made mostly in Europe after 1989. Sigmar Polke and Günther Förg are here. Less familiar names include the painter Mladen Stilinovic and the mail artist Guillermo Deisler.

Search Engines Here we see a range of reactions to digitalization: its embrace in the work of Seth Price, and its rejection in the enticing collages of Wangechi Mutu and the hand-decorated postcards exchanged by Giorgia Lupi and Stefanie Posavec.

A certain grimness at once visual, conceptual and relentlessly earnest prevails. It can all be hard to take upon first encounter. (When I first walked through, the phrase “hair shirt” came to mind.) But these are inordinately grim times and nearly all the works are exceptional and make sense at MoMA.

This section concludes with two works in their own galleries. One is Carrie Mae Weems’s “From Here I Saw What Happened and I Cried,” a magisterial meditation, now a quarter-century old, on enslavement using 19th-century photographs of African-Americans sharpened with her own incantatory words. The other is Cao Fei’s 2006 video, “Whose Utopia,” of Chinese workers demonstrating hobbies like ballet and guitar-playing in the immense factory where they work. It is a sad, yet inspiring argument for the persistence of art, and, by implication, love, in the face of industrialization and alienation. Both works may be even more pertinent now than when they were made.

Dealing with the recent past and the present, the second floor points toward the future, most confirming the collection as a living laboratory rather than a great mausoleum — now an open-ended organism always in formation and reformation.

One leaves the Modern realizing that the collection has become a project on which the sun never sets.At any time someone, somewhere in the museum, will be plotting the next rotation, bringing the museum much closer to the speed of art and curatorial thought. It is almost overwhelming to contemplate what these changing displays might bring forth, moving forward.





No.11 article:
The Presidential Transition Must Go On

Joe Biden’s team should be given the official go-ahead for the smooth transfer of power.

Joe Biden will be the next president of the United States, and his predecessor is not handling his election loss well. In what may be the least surprising development of his term in office, President Trump has spent several days now falsely claiming widespread voter fraud and other nefarious behavior. Yes, counting the votes was vital, but now that the results are clear, it is time to move on.

Perhaps the second least surprising development? Many Republican leaders are indulging Mr. Trump’s tantrum.

There is a sycophancy spectrum. Some Republicans are going all in on the president’s conspiratorial rantings, spreading them like fertilizer on a field. Others are trying to have it both ways: not actively parroting his lies yet passively tolerating his disinformation campaign. As the rationalization seems to go: He’s on his way out. What’s the harm in letting him vent for a few days more?

Where to begin?

Even if this display of defiance is largely, or wholly, performative, it is dangerous. While there is little evidence of coordinated violence so far, urging his supporters to view the race as stolen — and, by extension, Joe Biden’s presidency as illegitimate — could all too easily incite someone to seek retribution, resulting in tragedy. It is also corrosive. Cynically undermining Mr. Biden’s future presidency could do lasting harm to an already divided nation.

There is more targeted, more concrete damage being done as well. Mr. Biden will solidly carry the Electoral College. Barring some dramatic, unforeseen development, he will be sworn into office on Jan. 20. It is in the interest of the entire nation — a nation already struggling with a tangle of crises — for that transfer of power to go as smoothly as possible.

A presidential transition is a monumental undertaking. As the advisory board of the nonpartisan Center for Presidential Transition noted on Sunday, “To build an effective government ready to address the urgent needs of our great country, the new president will have to recruit 4,000 political appointees, including 1,250 who require Senate confirmation; prepare a $4.7 trillion budget; implement a strong policy agenda; and assume leadership of a work force of two million civilian employees and two million active duty and reserve troops.”

“While there will be legal disputes requiring adjudication,” the board observed, “the outcome is sufficiently clear that the transition process must now begin.”

Some of that necessary work is going forward despite Mr. Trump’s foot-dragging. Mr. Biden’s teams are deep into staffing decisions and are firming up plans for his first days in office. Executive orders are being drawn up. A coronavirus advisory team has been assembled. Briefings are being conducted.

When it sees fit, the campaign can begin announcing nominees — a process often done in batches, starting a few weeks after the election — which enables the Senate to start preparing for hearings. “Best practice generally dictates having White House positions filled by Thanksgiving, and the most important Cabinet positions ready to announce between Thanksgiving and Christmas,” according to the transition center’s website.

That said, crucial elements of the transition cannot proceed without official clearance by the General Services Administration, the obscure agency that oversees the basic functioning of federal agencies, including the presidential transition. A green light from the agency frees up the office space and money necessary to kick the transition into high gear. It also triggers certain meetings and procedures and allows incoming officials to access classified information and computer systems.

Typically, such authorization is granted within hours of the presidential race being called. As of this writing, the authorization has yet to occur. As The Times noted on Monday, this is blocking Mr. Biden’s teams “from moving into government offices, including secure facilities where they can discuss classified information. The teams cannot meet with their counterparts in agencies or begin background checks of top cabinet nominees that require top-secret access.”

All of this has serious implications for national security. In the chaotic aftermath of the 2000 election, in which the outcome really was unclear, the transition process was delayed. This “hampered the new administration in identifying, recruiting, clearing, and obtaining Senate confirmation of key appointees,” concluded the 9/11 Commission, which analyzed the circumstances surrounding the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. In its report, the commission stressed the need going forward to get incoming officials settled quickly to “minimize as much as possible the disruption of national security policymaking.”

The White House has also yet to follow the commission’s recommendation to swiftly provide the president-elect “with a classified, compartmented list that catalogs specific, operational threats to national security; major military or cover operations; and pending decisions on the possible use of force,” according to The Washington Post.

So not only is Mr. Trump trying to monopolize the nation’s attention and keep the spotlight off Mr. Biden and the reasons he was elected, but the current commander in chief’s acting out is creating a worrisome opportunity for America’s foreign adversaries to exploit.

On Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Biden projected an air of unruffled certainty. “The fact that they’re not willing to acknowledge we won at this point, is not of much consequence in our planning and what we’re able to do between now and Jan. 20,” he said.

It is Mr. Biden’s job to steady the nation. That is what elected leaders are supposed to do. But make no mistake: Mr. Trump is once more putting his own interests above the good of the American people. That so many Republican officials continue to enable him is the fitting coda to his presidency.





No.12 article:
U.S. Troops Are Still Leaving, but Afghans Hope Biden Will Help

Afghans fear the Taliban are subverting the peace process, and hope a Biden administration will bring more accountability.

KABUL, Afghanistan — Three U.S. presidents and 19 years later, it is President-elect Joseph R. Biden’s turn to inherit the American war in Afghanistan. The question that is leaving Afghans hanging is just how quickly he will remove troops.

It is a desperately difficult time for Afghanistan. American troops, honoring President Trump’s deal with the Taliban, are still on their way out of the country, despite the stalling of peace talks between the insurgency and the Afghan government, and a wave of intensified Taliban offensives near important cities.

Officials in Kabul are very aware that Americans are tired of the war — a fact made clear by a near absence of the issue in presidential debates, and by Mr. Biden’s seeming agreement with President Trump’s desire to get out of Afghanistan.

“It is past time to end the forever wars, which have cost the United States untold blood and treasure,” Mr. Biden wrote in Foreign Affairs earlier this year. “As I have long argued, we should bring the vast majority of our troops home from the wars in Afghanistan and the Middle East and narrowly define our mission as defeating al Qaeda and the Islamic State (or ISIS).&quot;

Still, in Mr. Biden, Afghan officials said they hoped to gain a less capricious and more communicative ally, though they know he is unlikely to stop the troop withdrawal.

“We understand there’s not going to be U-turn on the U.S. side on the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan,” said Nargis Nehan, a former minister of mines and petroleum under President Ashraf Ghani. “But under the leadership of the Biden administration, we hope and believe that it’s going to be done with a much more responsible strategy in comparison to the Trump administration.”

Both in Kabul and Washington, officials with knowledge of security briefings said there was fear that President Trump might try to accelerate an all-out troop withdrawal in his final days in office — though the amount of American infrastructure still in the country would be physically impossible to remove by January, according to security officials.

A Pentagon shake-up in recent days, while President Trump has sought to contest his election loss, has cast more confusion on the issue. Security officials said that on Thursday, the American commander in Afghanistan, Gen. Austin S. Miller, was traveling to Washington for consultations.

A spokesman for the U.S.-led mission in Afghanistan, Col. Sonny Leggett, denied that General Miller was going to Washington for consultations, saying instead that he was on “preplanned travel.”

American commanders, while careful not to contravene President Trump in public, have warned that it was vital to keep the withdrawal contingent on the Taliban’s keeping their pledges.

Afghan officials are also publicly urging Mr. Biden to better support the stalled peace talks in Qatar, which some Afghans felt were pushed too hard by the Trump administration without enough protections for them. On Monday, Afghanistan’s second vice president, Sarwar Danesh, called on the incoming Biden administration to conduct a review of the Afghan peace process and to put more pressure on the Taliban to negotiate fairly.

A decade ago, as vice president in the Obama administration, Mr. Biden was the in-house skeptic of the war, pushing against the huge troop surge in Afghanistan that began in 2009.

For years, U.S. policymakers and officials likened the task of building new government institutions and modern security forces in Afghanistan in the middle of a war to building an airplane midflight. In 2009, Mr. Biden sought a different approach: to focus on international terrorist threats in Afghanistan and little else.

“I don’t think he has his changed his mind much since then: to get out of Afghanistan, let Afghans govern themselves, but keep a light footprint in the form of counterterrorism, primarily to ensure U.S. national security interests,” said Tamim Asey, a former Afghan deputy defense minister under Mr. Ghani.

That approach — keeping a small number of troops in Afghanistan as a counterterrorism force to keep Al Qaeda and Islamic State loyalists in check — has been urged by the Pentagon and some American lawmakers.

In the Feb. 29 agreement with the United States that started the troop withdrawal, the Taliban agreed to publicly separate itself from Al Qaeda — which was under the Taliban government’s protection when it launched the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks — and to deny terrorist groups the use of Afghan territory as a haven. But the troop withdrawal has continued even though last month a Qaeda leader was killed in a Taliban-controlled district in the country’s east, and there has been no evidence of any decisive severing of ties between the groups.

Afghan officials and analysts say they hope Mr. Biden will proceed more cautiously, and not be as likely to leave Afghanistan at the mercy of the Taliban and meddling neighbor countries.

“A commitment to defeating Al Qaeda and the Islamic State is something that is part of Afghanistan’s formula for long-term stability and serves an important role here,” said Orzala Nemat, an independent researcher in Afghanistan. “A symbolic presence of international military forces balances this very weak position that Afghanistan is in the region, surrounded by nuclear powers.”

Mr. Biden “knows Afghanistan, he has been here a dozen times as a senator and he has interacted with many Afghan leaders,” said Mr. Asey, the former deputy defense minister.

Afghan officials were quick to note that Mr. Biden and President Ghani have long been friendly toward each other. But Mr. Asey said that Mr. Biden also had a history of tension with other important Afghan officials — notably with former President Hamid Karzai, whom he told that Pakistan was “50 times more important” to the United States than Afghanistan, and whom he lectured about corruption.

One way that Afghan officials hope Mr. Biden can make a difference is by simply taking their concerns seriously. Some Afghan officials said they felt bullied by Trump and American officials to accept terms with the Taliban they did not agree to, particularly on the mass release of Taliban prisoners.

Human rights activists said they were also concerned that the peace process included too few protections for women and ethnic and religious minorities. In that, they are hoping the American Vice President-elect, Kamala Harris, can be an important voice as well.

“We hope she will be a strong advocate for Afghan women within the Biden administration,” said Ms. Nehan, the former mining minister, of Ms. Harris. “We felt abandoned by the Trump administration.”

“Whatever achievement in regards to women’s rights we are talking about does not just belong to Afghan women, it’s a universal achievement that we all have our own part in and a responsibility in protecting them,” she added.

While there are currently around 4,500 U.S. troops still in Afghanistan, Taliban officials have implied that the February deal would collapse if the incoming Biden administration prolongs the presence of American forces in the country, including any counterterrorism forces.

But for now the Taliban leadership will watch and wait, as their fighters keep up their offensives.

The United States has responded by increasing airstrikes in defense of Afghan forces. While permitted under the February deal, anything drastically more under a new administration, such as attacking Taliban behind their front lines, could nullify the agreement.

October was the deadliest month in Afghanistan for civilians since September 2019, according to data compiled by The New York Times. At least 212 civilians were killed.

In a statement, the Taliban called the U.S. election and its outcome an “internal issue of the United States.”

“The Islamic Emirate would like to stress to the new American president-elect and future administration that implementation of the agreement is the most reasonable and effective tool for ending the conflict between both our countries,” the statement said.

But Qari Mohammad Farooq, a Taliban shadow district governor in Jowzjan Province, laid it out plainly.

“I heard that Joe Biden won, but none of them are good for us,” Mr. Farooq said. “For me it doesn’t matter who won, but it is important that they must leave.”





No.13 article:
Teens in Covid Isolation: ‘I Felt Like I Was Suffocating’

Remote learning, lockdowns and pandemic uncertainty have increased anxiety and depression among adolescents, and heightened concerns about their mental health.

Before the pandemic, Aya Raji’s days were jam-packed. She woke up at 6:30 a.m. and took the subway to school. At night, she practiced kick-flips with her skateboarding club and hosted “Twilight” movie nights for friends.

Once her school in Brooklyn turned to remote learning, starting last spring and continuing this fall, the days grew long and lonely. Nothing could distract her from the bleak news, as she stared at her laptop for hours during virtual class. She couldn’t sleep, up until 4 a.m., her mind racing with anxiety.

“I felt like I was trapped in my own little house and everyone was far away,” Aya, 14, said. “When you’re with friends, you’re completely distracted and you don’t think about the bad stuff going on. During the beginning of quarantine, I was so alone. All the sad things I used to brush off, I realized I couldn’t brush them off anymore.”

Students like Aya felt some relief earlier this fall, when their schools opened with a blend of remote and in-person learning, although the rigid rules and social distancing required during the pandemic still made it rough to connect. And now, with coronavirus caseloads at record levels across the country, many schools are returning to remote classes, at least temporarily through part of the winter.

The social isolation of the pandemic has taken a toll on the mental health of many Americans. But the impact has been especially severe on teenagers, who rely on their friends to navigate the maze and pressures of high school life.

Research shows that adolescents depend on their friendships to maintain a sense of self-worth and to manage anxiety and depression. A recent study of 3,300 high school students found that nearly one-third reported feeling unhappy or depressed in recent months. And while it might seem counterintuitive for a generation used to bonding with friends via texts, TikTok, Snapchat and Instagram, more than a quarter of those students said they did not feel connected to teachers, classmates or their school community.

“A lot of adults assume teens have it easy,” Aya said. “But it’s hitting us the hardest.”

Since the start of the pandemic, the National Alliance on Mental Illness has heard from many young adults experiencing anxiety and depression, which the organization attributes partly to social isolation. The group has cautioned parents and teachers to look for warning signs, including severe risk-taking behavior, significant weight loss, excessive use of drugs or alcohol and drastic changes in mood.

The proportion of children’s emergency room visits related to mental health has increased significantly during the pandemic, highlighting concerns about the psychological effects that lockdowns and social distancing have had on youth, according to a new analysis released on Thursday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Last week researchers at the University of Amsterdam and Emma Children’s Hospital released a study on the mental health of adolescents in the Netherlands, which found that young people reported a significant increase in severe anxiety and sleeping problems during the country’s lockdown period. Children were more likely to report mental health problems if they had a parent who lost work or personally knew someone infected with coronavirus.

Granted, for some students, the beginning of quarantine brought a measure of relief. They no longer had cliques to impress or bullies to ward off. But that “honeymoon phase” passed quickly, according to Dr. Cora Breuner, a pediatrician. As stressful as adolescent relationships can be, they are also essential for the formation of personal identity.

“Individuation and development of independence is thwarted or slowed way down when they’re sitting at home all day with parents in the next room,” said Dr. Breuner, a spokeswoman for the American Academy of Pediatrics.

An important part of teenage development is the realization that peers, not just parents, can be a source of emotional support. The twin crises of the pandemic and the economic downturn have imposed new personal hardships on students. Some are taking care of family members who have fallen sick with Covid-19; others have been thrust into dealing with their parents’ unemployment or financial strain. Being holed up at home makes it tough to lean on friends.

When school turned remote last spring, Catherine Khella, a health teacher in Brooklyn, asked her students to keep journals, which she read for signs of mental distress. Many were struggling but hesitant to reach out. One student wrote about feeling unmotivated to do schoolwork, getting frustrated with family members and experiencing emotions “like no other I have ever felt.” Another student, Adolfo Jeronimo, wrote about living in a home with 15 people and becoming nocturnal to find some peace and quiet.

“I’d sleep all day because my sister was up crying and there was barely any food,” said Adolfo, 15, a classmate of Aya’s whose father was hospitalized with Covid-19 and was unable to work for four months. “Usually my friends would’ve helped me, but I didn’t have them, so it was harder to deal with. I felt like I was suffocating.”

Adolfo’s school building closed for a few weeks recently because of reported cases of Covid.

The activities that young people previously relied on for stability and joy have been disrupted. Extracurricular clubs and birthday parties are mostly canceled. So are rites of passage like prom and homecoming. Students spend vast portions of their weeks staring at Zoom screens. Without school events and traditions to anticipate, many say they are struggling to get out of bed in the morning.

“Everything is stagnant now,” said Ayden Hufford, 15, a high school sophomore in Rye, a suburban area north of New York City, whose school now has blended in-person and remote learning. “There’s nothing to look forward to. On virtual days I sit on the computer for three hours, eat lunch, walk around a bit, sit for three hours, then end my day. It’s all just a cycle.”

Ayden identifies as an avid “theater kid,” and was looking forward to his school play and science Olympiad. With those out of the question now, he turned to a recent online meeting for student leadership council for inspiration. But that proved demoralizing because he had trouble staying engaged with the Zoom conversation.

“I laid down with my camera off and waited for it to be over,” he said. “It’s sad and somewhat lonely.” And he added that forming new connections with classmates is nearly impossible in a virtual setting: “Unless you try extremely hard, there’s no chance to make new friends this year.”

The isolation has been particularly challenging for young adults who struggle with chronic anxiety or depression, and who would typically rely on their social circles for comfort. Nicole DiMaio, who recently turned 19, developed techniques to manage her anxiety over the years. She talks to friends, hugs her mom, exercises and reads books — so many that her family calls her Princess Belle, like the “Beauty and the Beast” protagonist. But nothing seemed to work during the early months of the pandemic.

Nicole’s mother fell sick with Covid in late March after caring for a patient with coronavirus at Coney Island Hospital, where she works as a nurse. Nicole became her mother’s caretaker, and her family’s. She woke up daily at 5 a.m. to clean the house, watch over her younger sister and cook protein-rich foods, which she deposited outside her mother’s bedroom door, while squeezing in schoolwork. Her mother did not want to be ventilated if her lungs failed, so each time she went to the emergency room seeking treatment, Nicole feared she might never come back.

Normally, Nicole would turn to her friends. But she couldn’t see them in person, so instead she had to vent to them on Instagram and Snapchat. “Being 18 and taking it all in is a lot,” she said.

“My chest would get really heavy and everything inside my body would be jumping,” she said. “The tears would start coming. I would hyperventilate and pace the house until my sister brought me back to reality and said, ‘Hey you’re here, relax.’ She’s stronger than I am.”

Researchers have begun investigating how today’s high school students will bear the long-term consequences of the pandemic, in terms of their education and economic futures. Some psychologists speculate that socially, too, this young adult cohort could be stunted by the amount of time they have been forced to spend alone. Children typically learn the basics of making friends at a young age, but high school is a crucial period for developing nuanced communication skills.

“Learning how to navigate the inner webs of relationships happens in high school,” said Dr. Jessi Gold, a psychiatrist at Washington University in St. Louis. “When you retreat behind a computer, you lose some of those social skills.”

High school counselors and teenagers are exploring a few creative coping strategies. Nandini Ahuja, a social worker at Leadership and Public Service High School in New York, asked her students to write letters to someone or something they are grieving, whether a family member or a concept like senior prom. Ayden said his mental health improved when he got a pet hamster, which he named Astrid.

Teenagers said the opportunity to confide in their teachers and school counselors has been essential, particularly because their parents might be more likely to dismiss mental health symptoms as standard adolescent mood swings. Dr. Gabrielle Shapiro, chair of the American Psychiatric Association’s Council on Children, Adolescents and Their Families, recommended that schools put in place lessons to teach students how to share their emotions.

And whenever possible, teenagers need to see their friends. “Kids need time to be kids again without thinking about all the worries going on in the world,” said Jennifer Rothman, senior manager of youth and young adult initiatives at the National Alliance on Mental Illness.

As the months wear on, Aya is rebuilding healthy habits — spending time with friends outside, getting to sleep at a reasonable hour so she can feel energized for school. She has started meditating and listening to indie rock songs to calm her nerves. But she still wrestles with the amount of time she spends alone in her thoughts.

“Being in another person’s presence makes you feel OK,” she said. “When I can’t see my friends, I feel like the world is caving in.”

Experts offered several resources for teenagers seeking assistance for mental health issues, including the resource center of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Crisis Text Line or the National Alliance on Mental Illness.





No.14 article:
A Police Swarm. Frantic Calls. Then 3,000 People Locked Inside.

On July 4, Australia’s second-largest city went into lockdown. But residents of nine public housing towers were singled out for even stricter treatment, leading many to suspect discrimination.

MELBOURNE, Australia — In the late afternoon of July 4, dozens of police vehicles pulled up at a public housing tower in Melbourne, Australia’s second-largest city. It was, witnesses said, like a scene from an action movie — but instead of responding to a terrorist threat, the officers were responding to a coronavirus spike.

Minutes earlier, Daniel Andrews, the premier of the state of Victoria, had announced expanded stay-at-home orders that would begin just before midnight. For one group, though, the lockdown would be immediate, and far more restrictive. Hence the sudden police presence at the north Melbourne tower and eight others, housing 3,000 people in all.

While most Melbourne residents could leave their homes briefly to exercise and shop for necessities, the residents of the towers were effectively placed, without warning, under house arrest for up to 14 days. The authorities said the towers had “explosive potential” because of their population density, but the concentration of infections was not out of line with rates in other areas of the city, and private residential towers were not treated with similar alarm.

To the public housing residents, many of them immigrants, it felt like discrimination. Complaints flooded the ombudsman in Victoria, who is conducting an investigation.

Melbourne’s broader lockdown — one of the longest and strictest in the world — finally ended on Oct. 28 after 111 days. But while the rest of the city celebrates its freedom and what many see as a triumph over the virus, the residents of the towers are still contending with feelings of trauma, anger and confusion.

Here are some of their stories.

Ebyon Hassan, 32, was still foggy from a nap when she peered out the window after receiving a frantic phone call from her sister.

“It was like a nightmare,” Ms. Hassan, who is originally from Somalia, said in an interview outside her building in early October. “There were so many cop cars; they had taken over the car parks. There were so many lights. And you think, ‘What have I done?’”

Ms. Hassan’s father was out for his afternoon walk. He was healthy at the time, though prone to pneumonia. “So we had been very vigilant,” she said.

Still, by July 7, three days after the lockdown began, he had tested positive. “No one came to check on him until the 16th,” Ms. Hassan said. He was given the option of leaving their apartment and being isolated elsewhere. But he kept thinking about his best friend, who had never returned after contracting the virus and being removed from his home.

“My father was a very spiritual man, and so afraid of dying alone,” Ms. Hassan said. “He refused to go.”

On July 23, a few days after the building’s strict 14-day lockdown lifted, Mr. Hassan finally agreed to go to the hospital. He died a week later. He was 62.

Ms. Hassan is devastated by the loss of her father, but she is also reeling from a sense of betrayal at the way she and her community were treated. (Government officials declined requests for interviews.)

“It looked like cages, like a prison,” she said. “We thought we were in a free country. Covid taught us that we aren’t free.”

Almost immediately after the police arrived, Hiba Shanino, a 21-year-old legal practice student whose parents are from Eritrea, began to hear from people inside her building who were panicking.

Some had run out of medication. Others had no food, or were receiving items that were not halal, or in some cases expired. The state health and human services department was not providing information or help.

Mohammed Yousef, the father of a toddler and an 8-month-old, said the surprise of the lockdown didn’t allow for parents to prepare.

“We didn’t have time to get the supplies we needed, like diapers or formula,” he said. “It was a shock. There were 500 police surrounding us, like we were criminals.”

Unable to use communal laundry facilities, families were given bags to leave dirty clothes outside their doors to be washed. Ms. Hassan, the woman whose father later died, said her family never got their laundry back.

“What we had, those clothes, those are the clothes we had,” she said. “We can’t go shopping for more. We weren’t allowed to receive packages. What could we do?”

Ms. Shanino, who was not at home when the lockdown began, decided not to return. She turned to others in the community who were looking to fill the gaps, and a local mosque soon began organizing deliveries of food and other necessities to the towers.

She said that no one she knew argued that there should not have been a lockdown of some sort. “But it’s how it was done,” she added. “The people who were making the decisions had never been to this place before. Why did they treat us that way? Why was it so disorganized? Why were we given no notice when the rest of the city was treated fairly, with respect?”

“They think we’re incapable,” she said, “but really it was the community itself that rallied and made sure people were looked after. We did it ourselves.”

Barry Berih, 26, who was born in Australia to Eritrean immigrant parents, said his mother was at work when the lockdown began.

“At about 7 p.m., she called me and said, ‘I can’t get back into the house. The police won’t let me in.’” Her driver’s license still had a previous address on it, and she was denied access.

“She couldn’t get her work clothes or anything. I wasn’t allowed to bring them down to her,” said Mr. Berih, who works as a youth counselor. She was not allowed back in the building for two weeks.

Another resident, Noah Abdullahi, 18, said that his two brothers, both university students, also were not home at the time of the lockdown, and that the police wouldn’t let them back in.

“They both spent two weeks sleeping on the couch at my auntie’s house,” he said. Neither was able to study because their aunt did not have a computer.

Early in the lockdown, Mr. Berih’s brother tested positive for the virus. “For my mum, she was very worried,” he said, “not being able to be there for us.” Everything that people in the building knew about the prevalence of the virus came via word of mouth.

“Some people got sick and died,” Mr. Berih said. “Some of their loved ones weren’t allowed out to their funerals.”

Mr. Berih eventually contracted the virus as well, but neither he nor his brother became seriously ill. The greater toll was on his mental health.

“As migrants, many people who live here come from war-torn countries,” he said. “They felt that Australia was a safe space for them. Many of them have been here for 30 years. They’ve raised their kids here. I was born here. And now that this is over, it isn’t the only challenge. It’s how do we resolve this, after the fact?”





No.15 article:
How Biden Could Steer a Divided Government

A pathway to a successful presidency.

It’s easy to imagine ways Joe Biden’s presidency might open very badly. Covid-19 may still be spiking. The economy could slip back into recession. Mitch McConnell might still control the Senate, blocking every major Biden proposal. Donald Trump will be unleashed as National Narrator blasting everything that happens.

Things don’t get much better in the unlikely event Democrats capture both of Georgia’s Senate seats to achieve a 50-50 tie, broken by the Democratic vice president. Republicans, freed from all responsibility, will go into full opposition mode and nothing will pass when 60 votes are needed to overcome a filibuster. Democrats will try to govern with a razor-thin majority controlled by several relatively conservative Democrats. So Democrats will have ownership of the government without the means to deliver.

How can Biden and team deal with this challenging circumstance?

One way was proposed by Senator Elizabeth Warren in a Washington Post op-ed this week: Use executive orders. She suggested some obvious moves Biden absolutely should make on Day 1 — like re-entering the Paris climate accord — but also suggested some big and expensive unilateral policy changes: raising the minimum wage for federal contractors to $15, canceling billions of dollars in student debt.

With all due respect to Warren, opening the Biden era by stiff-arming Congress and ordering all sorts of big policy changes by presidential diktat could knock the legs out from the Biden presidency.

In the first place, Biden will have to get a Covid-19 relief package through Congress, which if done right doesn’t have to be an ideological showdown. Signaling that you’re going to insult the Constitution and govern by executive order doesn’t seem like an ideal way to win congressional support. Second, uniting the country and restoring its soul were at the core of the Biden campaign. His basic diagnosis is that partisan enmity has created a fundamental breakdown in our political culture. He has to at least try to fix that.

A better approach starts with the understanding that Biden’s policies remain popular. Democrats underperformed in congressional races because voters hate political correctness, “defund the police” and “socialism.”

A better approach would, next, be about finding policy measures that can win 60 Senate votes. This is actually not that hard. I spoke to Senator Mitt Romney this week and he ticked off a series of areas where he was optimistic the parties could work together: fix prescription drug pricing and end surprise billing; an immigration measure that helps the Dreamers and includes E-Verify; an expanded child tax credit; green energy measures.

Isabel Sawhill, the long-term Democratic adviser now at the Brookings Institution, reeled off a few more: expanding national service, student debt forgiveness, a middle-class tax cut.

Oren Cass of American Compass, which is Republican-leaning, pointed out that there were a lot of newly emerging issues that the two parties haven’t yet had time to get polarized about. Common action could be envisioned there: an infrastructure bank, reshoring American supply chains so we’re not so dependent on China, expanding non-college career pathways, industrial policy to benefit the Midwestern manufacturing base.

Finding areas of agreement is easy. Getting them to the Senate floor for a vote under Leader McConnell would be harder. His priority has always been winning G.O.P. majorities, not necessarily governing. But a number of steps could be taken. First, Biden could try to persuade McConnell it’s in his interest to allow votes, at least in the first year. Republicans will be defending open Senate seats in places like Pennsylvania and North Carolina in 2022. It wouldn’t look great if they achieved absolutely nothing.

Second, deal-making and moderate senators could form bipartisan gangs around specific issues and try to force McConnell’s hand. Re-elected senators like Susan Collins have potentially immense power in a closely divided body.

Many senators of both parties are already frustrated by how many possibly successful bills simply get bottled up and never reach a vote. “I don’t know what the calculation is that goes on in the mind of the leaders about what to take to the floor, but we don’t vote on a lot of legislation,” Romney told me.

At this point the threat of executive orders comes in handy. If the White House makes a good-faith effort to work in a bipartisan way, if senators come together to craft legislation, and still nothing passes, then Biden will have more justification for doing what Warren suggests.

“If the Senate refuses to tackle the major issues, then the president will and he’ll just issue executive orders,” Romney said. “Just saying ‘no’ doesn’t enhance our power. It’s a way to cede power.”

Given the likely division of power, Biden is not going to lead an F.D.R.-style New Deal administration. But there is a path for him to pass a series of important pieces of legislation that would help millions of Americans. More than that, he has a chance to take a dysfunctional system of government and turn it into a humane and functioning one. That in itself would be a miracle.





No.16 article:
Video of Corpse in Hospital Bathroom Alarms Italy as Covid Spreads

The video of a man who died in the bathroom of the emergency room from what may have been Covid has sparked outrage.

A video showing a man lying dead on the floor of a bathroom inside a packed Naples emergency room sparked outrage as it spread across Italy on Thursday, prompting government officials to call for “immediate intervention” as the coronavirus pandemic ripples across the country’s vulnerable south.

“This one is dead,” the person filming the video is heard saying as the camera points at a man lying underneath a sink in the bathroom at Cardarelli Hospital in Naples. Another patient is seen prostrate on a bed surrounded by uneaten food. “This one we don’t know whether he is alive or dead,” the person filming says.

In a statement on Wednesday, when the video was made public, the hospital said a patient with a “suspected Covid-19 infection” was found dead in the restroom of the emergency room. The cause of death was still under investigation, the statement said.

Raffaele Nespoli, a hospital spokesman, confirmed  that the video was filmed inside the hospital’s emergency room.

The video resonated across Italy, where the searing images from the country’s overwhelmed northern hospitals during the first wave of the epidemic are still strong in people’s memories.

But this time the images came from Italy’s poorer and less equipped south — which has fewer hospital beds and intensive care units, experts say — casting a harsh light on that part of the country.

On Thursday the foreign minister, Luigi Di Maio, said in a Facebook video that the army should go help the doctors and nurses in the southern Campania region, which includes Naples.

“It’s a difficult moment for all the Italian regions,” said Mr. Di Maio, who is from Campania. “But there is an emergency in the emergency, which are the images coming from the Campania hospitals.”

Protecting the south was a major driver for Italy’s national lockdown in March.

“In the first phase the south was preserved,” said Giovanni Rezza, the director of the prevention department at the Health Ministry, in a phone interview, adding that a “wider and more generalized spread” today, including the south, was worrying him.

“Some areas in the south have a less developed health care system as compared to that of areas hit in the first phase,” he said, referring to the north. “Since even those areas didn’t hold out, the situation could be even more dangerous in the south.”

Italy on Wednesday passed a grim milestone of one million total coronavirus cases since the start of the pandemic. More than half of those people are still currently positive, according to government statistics, and many of them live in Italy’s south.

Although the number of cases in the south is still lower than in the hardest-hit areas in the north, the declining health situation in many southern areas is a significant factor pushing some experts to call for a nationwide lockdown.

“We need a national lockdown,” said Massimo Andreoni, a virologist and the scientific director of SIMIT, the Italian society of infectious and tropical diseases. “If we wait for Naples to have Milan’s numbers we’ll make a massacre.”

Last week the government locked down the southern region of Calabria, where the coronavirus is putting enormous stress on a health care system weakened by years of bad management, and political and criminal exploitation.

Also last week, Calabria’s regional health commissioner resigned after an embarrassing interview aired on Italian television. In the video, the official, Saverio Cotticelli, said it was not his responsibility to draft a regional coronavirus plan. To demonstrate as much, he retrieved an official document that he read out loud, and he discovered in real time that, in fact, the responsibility for the plan belonged to him.

Then, asked about the number of intensive care beds available in the region, he deferred for specifics to a man who identified himself as a “doorman.”

Meanwhile, the new health commissioner, Giuseppe Zuccatelli, once said that the only way to pass the virus is to amorously kiss for 15 minutes. “Otherwise you don’t catch the virus.”

After the statement was harshly criticized, Italy’s health minister explained that the “inappropriate” video was filmed in the first phase of the pandemic and that Mr. Zuccatelli had already apologized.

Naples has been particularly hard hit by the pandemic’s second wave and the mayor has repeatedly asked citizens to respect social distancing rules, saying the city’s hospitals are “collapsing.”

Rosario La Monica, 30, who is from a town near Naples, wrote on Facebook on Thursday that he had posted the video of the man in the hospital bathroom.

“I splashed some water in his face and then I asked for help but no one paid any attention to me,” he told Ansa news agency about the man in the video. “They arrived half an hour later and he was already dead.”

In the hospital statement on Thursday, officials said that the footage’s publication was “despicable,” adding the filmmaker was exploiting the situation to generate panic. In a separate statement on Wednesday, Fiorella Paladino, the primary doctor at the Cardarelli emergency room, denied Mr. La Monica’s accusations.

Mr. Di Maio, the foreign minister, said the images spoke for themselves.

“The images of the patient found dead in the bathroom of the Cardarelli are shocking,” he wrote on Facebook, adding that the video was the latest, and worst, example of Covid-related debacles that he has seen in the southern region of Campania.

He wrote that he had received reports of doctors treating people in cars in parking lots, of patients dying in ambulances because no hospital would take them, of the sick left at home despite calls for help.

“Now we need to act immediately, especially in the south which risks implosion,” he said.





No.17 article:
Nobel Peace Prize: A Growing List of Questionable Choices

From Aung San Suu Kyi to Abiy Ahmed, the Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded at least six times in the past three decades to recipients whose recognition is being second-guessed.

One ordered his country’s armed forces to crush a defiant region’s resistance. Another ignored genocidal killings of a minority. Some had pushed for peaceful outcomes, but the achievements exalted at the time proved flawed or ineffective in hindsight.

All were winners of the Nobel Peace Prize.

At least six times in recent decades, the Norwegian committee that awards the annual prize has picked recipients whose actions and behavior — either before or after the honor was given — have been viewed as unworthy or in some cases even absurd.

The moves this month by Abiy Ahmed, the prime minister of Ethiopia, to violently suppress the Tigray region and risk plunging Africa’s second most-populous country into a disastrous civil war have reinforced doubts about the Nobel committee’s thinking and secretive deliberations.

“The committee can always play it safe with candidates who are completely uncontroversial, for past achievements,” said Henrik Urdal, director and research professor at the Peace Research Institute Oslo, which analyzes the Nobel Peace Prize selections.

But especially in recent years, Mr. Urdal said, the committee had “tried to give awards for processes, for trying to encourage the awardees to live up to the prize, and that’s an extremely risky business.”

Here are examples of some questionable choices, in reverse chronological order:

The committee chose Mr. Abiy for work he did in the first few months after taking office in 2018 — introducing democratic changes after an era of repression, releasing political prisoners, loosening restraints on the media and, in particular, resolving the protracted border conflict with neighboring Eritrea.

But in early November Mr. Abiy ordered military operations and airstrikes in Tigray, a region whose leaders had defied him by proceeding with an election that had been called off because of the pandemic. As fighting escalates, and refugees stream into neighboring Sudan, Mr. Abiy’s government has declared a state of emergency and cut off communications to the region.

Mr. Santos, president of Colombia at the time, was honored “for his resolute efforts to bring the country’s more than 50-year-long civil war to an end” by having attempted to make peace with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, a leftist guerrilla group.

The award was announced just days after Colombians had narrowly rejected the peace agreement in a referendum, a deep embarrassment to Mr. Santos. While a peace deal was eventually pushed through the country’s legislature, recent developments in the country suggest it is once again descending into conflict.

Barely into his first term as president, Mr. Obama won “for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples.” But many critics, some supporters and even Mr. Obama himself questioned the choice, given that he had yet to achieve any significant result for the cause of world peace. “For what?” he recalled having asked in his autobiography upon learning that he had been picked.

Some commentators said the Nobel committee had made an “aspirational choice,” seeing potential in Mr. Obama’s hopes for a more tranquil world, punctuated by his desire to end the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. But Mr. Obama authorized a surge of American troops into Afghanistan and presided over a vast expansion in the drone strike program. It would also be a few more years before most U.S. forces in Iraq would leave.

Mr. Kim, who went from dissident, exile and death-row prisoner during South Korea’s authoritarian era to become president, was awarded the prize for work to promote “democracy and human rights in South Korea and in East Asia in general, and for peace and reconciliation with North Korea in particular.” He went on a groundbreaking trip to North Korea, where he met with his counterpart, Kim Jong-il, advancing a thaw in relations and backing the goal of eventual reunification.

But the two countries have remained in a technical state of war, and under Kim Jong-il’s son and successor, Kim Jong-un, North Korea has developed an arsenal of nuclear weapons and missiles. In some ways, the prospect of peace between the two Koreas seems even more remote, despite meetings in the past few years between Kim Jong-un and his South Korean counterpart Moon Jae-in, and with President Trump.

The chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization and two statesmen of Israel were jointly recognized for “their efforts to create peace in the Middle East,” through the signing of the so-called Oslo Accords aimed at reconciliation between Palestinians and Israelis.

Mr. Rabin, then prime minister, was assassinated in 1995 by an Israeli fanatic who opposed a peace agreement. And efforts since then to resolve the conflict have repeatedly faltered, punctuated by bouts of violence and bitter recriminations. Doubts about a proposed two-state solution have only intensified in recent years, amid threats by Israel to annex territory in the occupied West Bank.

Aung San Suu Kyi, a founder of Myanmar’s National League for Democracy, was a hero of the world’s human rights advocates during the years of brutal suppression by a military junta, which kept her under house arrest. The Nobel committee cited “her nonviolent struggle for democracy and human rights” in awarding the prize. Myanmar’s generals would not release her until 2010, and she has since become the top civilian leader in the country.

Since rising to power, however, Aung San Suu Kyi has undergone what many rights advocates describe as a complete makeover, rejecting evidence that Myanmar has systematically and brutally persecuted the country’s Rohingya Muslim minority. Defending Myanmar at the International Court of Justice last year against accusations of genocide, she argued that there had been no orchestrated campaign.

Some scholars of Nobel history said that even with flawed choices, the peace prize retains an inherent value.

“I would say that the Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to individuals and organizations that did not always live up to its ideals,” said Richard B. Gunderman, a professor at Indiana University who has written about it, “but the prize itself still highlights peace as an overarching aspiration in international relations.”





No.18 article:
Can Trump still win? No. He’s already lost.

Five days after television networks and other major news organizations called the presidential election for Joseph R. Biden Jr., President Trump continues to maintain that he “will win.”

That is false.

Mr. Biden’s winning margins in the key battleground states he has captured — 20,000 votes in Wisconsin, 54,000 votes in Pennsylvania and 148,000 votes in Michigan — are well above the thresholds of votes that have been changed in previous recounts.

Even in Georgia, where officials are preparing for a hand recount of the ballots, Mr. Biden leads by 14,000 votes, a margin that is unlikely to be reversed.

(Mr. Biden also leads by 11,000 votes in Arizona, but elections officials there are still counting absentee votes that arrived by mail.)

The New York Times and other news media outlets have not anointed Mr. Biden the winner of the presidential election, but have just done the math: The former vice president has won enough states by enough votes that Mr. Trump cannot overcome those deficits through legal challenges or recounts.

“He has no chance of overturning the result — it’s just impossible,” said Gerry McDonough, a Democratic elections lawyer who worked for Vice President Al Gore’s legal team on the 2000 Florida recount. “I’m a recount lawyer here in Massachusetts and I get requests from people all the time and they say, ‘I’m just 50 votes behind and we’re sure there were these bad actors.’ I won’t take a case like that.”

That 2000 Florida recount came after George W. Bush held an unofficial lead of just 1,784 votes over Mr. Gore the morning after Election Day; his final winning margin in the state was 537 votes.

The largest margin to be overturned in a recent recount came in Minnesota’s 2008 Senate contest, when a 215-vote margin for Senator Norm Coleman, the incumbent Republican, was reversed, becoming a 312-vote advantage for Al Franken, the Democratic candidate, after a court ruled that hundreds of absentee ballots were wrongly rejected.

In the days since the election, Mr. Trump and his top aides and some supporters have claimed that the vote in key states was marked by rampant fraud, but they have yet to document any evidence of widespread voting malfeasance. Elections officials in all 50 states told The New York Times this week that they were unaware of any fraud or other election improprieties in their states.

Each day that passes without Mr. Trump providing a court evidence of voting fraud makes his legal odds longer, Democratic and Republican lawyers said.

“The path for him winning is being able to back up his rhetoric and find sufficient fraud and irregularities in enough individual states to overturn their results,” said Ben Ginsberg, a Republican lawyer who worked for Mr. Bush in the 2000 election, and who retired this year and turned against Mr. Trump. “So far, they’ve utterly failed to do that and, based on their court filings, are not anywhere close.”

With no chance to change the popular vote outcome in battleground states, lawyers said Mr. Trump’s legal strategy, such as there is one, appeared to be an attempt to delay state elections officials’ certification of Mr. Biden as the winner, which could throw the question of appointing members of the Electoral College to Republican-controlled state legislatures.

Even this theory relies on a series of one-in-a-hundred legal bank shots all being successful in multiple states simultaneously — which would certainly result in broad public outrage over reversing the results of a decided election.

“Those are the kind of things you wake up thinking about in the middle of the night. It would really blow the roof off if they tried to steal an election in that fashion,” Mr. McDonough said. “If people were to so blatantly disregard the fundamentals of democracy, God knows what would happen, how people would react to it.”

Most states are set to certify their election results and declare winners by the end of November — a process that may lead to more official recounts this month but also formal conclusions about the results.

“At some point it becomes obvious even to the most ardent supporters of the president that there’s no pathway,” said Lanhee Chen, who was the policy director for Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign.





No.19 article:
‘Are We Getting Invaded?’ U.S. Boats Faced Russian Aggression Near Alaska

Russia has escalated its provocative encounters in the North Pacific this year, harassing boats in U.S. fishing waters and sending bombers toward Alaska’s shores.

ANCHORAGE — The crew of the Bristol Leader was laying out its long cod-catching line well within U.S. fishing territory in the Bering Sea when a voice crackled over the VHF radio and began issuing commands: The ship was in danger, it said, and needed to move.

The warnings, coming in a mixture of Russian and accented English from a plane buzzing overhead, grew more specific and more urgent. There was a submarine nearby, the voice said. Missiles were being fired. Leave the area.

Other U.S. fishing vessels that were scattered over 100 miles of open sea were getting similar messages. Capt. Steve Elliott stood dumbfounded on the trawler Vesteraalen as three Russian warships came barreling through, barking orders of their own. On the ship Blue North, commands from a Russian plane led Capt. David Anderson to contact the U.S. Coast Guard, wondering how to protect his crew of 27.

“It was frightening, to say the least,” Captain Anderson said. “The Coast Guard’s response was: Just do what they say.”

The Russian military operations in August inside the U.S. economic zone off the coast of Alaska were the latest in a series of escalated encounters across the North Pacific and the Arctic, where the retreat of polar ice continues to draw new commercial and military traffic. This year, the Russian military has driven a new nuclear-powered icebreaker straight to the North Pole, dropped paratroopers into a high-Arctic archipelago to perform a mock battle and repeatedly flown bombers to the edge of U.S. airspace.

As seas warmed by climate change open new opportunities for oil exploration and trade routes, the U.S. Coast Guard now finds itself monitoring a range of new activity: cruise ships promising a voyage through waters few have ever seen, research vessels trying to understand the changing landscape, tankers carrying new gas riches, and shipping vessels testing new passageways that sailors of centuries past could only dream of.

Russia’s operations in the Arctic have meant a growing military presence at America’s northern door. Rear Adm. Matthew T. Bell Jr., the commander of the Coast Guard district that oversees Alaska, said it was not a surprise to see Russian forces operating in the Bering Sea over the summer, but “the surprise was how aggressive they got on our side of the maritime boundary line.”

In the air, U.S. jets in Alaska typically scramble to intercept about a half-dozen approaching Russian aircraft a year, outliers on the long-range nuclear bomber patrols that Russia resumed in 2007. But this year that number has risen to 14 — on pace to set a record since the Cold War era. In the most recent case, last month, the United States responded to the approach of two Russian bombers and two Russian fighters that came within 30 nautical miles of Alaskan shores.

Russians have refurbished and restored dozens of military posts in the Arctic region, including on Wrangel Island, some 300 miles from the coast of Alaska, and have laid plans for controlling emerging navigation routes that would bring traffic through the Bering Strait between Alaska and Russia.

This summer, Russia’s military operated in the Bering Sea, home to America’s largest fishery, where boats haul up pots crawling with red king crab, and trawlers dump nets filled with 200 tons of pollock onto their decks. The area is the U.S. pathway to the Arctic waters where extraction companies have worked for years to capture the billions of dollars of oil and gas resources trapped under the sea floor.

U.S. territorial waters extend 12 nautical miles from the nation’s shores, but commercial vessels operate even farther within the U.S. exclusive economic zone, a territory stretching some 200 miles offshore in which the country can harvest fish or natural resources without foreign competition but cannot prohibit the passage of international vessels.

Russian military leaders have touted the exercises in the Bering Sea as unlike any they had done before in the region. They said the goal of the effort was to prepare forces to secure economic development in the Arctic region, and U.S. officials have acknowledged that the Russians have a right to transit the waters.

Disputes over activities in exclusive economic zones around the world are not unusual, especially in the lucrative Arctic region, where several nations have contested the extent of their rights to dominate maritime economic activities.

Before a 1990 boundary agreement, the issue was especially contentious in the Bering Sea, which narrows to just 55 miles between the coasts of Alaska and Russia in the Bering Strait.

The August exercises occurred well south of the narrow strait, in an area where the sea is hundreds of miles wide.

Tim Thomas, a U.S. captain on the fishing vessel Northern Jaeger, encountered the Russian activities on Aug. 26 when his ship was operating more than 20 nautical miles inside the U.S. economic zone. After a Russian plane directed Captain Thomas to take his boat out of the area, he said, he responded that he was within the U.S. zone, not on the Russian side, and that the Russians could not order them to leave.

At that point, he said, a Russian military ship joined in and issued similar orders.

“At this point, I’m going, ‘What’s going on here? Are we getting invaded?’” Captain Thomas said in an interview.

Captain Thomas said he contacted the Coast Guard, but the officers there, he said, seemed to be unaware of the Russian operations. They told him he was responsible for the safety of his crew. But he was reluctant to leave: They were finding some of the best fishing of the season, and the Russians had ordered him not to return to those productive grounds for nine days.

The Russians, who were running a military exercise known as Ocean Shield that involved some 50 warships and 40 aircraft operating throughout the Bering Sea, were adamant, and their warnings grew more intense. U.S. officials have since said that a Russian submarine launched a cruise missile from the Bering Sea that day.

As he considered the safety of the 130 people on his boat, Captain Thomas ultimately decided to leave. He estimates the forced departure cost his company more than $1 million in revenue.

Senator Dan Sullivan of Alaska, a Republican, who has pressed for years for a stronger U.S. presence in the Arctic and has warned about increasing Russian activity there, said the fishing boats should not have been forced to leave U.S. fishing territory. He said he was surprised by the scale of Russia’s recent aggressive actions in the Bering Sea, noting that during the same exercise in August, fighter planes from the North American Aerospace Defense Command, or NORAD, scrambled to respond to three groups of Russian aircraft that approached Alaska.

“I think they were testing us — flexing their military muscle,” the senator said.

Coast Guard officials said Russia had notified the U.S. government that part of its exercise would include a portion of the fishing zone. But federal officials did not alert commercial fishing operators to the planned exercise.

Coast Guard officials said they have been working to make sure future notifications reached the right people. They have also said that U.S. fishing vessels were not required to follow any orders from a foreign entity to depart American fishing grounds. But in a memo last month to those involved in the North Pacific fishing industry that outlined what had transpired in the Bering Sea, the Coast Guard also cautioned that “safety of life at sea should always be paramount in managing the safe navigation of any vessel on the high seas, and is the responsibility of the mariner with firsthand situational awareness.”

As Russia has ramped up its presence in the region, U.S. officials have accelerated their own efforts. The Coast Guard has long complained that its lone pair of aging icebreakers are struggling to stay in service but may now have the opportunity to build six new ones. (Russia has dozens.) The United States is also discussing a northern deepwater port, perhaps around Nome. Currently, the nearest strategic port is 1,300 nautical miles away in Anchorage.

Alaska already draws a relatively large portion of U.S. military spending, with bases serving the Air Force and the Army in or around both Anchorage and Fairbanks. 

Jets in Alaska scrambled repeatedly this year to intercept Russian aircraft moving toward U.S. airspace. But jets taking off from inland bases can take more than 90 minutes to reach the coast of Alaska, said Maj. Gen. Scott Clancy, a Canadian officer who is the director of operations at NORAD.

General Clancy said the encounters were professional. In the encounter last month, the four Russian aircraft loitered in the area for about 90 minutes and never crossed into U.S. airspace. But General Clancy said it was clear the Russians were both testing the capabilities of NORAD and demonstrating their own, increasing the frequency and also the complexity of their approaches.

“This adversary — this competitor, Russia — has advanced on all fronts,” he said. “We find ourselves in another era of great-power competition. Russia obviously wants to be a competitor in that.”

Lt. Gen. David Krumm, commander of the multi-force Alaskan Command and also the 11th Air Force, said that while the Arctic used to provide a natural buffer between the nations of the Far North, the new possibility of ice-free passage has changed that.

“We’re at a pivotal point in the timeline of the Arctic,” he said at a recent convention of the Alaska Federation of Natives, many of whose members reside in remote villages scattered throughout the northern region.

General Krumm said the United States would need to invest in operations, equipment and training to prepare for the changing environment. Alaska, he said, has historically been viewed as a base from which to project American power elsewhere in the world, but the mission is changing.

“What we have to do now is be prepared to fight here and defend here,” he said.





No.20 article:
Tiger Woods Starts Strong at the Masters as Paul Casey Leads an Incomplete Round

Casey shot seven under par on Thursday, and Woods was four under, after rain delayed the start of tournament and left many golfers with unfinished rounds.

AUGUSTA, Ga. — At ease as he played his 87th round at the Masters, Tiger Woods stalked the Augusta National Golf Club on Thursday with the aplomb of someone sauntering through his living room in search of his favorite recliner, foot stool and coaster, for the cool drink in his hand. Shot by shot, the path was so familiar he could have negotiated it in the dark.

Because Woods has won the tournament five times and has been a Masters fixture for the past 25 years, it is possible he has played the golf course in those conditions. And probably still broken par.

Woods, the reigning champion, was not the leader after Thursday’s first-round play, which was delayed by a nearly three-hour thunderstorm that left dozens of golfers unable to finish their sessions. With a four-under-par 68, Woods was tied for fourth and quietly three strokes behind the leader, Paul Casey.

But Woods’s commanding round was the loudest statement of the day. It has been an up-and-down year for Woods, but on this day he was composed and virtually never out of position on the devilish Augusta National layout. It almost seemed that he was on cruise control, as if he could coast to a 68.

“I did everything well today,” Woods, who is not prone to self-congratulation, said after his round.

Every other seasoned contender in the field knows the Masters history when Woods has a good opening round. It is not true that he has won every time he has shot 70 or better in the first round. It has, however, happened four times. He has seriously contended on the three other occasions when he has been two strokes or more under par after the first day, finishing fourth twice and sixth once.

When Woods was asked if he was surprised at how well he had played given his uneven performances during the bulk of this season, he shrugged.

“Understanding how to play this golf course is just a big part of playing well here,” he said. “It’s so familiar.”

He knows the territory; he could find the television remote in the dark of his living room, too.

Woods’s steady play was a stark contrast to most everything else happening during the first Masters round ever contested in November. Nothing else seemed usual, with the typically treacherous greens wet and slow, the spring floral colors missing and the galleries absent because of the coronavirus pandemic.

“There were a lot of differences today,” Woods said. “There was a drone flying over the green. You don’t hear drones here. There were no patrons, no roars. A lot of firsts today. That’s kind of the way this entire year has been.”

Many players had the same sense of being in recognizable, yet altered, place. Xander Schauffele shot a brilliant 67 to finish the day in a tie for second with Webb Simpson, but he seemed unsure about what to make of his round.

“A lot of it felt wrong, in all honesty,” Schauffele said. “The greens are really soft, so there isn’t a whole lot to be scared of. It was really strange. You would play less break on putts and hit it harder, which is something you never do here.”

Casey, who has had five top-10 finishes in 13 previous Masters appearances, made an eagle on the second hole with an approach shot that he expected to end up over the green.

“I hit a 6-iron to a left-hand pin on No. 2, and you can’t hit that shot in April,” Casey said. “Today, it just pitched and stopped instantly. In April, it would have one-hopped over into the patrons. I probably make five, not three.”

But when it comes to entertaining, unforeseen moments in this first round of the Masters, it would hard to beat the sight of seven golfers, caddies and officials chest high in the azaleas in search of Bryson DeChambeau’s wayward ball.

After starting his round on the 10th hole, DeChambeau knocked his tee shot on No. 13 into the trees and tried for a delicate recovery. Instead, he badly hooked his ball and it ended up buried in the bushes behind the green. Then, in case he did not find that ball, DeChambeau hit a provisional shot that landed in Rae’s Creek, short of the green.

“I was really worried about finding that ball,” said DeChambeau, who entered the round as the tournament favorite. “I would have made a bad number if I didn’t find it.”

After finding the ball, he declared it unplayable and had to drop on a steep slope. He then flubbed a dicey chip and ended up making double-bogey. DeChambeau did mount an impressive rally to finish his round at two under par and stay in the title chase. But his booming drives, which were expected to overpower Augusta National, ended up being a factor on only a few holes. Also, he did not use the 48-inch driver — the longest allowed — that he had been experimenting with.

“My driving wasn’t great,” DeChambeau said. “You know, this place can bite back if you make mistakes. But I’m very happy with the patience I showed today.”





No.21 article:
Lucille Bridges, 86, Dies; Led Her Daughter Across a Color Line

In 1960, Ms. Bridges escorted 6-year-old Ruby to an all-white school in New Orleans under the guard of federal marshals as protesters chanted and threw eggs.

Lucille Commadore Bridges, who in 1960 broke through the segregated education system of the Deep South by enrolling her 6-year-old daughter, Ruby, in an all-white elementary school in New Orleans and escorting her there during her first year of classes, died on Tuesday at her home in the Uptown section of New Orleans. She was 86.

The cause was cancer, according to Ruby Bridges.

Lucille Bridges and her daughter braved a fusillade of abuse from white protesters as they walked up to the doors of the William Frantz Elementary School in New Orleans on Nov. 14, 1960, under the escort of federal marshals, making good on the U.S. Supreme Court’s unanimous 1954 decision in Brown v. Board of Education, which ruled that school segregation was unconstitutional.

The scene was immortalized in the Norman Rockwell painting “The Problem We All Live With,” originally published in Look magazine as a two-page spread.

Ms. Bridges escorted her daughter to school every day for a year because of continuing protests, according to the National Women’s History Museum.

“She was very determined, and she took education very seriously,” Ruby Bridges, an author and activist, said in an interview on Wednesday. “I think it was because it was something that neither her nor my father was allowed to have. And ultimately that’s what she wanted for her kids — having a better life for them.”

Lucille Commadore was born in Tylertown, Miss., on Aug. 12, 1934. Her parents, Curtis and Amy Commadore, were sharecroppers, and she stopped attending school after the eighth grade so that she could help them in the fields, Ruby Bridges said. Her mother worked as a housekeeper, and in 1953 she married Abon Bridges, a mechanic. The couple had eight children and separated in the late 1960s. Mr. Bridges died in 1978.

In 1956, the family relocated from Mississippi to New Orleans to give their children a chance at a better education than they had had, Ruby Bridges said.

“We decided to leave so that we could make it better,” Lucille Bridges said in an interview in 2016 for the “Power of Children” exhibit at the Altharetta Yeargin Art Museum in Houston. “I wanted it better for my kids than it was for us.”

In 1960, 165 Black children took a test for admission to the all-white William Frantz Elementary School, Lucille Bridges said, and Ruby was among only five who passed it. Ms. Bridges and her husband met with the school district superintendent before Ruby began classes. The superintendent explained that, as religious people, they should pray, because things were about to get much worse, she recalled.

When she and Ruby arrived for Ruby’s first day of school, she said, they encountered many protesters and federal marshals. Some of the protesters screamed “Two, four, six, eight, we don’t want to integrate!” and hurled eggs and tomatoes at Ms. Bridges and her daughter, she said. But the marshals prevented them from being struck.

Ruby Bridges said she could not recall her mother and father telling her anything other than that she would be going to a new school. “They didn’t try to explain to me what I was about to venture into,” she said in the interview. “But I just think that’s because it would be hard for any parent to prepare their kids to walk into an environment like that, so they didn’t try.”

Lucille Bridges said in the 2016 interview that two city police officers had blocked their path as she tried to escort her daughter through the school doors, insisting that they could not go in. She remembered two of the marshals replying, “The United States president said we can.”

The marshals who took Ruby to and from school were heavily armed and kept a machine gun in their car. “And that’s the way we lived it for a whole year,” Lucille Bridges said.

The N.A.A.C.P. supported Lucille and Abon Bridges for several years because they had lost their jobs when the integration of the school made headlines. Friends in their all-Black neighborhood took turns guarding their home.

Lucille Bridges, who enjoyed gardening, moved from New Orleans to Houston because of Hurricane Katrina, her daughter said. She remained in Houston to have better access to better health care and returned to New Orleans about five years ago.

Later in life, Ms. Bridges did not harbor ill will against the protesters. “All those people calling us names, you just have to charge that to their ignorance and just go on,” she said. “Be yourself, and God will bring you through.”

In addition to her daughter Ruby, Lucille Bridges is survived by five other children, numerous grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

“Study, listen to what their teachers tell them, and their mothers and fathers,” Lucille Bridges advised children during the 2016 interview. “After they get their education, they can be any person they wanted to be: doctors, lawyers or anything. But you have to have that education, and I would love for them to just listen to my story so they can know how hard it was for my kids to go to school.”





No.22 article:
‘A Black Eye’: Why Political Polling Missed the Mark. Again.

Senator Susan Collins did not lead in a single publicly released poll during the final four months of her re-election campaign in Maine. But Ms. Collins, a Republican, won the election comfortably.

Senator Thom Tillis, a North Carolina Republican, trailed in almost every poll conducted in his race. He won, too.

And most polls underestimated President Trump’s strength, in Iowa, Florida, Michigan, Texas, Wisconsin and elsewhere. Instead of winning a landslide, as the polls suggested, Joseph R. Biden Jr. beat Mr. Trump by less than two percentage points in the states that decided the election.

For the second straight presidential election, the polling industry missed the mark. The miss was not as blatant as in 2016, when polls suggested Mr. Trump would lose, nor was the miss as large as it appeared it might be on election night. Once all the votes are counted, the polls will have correctly pointed to the winner of the presidential campaign in 48 states — all but Florida and North Carolina — and correctly signaled that Mr. Biden would win.

But this year’s problems are still alarming, both to people inside the industry and to the millions of Americans who follow presidential polls with a passion once reserved for stock prices, sports scores and lottery numbers. The misses are especially vexing because pollsters spent much of the last four years trying to fix the central problem of 2016 — the underestimation of the Republican vote in multiple states — and they failed.

“This was a bad year for polling,” David Shor, a data scientist who advises Democratic campaigns, said. Douglas Rivers, the chief scientist of YouGov, a global polling firm, said, “We’re obviously going to have a black eye on this.”

The problems spanned the public polls that voters see and the private polls that campaigns use. Internal polls, conducted for both Democratic and Republican candidates, tended to make Republican candidates look weaker than they were.

In response, polling firms are asking whether they need to accelerate their shift to new research methods, such as surveying people by text message. And media organizations including The New York Times, which financially support and promote polls, are re-evaluating how they portray polls in future coverage. Some editors believe the best approach may be to give them less prominent coverage, despite intense interest from readers and despite the dominant role polls play in shaping campaign strategies.

This year’s misleading polls had real-world effects, for both political parties. The Trump campaign pulled back from campaigning in Michigan and Wisconsin, reducing visits and advertising, and lost both only narrowly. In Arizona, a Republican strategist who worked on Senator Martha McSally’s re-election campaign said that public polling showing her far behind “probably cost us $4 or $5 million” in donations. Ms. McSally lost to Mark Kelly by less than three percentage points.

Mr. Biden spent valuable time visiting Iowa and Ohio in the campaign’s final days, only to lose both soundly. Democrats also poured money into races that may never have been winnable, like the South Carolina Senate race, while paying less attention to some of their House incumbents who party leaders wrongly thought were safe. The party ended up losing seats.

“District-level polling has rarely led us — or the parties and groups investing in House races — so astray,” David Wasserman of the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan publication that analyzes races, wrote last week.

The full explanation for the misses will not be knowable for months, until the election results are finalized, detailed poll data is released by survey firms, and public voter files — showing exactly who voted — are also released. Once this information is available, some of the immediate postelection criticism of polls may end up looking even worse than the polls themselves, academic researchers caution.

But the available facts already point to some likely conclusions:

Defenders of the polling industry point out that the final national error may not be very different from the historical average — and that polls can never be perfect, given the difficulty of capturing the mood of a large, diverse country. National polling averages showed Mr. Biden with a lead of about eight percentage points. Once all the votes are counted, he appears likely to win the popular vote by about four or five percentage points.

“The problem is,” Patrick Murray, the director of polling at Monmouth University said, “even if the polls end up being significantly closer to the final results when it’s counted, most people remember how they felt the morning after.”

Regardless, there are reasons for concern: Polling now seems to suffer from some systemic problems, which create a misleading picture of the country’s politics.

This problem has sprung up at the same time that a deeply polarized country has become more intensely interested in politics than it once was. The share of eligible voters who turned out this year may have reached the highest level since 1900. Book sales about politics have soared, as have ratings for television news and subscriptions to publications that cover politics. Many people crave polls, which can have an addictive quality, especially during an election that both parties described as an existential battle for America’s future.

Politics has become a high-stakes spectator sport at the same time that the country’s ability to understand it has weakened.

Pollsters have been grappling with some of the same challenges since the creation of the industry in the early 20th century.

One of the first polls to receive widespread attention came from The Literary Digest, a magazine, and it was published days before the 1916 presidential election. The magazine asked readers in 3,000 communities to mail in sample ballots and then reported that President Woodrow Wilson was in a stronger position than his Republican opponent, Charles Evans Hughes.

Wilson won the election, and The Literary Digest poll became a national phenomenon, correctly pointing to the winners from 1920 through 1932. In 1936, though, the poll showed that Alf Landon, the Republican nominee, would easily defeat Franklin D. Roosevelt. Instead, Roosevelt won in a landslide, and the error changed the industry.

Although Literary Digest’s sample of 2.4 million respondents was enormous, it was not representative. The magazine’s circulation skewed toward affluent Americans, who were more hostile to Roosevelt and the New Deal than most voters. A less prominent pollster that year, George Gallup, had surveyed many fewer people — about 50,000 — but he had been careful to ensure they matched the country’s demographic mix. Mr. Gallup correctly predicted a Roosevelt win.

Mr. Gallup’s methods shaped the industry, which today consists of dozens of organizations, with a wide range in quality. Typically, a poll surveys hundreds or a few thousand people and then extrapolates their answers to represent the broader population. If a poll cannot reach enough people in a certain demographic group — say, white Catholics or older Black men — it counts those it does reach in the group more heavily.

Still, the Gallup methods were not perfect, for some of the same reasons that polls have struggled recently. Within some demographic groups, Gallup turned out to be interviewing more Republican voters than Democratic ones, and it overestimated the Republican vote share in 1936, 1940 and 1944.

In retrospect, a front-page article in The New York Times on the Sunday before the 1936 election is a telling case study. Written by Arthur Krock, the newspaper’s Washington bureau chief, the article asked more than 200 experts to forecast the result. The article’s headline read: “Experts Predict Roosevelt Victory With Probably 406 Electoral Votes.” In the House and Senate, Republicans would likely make gains, the experts said.

That forecast was roughly consistent with the Gallup poll — and it ended up being badly off. Roosevelt won 523 electoral votes, and Democrats made big gains in Congress. But neither the Gallup error nor the misleading Times survey attracted much attention, because they had still forecast a Roosevelt victory.

“This was merely due to luck,” Dennis DeTurck, a mathematician at the University of Pennsylvania, has pointed out. “The spread between the candidates was large enough to cover the error.”

In 1948, the pollsters’ luck ran out. They continued to overestimate the Republican vote share, reporting throughout the campaign that President Harry Truman trailed his Republican opponent, Thomas Dewey. This time, the election was close enough that the polls pointed to the wrong winner, contributing to perhaps the most famous error in modern journalism, The Chicago Tribune’s banner headline “Dewey Defeats Truman.”

That error led to a new overhaul of polling. Pollsters redoubled their efforts to build samples that were representative of the country. They were not perfect: Presidential polls in the 1950s and 60s missed by about four percentage points on average, similar to this year’s miss, according to the website FiveThirtyEight.

“Polling has always been challenging,” Nate Silver, FiveThirtyEight’s editor in chief, said.

But polls still tended to point correctly to the winner of the presidential race in those years, partly because Americans were so willing to respond to polls.

People tended to answer their telephone when it rang. They also tended to trust major institutions, like the government, the media and higher education. And they did not have a constant source of entertainment in their pocket — a smartphone — that an extended telephone survey kept them from using, as Mr. Shor, the data scientist, said.

“Decades ago, most people would be happy to answer the door to a stranger or answer the phone to a stranger,” Courtney Kennedy, the director of survey research at Pew, said, “and those days are long gone.”

When response rates began falling in the 1980s and 1990s, many people in the polling industry worried that they were facing a crisis: How could they accurately measure Americans’ opinions if many refused to respond to surveys?

But no crisis materialized. If anything, surveys became somewhat more accurate, as pollsters refined their methods. Once researchers analyzed the data, they landed on an explanation for why low response rates were manageable: “Whether somebody was going to participate in a survey was not really related the things surveys tended to measure,” Ms. Kennedy, of Pew, said.

Some groups, like college graduates and politically engaged people, were more willing to respond to polls. But the differences did not break down along partisan lines. Similar numbers of Democratic and Republican voters were declining to answer questions, which allowed the polls to be accurate.

Then came the election of 2016.

Nearly every poll showed Hillary Clinton to be leading Mr. Trump in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. The leads were big enough that her campaign paid relatively little attention to those states. But she lost all three narrowly, giving Mr. Trump a stunning victory.

Afterward, pollsters dug into their data, comparing it to precinct-by-precinct election results and to voter files, which show who voted but not how they voted. In early 2017, the leading industry group, the American Association of Public Opinion Research, or AAPOR, released its conclusions.

One factor was largely unsolvable: Late-deciding voters, accurately identified as undecided in polls, broke strongly for Mr. Trump. Many may have been swayed by James Comey, the F.B.I. director, who nine days before the election sent a letter to Congress announcing that he was again looking into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state.

A second factor was more damning for pollsters. Many had not ensured that their samples included enough people without college degrees, especially among white voters.

In the late 20th century and early 2000s, missing some of these voters had not been a big problem, because white college graduates and white non-graduates voted similarly. In 2016, these voters shifted to Mr. Trump, and the polls had failed to capture it.

The report by AAPOR offered an optimistic conclusion. The national polls had been close to correct, overestimating Mrs. Clinton’s vote share by only about one percentage point. That was well within the range of historical polling errors. And there were obvious steps the industry could take to improve in the future, by including more working-class voters or weighting the ones who responded more heavily.

Perhaps most important, the polling association argued, the 2016 experience did not suggest a systematic problem in which polls favored one party. In some years, like 2012, polls slightly underestimated the Democratic share, and in other years, like 2016, they slightly underestimated the Republican share. The report said the direction of those misses was “essentially random.”

The midterm elections of the following year, 2018, initially seemed to support this conclusion. The polls correctly suggested that Democrats would sweep to victory in the House, while Republicans would retain the Senate. State polls were off by an average of about four percentage points, which was historically normal.

The underlying details contained some reasons for concern, though. While polls in some liberal states, like California and Massachusetts, had underestimated the Democrats’ vote share in 2018, polls in several swing states and conservative states, including Florida, Georgia, Michigan and Pennsylvania, again underestimated the Republican share.

For the second time since Mr. Trump’s entry in politics, the polls had somehow failed to reach enough Republican voters in the swing states that decide modern presidential elections. A third election — his re-election campaign — was looming in 2020, and it was one that millions of Americans, both his supporters and critics, would be following passionately.

By the final weeks of this year’s campaign, the polls seemed to be telling a clear story: Mr. Biden had led Mr. Trump by a significant margin for the entire race, and the lead had widened since the summer. Some combination of the coronavirus, Mr. Trump’s reaction to police brutality and his erratic behavior at the first debate had put Mr. Biden within reach of the most lopsided presidential win since Ronald Reagan’s in 1984.

In the campaign’s final 10 days, a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll showed Mr. Biden up by 10 percentage points nationwide, as did a YouGov poll. Fox News put the lead at eight points, and CNN at 12. Other polls also showed the lead to be at least eight points.

In Wisconsin, which Mr. Trump had won narrowly in 2016, a YouGov poll found Mr. Biden up by nine percentage points. A New York Times/Siena College poll showed the lead was 11 points, while Morning Consult said 13 points. A Washington Post/ABC News poll reported the lead was 17 points. In congressional races, the Cook Political Report called the Democrats clear favorites to retake the Senate and gain seats in the House.

That, of course, did not happen. Mr. Biden won Wisconsin by less than one percentage point, while Republicans fared much better in congressional races than polls had suggested.

Even Republican-aligned firms struggled. The Trafalgar Group, for example, was closer than other pollsters in some states. But Trafalgar fared worse than the competition in other states, suggesting that Mr. Trump was ahead in Arizona, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Because polling challenges evidently varied by region, reporting more Republican-friendly results everywhere did not solve the problem.

Since Election Day, some campaign operatives have claimed that their private polls were more accurate than the public ones. They have offered no proof, however, and the behavior of campaigns, including both Mr. Biden’s and Mr. Trump’s, suggests private polls were also inaccurate.

What went wrong? There are almost certainly multiple causes, pollsters and political scientists say. One possibility is that the pandemic may have led to an unexpected falloff in Election Day voting among Democrats, given that the party emphasized mail voting. Another is that Democratic voters, energized by the Trump presidency and bored during the pandemic, became newly excited to respond to polls.

But the most likely explanation remains an unwillingness among some Republican voters to answer surveys. This problem may have become more acute during Mr. Trump’s presidency, because he frequently told his supporters not to trust the media.

“I think when all the votes are counted, what we are going to see is a far smaller polling error, potentially even minimal, in many of the states where the presidential was competitive,” Jefrey Pollock, a Democratic pollster and president of the Global Strategy Group, said. But he acknowledged that some polls were off and added, “As professionals, we have to question whether a segment of the electorate has opted out of talking to us.”

B.J. Martino, a partner at the Tarrance Group, which works for Republicans, said, “If there is an underlying issue, it’s not getting those folks on the phone to begin with.” Paul Maslin, a Democratic pollster, said: “They don’t trust the news media. They don’t trust elites. They don’t trust scientists. They don’t trust academics. They don’t trust experts.”

These voters do not fit any one demographic group, which is part of why they are so difficult to reach. Instead, they appear to be a distinct group of voters within some groups. Imagine if, say, the independent, Hispanic, middle-aged, working-class women who were willing to answer a survey also happened to lean more Democratic than the same demographic profile of voters who were unwilling. And then imagine that the pattern holds only in certain states.

Even if pollsters constructed samples with the right mix of groups — by race, gender, age, income, education, religion and party registration — they might not capture the electorate’s mood. Those demographic factors, Mr. Shor said, “are not enough to predict partisanship anymore.”

In some ways, the problem is new. It is a reflection of modern technology, political polarization and more. In other ways, though, the problem has existed since the 1930s, when polls also undercounted segments of the working-class vote.

One difference is that those undercounted voters leaned Democratic at the time, which led polls to understate the strength of Roosevelt and Truman. The partisan effect has since flipped, with the white working class now backing Republicans, but the underlying dynamic has remained the same.

Pollsters managed to fix the problem after their “Dewey Defeats Truman” reckoning. The question is how they can do it again now, when survey response rates have fallen well below 10 percent.

Perhaps the one pollster who has emerged from the last few years with the best reputation is J. Ann Selzer, who runs a firm in West Des Moines, Iowa, and who conducts polls with The Des Moines Register.

This year, while other polls were showing a tossup in both Iowa’s Senate and presidential races, Selzer &amp; Co. reported on the campaign’s final weekend that Mr. Trump held a seven-point lead and Senator Joni Ernst, the Republican incumbent, held a four-point lead.

They both went on to win by somewhat more, which suggests that Ms. Selzer is not immune from the current problems. But in both 2016 and 2020, her final polls correctly showed that Iowa had changed from a tossup state to a largely Republican one.

One of her methods, she said in an interview, is keeping her surveys short, because there are differences between voters who are willing to talk at length to a pollster and those who are not. Most of her surveys last less than 15 minutes. In her final survey before an election, she tries to keep the interviews under eight minutes.

“There’s a self-selection in people’s willingness to talk to polls,” she said. She recalled conducting a 45-minute-long survey for a private client years ago about Transcendental Meditation. “Our finding was that about half the people we talked to had an experience with Transcendental Meditation,” she said. “Do you think that’s true?”

The polling industry group, AAPOR, had announced months before the election that it would conduct a post-mortem analysis for 2020. This analysis — and others, done by individual pollsters — will probably shape the specific measure that pollsters take.

Regardless, there is unlikely to be any single step that fixes the polls’ recent anti-Republican lean. Instead, pollsters are likely to try a mix of many small measures, like Ms. Selzer’s short interviews.

One option is to create new screening questions about whether respondents trust other people and major institutions — and then weight less trustful respondents more heavily in a poll’s final results. Pew, in recent years, has asked questions about whether people spend time volunteering, as one measure of trust.

Another is to expand the use of text messages and other nonverbal communication, like Facebook messages, in surveying people. “We’re going to see more diversity in polling methodologies,” said Kevin Collins, the co-founder of Survey160, which collects data through text messaging.

Some pollsters also wonder whether the problems may recede when Mr. Trump is not on the ballot. But he seems unlikely to be the only cause of errant polling, given how badly many congressional surveys missed the mark this year. In Arizona, Georgia, Maine, Michigan, North Carolina and South Carolina, the final publicly released Senate polls fell short by more on average than the final presidential polls.

A separate set of changes may involve how the media present polling and whether publications spend as much money on it in the future. “The media that sponsor polls should demand better results because their reputations are on the line,” James A. Baker III, the former secretary of state, wrote in The Wall Street Journal this week.

Among other questions, editors are grappling with the best way to convey the inherent uncertainty in polls.

Mr. Silver, then an independent blogger, created a breakthrough in 2008 when he began writing about every available poll, focusing on the swing states and talking about the probability of one candidate beating another. Before that, most publications had focused on national polls and largely ignored those done by competing publications.

The New York Times published Mr. Silver’s blog, FiveThirtyEight, from 2010 through 2013, and it is now part of ABC News. Other publications have since taken a similar approach, creating their own probabilistic models.

Mr. Silver and others have tried to emphasize the uncertainty in polls, by giving both candidates in a race a percentage that reflects their likelihood of winning. But many people seem to struggle to make sense of these probabilities in a one-time event like an election. They see that a candidate has a 71 percent chance of winning, as FiveThirtyEight gave Mrs. Clinton in 2016, and incorrectly think it is akin to a guarantee.

This year, FiveThirtyEight used a dot to portray each percentage-point possibility, stressing that either candidate could win.

The Times, which in 2016 had given Mrs. Clinton an 85 percent chance of winning, did not create a probabilistic model this year. It instead published a table that included both polling averages and a column showing the likely result if each state’s polls were as wrong as they had been in 2016. That column looks better in hindsight than the polling averages.

Virtually nobody thinks polling is going away. It is too important in a democracy, Mr. Collins, of Survey160, said. It guides campaign strategies and politicians’ policy choices. And there is no alternative method of election analysis with anywhere near as good a track record as polling’s imperfect record.

The only short-term solution, some people believe, is for pollsters and the media to emphasize — and for Americans to recognize — that polling can be misleading. Even an aggregate picture, from dozens of polls, can be meaningfully off, especially in an intensely divided political era.

“There’s something in U.S. culture that has developed a fetish with quantitative forecasting,” Dahlia Scheindlin, a Tel Aviv-based pollster who has worked in 15 countries, said.

If nothing else, the polling of the last four years may have given Americans a better understanding that they should not take polls literally. “The narrative around polling has to change,” Cornell Belcher, a Democratic pollster, said, “because it’s misinforming and it’s setting polling up to fail.”





No.23 article:
Harvard Victory Pushes Admissions Case Toward a More Conservative Supreme Court

The court’s rightward tilt under President Trump, whose administration supported efforts to end race-based admissions policies, gives activists a more favorable opening to challenge affirmative action.

A federal appeals court on Thursday ruled that Harvard’s admissions process did not violate civil rights law, but the victory for the university could be short-lived should the case be taken up by the Supreme Court, whose conservative members have indicated a willingness to reconsider more than four decades of affirmative action.

The decision came in a case that cast an unwelcome light on Harvard’s once highly secretive admissions decisions despite rulings in its favor, and elevated efforts by conservative activists to challenge the race-based admissions policies that have helped diversify the student bodies of prestigious public and private universities.

The goal of those activists was always to reach the Supreme Court, where an increasingly conservative tilt because of three justices appointed by President Trump has made it appear more likely that they could prevail despite more than 40 years of precedent.

“It is our hope that although we lost in the lower court, ultimately the Supreme Court will take this case and end all considerations of race in college admissions,” said Edward Blum, a conservative activist who is the strategist behind the case.

It takes four of the nine Supreme Court justices to agree to hear a case, and five to overturn previous rulings. The last major Supreme Court case upholding the legality of affirmative action, Fisher v. University of Texas, was decided by a 4-to-3 vote in 2016, and the three dissenting justices are still on the court. (Justice Elena Kagan recused herself from the case, and Antonin Scalia had died and not yet been replaced.)

“They definitely are amenable to revisiting the issue,” said Melissa Murray, a law professor at New York University.

It is a truism that Supreme Court decisions often reflect the mood of society and cultural norms. In one indication of public sentiment, California voters declined this month to overturn a state ban on affirmative action; about 57 percent of voters supported keeping it. A Pew Research Center survey taken in early 2019 found that 73 percent of Americans said race or ethnicity should not be a factor in college admissions.

The Harvard case is among several challenging affirmative action that are expected to go forward in the courts even after the departure of the Trump administration, which has backed efforts to end race-based admissions policies. They include litigation against the University of North Carolina and the University of Texas.

All were filed by Mr. Blum’s group, Students for Fair Admissions. In the Harvard case, the group sued on behalf of rejected Asian-American students who said the university was violating federal civil rights law.

Harvard said during a 2018 trial that it considered race as one of many factors, and not the determining one, which was allowed under previous Supreme Court rulings. Admissions officers testified that the college would be a much different place if they did not take race into account. They said they had tried alternatives like increasing financial aid and outreach to Black and Latino students, and they did not work as well.

A federal judge, Allison D. Burroughs, found in Harvard’s favor, and on Thursday the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit endorsed her ruling, stating in a 104-page decision that Harvard “has already reached, or at least very nearly reached, the maximum returns in increased socioeconomic and racial diversity that can reasonably be achieved through outreach and reducing the cost of a Harvard education.”

Getting into Harvard is challenging for almost anyone. The university admitted 4.6 percent of applicants in 2018, the year the lower-court trial took place. An examination of its inner workings in court exposed how the school gives advantages to many groups of applicants, including recruited athletes, legacies (the children of Harvard graduates), and the children of wealthy donors, prominent people and university employees.

Testimony also revealed that Harvard did value certain personal characteristics in applicants, such as “effervescence, charity, maturity and strength of character.”

One reason the Supreme Court might find the Harvard case compelling is that it framed the issue in a new way, pitting the rights of Asian-Americans against other racial groups. The more classic case accuses universities of discriminating against white applicants.

The plaintiffs argued that Harvard systematically discriminated against Asian-American applicants by holding them to a higher standard than other groups. They contended that Harvard’s admissions officers used racial stereotypes about studious, shy Asians against them. The case troubled Asian-Americans who had experienced prejudice, though many also said they supported affirmative action.

Harvard countered that its admissions process considered many intangibles, such as the personal stories and special talents of applicants, and could not be reduced to a few variables.

Although various statistical models cited by the plaintiffs showed that Asian-American students had a lower chance of acceptance to Harvard than similarly qualified white students, the margin was negligible, the appeals court said in its ruling. It also rejected the plaintiffs’ argument during the trial that Harvard’s admissions office had been affected by “implicit bias,” or unconscious racial stereotyping.

In public opinion surveys, many Americans favor the broad concept of affirmative action as a remedy for past discrimination. But since a 1978 Supreme Court decision, Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, that has not been the legal rationale. In that case, Justice Lewis Powell enshrined the value of “diversity” as the goal.

Over the years, Supreme Court decisions have outlawed the use of quotas, racial balancing or other numeric targets in admissions. But they have allowed consideration of race as one factor — albeit not the determining one — when considering applicants, in the interest of achieving the educational benefits that come from diversity of thought, background or experience.

Justin Driver, a law professor at Yale, said he did not see the Harvard case as a slam dunk to be heard by the Supreme Court because it raised civil rights law issues rather than constitutional ones. He said it was “improbable” but not impossible that affirmative action would survive the conservative majority.

“Affirmative action has been administered last rites many times, dating back to the court’s first substantive decision in this area in 1978,” he said, and it has often been Republican appointees, like Justices Powell, Sandra Day O’Connor and Anthony Kennedy, who have rescued it.

The difference, he said, is that the Trump appointees “are movement conservatives and people who came of age in the Federalist Society, and affirmative action is a bogeyman in those circles.”

Still, legal experts said it was far from certain how the newest justices, Neil M. Gorsuch, Brett M. Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett, would rule. Ms. Murray, the N.Y.U. law professor, called Justice Barrett “a blank slate” whose record did not give strong clues, although her mentor, Justice Scalia, was skeptical of affirmative action policies.

Justice Kavanaugh, Ms. Murray said, was known for promoting racial and gender diversity among his court clerks, but she added, “It is unclear how he would view this particular legal question.”

And as a textualist, Justice Gorsuch might take literally the federal civil rights law prohibition against discrimination — “even for benign purposes,” Ms. Murray said — on the basis of race. But he too, she said, “is a wild card.”

Derek W. Black, a constitutional law professor at the University of South Carolina, said it was clear the appeals court understood the national ramifications of the case and the likelihood it could end up before the Supreme Court.

“In an extremely methodical and careful decision,” he said, the appeals court had “cut through all the rhetoric of those attacking Harvard’s affirmative action plan to find that there is no there there. Harvard, in short, has run its admissions by the book.”

In a statement, Harvard welcomed the ruling and said its admissions polices were consistent with Supreme Court precedent.

“The consideration of race, alongside many other factors, helps us achieve our goal of creating a student body that enriches the education of every student,” Lawrence S. Bacow, Harvard’s president, said in a statement. “Diversity also represents a pathway for excellence for both Harvard and the nation. We will continue to defend these principles and our admissions process all the way to the Supreme Court, if necessary.”





No.24 article:
Eta Returns, Soaking Florida’s West Coast

The same storm that earlier hit eastern Florida flooded streets and prompted several water rescues when it hit the state again.

MIAMI — Tropical Storm Eta pounded Florida again on Thursday, flooding beach communities along the Gulf of Mexico, forcing rescuers to wade through hip-deep water and hitting portions of Tampa and Jacksonville as it made its way back out to sea.

In a series of overnight rescues in Madeira Beach, near St. Petersburg, firefighters used high-riding fire trucks and an inflatable Zodiac boat to ferry 15 people, a cat, two birds and five dogs from several flooded households to dry land.

In the middle of the night, they encountered a woman in waist-high water on her front lawn — a toddler strapped to her chest and a 4-year-old child on her back. With no time to bring in a boat, they hustled what turned out to be her family of five onto a fire truck along with two caged parrots and a dog, said Dominic Bueller, an acting lieutenant with the Madeira Beach Fire Department.

To make room, a paramedic and another lieutenant left the truck and waded toward dry land until a boat piloted by a team of Pinellas County sheriff’s deputies picked them up.

No serious injuries were reported in the long night of emergency calls, which Lieutenant Bueller said included floodwaters inside homes triggering fires in electric wall units.

“I was not expecting when we turned the corner to see a lady in waist-deep water with two kids strapped to her,” Lieutenant Bueller said. He said floodwaters overflowed the Intracoastal Waterway, making it difficult to determine where roads ended and the large canal began.

Eta’s landfall was its second in the state this week. It hit the central part of the Florida Keys late Sunday, and made landfall again at about 4 a.m. Thursday near Cedar Key, roughly 130 miles north of Tampa. Floodwaters receded by late morning as the storm moved out into the Atlantic near Florida’s border with Georgia.

The storm, which continued to weaken through the day, passed northwest of Tampa with maximum sustained winds of 50 miles per hour, the National Hurricane Center said.

In Tampa, streets were briefly overrun with floodwaters. At Holy Hog Barbecue downtown, Holmes Palacios, the manager, said the area had been “lucky” as he swept leaves and small tree branches from the patio.

“We have not seen that much damage,” Mr. Palacios, 41, said. “We were thinking that we were going to get a lot of flooding. I have not heard or seen any major disasters, and I don’t think there was a tornado — they were saying there was going to be a tornado — so we got lucky.”

Eta was barely hanging on to tropical storm strength as it was moving over Jacksonville at 10 a.m., according to the hurricane center. By early afternoon, the storm’s sustained winds were down to 40 miles per hour as it moved off the coast near Fernandina Beach.

The storm’s latest destruction came days after Eta soaked the central part of the Florida Keys; its strongest winds battered the Upper Keys and Miami-Dade and Broward Counties over the weekend.

On Wednesday, Gov. Ron DeSantis urged Florida residents to prepare for the storm and said the Federal Emergency Management Agency had granted his request for “a pre-landfall emergency declaration” to help mobilize federal aid to the affected parts of the state.

“It’s really been a crazy storm to watch,” Mr. DeSantis said.

Eta is the 28th named storm and the 12th hurricane of an unusually busy Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. The storm’s formation tied a record set in 2005 when Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma devastated parts of the Gulf Coast.

Eta first became a tropical storm on Oct. 31, according to the hurricane center. It grew into a powerful Category 4 hurricane and crashed into Central America on Nov. 4, causing devastating flooding and landslides that were reported to have killed more than 100. By Monday, the storm had traveled to South Florida, where it caused intense flooding and produced more than 13 inches of rainfall.

Eta has now produced nine named storm days, according to Philip Klotzbach, a meteorologist at Colorado State University. Only two Atlantic named storms forming in November in the satellite era had generated more named storm days: Epsilon in 2005 with 9.25 days and Gordon in 1994 with 9.5 days, he said.

This year, as in 2005, so many storms grew strong enough to be named that meteorologists turned to the Greek alphabet after exhausting the list of names maintained by the World Meteorological Organization.

Tropical Storm Theta, this season’s record-breaking 29th named storm, will most likely begin to weaken as it moves over the eastern Atlantic over the next few days, the hurricane center said.

Several universities in Eta’s path canceled classes on Thursday, including the University of Florida in Gainesville and the University of South Florida in Tampa. The public school district in Hillsborough County, which includes Tampa, and the Hernando School District also closed on Thursday.

Mayor Lenny Curry of Jacksonville, in Florida’s northeast corner, urged residents to stay out of the water, warning that the surf and rip currents could be dangerous. City schools shifted from in-person to online learning but the city never closed its municipal offices.

“I know this has been a rough year,” Mr. Curry said at a news conference. “Twenty twenty has been something else for our country, the world and our community, and experiencing a tropical storm after the end of hurricane season just adds to it.”





No.25 article:
The N.F.L. Playoff Picture, Explained

Curious about your favorite team’s playoff positioning, or which ones are looking like safe bets for a high seed? The Upshot’s N.F.L. Simulator offers some clues.

It is only Week 10 in the N.F.L., but it is not too early to think about the playoffs. Of course, there are the obvious teams that have virtually clinched postseason spots or virtually, well, not clinched them (ahem, the Jets).

Many teams in the middle are playing games that will be vital to determining if they are in or out. Some have positioned themselves well. Others are in a bigger hole than one might imagine.

Luckily, there’s a tool to quantify every team’s playoff chances, no matter the situation: The Upshot’s Playoff Simulator.

In addition to providing a team’s current chances of making the postseason or winning the division, the simulator lets you see how any combination of future results will affect those chances. And yes, it has been updated this year for the new, expanded 14-team playoffs.

Here’s where things stand going into Thursday night’s Colts-Titans game.

The Chiefs (8-1) and Steelers (8-0) may not have mathematically made the playoffs, but simulating the season a few hundred thousand times reveals that each has more than a 99 percent chance to get there.

Although not unbeaten, the Chiefs are actually in a slightly better position than the Steelers: They could lose their next six games, and as long as they beat the Chargers in Week 17, they would still be more likely than not to make the playoffs. The Steelers are not in quite as strong a spot right now; they probably need to win two of their last eight games to get in.

The Saints (6-2), Packers (6-2), Bills (7-2), Ravens (6-2) and Seahawks (6-2) are all at greater than 90 percent to get into the playoffs, the Simulator estimates. All those teams lead their divisions, except the Ravens. Baltimore is unlikely to run down the Steelers for the division title (it has a 22 percent chance to do so), but it is in a strong position for a wild card.

The Titans (6-2), who are just a game ahead of the Colts in the A.F.C. South, and the Buccaneers (6-3), who trail the Saints in the N.F.C. South, have a little more work to do, but both still have more than an 80 percent chance to get in.

While it might seem like the difference between 6-2 and 5-3 at this point in the season is marginal, it makes a huge difference in how likely a team is to make the playoffs. The next tier of teams, at 5-3 or 5-4, like the Dolphins, Browns, Colts, Raiders, Bears, Rams and Cardinals, may consider themselves in good shape. But they are truly on the bubble, roughly a coin flip to make the playoffs — or not — at this point.

A big reason is that a division title is slipping away from these teams and, without it, they may all end up hoping for a limited number of wild-card berths. The teams at 6-2 or so are better off: They can win their divisions or falter late and still slip in as wild cards.

For bubble teams like that, every game is important and may shift their odds significantly. 

The Eagles are 3-4-1 but still have a 73 percent chance of making the playoffs, the Simulator predicts, better than seven teams with winning records. Why? Philadelphia plays in the woeful N.F.C. East, where the 2-6 Washington Football Team is in second place.

The Eagles could lose all five of their remaining out-of-division games, and as long as they go 3-0 against the N.F.C. East, they will probably make the playoffs at 6-9-1. Even a 2-1 record in those divisional games will give them a fighting chance  at the playoffs — at 5-10-1.

The Jets (0-9) and the Jaguars (1-7).

Well, almost. If the Jaguars go 8-0 the rest of the way, they would be a slight favorite to get in the playoffs at 9-7. (Editor’s note: The Jaguars are not going 8-0 the rest of the way.)

The Jets are in even worse shape. Should they do the impossible and finish 7-0, their chance of getting in the playoffs would still be minuscule.

But. But. …

It is possible to construct a scenario, involving the Jets winning every game and just about every other wild-card contender — especially the Browns, the Colts and the Dolphins — collapsing, in which the Jets would sneak into the playoffs at 7-9. (Editor’s note: This is also not going to happen.)

And even as the season is only a little more than half over, quite a few other teams are also in serious peril of missing the playoffs: The chances for the Patriots, Cowboys, Giants, Lions, Broncos, Panthers, Bengals, Texans, Falcons and Chargers currently range from 9 percent to 2 percent to get in. In general, these teams probably need to finish 6-2 — at minimum — to get in.

Under the new 14-team playoff format, only the top seeds in each conference get a bye, so finishing first is more important than ever. Right now in the N.F.C., the Saints, the Packers and the Seahawks are in the mix for that spot, each at about 25 percent to win it. A handful of other teams — including the Buccaneers, the Cardinals and the Rams — still have a shot, although each would probably need to go 7-1 to finish first.

In the A.F.C., as one might expect, it’s a two-team race between the Steelers and the Chiefs.

Though some teams are sure things to make the playoffs, the 14-team field this season and the vagaries of single elimination mean it’s far from clear who will wind up lifting the Vince Lombardi Trophy.

The Simulator doesn’t pretend to be better than Vegas oddsmakers, but using some of the same kind of data they do, it can provide estimates of teams’ chances of going far in the playoffs.

The Simulator currently favors the defending champion Chiefs, but gives them only a 17 percent chance: So despite Patrick Mahomes and an imposing lineup, they are still only 5-1 to win it all. Remember that when someone uses phrases like “sure thing” or “guarantee” when it comes to the Super Bowl.

The Steelers and the Saints are next, at 12 percent, with five more teams (the Ravens, Packers, Seahawks, Buccaneers and Bills) with a better than 5 percent chance. So even as some teams seem to have their fates sealed, there’s still a lot of uncertainty as to what lies ahead.

Except for the Jets.





No.26 article:
‘The Reagans’ Review: Making America Great Again, Round 1

A four-part Showtime documentary takes a hard look at Ronald Reagan’s presidency and sees a wrong turn.

The response to “The Reagans,” a four-part documentary beginning Sunday on Showtime, will most likely reflect the stark cultural divide underscored by the recent presidential election . Half of America will already know and agree with the case it makes against Ronald Reagan, while the other half will never be persuaded.

Directed by Matt Tyrnauer, the series provides the basic timeline of the Reagan presidency and the lives of him and his wife and White House counterpart, Nancy. A small roster of journalists, biographers and academics (for a documentary of this length) provides analysis while a gallery of Reagan-era luminaries offers personal testimony: James Baker, George Shultz, Grover Norquist, Ed Rollins, Ken Khachigian, emerging from the mist of the 1980s.

“The Reagans” is a consistently revisionist enterprise, resting on the premise that Ronald Reagan has been treated far too well by history — that he’s seen today as an exemplary president. That assessment isn’t as widely shared as the series indicates, but Tyrnauer is on firmer ground with his corollary argument that Reagan’s election was the pivot that brought American politics and public life to where they are today.

To that end, the series provides a steady succession of parallels between Reagan and Donald J. Trump, none labeled as such but all difficult to miss. Reagan campaign posters declare “Let’s make America great again”; Reagan poses with tall stacks of paper representing his bold initiatives; references are made to third-rate appointees dismantling the government and to regulations being rolled back; the Christian right ascends as a voting bloc and source of money; a new and deadly disease is ignored.

The charge it levels most strongly and at greatest length, especially in the earlier episodes, is that Reagan engaged in “dog whistle” racism as a campaigner, and that his economic policies as president were fundamentally shaped by racist stereotyping and fearmongering. (“Reagan’s reputation as a dog whistler has not had a sufficiently negative impact on his legacy,” a historian opines, making the revisionist impulse literal.) The series makes a familiar and convincing case, and an ugly taped snippet of Reagan discussing African delegates to the United Nations (with Richard Nixon, no less) suggests that his attitudes weren’t simply opportunistic.

The prominence of race in the series’s analysis — critical theory, in a mild form, manifesting in a mainstream television project — can seem both entirely appropriate and slightly out of balance. While the documentary also gives a detailed portrait of Reagan as a fantasist who believed in and embodied a mythical American ideal, it could do a more comprehensive job of showing how race, nostalgia and American exceptionalism were inextricably woven together in his politics.

The series’s focus also has a practical effect on its storytelling, which is that a lot of the things we remember the Reagan years for — Iran-contra, AIDS, the Strategic Defense Initiative, the Gorbachev summit — get squished into the final episode. “Tear down this wall” isn’t heard until four minutes from the end.

And from the standpoint of entertainment and surprise, the material that grabs you may have less to do with the inherent biases of tax cuts and antidrug campaigns (or of Reagan’s legendary affability) and more to do with calibrating the extent to which Nancy Reagan and her astrologer Joan Quigley were in charge of our federal government for eight years. Tyrnauer’s best known documentaries — “Studio 54,” “Scotty and the Secret History of Hollywood,” “Valentino: The Last Emperor” — have covered less weighty topics, but with a similar focus on image-making and public style, and it’s those aspects of “The Reagans” that he handles most fluidly.

If you’re of a certain age and cultural disposition, there’s a particular sensation “The Reagans” might lead you to recall. The series doesn’t really go into it, but the sense of disbelief and panic among a large swath of Americans when Reagan defeated Jimmy Carter in 1980 was very similar, in all but degree, to the reaction many felt on election night in 2016. There’s a lesson there, but even after 40 years it’s too early to tell exactly what it is.





No.27 article:
‘Ammonite’ Review: Love on the Rocks

Kate Winslet’s fossil hunter and Saoirse Ronan’s convalescent embark on a forbidden seaside romance.

“Ammonite” is only the director Francis Lee’s second feature, yet already he’s developing a strong visual signature, at once eloquent and elemental. His smashing 2017 debut, “God’s Own Country,” which followed the searing connection between a gay sheep farmer and a migrant worker, has clear parallels with the new film. Both focus on dampened souls set ablaze by unlikely passion; both unfold in harsh, punishing landscapes; both fiercely acknowledge gender and class; and both feature sudden blooms of panting, explicit eroticism.

Dipping into another tale of forbidden love in a forbidding place, “Ammonite,” set in 1840s England, finds the real-life pioneering paleontologist, Mary Anning (Kate Winslet), tirelessly searching for fossils along the blustery Dorset coastline. Renowned among male peers who regularly steal credit for her finds, an impoverished Mary now sells them to tourists to support her sickly mother (Gemma Jones). Molded by years of struggle and resentment, her manner and features have settled into a stern resignation.

The metaphor all but bites you on the nose: As hardened and inscrutable as the fossils she fusses over, Mary desperately needs someone to winkle her out of her stony casing. Enter Charlotte (Saoirse Ronan), dainty and beautiful and fragile with grief over a recent tragedy. And when Charlotte’s wealthy husband (James McArdle) pays Mary to keep an eye on his wilting wife while he gads about Europe, the scene is set for the kind of flinty romance that viewers of Lee’s earlier film might expect.

That’s pretty much it for the plot. Hopeful and former lovers — an older neighbor, played by the great Fiona Shaw, and Alec Secareanu as a charming young doctor — circle Mary and add texture to the simple story. And with his narrative flame on low, Lee moves his location onto center stage: The cruelly pebbled beaches and roiling ocean, battering winds and icy mud lend a wild and unpredictable momentum that offsets the movie’s occasional listlessness.

And perfectly matches the physicality of the sex scenes. Beneath impatiently disrupted skirts and bodices, Stéphane Fontaine’s camera looks without leering, lavishing the same raw curiosity on erogenous zones as on Mary’s rough, nicotine-stained fingers. The lovemaking is frantic, secretive and somewhat grim, signifying an escape for one and perhaps a trap for the other.

Not much is known of Anning or her life, and Lee’s script refuses to help us figure her out. Instead, he concocts what he calls in the press notes “a respectful snapshot,” one that’s arguably a mite cautious and uneventful. The movie needs Winslet and Ronan’s skills, their ability to semaphore more with sliding glances and tiny gestures than many actors manage with pages of dialogue. There’s pleasure in deciphering these signals; and after watching the film’s surprisingly wrenching final moments, I expect that Lee will always be a filmmaker who asks us to look that little bit closer and work that little bit harder for our rewards.





No.28 article:
New Unemployment Claims Dip, but Economic Pain Persists

“Technically it looks like we’re in a recovery,” one economist said, “but we’re still so much in the hole.”

New claims for benefits continued to flood state unemployment offices last week as the coronavirus pandemic inflicted further economic damage.

Initial claims declined to a new low from the stratospheric multimillion levels reached in the spring, but they remained above records set in previous recessions.

While there is a “gradual healing of the labor market,” said Diane Swonk, chief economist at the accounting firm Grant Thornton, the number of laid-off and furloughed workers collecting some form of unemployment insurance is still staggeringly high.

A total of 723,000 workers filed new claims for state benefits, the Labor Department reported Thursday. On a seasonally adjusted basis, the figure was 709,000.

Another 298,000 new claims were filed under a federal emergency program, Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, designed for freelancers, part-time workers and others who are not normally eligible for state benefits.

“Technically it looks like we’re in a recovery,” Ms. Swonk said, “but we’re still so much in the hole.”

Prospects for digging out of that hole are shadowed by the alarming rise in Covid-19 caseloads around the country.

And many people already collecting unemployment insurance have been hitting the 26-week limit on benefits that exists in most states.

Those workers are eligible for an additional 13 weeks of benefits under a federal program called Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation, though the transfer from one program to the other is not automatic in some states.

The number of filings in this program increased to 4.14 million for the week ending Oct. 24, from 3.98 million the previous week, according to the latest data available. “That’s where you see the wounds festering and worry about how deep they are and how much they’ll scar us,” Ms. Swonk said.

Most economists agree that controlling the pandemic is a prerequisite for an economic recovery regardless of any government-ordered shutdowns.

News of the development of a vaccine that is 90 percent effective lifted hopes — and markets — this week. But Mary C. Daly, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said on Tuesday, “The economy right now is being dictated by coronavirus’s existence, and I think less by the potential for a vaccine.”

Several Fed officials, including the chair, Jerome H. Powell, have said Congress’s failure to agree on another relief package for individuals and business will hamper any recovery. Both federal pandemic-related jobless programs will expire at the end of the year without further action.

With the coronavirus pandemic entering its ninth month, economists warn that the prolonged downturn could inflict long-lasting wounds to U.S. employment.

“There’s a risk that we’re going to see permanent damage to the labor market,” said Rubeela Farooqi, chief U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics. She was referring to laid-off workers who end up dropping out of the work force and to industries like restaurants, entertainment, travel and hospitality that are unable to return to full capacity.

Roughly one-third of unemployed workers have been without a job for 27 weeks or more, compared with 4.1 percent in April. The longer someone is unemployed, the harder it is to get back into the work force.

There have been more job gains than losses recently, and the unemployment rate fell last month to 6.9 percent from 7.9 percent in September. But much of the progress was in dining and retail businesses, which are the most vulnerable to losses from rising coronavirus infections.

Job losses that aren’t reflected in the unemployment figures also exact a toll.

Cindy Fraser used to work three jobs: as a church custodian in Redford, Mich.; as a house cleaner; and as a florist specializing in weddings and special events.

When the pandemic hit, her housecleaning and florist gigs dried up. She held on to her custodial job, working about 25 hours a week at $10 an hour. But she has struggled to keep up with her monthly bills, including a $650 mortgage payment, a $350 car payment, $150 for car insurance and $300 for utilities. She applied for Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, the federal program, but was told she did not qualify.

Ms. Fraser, 54, is a single mother of four children and lives with her two younger daughters, 15 and 16, one of whom has a genetic condition and several autoimmune disorders that make her vulnerable to the coronavirus.

Ms. Fraser has to be selective about taking additional work because she worries about exposure to the virus in a store or a restaurant.

“I can’t get sick, because if either one of my daughters gets sick, I am the only parent to take care of them,” she said. “So I have to be extremely choosy as to what kind of jobs I can take so I don’t bring the virus into my home. I can’t just go get a job at Walmart.”

To make ends meet, Ms. Fraser has been relying on the $2,000 a month in survivor benefits she has received since her husband died and has spent nearly all of her savings, about $5,000.

“I had wanted to save that money for my daughters’ college tuition and driver’s training,” she said. “But now, it’s just going toward keeping a roof over their head.”





No.29 article:
Corrections: Nov. 13, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Friday, Nov. 13, 2020.

An article on Thursday about new officials at the Pentagon and the National Security Agency misstated Ezra Cohen-Watnick’s role in preparing intelligence reports for Representative Devin Nunes of California. A lawyer for Mr. Cohen-Watnick said he did not provide the material to Mr. Nunes, although he did help compile it. The article also misidentified Kashyap Patel’s hometown. He is from Garden City, N.Y., not New Jersey.

An obituary on Saturday about Marguerite Littman, the inspiration for Holly Golightly of Truman Capote’s “Breakfast at Tiffany’s” and an early force in the fight against AIDS,  misstated the number of friends Ms. Littman contacted to request funding for what would become the AIDS Charitable Trust. She wrote to 300 friends, not 100.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.30 article:
Pandemic Pushes N.Y.C. Cabbies to the Brink: ‘I Can’t Hold On’

While some businesses have adapted to virus restrictions, the yellow cab industry is especially suffering.

Before the coronavirus arrived in New York, yellow taxis were an enduring symbol of the city’s hustle, crowding the streets of Midtown Manhattan, ferrying passengers to airports and carrying tourists to boutique hotels. But eight months into the pandemic, the industry lies almost entirely crippled.

Revenue for the taxi industry is down 81 percent over the same period a year ago, according to the latest city data. That is better than in the worst days of the pandemic in March and April — but not by much.

Even as some parts of city life have returned, reliable sources of taxi passengers have not. Offices, especially in Midtown, are closed. Tourism is virtually nonexistent, and the airports are mostly empty.

“I can’t hold on, not like this,” said Vinod Malhotra, who owns his cab and has driven for 27 years through terrorist attacks, natural disasters and economic calamities. He made it through the pandemic’s peak in New York, too, but as the crisis slogs on, he is on the brink of bankruptcy. “I can make it maybe one more month, maybe two.”

Ride-hailing companies, such as Uber and Lyft, also took a hit when the city largely shut down in the spring. But they have bounced back more quickly. Revenue is now about a third lower than last year, and the chief executive of Uber, Dara Khosrowshahi, said last week on a call with investors that city ridership outside of commuting hours had returned to normal.

Bruce Schaller, a former city transportation official, said customers might be using taxis less because they believed they were more of a health risk, even though that was not the case.

“I think taxis feel like more of a public space than an Uber car or Lyft car,” he said.

Almost all drivers in every sector stopped working altogether during the peak, city data shows, in part because of the possibility of getting sick on the job, a threat that was magnified by the deaths of dozens of drivers. In a recent survey by the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, nearly half of drivers said either they or someone in their home had contracted the virus.

While many drivers were out of work, they relied on the federal government’s enhanced unemployment program, which paid $600 a week in addition to state benefits.

But those federal benefits ended over the summer, as did some other programs that kept cabdrivers afloat, including initiatives that paid taxi drivers to deliver meals to homes and provide rides for essential workers during overnight subway closures.

Aloysee Heredia Jarmoszuk, the head of the city Taxi and Limousine Commission, which oversees yellow cabs and ride-hailing companies, said the industry was steadily recovering, albeit slowly. “The pandemic hit for-hire transportation hard, but every month since March has seen increases in trips across all segments,” she said.

Still, drivers of both yellow cabs and the green cabs that operate outside of Manhattan have been reluctant to return to work. In September, an average of 3,257 yellow cabs and 575 green cabs operated each day, according to city data. In both cases, that was about 70 percent lower than in September 2019.

Several fleet owners said they had called drivers to beg them to return. Some offered discounts letting drivers rent out cabs for half the normal rate, or less. Recently, they said, drivers have begun returning.

Drivers who own their own cabs have returned even more slowly.

“My job isn’t safe. I don’t know who has had the Covid, and there are no customers anyway,” said Andrew Chen, 53, an immigrant from Burma, now Myanmar, who has owned his own cab since 2006. “So I just stay home.”

Now, a knockout punch may be coming for those drivers, who bought the city permits called medallions that allow them to own and operate a cab.

As The New York Times has reported, hundreds of drivers were already squeezed before the pandemic after being channeled into large, exploitative loans they could not afford in order to buy their medallion. Lenders suspended collections for months during the worst of the virus, but some have started to demand payments.

“People talk about the state of the taxi industry the same way they talk about the election: ‘This is the existential moment.’ But this time, it really is,” said Bhairavi Desai, who has represented drivers since the 1990s as the head of the Taxi Workers Alliance. “It really is.”

In January, a city task force proposed a $500 million bailout for drivers in loans. In February, the New York State attorney general, Letitia A. James, said her office would sue the city for $810 million and use the money to compensate drivers.

That momentum evaporated as the virus exploded across the city.

On Thursday, Ms. Desai plans to unveil a proposal that could eliminate hundreds of millions of dollars owed by medallion owners and would cost the city a maximum of $75 million, much less than in previous plans.

Under the proposal, lenders would agree to reduce the amount owed by each borrower to $125,000, repaid over 20 years with a 4 percent interest rate. That structure would lower monthly payments to under $800. In return, lenders would receive a guarantee that the city would pay for any medallion loan that fails because of nonpayment, an assurance that experts say could win over lenders.

The plan is supported by Scott M. Stringer, the city comptroller and mayoral candidate. He said in a statement it could actually save taxpayer money by protecting the city from the attorney general’s lawsuit.

“This breakthrough proposal offers a responsible and necessary approach to relieve crushing debt for drivers and reduce ballooning costs for taxpayers,” he said.

City Council Speaker Corey Johnson, who has previously supported a bailout, said the Council would review the proposal but suggested that the city, whose budget has been decimated by the pandemic, may not be able to pay for a rescue package on its own. A spokesman for Mayor Bill de Blasio pointed out that the mayor has said the federal government should fund any bailout.

Several lenders who would have to agree to the deal declined to comment. They have denied wrongdoing, blaming the industry’s problems on Uber and Lyft.

The largest holder of loans now is Marblegate Asset Management, a private equity firm that bought thousands of them earlier this year. It has not collected payments during the pandemic, a spokesman said, and has voluntarily forgiven $70 million in debt.

Mr. Malhotra, the cabdriver, emigrated to New York from India in the early 1990s and bought his medallion in 2011 for $640,000. He now owes Marblegate about $435,000, he said.

He still drives 12 hours a day, six days a week, he said, but lately has had to wait longer and longer between customers. He is barely making enough to support his wife and three children, and he cannot make loan payments. He fears getting a call from his lender.

He said he might have to file for bankruptcy and surrender his medallion to a large fleet. Others are in the same situation. If nothing happens soon, he said, the city could lose an entire generation of cabby owner-drivers.

“We need help, and nobody is helping,” he said. “So day by day, it will go more down. And then it will just be gone.”





No.31 article:
Trump Floats Improbable Survival Scenarios as He Ponders His Future

There is no grand strategy. President Trump is simply trying to survive from one news cycle to the next.

At a meeting on Wednesday at the White House, President Trump had something he wanted to discuss with his advisers, many of whom have told him his chances of succeeding at changing the results of the 2020 election are thin as a reed.

He then proceeded to press them on whether Republican legislatures could pick pro-Trump electors in a handful of key states and deliver him the electoral votes he needs to change the math and give him a second term, according to people briefed on the discussion.

It was not a detailed conversation, or really a serious one, the people briefed on it said. Nor was it reflective of any obsessive desire of Mr. Trump’s to remain in the White House.

“He knows it’s over,” one adviser said. But instead of conceding, they said, he is floating one improbable scenario after another for staying in office while he contemplates his uncertain post-presidency future.

There is no grand strategy at play, according to interviews with a half-dozen advisers and people close to the president. Mr. Trump is simply trying to survive from one news cycle to the next, seeing how far he can push his case against his defeat and ensure the continued support of his Republican base.

By dominating the story of his exit from the White House, he hopes to keep his millions of supporters energized and engaged for whatever comes next.

The president has insisted to aides that he really defeated Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Nov. 3, but it is unclear whether he actually believes it. And instead of conducting discreet requests for recounts, Mr. Trump has made a series of spurious claims, seizing on conspiracies fanned on the internet.

The latest was on Thursday, when he falsely claimed on Twitter that Dominion voting machines switched hundreds of thousands of his votes to Mr. Biden, citing a report he had seen on the fringe network OANN, something even his supporters called ridiculous and a federal agency overseeing cybersecurity disavowed in a statement.

Advisers said his efforts were in keeping with one of his favorite pastimes: creating a controversy and watching to see how it plays out.

As a next step, Mr. Trump is talking seriously about announcing that he is planning to run again in 2024, aware that whether he actually does it or not, it will freeze an already-crowded field of possible Republican candidates. And, Republicans say, it will keep the wide support he showed even in defeat and could guarantee a lucrative book deal or speaking fees.

In the meantime, Mr. Trump has spent his days toggling between his White House residence and the Oval Office, watching television coverage about the final weeks of his presidency. His mood is often bleak, advisers say, though he is not raising his voice in anger, despite the impression left by his tweets, which are often in capital letters.

But the work of government has been reduced to something of a sideshow for the president. He has not made any public appearances except for a visit to Arlington National Cemetery on Veterans Day since an angry statement a week ago.

And he has not spoken about the coronavirus pandemic or mentioned it on Twitter despite the staggering growth in positive cases and the number of West Wing aides and outside advisers who have been diagnosed with the virus in the past week.

Several advisers have bluntly told Mr. Trump that the chances of changing the election’s outcome are almost nonexistent, including in a meeting with him on Saturday at the White House to which the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, dispatched aides, even as he has generally backed Mr. Trump’s desire to keep fighting.

While most Republicans have declined to publicly oppose the president, more have become vocal that the time has come, amid the growing pandemic, to allow a transition to take place.

“Look, I’m worried about this virus. I’m not looking at what the merits of the case are,” said Gov. Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, about Mr. Trump’s lawsuits in an appearance on Thursday on CNN. “It would appear that Joe Biden is going to be the next president of the United States.”

Karl Rove, the architect of President George W. Bush’s presidency and an informal adviser to Mr. Trump, wrote in The Wall Street Journal on Wednesday that “closing out this election will be a hard but necessary step toward restoring some unity and political equilibrium.”

He added that after Mr. Trump’s “days in court are over, the president should do his part to unite the country by leading a peaceful transition and letting grievances go.”

A peaceful transition is not as much on Mr. Trump’s mind right now as settling scores both inside and outside the administration.

White House advisers have sent warnings to any government employees who might be looking for other jobs, have placed loyalists in the upper ranks of the Pentagon, and have been open to calls for intelligence officials to declassify documents related to the investigation into a possible conspiracy between the Trump campaign in 2016 and Russian officials.

And the president is considering firing the C.I.A. director, Gina Haspel, although some administration officials said he may not go through with it.

The president has nursed a burning anger at Fox News for calling Arizona for Mr. Biden on election night, and has entertained suggestions from allies to start some kind of competing conservative-leaning news network, whether by trying to join forces with an existing property like OANN or Newsmax, or forming a digital network of his own, as Axios reported. (The New York Times called Arizona for Mr. Biden late Thursday.)

In a tweet on Thursday, Mr. Trump continued his attacks on his once loyal supporters, declaring falsely that Fox News’s “daytime ratings have completely collapsed.”

“Weekend daytime even WORSE,” he added. “Very sad to watch this happen, but they forgot what made them successful, what got them there. They forgot the Golden Goose. The biggest difference between the 2016 Election, and 2020, was @FoxNews!”

Several Republicans expressed doubt on Thursday that Mr. Trump would ever be able to put together anything that could overtake Fox.

And allies acknowledge that he could not do both a presidential campaign and create a news network at the same time, and they questioned whether he would keep up his animus toward Fox if it were to offer him a lucrative contributor deal once he is out of office.

Some advisers had hoped that Mr. Trump would accept the state of the race by the end of this week, but a looming recount in Georgia may delay that. The president has told some advisers that if the race is certified for Mr. Biden, he will announce a 2024 campaign shortly afterward.

The president’s goal for now is to delay certification of the election results, a process that has begun in some states. But his approach to lawsuits aimed at delaying that certification has been as scattered as his own thinking about the future.

Advisers say there may be additional lawsuits filed, but it is not entirely clear when. It also is not clear who is leading the legal efforts.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, has been a source of enormous frustration for Trump advisers. Advisers have tried to tell Mr. Trump that the fraud Mr. Giuliani is offering hope of proving simply does not exist.

Mr. Trump is getting suggestions from an array of other lawyers, as well. They include Sidney Powell, the lawyer for his former national security adviser Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, who was at the Trump campaign headquarters over the weekend.

Advisers have nudged the president to stop talking about “fraud” because that has legal implications that his team has not been able to back up. So Mr. Trump has taken to pronouncing the election “rigged,” one of his favorite words but one with dangerous implications in terms of how his own supporters view the election’s ultimate outcome.





No.32 article:
A Republican Senate Would Be Bad for Business

What’s bad for America would be bad for corporations, too.

So the blue wave fell short of expectations. Joe Biden will be the next president, but unless Democrats pull off an upset in the Georgia Senate runoffs — which, to be fair, they might, given the remarkable strength of their organizing efforts there — Mitch McConnell will still be the Senate majority leader.

Big business seems happy with this outcome. The stock market was rising even before we got good news about prospects for a coronavirus vaccine. Corporate interests appear to imagine that they will flourish under a Biden presidency checked by Republican control of the Senate.

But big business is wrong. Divided government is all too likely to mean paralysis at a time when we desperately need strong action.

Why? Despite the vaccine news, we are still on track for a nightmarish pandemic winter — which will be made far worse, in human and economic terms, if a Republican Senate obstructs the Biden administration’s response. And while the economy will bounce back once a vaccine is widely distributed, we have huge long-term problems that will not be resolved if we have the kind of gridlock that characterized most of the Obama years.

First, the pandemic: With much of the public’s attention focused either on Donald Trump’s last-ditch efforts to steal the election or on hopes that a vaccine will let us resume normal life, I’m not sure how many people realize just how ruinous a prospect we’re facing for the next few months.

Over the past week, Americans have been dying from Covid-19 at the rate of more than 1,000 a day. But deaths typically lag a few weeks behind reported cases — and the daily number of new cases has doubled over the past three weeks. This means that we’re almost surely looking at 2,000 deaths a day at some point next month.

And the number of new cases is still rising exponentially, so things will get much, much worse over the months that follow, especially because until Jan. 20 we will, for all practical purposes, not have a president. By the time Biden is finally inaugurated we may well be having the equivalent of a 9/11 every day.

In addition to bringing death as well as long-term health damage for many survivors, the exploding pandemic will bring immense economic hardship. Responsible governors are imposing new lockdowns that may help curb the spread of the coronavirus, but that will also lead to a new wave of job losses.

True, some of the worst coronavirus outbreaks are now in states with irresponsible governors who won’t even impose mask mandates. But even in those states people can’t help noticing that friends and neighbors are dying and that the hospitals are full; they will cut back on their spending, leading to many lost jobs, even without political guidance.

What we need, clearly, is a very large-scale program of disaster relief, providing families, businesses and, not least, state and local governments with the help they require to avoid financial ruin until a vaccine arrives. And you might think that a Republican Senate would be willing to work with the Biden administration on such an obviously necessary program.

That is, you might think this if you’ve been hiding in a cave for the past 12 years.

Remember, Mitch McConnell’s famous declaration, “The single most important thing we want to achieve is for President Obama to be a one-term president,” came in October 2010, at a time of sluggish recovery and extremely high unemployment. Why expect him to be more cooperative, more willing to act in the national interest, when millions of dead-end Trump supporters are accusing establishment Republicans of stabbing their hero in the back?

Realistically, the most we can hope for is a stingy package that falls far short of what America needs. And I wonder whether Trump-fearing Republicans — who have offered remarkable profiles in cowardice as the soon-to-be ex-president makes wild claims about election theft — will be willing to agree to even that much.

The good news is that the misery will abate when we finally have widespread distribution of a vaccine. In fact, we’ll probably see a sharp jobs recovery late next year.

But that won’t be the end of the story. Before the coronavirus struck, America had low unemployment — but our short-term (and very unequally distributed) prosperity masked the extent to which we were neglecting our future. We desperately need to spend trillions on repairing our crumbling infrastructure, caring for our children and meeting the urgent need for action against climate change.

How much of that essential spending will a Republican Senate agree to? The best guess is zero. After all, McConnell blocked infrastructure spending even when Trump was in the White House and public investment could have helped keep him in office.

Now, what’s bad for America isn’t necessarily bad for corporations. But given where we are, divided government would mean paralysis in a time of crisis, which could very well be catastrophic for everyone. The truth is that even in its own interests, the big money should be rooting for Democrats in those Georgia runoffs.





No.33 article:
Jerry Rawlings, From Coup-Plotter to Ghanaian Statesman, Dies at 73

After leading the country with brutal crackdowns, he helped Ghana blossom into a stable democracy.

Jerry Rawlings, a former Ghanaian Air Force officer who led two military coups before steering his country toward democracy with an authoritarian hand, died on Thursday in the nation’s capital, Accra. He was 73.

Mr. Rawlings died in a hospital “after a short illness,” President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana said. “A great tree has fallen, and Ghana is poorer for this loss,” he added. The death prompted both main political parties to suspend their campaigns ahead of the Dec. 7 general elections.

A bear of a man with a booming voice, Mr. Rawlings entered Ghana’s political stage as an archetypal African military ruler, seizing power in 1979. He executed former heads of state, ordered the flogging of market women accused of profiteering, and jailed dozens of businessmen for corruption. His entourage called it a “housecleaning exercise.”

By the time he left office voluntarily 22 years later, he had served two presidential terms brought about by free elections and had established Ghana as a rare democratic example on the continent. Today, peaceful handovers of power are routine in the country, hardly the case with the country’s neighbors.

Mr. Rawlings’ contradictory legacy — brutal beginnings, uncompromising military rule, then free elections — underscores the difficult path to democratic governance still faced by many African nations. But in Ghana at least, where Mr. Rawlings is regarded as something of a founding father after the country’s difficult first steps, democracy is an assumption.

Given Ghana’s first experiences of him, that outcome would not have been predicted. He appeared at first to have all the makings of one of the continent’s classic military autocrats.

Jerry John Rawlings was born on June 22, 1947, in Accra to James Ramsey John, a Scottish chemist, and Victoria Agbotui. He was educated at Achimota, a prestigious boarding school in the British model in Accra. He enlisted in the Air Force, where he excelled in airmanship, and reached the rank of flight lieutenant.

His first coup, in 1979, followed an earlier unsuccessful effort and a brush with death: He had been awaiting execution for that failed try when brother officers freed him. They then ousted Lt. Gen. Frederick W. K. Akuffo, whom Mr. Rawlings promptly had executed, along with two other former heads of state.

The “housecleaning” that followed entailed more killings and public floggings in a brutal attempt at controlling prices. Mr. Rawlings and his fellow officers turned power over several months later to civilians, but that experiment foundered as inflation hit 150 percent. Most hotels were urging guests “to bring their own soap, towels, soft drinks and sometimes even food,” The New York Times reported at the time.

Flight Lieutenant Rawlings, still in uniform and seething in the background, seized power again, on Dec. 31, 1981. He arrested President Hilla Limann and most of his aides, and dissolved Parliament. The country was in ruins, Mr. Rawlings told his countrymen; the government, he said, had turned “hospitals into graveyards and clinics into death transit camps where men, women and children die daily because of the lack of drugs and basic equipment.”

The next years were difficult ones for Ghana. Mr. Rawlings initially adopted a Marxist outlook. Fidel Castro and the Libyan leader, Muammar el-Qaddafi, were his lodestars. Government-run newspapers were told not to refer to Mr. Rawlings’ seizure of power as a coup.

The Libyans sent in tons of food, but the effort didn’t work. Infant mortality was shooting up and food supplies were dwindling. Mr. Rawlings in 1983 shifted directions, bringing Ghana under the aegis of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, drastically devaluing the currency, boosting prices for the country’s vital cocoa crop and firing legions of civil servants. Inflation dropped, and the country’s economy started to grow, finally.

Meanwhile, Mr. Rawlings outfitted Ghana with all the accouterments of his continental counterparts: political prisoners, a censored press, one-man rule. But he was also bending, slowly, toward his country’s long transformation into a democratic state.

He did away with a ban on political parties in May 1992, and six months later Ghana held an election, which Mr. Rawlings won without difficulty in a vote judged fair by outside observers. A pay raise for civil servants helped.

The then-fashionable “structural adjustment” program shepherded by the international financial institutions, in which loans are conditioned on free-market reforms and fiscal toughness, appeared to be making headway in Ghana, unlike in other troubled countries.

Mr. Rawlings was re-elected in 1996 and embarked on a costly road-building program. Then, remarkably for an African leader, he stepped down, becoming “Africa’s first former military leader to allow the voters to choose his successor in a multiparty election,” as The International Herald Tribune put it at the time.

In 2000, his vice-president, John Atta Mills, lost to John Kufuor, who had run against Mr. Rawlings in 1996. The 2000 campaign was notable for a rarity in African politics: a televised debate between opposing candidates.

Mr. Rawlings continued to play a role in retirement, speechmaking around his small country, dispensing advice to his political successors, and regularly making the evening news.

Survivors include his wife, Nana Konadu Agyeman-Rawlings, a candidate for president in next month’s elections; his daughters Zanetor Agyeman-Rawlings, Yaa Asantewaa Rawlings and Amina Rawlings; and his son, Kimathi Rawlings.





No.34 article:
Progressives Press Biden to Limit Corporate Influence in Administration

As the president-elect begins making personnel choices, the left of the Democratic Party is demanding ethics rules that would ban lobbyists and some consultants.

WASHINGTON — The alarm bells sounded immediately among some progressives when President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. released the list of advisers this week who will help him with the transition at the White House’s Office of Management and Budget, which oversees the $5 trillion federal budget and shapes regulations on everything from labor standards to air pollution.

Mr. Biden’s team included executives from Amazon Web Services, Lyft, Airbnb and a vice president of WestExec Advisors, a Washington consulting firm whose secretive list of clients includes financial services, technology and pharmaceutical companies.

“This puts us at a state of high alarm,” said Jeff Hauser, who runs a liberal group called the Revolving Door Project, which has been pressuring the Biden administration to stay away from not only lobbyists but also individuals coming out of the business world whom Mr. Hauser and other activists call “corporatists.”

His concerns are an early manifestation of a percolating and broader clash between the progressive wing of the Democratic Party and the more establishment members of Mr. Biden’s core team over the role of corporate executives, lobbyists and consultants in the incoming administration.

In a letter sent Thursday, liberal groups including Demand Progress pushed Mr. Biden to adopt the sort of sweeping restrictions that his more liberal challengers for the presidential nomination had championed during the primary campaign, urging him not to “nominate or hire corporate executives, lobbyists, and prominent corporate consultants.”

Their views are represented most prominently in the party by Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who has made reining in the influence of corporate America and Wall Street a front-and-center issue for many Democrats.

An early indicator of Mr. Biden’s efforts to navigate this divide will come when he announces ethics rules for his government, a move expected in the hours after his inauguration.

The progressive activists want him to adopt hiring practices that go far beyond policies embraced by former President Barack Obama, who barred officials in his administration from working on issues on which they had lobbied in the past two years.

The Biden transition said in a statement that the president-elect was determined to ensure that “public servants serve all Americans, not themselves or narrow special interests.” The transition statement did not take a detailed position on what kinds of ethics prohibitions Mr. Biden would impose on hiring, but it hinted that Mr. Biden might bring on staff members who have worked on behalf of various causes and interests in the past.

“Talent will be evaluated carefully to ensure important perspectives are not excluded,” the statement said. “Some of our nation’s brightest policy minds are also fierce advocates on issues from criminal justice reform to health care and workers rights.”

The fight over these rules started quietly over the summer when Mr. Biden’s campaign invited dozens of ethics experts, professors and others, including advisers to Ms. Warren and other members of Congress, to make recommendations about an ethics policy to be issued on Day 1 of a possible administration.

While some argued that the Obama-era lobbying restrictions could hurt a Biden administration’s ability to recruit people with useful expertise, others pushed for tougher restrictions that bar not only lobbyists from being hired, but also corporate executives and consultants who advise companies on getting their way in Washington but do not register as lobbyists.

Progressives started growing concerned about Mr. Biden’s personnel moves even before the election, when he announced his first list of top transition advisers. It included Jessica Hertz, who helped oversee government relations efforts at Facebook, and Avril Haines, who worked at WestExec Advisors and also consulted for the data-mining company Palantir.

Mr. Biden’s first big move — naming Ron Klain on Wednesday as his chief of staff — drew praise from Ms. Warren and some progressive activists. They had worried that Mr. Biden might pick Steve Ricchetti, a close adviser and former pharmaceutical industry lobbyist who served as his chief of staff while he was vice president.

Mr. Klain has corporate ties, too. He has most recently worked with Steve Case, the founder of AOL, in a venture capital firm called Revolution, and he warned in 2015 about the impact that government regulation can have on technology start-ups.

Debates over personnel are common in new administrations, as interest groups and factions of supporters of an incoming president jockey for influence.

But they are likely to be particularly intense in the Biden administration after an election in which the liberal wing of the party suppressed its concerns about what they saw as Mr. Biden’s cautious centrism out of a desire to defeat President Trump. The stakes are heightened further by Mr. Biden’s pledge to differentiate his administration from Mr. Trump’s, in which representatives from corporate America and Wall Street held prominent posts, and conflicts of interest abounded.

Mr. Biden has not always shared the left’s concerns about lobbying.

When he was vice president under Mr. Obama, Mr. Biden bristled at the strict lobbying rules, which he contended would deprive their nascent administration of experienced talent.

He specifically balked at an effort by Mr. Obama’s aides to try to block the vice president from hiring Mr. Ricchetti, a well-connected Washington operator who had also lobbied for insurance companies, credit agencies and others. Mr. Ricchetti eventually became Mr. Biden’s chief of staff and continued working with him after the administration ended.

Mr. Ricchetti became the chairman of Mr. Biden’s presidential campaign, and is reported to be in contention for a prominent administration post. Mr. Ricchetti’s brother continues to operate a lobbying firm bearing the family name, which has signed several new clients in recent months.

Several other Biden confidants with ties to Washington’s influence industry worked on his campaign or his transition team. In addition to the team’s Office of Management and Budget review team, those appointed this week to oversee the reconfiguration of other agencies also included a number of people who work for firms that lobby for an array of interests that concern liberals, including oil and pharmaceutical companies.

Mr. Biden pledged during the campaign to adopt strict ethics rules, pointing to broad conflicts of interest he said persisted through the Trump era. He promised a policy that addresses “not only the improper influence of lobbyists, but also any improper or inappropriate influence from personal, financial and other interests” that his appointees might have.

The ethics rules adopted by Mr. Obama in 2009 were considered the most comprehensive in modern American politics. They included for the first time a commitment to ban registered lobbyists from working in agencies they had lobbied in the prior two years, with limited exceptions. The White House also moved to routinely release a list of all visitors, so the public could see what corporate executives and lobbyists were meeting with the president and members of his staff.

But both sides soon found ways to evade these rules. That included off-the-books meetings between lobbyists and White House aides at nearby coffee shops. Other representatives of corporate interests avoided the “lobbyist” stigma — and any restriction on being appointed to a political post — by positioning themselves as so-called strategic advisers. That role allowed them to advise clients about how to exert influence on the government without registering as lobbyists.

Officials from such strategic advisory firms — including WestExec Advisors and Albright Stonebridge Group — are represented on Mr. Biden’s transition team or are expected to play prominent roles in his government.

Four people affiliated with Albright Stonebridge, which was co-founded by former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, are listed as members of Mr. Biden’s agency review teams overseeing the State Department and international aid programs.

The firm, which says it does not lobby the U.S. government, represents a range of international clients, including until recently the Switzerland-based mining and commodities trading giant Glencore, which has been the subject of investigations in the United States and around the world related to corruption and other issues.

Cristina Killingsworth, WestExec’s vice president, is on leave from the firm while she works on Mr. Biden’s Office of Management and Budget review team. One of the firm’s co-founders, Antony J. Blinken, a former deputy secretary of state, took a leave in August to run the Biden campaign’s foreign policy operation.

Mr. Blinken is considered a possible secretary of state in the Biden administration, while his WestExec co-founder, Michèle Flournoy, a former under secretary of defense for policy, is considered a possible defense secretary.

The firm does not name its clients. It has worked with the philanthropy started by Eric Schmidt, the former Google chairman, and with Google’s in-house incubation unit, Jigsaw. On its website, WestExec says its clients include a leading American pharmaceutical company and a multibillion-dollar American technology company that it helped with “safeguarding against trade tensions between the U.S. and China.”

“Those kinds of consulting shops take advantage of weaknesses in current laws, so there is no transparency in their clients and how they are trying to influence public policy for them,” said Danielle Brian, the executive director of the nonprofit watchdog group the Project on Government Oversight. “That’s exactly the kind of people who should not be in an administration.”

 

Progressive Democrats and advocates for tighter ethics rules have called for years for an expansion of lobbying rules to include strategic consultants, as well as executives who work behind the scenes to help corporations develop lobbying strategies.

Some participants in the ethics policy group assembled by the Biden campaign argued that the administration should widen restrictions on hiring to include not only lobbyists, but also strategic consultants, according to people familiar with the process, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Others said the administration should ban lobbyists for corporate interests, but allow lobbyists for unions and nonprofit groups.

The Biden transition team’s ethics policy takes a more case-by-case approach, barring participants who lobbied on the issues they have been assigned with overseeing, unless they receive waivers. The list of people appointed by the transition team this week to review agencies includes at least three who were recently registered to lobby for labor unions, as reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.

The pressure on establishment Democrats is coming from progressives in Congress too, including Ms. Warren and Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Raul M. Grijalva of Arizona.

“If the C.E.O. of a fossil fuel corporation should not be put in charge of U.S. diplomacy or an oil lobbyist should not be put in charge of the Interior Department under a Republican administration, there is no reason to believe that an officer or lobbyist at a major bank or financial firm should be put in charge of financial policy under a Democratic administration,” said a letter sent by 13 House Democrats last month to Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.

Liberal political activists are pressing Mr. Schumer to help deliver on their demands, pointedly noting that he is up for re-election in 2022 and could potentially face a primary challenge from a more liberal opponent. 

But even some proponents of tighter ethics rules are starting to question if the demands by progressives have gone too far.

“I understand the desire to have people that are ideologically aligned,” said Meredith McGehee, the executive director of IssueOne, a group trying to limit the role of money in politics. “But when you start doing litmus tests on appointees it can backfire. You need to have appointees in the administration who can work with a range of people in Congress or you are not likely to get much done.”





No.35 article:
Pearl Chin Dies at 71; Her Knitting Store Was a Haven and a Hub

Knitty City was more than a Manhattan supply shop for yarn; it was an urban sanctuary and a springboard for social activism (or, as she and others called it, “craftivism”).

Pearl Chin, the founder of Knitty City, a yarn shop on the Upper West Side of Manhattan that became an inclusive sanctuary for urban knitters — even offering a men’s night — as well as a hub for social activism through the craft arts, died on Oct. 27 in Manhattan. She was 71.

Her husband, Arvin Chin, said the cause was complications of lung cancer.

When Ms. Chin opened her shop, on 79th Street near Amsterdam Avenue in 2006, she had hoped to make it more than a supply stop for yarn. She envisioned it becoming a cozy haven for New York knitters, a place to which they could escape the city’s bustle and devote themselves to therapeutic acts of creation involving only a needle and a ball of thread. And that’s what it became.

“It’s just a piece of string, but you can build so much with it,” Ms. Chin said in a video interview in 2019. “We tell people, Do 15 minutes of knitting every day, and it will change your life.”

She played classical music over the speakers, and Lenny, a miniature poodle who napped next to his water bowl, became an unofficial mascot. (He died this spring.) Catherine Zeta-Jones and Bernadette Peters were said to have perused the cubbies overflowing with vibrantly colored varieties of yarn.

Ms. Chin offered free knitting lessons in the summers at Bryant Park, the gathering spot marked by a wool scarf hoisted over the park’s Gertrude Stein statue. And she hosted a fashion show at the now-closed City Bakery, on West 18th Street near Fifth Avenue, where guests sipped hot chocolate while admiring knitwear from up-and-coming designers.

In recent years, Ms. Chin introduced an activist spirit to her shop, hosting “knit-ins,” in which people crammed inside in the weeks leading up to the Women’s March on Washington in January 2017 to weave hundreds of pink hats with cat ears for the Pussyhat Project. That fall, people gathered to learn how to make prosthetic knitted breasts for women who had undergone mastectomies. Ms. Chin also curated a panel on the history of “craftivism” in America.

“I don’t think that when I started the store I was thinking about the yarn; it was about the people in the yarn world,” Ms. Chin said last year in an interview with Considerable.com, adding that people “would not only come here once a week — they would come every day.”

Pearl Doris Lee was born on Aug. 14, 1949, aboard the SS President Wilson, a passenger ship that was on its way to San Francisco from China. (The ship was near Hawaii at the time.) Her father, Robert Foo Lee, was bringing his wife, Yuet (Fung Chin) Lee, back to America with him. The family settled in Houston and opened a grocery store. Pearl grew up working there with her brother and two sisters.

She attended Jefferson Davis High School in Houston (now Northside High School) and then studied at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where she earned a bachelor’s degree and then a master’s degree in education. Returning home to Houston for Christmas one year, she met Mr. Chin at a party, and they exchanged weekly letters for years before getting married in 1975.

After Ms. Chin graduated, she joined him in New York, where he was studying medicine at what is now Weill Cornell Medical College. She got a job as a computer programmer for Time Warner.

When she was pregnant with her daughter, she came across a copy of Barbara G. Walker’s “Learn-to-Knit Afghan Book” and caught the knitting bug. She also discovered origami, and her crafting passion grew. In the 1990s, as she raised two more children, she started a wholesale company, “A Thousand Cranes,” and began selling origami jewelry and greeting cards made from traditional Japanese washi paper. She initially ran the operation out of her kitchen until it grew.

Her knitting passion resurfaced some years later, when her daughter, Julie, then in her early 20s, became an avid knitter.

“She saw creativity as a beautiful thing,” Julie Chin said. “She saw creation as necessary to the human spirit.”

Her children have all worked in Knitty City and her son Zachary is now its manager.

In addition to her husband, son and daughter, Ms. Chin, who lived in Manhattan, is survived by another son, Derek; a brother, David; two sisters, Yvonne and Deborah; and a grandson.

When the coronavirus pandemic hit, Ms. Chin closed Knitty City just before New York City’s lockdown began in the spring. She learned she had cancer in August and was admitted last month to the intensive care unit at Tisch Hospital in Lower Manhattan, part of NYU Langone Health.

Knitty City reopened over the summer, again offering a balm to its customers in an anxious time.

Julie Chin said her mother had believed in the restorative effects of knitting.

“I think my mom saw it as therapy,” she said. “She knew that customers were coming in and just working something out.”


No.1 article:
Montreal police say no threat at Ubisoft offices after &#x27;hoax&#x27; 911 call

Police confirmed the large deployment on Twitter had started at about 1.30pm, but offered no details while urging people to “avoid the area” near St-Laurent Boulevard and St-Viateur Street in Montreal’s Mile-End neighbourhood, close to downtown. Police later updated in a statement that “no threat has been detected so far. No injuries were reported.”

Television images showed the streets around the old brick building cordoned off by heavily armed officers, and dozens of Ubisoft workers who appeared to have barricaded themselves on the rooftop.

A company employee reached by telephone told public broadcaster Radio-Canada that about 50 people were led to the rooftop terrace by managers who then barricaded the door leading to the stairwell with furniture.

The staffer said people were cold but in good spirits.

Others were seen being escorted out of the front entrance.

“Police officers were dispatched to the scene to respond to a 911 call,” a police spokesperson told AFP.

“The information has still not been validated,” the official said, adding that “officers specializing in this type of intervention are currently on the scene and are carrying out checks”.

“No injuries were reported.”

Ubisoft is best known for video game titles such as Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Siege, Far Cry and Assassin’s Creed.

About 4,000 people would normally be working at its Montreal offices but many have been teleworking during the Covid-19 pandemic.





No.2 article:
Three-tier restrictions in England ‘may not be enough’ to suppress virus after lockdown

England will face a resurgence of coronavirus cases before Christmas if the country returns to the tiering restrictions in place last month when the latest lockdown is over, government science advisers have warned.

The concern was raised in a consensus statement released on Friday in a batch of documents prepared by the outbreak modelling subgroup of Sage, the government’s expert advisory committee.

The consensus document, signed by modelling teams around the country, warns that while an initial analysis found the most stringent tier 3 restrictions had a “noticeable impact” on transmission, it was unclear whether the measures were sufficient to drive the pandemic into decline.

Scientific advisers called in September for a two-week “circuit breaker” and other interventions to contain the pandemic, three weeks before the prime minister announced the three-tier Covid alert levels. 

Immediately after the announcement, Prof Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, conceded that the most severe tier 3 restrictions would not be enough to drive the R below 1, although extra local interventions were meant to be added to the baseline measures. The R figure reflects the average number of people a person infected with coronavirus passes the disease on to.

Figures released by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) on Friday confirmed that the rate of increase in coronavirus infections has slowed across England, while according to Sage R remains marginally above 1, meaning the pandemic continues to grow. In its latest estimates, Sage reported the number of new cases was growing by 1% to 3% per day in the UK.

Written the day before the second lockdown came into force on 4 November, the consensus document goes on to warn: “The longer-term outlook depends on both the nature of non-pharmaceutical interventions that are implemented in England after 2 December and policies over the festive period. If England returns to the same application of the tiering system in place before 5 November, then transmission will return to the same rate of increase as today.”

Science advisers fully expect the lockdown to push R down over the remainder of the month, meaning that England should start December with fewer daily infections. 

If people adhere strictly to the lockdown rules, R should drop below 1, signalling that the pandemic has started to shrink, the consensus states. If sustained until 2 December, the number of hospitalisations and deaths would be expected to fall until at least the second week of December before they start to rise again, it adds.

But further measures beyond the tiers imposed before lockdown were expected to be necessary in December to prevent cases from rising again. According to the statement, even the top-level restrictions may not do enough to keep infections under control. 

“Initial analysis shows a clear effect from tier 3 interventions and much less from tiers 1 and 2. It is not yet clear whether tier 3 measures alone are sufficient to reduce the reproduction number below 1,” the document states.

Speaking before lockdown, Whitty said the tier system may need to be modified to make it more effective. That could involve tougher recommendations for the extra measures applied on top of the tier 3 baseline restrictions, or moving more regions into tier 2 or 3. Advances in mass testing may also help, advisers believe.

New models of the pandemic for the next six weeks which appear in the consensus statement show that without the November lockdown, daily hospital admissions may exceed those in the first wave by the start of December. By pushing R down to 0.8, the models suggest hospitalisations would fall steadily until the second week of December.

The latest estimate from Sage puts R between 1.0-1.2 for the UK and 1.1-1.2 for England, both down from 1.1-1.3 the week before. The numbers reflect the pandemic over the previous weeks, given the time lags in the range of data used. That means the apparent slowdown is driven less by the November lockdown than the restrictions in place before.

According to the ONS, about 1 in 85 people in the community in England – about 654,000 people – had coronavirus between 31 October and 6 November 2020, with about 47,700 new cases per day, although this does not include cases in settings such as universities or care homes. The previous week the survey suggested 618,700 people, or one in 90, had the virus, with a similar number of new cases per day.

But there were reasons for concern. The ONS figures mask stark variations in infection rates among different age groups. Among older teens and young adults, who bore the brunt of new infections after the summer, the proportion of those testing positive has fallen. In under-35s, infections seemed to be levelling off. 

But in older age groups – those most vulnerable to the virus – infections were still climbing. “Positivity rates continue to increase in those aged 35 years and over and are now above 1% among those aged 35 to 49 and 50 to 69 years,” the team writes. It will be some weeks before any slowdown in the spread of the disease, or even a potential future shrinking of the pandemic, is seen in the death toll.

Paul Hunter, professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia, said it was too early to know what drove the surge in new infections reported on Thursday. But he warned that if the rise was caused by people socialising more in the week before the new restrictions came into place, it could reduce the benefit of the lockdown.





No.3 article:
&#x27;Big cat&#x27; country? New Zealand&#x27;s obsession with giant feline sightings

Is there a pleasure in not knowing if the decades-old mystery about a cat prowling the country’s South Island is fact or fiction?

The photograph is disappointing. Blurry, as they all are. It shows a dark blob striding up a leafy trail in the distance. The size of the creature is hard to deduce, though the witness, an osteopath named Mark Orr who was out mountain-biking with friends in Hanmer Springs, said the animal was “about knee-height”, looked “very strong and quite stocky”, and “just had an aura about it”.

An aura. Almost all animals have auras, don’t they? Even feral cats, goats, wild pigs. While the mention of the aura seemed strange, it was also compelling. I want to believe.

Like a ransom note, the “big cat” is something we’ve pieced together with the scraps at hand – distant aerial shots of a creature seeming to slither up South Island hillsides; security camera footage in which, after several boring minutes, a black dot finally darts over a road; men yelping incredulously, “that’s not a cat!” as a cat lopes through the snow.

The people you’ll find in these regions aren’t just the cryptid hunters, conspiratorialists and bloggers of the paranormal. They are also ecologists, conservationists and other experts who have been trying to figure out what it is that people have been seeing around the New Zealand countryside since the 1960s.

So far, none of these experts are convinced that the big cat is anything but a feral cat, but this week the ecologist James Ross told RNZ that despite his skeptisim: “Definitely, they’ve seen something, it’s different, they’re not sure what it is.”

But these witnesses are sure. They know what they saw. “100% not a dog,” Orr said. Eyes “the size of 50 cent pieces,” said one man on who insists he’s seen it twice.

The reports have come from places such as Cromwell, Ashburton, Twizel and Marlborough. Last month a possum-hunter in North Canterbury said he’d seen a “monstrous” cat, about the size of a puma, and would never go into the bush alone again.

Last year, a couple from Picton said they were driving along state highway one at night when a “great, big, huge, black cat” bounded across the road in front of them and was lit up by their headlights.

Whenever there’s a new report, a small frenzy of further reports aren’t far behind. It’s as though the Big Cat unleashes something in us, some deep need to shake up what we think we know of the New Zealand wilderness, some primitive urge to stand on a rock looking into the distance with a furrowed brow, like Travis in Dean Koontz’s Watchers. (“We have a responsibility to stand watch over one another, we are watchers, all of us, watchers, guarding against the darkness.”)

Nothing unites a people like a long-running monster mystery, and at a time of global chaos and despair there is something almost wholesome about the idea of the big cat ambling around out there. Something poignant, too, in its utter solitude and otherness in this landscape. 

Of course, the big cat also unleashes lots of loud guffawing by naysayers. For a long time I guffawed too.

Look at the facts! This thing isn’t eating farm animals (though in his recent book New Zealand Mysteries true crime author Scott Bainbridge writes of “badly mauled sheep and mutilated rabbits, hare and birds”). Investigators haven’t found any droppings, footprints or hair that could belong to it. And New Zealand has strict border controls.

But my guffaws have begun to ring hollow. They are no longer enough. I admit, I am uncertain. “Bigfoot might well be ridiculous, but I can’t help but remain unsatisfied with the contention that we can reject phenomena on the basis of intuition or incredulity,” wrote zoologist Darren Naish in a 2014 review of Abominable Science, one of the definitive books on cryptids.

And while it’s true that at least some of these reports, surely, are a case of people seeing what they want to see – I am reminded of Sir Edmund Hillary’s search for the yeti, the artist’s impression of which looked uncannily like Sir Ed himself – some of the reports just feel too credible. The credibility has an aura. It is faint but it is unmistakably there, like the smell a cat sometimes gives off.

And isn’t there pleasure in not truly knowing? Many kinds of uncertainty in the world are awful, but this one is a delight.

“These creatures walk among us,” one eyewitness from a small Canterbury town intoned in 2016.

I want the Big Cat to live forever among us, eating whatever it eats, bounding across dark highways and slinking through the snow, a beautiful, absurd, jet-black coded message of the New Zealand wilderness.





No.4 article:
Five alleged sorcery-related deaths – including the hanging of a 13-year-old boy - in a single week in one Papua New Guinea province, has revived a nationwide angst over the persistent crime of alleged witchcraft killings.

In the highland villages and the lowland towns of Papua New Guinea, it is the crime that everybody knows about, that many see, but that few can, or do, anything to stop.

Those who survive it are left disfigured: limbs shattered and missing, faces scarred and swollen, souls forever damaged.

Those are the lucky ones, the survivors, the few who live. Most do not.

Five alleged sorcery-related deaths – including the hanging of a 13-year-old boy - in a single week in one Papua New Guinea province, has revived a nationwide angst over the persistent crime of alleged witchcraft killings.

In PNG’s remote East Sepik region, in the north of New Guinea island, a woman and a teenaged school student were allegedly murdered in the village of Gavien. A 13-year-old boy from the same village was allegedly kidnapped before his body was found hanged.

Three people have been charged with wilful murder over those deaths that police say are believed to be related to accusations of sorcery. Those charged have not yet entered a plea in court.

The regional police commander, Superintendent Albert Beli, said the alleged murders were believed to be related to a death earlier this year in the neighbouring village of Angoram, about 15km away.

“A man died from an illness [in February in Angoram],” Beli told the National newspaper. “After that people started accusing and killing each other.”

Unrelated, a man and his son were killed at Suanum outside the provincial capital Wewak the same week. Police have alleged their deaths were also linked to sorcery allegations.

Sorcery deaths are murders where the victims are accused of practicing some sort of witchcraft, often on a neighbouring family or village, resulting in death, illness or bad luck.

In 2013, Papua New Guinea repealed its controversial Sorcery Act, passing a new law that mandated that all killings related to sorcery accusations would be treated as murder.

However, since the new law was passed, no perpetrator of an alleged sorcery-related killing has ever been convicted of murder.

Sorcery violence – known as Sorcery Accusation Related Violence, or SARV – is intractably persistent in PNG, and little is done to address the issue, Lutheran missionary Anton Lutz, based in Enga, told the Guardian.

“Papua New Guineans’ ideas about sanguma [black magic or witchcraft] and sorcery are regionally diverse, logically contradictory, change over time, and spread to new places and people where they mix with other pre-existing beliefs.”

“And they are used to justify their illegal violence against vulnerable people,” he said.

The killings are often unspeakably violent. Women, and most victims are women, are gang-raped, beaten and burned. They are butchered with knives.

In July last year, reports emerged from the highlands village of Karida of the slaughter of 10 women, six children and two unborn babies, hacked to death with machetes. Their murders followed the killing of three women and four men in a neighbouring village the day before. The dual atrocities sent hundreds of people fleeing into the surrounding bushland.

While the brutality shocked Papua New Guinea, and generated insistence from the country’s political class that practice would be stamped out, mass-scale attacks – particularly on women accused of sorcery – persist.

Last month, in the Southern Highlands’ Pimaga district, 17 women were forcibly rounded up and allegedly tortured after a young boy was bitten by a dog and died. The women were found by police and released back into the community.

But the director of operations for the PNG Tribal Foundation, Ruth Kissam, said there was a real risk the women would be attacked again.

“The community is protecting their own and will protect their own.”

Often associated with PNG’s remote highlands, sorcery killings are allegedly occurring in lowland provinces too.

Milne Bay Police provincial commander, Peter Barkie, told the Guardian SARV occurred regularly, was widely known about, but rarely went unreported.

“The belief here about sorcery is so intense that they kill anyone they suspect is practicing it, but the practice here is different from that in Southern Highlands where women are beaten and tortured before being burnt alive.”

He said men, women and even children were accused. “They just slaughter them, no torture, no burning.

“But what is frightening about the practice here is that the first-born child of the person accused is also killed because they believe it is passed from the parent to the first-born child.”

Barkie cited a recent case earlier this year in Milne Bay, where a woman who had seen her father murdered 10 years ago after he was accused of practicing sorcery, was hacked to death with machetes. It is widely believed that the reason she was killed was that she was the eldest child of the accused sorcerer.

Barkie said there were few official police reports made by victims or their families, “perhaps because they are afraid of the perpetrators turning on them and their families”.

“But it is happening.”

The governor of Oro province, Gari Juffa, told the Guardian that PNG’s persistent sorcery-related violence was a “red-flag” the country was regressing, rather than progressing. He said the violence targeted those already most vulnerable.

“Sorcery related violence stems from poor education, lack of awareness, limited opportunities coupled with deteriorating capacity for law and order and a lack of political will.”

Police minister Bryan Kramer said SARV had “no place in our society” and said police were working to rescue those accused of sorcery and intervene in violence. In June in Tulum village in the Southern Highlands, three women were allegedly tortured by their relatives for sorcery. They were freed by police and the military, acting on a tip-off.

“If not for the intervention of the police and soldiers, the women would have been killed,” Kramer said.

Kramer said the government’s 2015 SARV national action plan was designed to counter the problem through counselling, legal protection and prosecution, improved children protection mechanisms, advocacy and education.





No.5 article:
Brazil: congresswoman and friend of slain politician Marielle Franco flees following death threats

Talíria Petrone goes into hiding after claims members of Rio’s paramilitary underworld want her dead

A Brazilian congresswoman who was friends with the slain politician Marielle Franco has fled Rio de Janeiro after an alleged plot to kill her was uncovered.

Talíria Petrone, a black feminist activist who is one of the new faces of the Brazilian left, said she had gone into hiding after claims members of Rio’s paramilitary underworld wanted her dead.

“It’s outrageous. My family is caught up in this. I’ve got a five-month-old daughter. It’s frightening to be forced to abandon the area that elected me carrying my daughter in my arms,” Petrone told the Guardian.

“Politically, it’s unacceptable that my freedom be curtailed like this. It’s one of the clearest demonstrations of how Brazilian democracy is in bad shape,” she added.

Petrone was a close friend and colleague of Franco, a favela-born campaigner and city councillor who was shot dead in March 2018 for reasons that remain murky. Two former policemen are awaiting trial for that murder, which shocked the world and cast light on the increasingly powerful paramilitary gangs allegedly responsible.

A report in the magazine Veja claimed the plot against Petrone was detected earlier this year after an anonymous tipoff to an anti-crime hotline. The informant claimed the masterminds were “milicianos”, as members of Rio’s paramilitary gangs are known.

Petrone said civil and federal police were investigating: “As a lawmaker and Brazilian citizen I hope to be able to return home as soon as possible … I want to fulfill my democratic mandate. I don’t want to be murdered. I want to see my daughter grow up.”

Petrone was born in Niterói, a city near Rio, and became a local councillor in 2016, the same year Franco was elected. She was elected to Brazil’s congress in 2018, vowing to fight for black, LGBT and women’s rights and seek justice for her murdered friend.

Petrone said she had received threats for years “but we didn’t grasp the scale of the danger until my friend Marielle was murdered”.

“After Marielle was killed I never rode my bike again, I never went to the bakery without bodyguards. I use a bulletproof car. It’s appalling and ridiculous that a mother and a black woman must go through this for being in politics,” she said.

Petrone’s escape comes amid growing unease over the strength of the militias. A recent study claimed such groups, which survive off extortion, controlled 57.5% of Rio’s territory, a far greater portion than the drug factions made notorious by films such as Fernando Meirelles’ City of God and José Padilha’s Elite Squad.

Their tentacles also reach deep into the world of politics. In a new book on the milícias, the security expert Bruno Paes Manso called them “the foremost threat” to democracy in Rio.





No.6 article:
Jerry Rawlings obituary

In May 1979, Flt Lt Rawlings of the Ghanaian air force burst on to the country’s political scene. With a handful of officers, he launched an unsuccessful coup d’etat against a corrupt and discredited military government headed by Gen Fred Akuffo, shortly before a planned election.

Rawlings was part of a radical underground organisation in the military called the Free Africa Movement. They were mainly young men, and dreamed of a united African continent free of a generation of discredited corrupt leaders close to the European colonial governments and western business interests that dominated so much of the postcolonial landscape.

Predictably, the coup failed, and Rawlings was arrested and condemned to death in a military trial. But his blunt statements on the country’s urgent need for a new era of social, political and economic justice had fired up his peers, and on 4 June 1979 a group of soldiers forcibly released him from prison before he could be executed.

Within weeks his Armed Forces Revolutionary Council declared a war on corruption, especially among the powerful military, and carried out the public execution by firing squad of three former military heads of state, including Akuffo, and four other senior generals. These violent events caused an unprecedented earthquake in Ghanaian political and social life. But, extraordinarily, after 112 days elections went ahead and a civilian government, headed by Hilla Limann, a respected judge, ended the long run of military rule.

However, only two years later Rawlings led the ousting of Limann and his People’s National party in a New Year’s Eve coup. Chairman Rawlings, of his Provisional National Defence Council, declared this was “not a coup, but a revolution”, and promised to “transform the social and economic order” of the country, speaking of “holy war” and of giving power to the people.

Born in Accra, Jerry was the son of Victoria Agbotui, an Ewe from Keta, and James John, an expat chemist from Castle Douglas, Kirkcudbrightshire. John refused to recognise his son – possibly a factor in many of Jerry’s character traits.

He was educated at St Joseph’s Catholic primary school then Achimota college in Accra. In 1967 he joined the military academy at Teshie, before moving on to the air force the following year. There, he became the best cadet at flying jets and excelled at aerobatics. He graduated in 1969 and was made a flight lieutenant in 1978.

By 1980, with 10 years of military life behind him, Rawlings had become a charismatic and fearless speaker who was wildly popular among the young soldiers and a militant, impoverished urban working class. At that moment of dramatic and growing economic crisis, and glaring inequality across the continent, he seized the imagination of many well beyond west Africa. He soon had an enthusiastic following in several African countries, both personally as well as for the new PNDC regime’s promises of bold economic and social reform, and of an anti-imperialist foreign policy reminiscent of that of Ghana’s first president after independence, Kwame Nkrumah (1960-66).

Cuba’s leadership seized the moment to rekindle the old relationship from the Nkrumah era and offered support, especially in health and education, opening a school in Cuba for Ghanaian children on the Island of Youth, alongside the schools for children from the liberation movements of Angola, Mozambique, Namibia and Ethiopia. This catapulted the young flight lieutenant in his military overalls into a political axis during a polarised moment of cold war face-offs with Ronald Reagan, who became president of the US the month of Rawlings’ PNDC coup.

Ghana’s government was close to Angola’s, then under clandestine military assault from Washington allied with apartheid South Africa. Rawlings was also deeply involved with another charismatic military figure, who took power in a coup in 1983 to launch a revolution – Thomas Sankara of Burkina Faso.

Ghana’s old-guard political establishment and the middle class bitterly opposed Rawlings’ alliances, plans and rhetoric, and sought his overthrow. Three major plots against his regime were uncovered in the first two years, with the US, UK and Dutch governments implicated. In the mid 80s an embarrassing scandal erupted for the US when a CIA employee in Ghana, Sharon Scranage, gave the names of a number of Ghanaians working for the CIA to a Ghanaian intelligence officer. They were stripped of their citizenship and deported to the US for resettlement.

However, he was supported in the tumultuous early years by many intellectuals and academics, putting forward an ambitious economic recovery programme for the country seeking a fairer deal from multinational companies and institutions; transforming the media; and seeding people’s and workers’ defence committees through urban areas in a huge effort of education and mobilisation to consolidate long-term political change. Rawlings, who had a brilliant, populist touch, appeared, too, in remote rural areas, promising change.

But little of that early exuberance lasted, and before long Rawlings’ Ghana had opted to become the IMF’s star pupil for the neoliberal growth model that defined policy across Africa. Talk of revolution ended and some of Rawlings’ key early allies found themselves in jail; others left the country. Repression magnified the disillusion.

By 1992 Rawlings was ready to resign from the military and take up civilian politics at the head of a new party, the National Democratic Congress. He sought personal acceptance in political circles, but never really gained it. However, under a new constitution, multiparty, multi-ethnic politics flourished, Rawlings as the incumbent won two terms in office, and the NDC oversaw an average growth rate of 4.7% a year up to the end of his era in 2001. To his credit, he made no attempt, as other leaders on the continent and elsewhere have, to change the constitution and prolong his term.

Under Rawlings’ leadership Ghana moved decisively towards becoming the middle-income country it is today, unrecognisable from the shambles of the corrupt and incompetent military governments that preceded him. It is unrecognisable, too, from young Rawlings’ own dreams of a more equal society and an African independence that Nkrumah incarnated and which saw him ousted from power by the British and the Americans and into death in exile.

After stepping down following a peaceful and democratic change of government, Rawlings was given a succession of international roles by a fellow Ghanaian, the then UN secretary general, Kofi Annan. He led a campaign against malaria in Africa, and was African Union envoy to Somalia. Rawlings was probably most at ease however with his involvement with the Thomas Sankara Foundation, which he headed, in memory of the ideals of his friend, assassinated in 1987.

He is survived by his wife, Nana Konadu Agyeman, whom he married in 1977, three daughters, Zanetor, Yaa Asantewaa and Amina, and a son, Kimathi.

• Jerry John Rawlings, political leader, born 22 June 1947; died 12 November 2020

• This article was amended on 15 November 2020 to correct the date of Kwame Nkrumah’s presidency, which ended in 1966, not 1964 as previously stated. A reference to Jerry Rawlings flying “supersonic” jets while an air cadet was amended, and the series of events in 1979 was clarified.





No.7 article:
If anyone thought this summer’s protests would be the end of the movement these five young protesters have different ideas

The killing of George Floyd by a white police officer was the catalyst for widespread anti-racist protests in the US this summer. Though Floyd’s death took place thousands of miles away, the cry for racial justice was felt deeply in the UK. Britons stood up against racism, declaring support in their thousands for the Black Lives Matter movement via a succession of passionate protests.

More than 260 towns and cities held protests in June and July – from Monmouth in south Wales to Shetland in Scotland. British historians described them as the largest anti-racism rallies since the slavery era and at the heart of many of these protests was a new generation of young black Britons.

Although the protests were inspired by the movement in the US, the protesters’ anger was rooted in the British experience. They carried handmade placards with the names of Mark Duggan, Sean Rigg, Sheku Bayoh and others killed by British police. They chanted for the Windrush generation and the victims of the Grenfell Tower fire, and decried the high Covid-19 death rate among members of the BAME community.

In a groundbreaking series in August, titled Young, British and Black, the Guardian interviewed 50 protesters, from Glasgow to Newcastle and Abergavenny to Falmouth, on what inspired them to organise the country’s biggest anti-racism rallies for centuries. As well as citing the painful experiences of growing up black in the UK, they said they were fighting for a radically more equal society.

We catch up with five protesters to find out what has happened since and where the movement for racial equality goes next.

A student and co-organiser of one of the first UK Black Lives Matter protests in May, Natasha has since helped found All Black Lives. It is a youth-led campaign, with a group who held Black Lives Matter protests every Sunday for 10 weeks in several major UK cities. All Black Lives was behind the march through Bristol in June when demonstrators toppled a statue of the slave trader Edward Colston.

“Since the spring, we’ve managed to ride the momentum to form established teams in London, Manchester, Bristol and Birmingham,” says Natasha. They have been working to get their message across on social media, holding several panels throughout Black History Month, and producing informative videos. “There’s even talk of venturing into politics,” she says.

All Black Lives has a number of demands, which include the abolition of the Metropolitan police’s gang violence matrix and changing the school curriculum to include more black history.

But its struggles go beyond the UK. “We’ve been doing a lot of protests with EndSARS [a movement against Nigeria’s special anti-robbery squad],” says Natasha.

Over the past six months, Natasha says she has become more resilient. “I’ve learned so much, but I’m always keen on learning more … If you learn how the house is built, you’re going to know how to dismantle it.”

On the day the Young, British and Black series was first published, Benitha Iradukunda was shocked to find her face on the front page of the paper. “My university saw it and mentioned it on their social media and my old high school teachers messaged me sending well wishes,” she says.

Iradukunda was one of the organisers behind the Black Lives Matter rallies in Edinburgh. The group is now setting up a charity, the African Caribbean Society for Scotland, to support the black community in a range of issues, from health and education to economic empowerment. The organisation has held online Black History Month events, including a series of interviews and a DJ set.

“I’ve also started a podcast called Speak Your Truth, which features conversations with black people in the Scottish community,” says Iradukunda. “A lot of people think activism should be a really big in-your-face thing, but there are little things you can do, like have conversations.”

She also feels that the Black Lives Matter movement has helped shift discussions about racism in the UK, which have tended to focus on the south of the country.

“People down south are always shocked that black people live in Scotland. They don’t realise how big the community is here,” she says. “We’re 1% in Scotland, but we’re very present”

After participating in protests in Northampton, Tré Ventour was invited to London to take part in a Black Lives Matter panel event. While he is excited by the broadening interest in black British history, he feels there is more to be done.

“When we celebrate black people in Black History Month, it’s very much ‘acceptable’ black people, like Walter Tull. So when we do black history are we acknowledging the diversity of black lives? I am not sure we are,” he says. Ventour also wants the focus to include black LGBT history and is keen for the movement to have a conversation about intersectionality. “When you look at blackness in the context of LGBT, specifically trans people, they are victims of not just police violence, but violence in general.”

He admits he was surprised at the number of people who rose up and joined the Black Lives Matter protests. “So many more people care than I thought,” he says. “The protests have shown there is still community in Britain, despite everything. In places like Northampton, I think that’s really important.”

Since the protests, many people have congratulated 17-year-old Lexia Richardson for speaking about her experience of growing up and going to school in a predominantly white area. “I think a lot of people I work with didn’t realise how much racism I had been through,” she says.

Several black and Muslim people got in touch with Richardson to tell her they had gone through similar things.

She is currently working on a Black Lives Matter project for the school where she was previously a pupil and wants to ensure conversations on racism in the UK continue. At her sixth form college, she is happy to hear people discussing the protests and whether the movement is needed in the UK. But she is most proud of the impact she has had at home.

“Getting my voice heard has helped my younger siblings,” she says. “They feel like it’s OK to follow in my pattern. My 11-year-old brother made a movie about BLM to show to his class. I thought: ‘Wow, I could have never done that at that age.’”

Shekinah Swamba, who works part-time in Waitrose, has had customers ask if she was the one that organised Black Lives Matter protests in the area. “A branch manager approached me and said well done. We sat down and had a chat. He wanted to know what he could do in our branch. I gave him some suggestions, such as mentoring,” she says. John Lewis and Waitrose announced a mentorship scheme soon after; through it, Swamba is paired up with a woman in Liverpool.

Swamba has since helped set up the Local Equality Commission, which works to combat racial and economic inequality in rural communities. “My role is a mentorship programmer,” she says. “I want to create an environment where people can be supported in various disciplines and have their voices heard on all matters of interest.”

She has also met with her local MP and taken part in panel discussions. “Up until June, I never felt confident to say that I moved schools because I received a lot of racism; I always dodged the question,” she says. “Now I feel more confident in myself and I have got a lot more self-belief.”





No.8 article:
MyMilitia users have posted threats against protesters and lawmakers, and experts say it’s a dangerous recruitment tool

Pressure is mounting on tech companies to ban MyMilitia, a website used by far-right extremists and armed groups to organize, after it was linked to threats of violence against US protesters and lawmakers this week.

On Tuesday, police arrested Brian Maiorana after he allegedly posted online threats targeting Chuck Schumer, the Democratic minority leader in the US Senate, and threatened to “blow up” the FBI. Maiorana is also alleged to have used MyMilitia, as well as an unnamed mainstream social media platform, to make threats to kill protesters and discussed building his own weapons, according to the complaint. Maiorana, a registered sex offender, is barred from legally purchasing firearms.

The arrest has put more pressure on internet companies that control the infrastructure supporting MyMilitia, including GoDaddy and Cloudflare to ban the platform from their services.

“This is a very dangerous game they are playing, giving people the ability to recruit extremist militias during a perilous political time in our country,” said Matt Rivitz, the co-founder of the online activism and anti-bigotry group Sleeping Giants. “It is shocking to see these companies not only supporting but actively monetizing themselves off of it.”

MyMilitia was first registered with GoDaddy in 2016 by Ohio conservative Chad Embrey, according to internet hosting records reviewed by the Guardian. The website is one of several domains Embrey has bought related to the militia movement. Embrey’s expressed goals for the website include changing the “negative perception” of militias and assisting communities “from all threats foreign or domestic”.

The site further rose to prominence after a man named Michael Hari and other members of his Illinois-based militia allegedly bombed a mosque in Bloomington, Minnesota, and appealed on MyMilitia for others around the country to rally to their defense.

As of early October, the site had at least 20,000 users organizing more than 530 militia groups in the US, according to a report from Vice. It’s also becoming more popular. The site totaled 69,461 visits in October 2020, up 322.6% from October 2019 at 16,437, according to web traffic analytics firm SimilarWeb.

Embrey did not respond to a request for comment. Josh Ellis, whom Embrey sold the site to in April, told the Guardian that MyMilitia has aims of “helping American citizens to create strong organized constitutional militias in every town throughout the USA”.

“Anyone who is against that idea and is requesting to have MyMilitia removed from the internet is an enemy of the USA, an enemy of freedom, and an enemy of every patriotic American citizen,” he said.

The site is particularly dangerous because its explicit purpose is to recruit members and move their activities offline, said Talia Lavin, the author of Culture Warlords: My Journey Into the Dark Web of White Supremacy. MyMilitia has a feature, for example, called “area code militias”, which recruits for hyper-local groups by area code. The website has grown in popularity after Facebook began to crack down more forcefully on militia activity in recent weeks, she added.

“It is very useful to the movement to have websites like this feeding into offline activity,” Lavin said. “These groups are explicitly used to recruit militias, calling for people to be armed, and fomenting civil unrest in their communities.”

In addition to forums for organizing militias, the website has an extensive library of pdfs purporting to be manuals from US army forces on sniper training and other gun operations, and a treatise outlining justifications and strategies for an insurgency in the US. Recent posts include examinations of the short-term prospect of civil war and discussions of election fraud.

PayPal and Venmo banned MyMilitia this week from using their services to raise money, after an outcry online accused tech companies of facilitating violence through their platforms. The website is now raising funds using an account on CashApp, which is owned by Twitter’s CEO, Jack Dorsey, as well as self-described Christian crowdfunding site GiveSendGo. GiveSendGo said the militia does not violate its terms of service and it plans to continue hosting MyMilitia fundraising. CashApp did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

The domain name for MyMilitia is registered with GoDaddy, and the site itself is hosted through FluidHosting, a Pennsylvania-based cloud server. Neither company responded to request for comment. GoDaddy’s terms of service explicitly ban activity that “promotes encourages or engages in terrorism, violence against people, animals, or property”, but the company has yet to remove the page despite many cited examples of such conduct.

Rivitz pointed out the site runs ads through a partnership with Google Ads, meaning Google is profiting from MyMilitia and companies advertising with Google may be unwittingly advertising their products next to controversial or violent content.

“This is a case of Google going against its own terms of service in and putting their advertisers at risk,” he said. A spokeswoman from Google told the Guardian the company is reviewing the site to see if it violates policies.

“We do not allow ads to run on content that incites violence or hatred,” she said. “This is a longstanding policy, which we enforce vigorously.”.

Cloudflare, which is providing online security to the site, did not respond to request for comment. In 2019, the company cut off services to the far-right message board 8chan, following a public outcry after it was used to post the manifesto of the attacker behind the El Paso mass shooting.

Nandini Jammi, who co-founded the activism group Sleeping Giants and now runs a service that monitors brand safety online, said in the absence of action from host sites like these, she is pursuing other ways to pressure MyMilitia offline. She said users on the site are “extremely violent”.

“The companies need to do everything in their power to remedy the situation,” Jammi said.

MyMilitia’s website runs on a software licensed to them by a company called Invision. Following pressure from Jammi and others, the creator of Invision revoked MyMilitia’s permissions to use the software. But the site is still up, and still using it. Jammi and others are now pressuring the owner of Invision to take legal action to force MyMilitia offline for violating their contract.

Activists have attempted to take MyMilitia offline by going after its financial base, such as PayPal, its infrastructure such as GoDaddy and Cloudflare, and its software. These efforts show just how many actors are involved in keeping the forum online – and how many tech companies are complicit in its existence, Lavin said.

“If you are enabling these websites, you are enabling civil war,” she said. “These tech companies need to decide where they stand, and by not acting, they already have.”





No.9 article:
Record daily infections in Germany; Naples hospitals at risk of being overwhelmed; France reports slowdown in rate of new cases

Germany’s partial lockdown could be extended beyond the end of the month and hospitals in parts of Italy are near breaking point as Covid-19 cases continued to surge in both countries, despite positive signs elsewhere in Europe.

New daily coronavirus cases in Germany hit a record of 23,542 on Friday, the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases reported, prompting government spokesman Stefan Seibert to say measures “were not expected to be relaxed” by next week.

Federal and regional leaders are due to meet on Monday to discuss whether the country’s closure of all gyms and entertainment venues has slowed the disease’s spread, but the health minister, Jens Spahn, said it was too early to say.

“We will see in the next few days whether they are making a difference,” Spahn said. Winter gatherings and festivities such as office Christmas parties were in any event unlikely to go ahead.

Christmas markets, traditional St Martin’s Day parades and Germany’s carnival season, which should have started this week, have all been cancelled, while more than 300,000 school pupils are in quarantine along with about 30,000 teachers.

The southern Italian city of Naples, meanwhile, was braced for further restrictions as hospitals risked becoming overwhelmed by new cases, with medics forced to bring oxygen tanks outside to treat desperate patients waiting in their cars.

“The situation in Campania is out of control,” the Italian foreign minister, Luigi Di Maio, said after a video emerged showing an 84-year-old man dead in a hospital bathroom where he had been waiting for a Covid test. “We need urgent restrictions… people are dying.”

Hundreds of people from Campania have been travelling to neighbouring Lazio in search of urgent medical help as political wrangling continues over whether to impose a total lockdown in the region.

Campania is expected to be upgraded to the “red zone” from Sunday, meaning people will have to stay home unless going out for work, shopping or medical reasons, and bars, restaurants and most shops will close.

Italy’s alternative approach to the crippling nationwide lockdown it imposed during the first wave this spring has had little apparent success so far, with total infections passing the million mark this week and cases rising at more than 30,000 a day.

Confirmed cases in Portugal pushed past 200,000 with new daily infections reaching a record high of 6,653 and a new record of 2,799 Covid patients in hospital. A state of emergency due to last until 23 November is likely to be extended.

“When we reach the peak of the disease, it will still take weeks to see a drop in demand for hospitals and even more weeks to reduce the fatality count,” the health minister, Marta Temido, told a news conference.

The French prime minister, Jean Castex, on Friday said upcoming regional elections due in March should be delayed until June, a day after confirming the country’s two week-old lockdown would not be eased for at least another fortnight.

While the rate of increase continues to slow significantly, France has the fourth highest number of confirmed cases in the world, at almost 1.9 million, and the number of people in hospital with the coronavirus has reached a new all-time high of 32,638.

Castex said France could start to loosen restrictions from 1 December providing case numbers continue to fall, first by allowing non-essential shops to re-open. But bars and restaurants would not be permitted to resume operating until later still, he said.

Several European countries including France, Belgium, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic and Ireland have reported a slowdown in new infections since introducing strict new measures last month, but hospital services remain under severe pressure.

Ireland’s prime minister, Micheál Martin, said on Friday the country may embark on a staged approach after 1 December, with the aim of having restrictions eased by the run-up to Christmas “because I do get that people will want to meet with family”.

Elsewhere, however, infections continue to soar. Sweden recorded a record 5,990 new cases on Friday, its highest since the start of the pandemic, the national health agency said, as well as 42 new deaths taking its overall toll to 6,164.

The Scandinavian country, which has a Covid death tally per million inhabitants many times higher than its Nordic neighbours, is battling a second wave that health officials had hoped its light-touch, anti-lockdown approach would mitigate.

Russia, which has the world’s fifth largest number of cases, also reported a record 21,983 infections as Moscow prepared to close restaurants, bars and nightclubs on Friday between 11pm and 6am until mid-January in an effort to contain the pandemic.

Officials warned of raids and fines for establishments that do not comply. The capital has also moved university and college students to online learning and recommended that school children, already learning from home, keep travel to a minimum.

Beyond Europe, the virus is returning to New York City after it was in effect banished over the summer, with the city’s seven-day average of positive Covid-19 tests climbing to 2.6% on 11 November.

The governor, Andrew Cuomo, urged New Yorkers to “do their part” and “take this seriously” as officials started rolling back some reopenings, prompting fears of more dramatic lockdowns loom and possibly schools closures.





No.10 article:
Country recognises Democratic candidate defeated Donald Trump almost a week after result declared

China has extended congratulations to the US president-elect, Joe Biden, becoming one of the last countries to acknowledge his electoral victory over Donald Trump.

On Friday, nearly a week after Biden was declared the winner, foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin commended the Democratic candidate and his running mate, Kamala Harris.

“We respect the choice of the American people. We extend congratulations to Mr Biden and Ms Harris,” he said at a regular press briefing. “We understand the results of the US election will be determined according to US laws and procedures.”

The comments stand in contrast to when the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, personally congratulated Trump on his 2016 win the day after the election, and highlight uncertainty in ties between the two global powers.

Observers say the delay is probably the result of Beijing treading with caution as Trump refuses to concede the election. The US-China relationship has reached its lowest point in decades and there appears to be tentative optimism that tensions will ease slightly under a new administration.

In a speech earlier this week, the US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, said the White House was “not finished yet” with tough measures on China. Describing the ruling Chinese Communist party as a “Marxist-Leninist monster”, he vowed to continue pressing China for change.

Trump, with two months left in his term, signed an executive order on Thursday barring US investment in some Chinese firms with military links. In a radio interview on Thursday, Pompeo said Taiwan, which Beijing claims is part of its territory, “has not been part of China”. The remarks prompted Beijing to threaten “a resolute counterattack”.

The US has also criticised Beijing for passing legislation enabling the immediate disqualification of four pro-democracy lawmakers in Hong Kong, triggering a mass resignation of opposition figures in the legislature. In a statement on Thursday, Beijing said the measure was “the right medicine” for Hong Kong, in order to “start a new chapter ensuring smooth operation” of the legislature.





No.11 article:
&#x27;All of Peru is fired up&#x27;: protesters fill streets after ousting of president

The clashes, and other more peaceful protests in the capital Lima and other cities, are piling pressure on a fragmented congress and the new government of Manuel Merino. Thursday night’s rallies were among the largest in two decades in Peru.

Vizcarra, a politically unaffiliated centrist who is popular with voters, was forced out of power on Monday in an impeachment trial over unproven allegations he received bribes, accusations he denies.

Merino, a member of the center-right Popular Action party who had been congress head, swore in his new cabinet on Thursday and called for calm.

Peru’s national human rights coordinator said there were journalists among the 11 wounded on Thursday. A Lima hospital said at least two people had been injured by rubber bullets.

Riot police were seen using rubber bullets and teargas to disperse large groups of protesters on Thursday night in Lima.

“All of Peru is fired up, we’re all very angry,” said José Vega, a protester in Lima, where some carried banners comparing Merino to the coronavirus pandemic and saying he did not represent them.

“They treat us poorly. We’ve only come to protest against injustice … We are all feeling pain. So, I’m saying to everyone let’s not give up.“

Vizcarra oversaw an anti-graft campaign that led to frequent clashes with congress in a country that has a history of political upheaval and corruption.

The crisis precipitated by his departure has rattled the world’s No 2 copper producer and seen its sol currency hit 18-year lows.

International human rights groups have expressed concern about use of force by police against protesters and the Organization of American States has called for Peru’s constitutional court to give clarity to the situation.

“We’re in the streets spontaneously and peacefully defending Peruvian democracy from an abuse by congress,” said Gino Costa, a lawmaker from the progressive Morado party who joined Thursday’s protests. 





No.12 article:
US officials warn of tens of thousands more Covid deaths in coming weeks

In a national forecast, published on Thursday, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) predicted that within the next four weeks, deaths could climb as high as 282,000.

This would be a significant rise on the current death toll, which as of Thursday stood at 242,423, according to Johns Hopkins university figures.

It came amid warnings of PPE and hospital bed shortages in the midwest and as the US again saw a new record for cases, with 153,496 recorded on Thursday alone, bringing the total to over 10.5m.

“This week’s national ensemble forecast predicts that the number of newly reported Covid-19 deaths will likely increase over the next four weeks,” the CDC forecast said.

In the week ending 5 December alone, it predicted that 5,500 to 13,400 people would die. It added: “The national ensemble predicts that a total of 260,000 to 282,000 Covid-19 deaths will be reported by this date.”

On the same day, California became the second US state to top 1m cases. This followed a day after Texas also reached the landmark figure.

Hospitalisations also reached a new record high on Thursday, according to the Covid Tracking Project, with 67,000 people in hospital with the virus. It also reported that cases are rising faster than at any other point in the pandemic, with a 71% increase in the 7-day average compared to two weeks before.

The tracker also found that one in every 378 US residents tested positive for Covid-19 this week. And in North and South Dakota, among the worst affected states, one in under 100 people have tested positive.

States warned of a desperate shortage of hospital beds in the midwest amid a huge surge in the region.

Minnesota governor Tim Walz said there was a “catastrophic” shortage of beds in the Twin Cities, where there were only 22 ICU beds available, reported the Washington Post. State health officials said beds were at 90-95% capacity.Health officials in Wisconsin said just 8% of its ICU beds are available.

Deputy secretary of Wisconsin’s department of health services, Julie Willems Van Dijk, said: “Covid-19 is everywhere in our state. It is bad everywhere, and it is getting worse everywhere.”

Illinois governor JB Pritzker suggested the state may go into lockdown. “We’re running out of time and we’re running out of options,” he said. In Chicago, mayor Lori Lightfoot has issued a stay-at-home order, set to begin on Monday. Residents are advised only to leave home for work, school or essential needs.

Meanwhile, in South Dakota one hospital system has said it is not beds, but staffing, that is the problem, which it said was at “stressed capacity” state-wide amid a national shortage of nurses.

In North Dakota, where there are healthcare staffing concerns, governor, Doug Burgum, has said asymptomatic healthcare workers with Covid-19 will be allowed to continue working in Covid-19 hospital units.

There are also fears of PPE shortages for healthcare workers, as N95 mask producers struggle to keep up with demand.

Elsewhere in the country, Pennsylvania reported its highly daily increase, New Jersey reached its highest hospitalisation rate since June and Utah, which has a positivity rate of 23%, hit a new record for cases and its hospital association warned that the state was running out of intensive care beds.

In New York, where the positivity rate on Thursday was 2.95% and saw 29 new deaths, governor Andrew Cuomo said the next few weeks would be crucial. “There is no pre-destined future here. It’s a pure consequence of our actions,” he said.

New restrictions come in across the state on Friday including restaurant and bar closures by 10pm.

Dr Anthony Fauci, America’s top infectious disease expert, urged Americans to “double down” on precautions such as mask-wearing and avoiding crowds in order to avoid a national lockdown and urged the public to “hang in there” for a vaccine, which he pledged would come in the coming months.

“The cavalry is coming. We’re going to get this under control, I promise you,” he told ABC on Thursday.





No.13 article:
Violent extremism linked to failure of migrants to integrate, EU says

Reference to Islam removed from EU governments’ declaration after disagreements

The rise of violent extremism in Europe has been linked to the failure of migrants to integrate, in a hard-debated joint declaration by EU governments on the recent terror attacks.

The statement by EU home affairs ministers was described by Horst Seehofer, Germany’s interior minister, as a “great sign of solidarity” when delivered on Friday but it had been heavily watered down from a controversial initial draft.

After a week of disagreements over the contents of the proposed declaration pushed by France, Austria and Germany, references to Islam were removed along with demands for newcomers to learn the languages of their new home and “earn a living for oneself”.

The EU capitals nevertheless highlighted the need to improve social cohesion in Europe as part of its reaction to a spate of terrorist murders in Paris, Dresden, Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, Nice and Vienna.

“Integration is a two-way street,” the declaration said. “This means that migrants are expected to make an active effort to become integrated, while help in this regard is important.”

The statement issued on the fifth anniversary of the attacks in Paris, in the Bataclan theatre and outside the Stade de France offered few new policy initiatives.

Talk of sanctions against those who fail to integrate was removed and replaced with a softer warning to NGOs found to be breaking the law.

“Organisations that do not act in accordance with relevant legislation and support content that is contrary to fundamental rights and freedoms should not be supported by public funding, neither on national nor on European level,” the statement said. “Also, the undesirable foreign influencing of national civil and religious organisations through non-transparent financing should be limited.”

Earlier in the week, Charles Michel, the European council president and a former prime minister of Belgium, had called for the establishment of a European training institute to “train” imams.

The statement instead merely said the bloc should “promote that religious education and training – preferably within the EU – is in line with European fundamental rights and values”.

The initial draft of the declaration had raised concerns within the governments of the Netherlands, Sweden, Spain, Italy and Luxembourg about the linking of counter-terrorism with migration and the clear focus on “Islamism”.

The Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, had made the point during a joint press conference with the French president, Emmanuel Macron, and the chancellors of Germany and Austria, Angela Merkel and Sebastian Kurz, on Wednesday. The declaration was subsequently broadened to reflect concerns about the rise of the far-right, as well as Islamist terrorism.





No.14 article:
Politicians struggle to explain why a region so much less affected in spring is so badly hit now

In the countries of central Europe, which during spring seemed to provide a best-practice model for keeping coronavirus at bay, case numbers have risen sharply, and governments in the region fear that their health systems are close to capacity and may struggle to cope. Central Europe is now just as badly hit as countries further west, and by some parameters is doing worse.

The Visegrad Four group of nations – Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia – were all notable for their success in keeping case numbers low earlier in the year, even as gruesome statistics of deaths and hospitalisations came out of western Europe on a daily basis.

The Czech Republic’s response was so impressive it was invited by Austria to join a small group of nations, including Norway and New Zealand, which had succeeded in keeping the virus at bay and would share best practices.

But that rosy picture has rapidly faded over the past few weeks, as the country has struggled to contain an infection rate that rose to 15,000 new cases a day at its peak at the beginning of the month, making it the worst-hit country in Europe on a per-capita basis.

All four countries are under some kind of lockdown. Hungary’s Viktor Orbán had been reluctant to introduce a second lockdown despite closing the country’s borders in early September, but finally relented and introduced one this week. He said that without it the country’s medical system would have only a 50% chance of coping.

Back in spring, many reasons were suggested for why central Europe was doing so well, including imposing early lockdowns and the swift and broad adoption of mask-wearing. In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, lockdown came before there was a single Covid-related death, while in Britain, there were 357 dead before the decision was made.

“The measures were started very quickly in central Europe in spring. We almost completely closed the country and we didn’t have any deaths,” said Richard Kollar, a mathematician from Comenius University in Bratislava, who has been studying coronavirus models. “There was also big public compliance with the measures, in a way you don’t get in other places. And immediately we started to wear face masks,”

Even taken together, these factors do not seem to explain fully why central Europe was so much less affected in spring but is so badly hit now.

“We don’t know the accurate answer to this question,” said a spokesperson for Budapest’s city hall, which is run by the opposition to Orbán. “The pandemic came to Hungary relatively late in the spring, so there was some time to prepare and look at what other countries did. We were relatively lucky during the first wave, and that may have planted a false sense of security in some.”

What has particularly puzzled scientists is that in spring there was very little transmission in the home. Typically, when someone was infected, they did not infect others in their household, whereas this time that is happening more.

“There has been no change in the virus, so there must be some other reason why spreading in the households was much lower in the spring and now it’s higher. We see this in both Slovakia and the Czech Republic. They see spreading within households as the main driver and they didn’t see it before,” said Kollar.

Various theories have been floated, including that there may have been an outbreak of a different coronavirus in the region last winter that provided cross-immunity for a period, but has now worn off. Nobody knows for sure.

What is indisputable is that hospitals across the region are now struggling with an increase in patients. Hungary registered 619 deaths from the virus last week, a huge leap from mid-September, when daily deaths were in single digits. The Hungarian government has proposed a major salary increase for doctors, but at the same time mandated that they will not be allowed to work second jobs in private hospitals, prompting many to consider quitting.

“There are no reserves in the system. We need every single professional … If people quit en masse, the healthcare system will collapse,” Judit Tóth, the deputy head of the Hungarian doctors’ union, told RTL Klub television earlier this week.

Both Warsaw and Prague have been readying field hospitals in stadiums to cope with an expected influx of Covid patients. “What concerns me most is not the growing number of infected, but the growing number of people who require hospitalisation and intensive care as well as the growing number of deaths,” said Roman Prymula, then the Czech health minister, last month.

Over the past week, the numbers in the country have started to come down gradually, and next week the first and second grades of elementary school will move back to in-person learning. Slovakia, meanwhile, is pioneering a mass testing programme in the hope of bringing down its own numbers. Two-thirds of the population were tested with rapid antigen tests over a two-day period at the beginning of the month, though scientists are split over whether such a broad testing programme can achieve results.

In Hungary, bars and restaurants have been open and even football matches with spectators were allowed until this week. “There are moments when we must take action, without any hesitation,” said Orbán, in an interview explaining the 8pm curfew and other lockdown measures that were finally introduced this week. Even then, his government simultaneously introduced a proposed constitutional amendment preventing gender changes, suggesting they are as occupied with fighting a culture war as with fighting the virus.

The opposition to Orbán says he should have introduced measures much earlier. “The government is in a fluster. They seem unable to handle this coherently and consistently,” said the spokesman for Budapest city hall.

Additional reporting by Flora Garamvolgyi





No.15 article:
Keanu Reeves among 200 people at studio party where guests came as extras, says report

German health authorities say they plan to speak to the studio where the latest Matrix film was shot after a party allegedly attended by the Hollywood actor Keanu Reeves was held to mark the end of filming, despite coronavirus restrictions.

About 200 people were at the party disguised as a film shoot, with the guests invited to come as extras in an apparent attempt to bypass health regulations, according to the German tabloid Bild.

Parties of up to 50 people are allowed in Berlin and the neighbouring state of Brandenburg, where the party reportedly took place at the Babelsberg film studios, west of the German capital. But they have to be registered in advance along with the submission of a “hygiene concept” that has to be approved by authorities. Guests have to abide by distancing rules, and to wear a mask when not eating and drinking.

A 39-year-old female guest at the party told Bild: “The mood was exuberant. Everyone was given a corona PCR test in advance. Everyone needed to come wearing a mask but many people didn’t wear them as the party wore on.”

She added: “No directorial instructions were given, there was no clapperboard and no one was filming.”

The party, hosted by producers Lana and Lilly Wachowski was codenamed “Icecream Teamevent” according to the paper, quoting sources, and started at 6pm on Wednesday and went on into the early hours of Thursday.

Guests were entertained by a dancer, a DJ, and a pyrotechnic show, and were invited to get souvenir Matrix tattoos. Refreshments included sushi, sake, pizza, currywurst (curried sausage, a Berlin speciality) and vegan chocolate apricot cake. Bedouin-style tents and hippy-style caravans were available for guests who wanted more privacy.

Reeves and his partner, the artist Alexandra Grant, were sat at a table drinking wine, and left early on in the evening, reported Bild.

Bianca Markarewicz, spokeswoman for Studio Babelsberg, said according to the producers of the Matrix franchise, the film team was shooting a “celebration scene, which was filmed in the summer, and this was in connection with that. The hygiene regulations were complied with.”

She added: “The production team consciously put this shoot with its many participants, right at the end of the filming.”

A spokesman for the city of Potsdam, which is responsible for giving permission for parties to go ahead, said: “No event was announced to us. There were ongoing discussions between the health authority and the studios on the topic of infection protection during filming.”

He said the health authority would be talking to the studio.

The faintest whiff of bad publicity would be the most Reeves has received in some time, having become that rare thing, a relatively scandal-free Hollywood celebrity. His introverted personality and grace with fans have earned him the nickname “the internet’s boyfriend”.

Earlier this year, he helped arrange a van after a flight he was on in California got stranded, and was filmed reading aloud to the passengers on the journey. The actor Octavia Spencer also said he once helped push her car when it broke down. “What Would Keanu Reeves Do?” is a popular slogan on unofficial merchandise.

Reeves also attracted praise for having a supposedly “age-appropriate relationship” after it was revealed that the actor, 56, was dating Grant, who is 47.

Filming on Matrix 4 was interrupted in March due to the coronavirus pandemic but resumed again in Berlin in August. It is scheduled for release in December 2021.





No.16 article:
‘Zero chance’ mRNA can alter genes, says expert, adding that vaccine can ‘top up’ immune response from infection

“The concerted efforts put into developing a vaccine are wonderful but they can’t possibly know about long-term adverse effects. I’ll have it if it’s offered to me, and at my age long-term effects are irrelevant. I just hope it doesn’t turn out to be a latter-day thalidomide.” Jenny Walters, retired teacher, Ashburton

Vaccines are licensed on the basis of data from clinical trials, which aim to assess their short-term safety, ability to generate an immune response, and their ability to prevent disease in hundreds, and then thousands of volunteers. So far, more than 43,538 people have been enrolled in the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine trial – approximately half of whom will have received the real vaccine, and the other half a placebo – with the first doses administered in April or May. So far, it appears to be well-tolerated.

It is also important to note that most adverse events occur shortly after receiving a vaccine, rather than after many months or years, said Prof Robin Shattock, the head of mucosal infection and immunity at Imperial College London.

Given that this is a brand-new type of vaccine, it is not impossible that someone could be allergic to a component of it, said Paul Hunter, a professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia. However, this would show up shortly after administration of the vaccine.

Even once a vaccine is licensed, scientists will continue to monitor its safety to identify any rare side-effects that clinical trials may not have detected, eg because they didn’t include people with underlying vulnerabilities. Crucially, health workers are trained to report any adverse event that they, or the parent of a vaccinated child, are concerned about, regardless of whether they think the vaccine triggered it. And they are told to be particularly vigilant in the case of newly introduced vaccines. If an adverse event is reported, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) will carefully investigate whether it is likely to be a coincidence or a result of the vaccine, and intervene where necessary, eg by issuing warnings not to give the vaccine to certain groups, or even withdrawing the vaccine in rare circumstances.

“If you go to 10 million people, you can never rule out that there won’t be someone out there who might respond in a abnormal way,” Shattock said. “I think people have to make a judgment call, because if you have some underlying health condition that nobody predicted, which might give you a worse response to the vaccine, it would probably give you a far worse response to the actual virus.”

“I feel very relieved and excited at the prospect of being protected against Covid and life returning to some sort of normality. I also feel some apprehension; how my body might react with heart issues and an autoimmune disorder?” Trudie, Tunbridge Wells

It is likely that people with underlying health conditions will be particularly closely monitored once any vaccine is approved and rolled out. Also, if there’s any reason to suspect that a certain population might be adversely affected by a vaccine, regulators may ask for a substudy to be conducted to assess the safety in this group, before allowing it to be more widely administered to people with this condition.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

“The vaccine contains messenger RNA, which makes cells produce spike proteins, but does this process get turned off, or go on indefinitely? What are the target cells, and does it damage them?” Anonymous, West Midlands

The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine uses a piece of genetic code, called messenger RNA (mRNA), to issue instructions to the protein-making machinery in our cells to manufacture viral proteins. The vaccine is injected into the shoulder muscle, so the mRNA will mostly get into muscle cells, but probably also some immune cells. “I think people are concerned when they hear the term ‘genetic material’, but the really good thing about RNA is that it falls apart very quickly – in a cell, it’ll hang around for about 72 hours,” Shattock said. “And it doesn’t get into the nucleus where your chromosomes are, so there’s zero chance that it can change your genes.”

Once manufactured, the viral proteins are displayed on the cells’ surface, where circulating immune cells will detect and raise an immune response against them.

“The government only secured enough doses to vaccinate 5 million people – 7.5% of the UK population. Eventually we may get to vaccinating about 30% of the population. This is not enough to get back to normal, because two out of every three people will still be susceptible to Covid-19.” Olga Ucar, medical writer, Manchester

Even with a vaccine, it’s unlikely that society will return to normal overnight. “It is going to be a gradual process, and my estimation is it’s going to take at least until the summer for any degree of normality to return,” said Shattock.

Also, although the government’s full vaccination strategy hasn’t yet been revealed, it is unlikely it will try to vaccinate the entire UK population – at least for the time being. Rather, its strategy may bear more resemblance to what happens with flu vaccination, where elderly people and those with underlying conditions that make them very vulnerable are prioritised. Approximately 10 million people fall into these categories, Shattock said. “As increasing numbers of them are vaccinated, we may find that we can perhaps start to get life back to normal because there will be fewer people having severe disease, fewer people needing to be in intensive care, and because there are fewer of them, those that do end up there will get better-quality care.”

“I had Covid-19 six weeks ago, so I might be immune, or I might not. I have no idea whether there is any point in getting vaccinated.” Bill Dixon, retired physics teacher, Madrid.

So far, vaccine trials have focused on people who haven’t been exposed to the coronavirus, so the effect of vaccination on people who have been exposed is unclear. However, since immunity to the virus seems to wane over time, it probably would be worth getting vaccinated. “The level of immunity from natural infection is really variable, so some people get a very strong immune response, and some people get quite a weak immune response,” said Shattock. “The vaccine would top up your immune response, and hopefully provide protection for longer.”

Even once people have been vaccinated, it is possible that they will require additional booster doses to keep their immunity topped up.

“When I worked in general practice we had a problem with the storage of conventional vaccines, which need to be kept refrigerated or they are inactivated and useless. The new vaccine needs to be kept below -70C. How many doses will be wasted because we are not ready to handle them?” Gavin, Bristol

Transporting, storing and administering this vaccine won’t be easy, but the infrastructure is being put in place. Pfizer is reported to have designed suitcase-sized shipping containers, capable of holding 1,000-5,000 doses at the required temperature for up to ten days, while they’re transported to local or regional storage facilities, eg at hospitals. From there, they are likely to be shuttled to GP surgeries for immediate use – the vaccine remains viable for approximately 24 hours after it comes out of the freezer. Rather than having a single surgery delivering a few vaccines per day, it is likely that groups of surgeries will pool their resources and have one centre doing large numbers of vaccinations over a very intense period, Shattock said.

Also, don’t forget that many other vaccines are being developed, which won’t require ultra-cold storage, so we’re unlikely to be solely reliant on the Pfizer vaccine (assuming it is approved).

• This article was amended on 15 November 2020. An earlier version said the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine had been administered to more than 43,538 people, but this was the number of people enrolled in the trial, only around half of whom have received the real vaccine.





No.17 article:
Both sides in Ethiopian conflict are killing civilians, refugees say

Fleeing residents describe ethnic killings in Tigray as Amnesty confirms massacre

Refugees fleeing the conflict in northern Ethiopia have claimed both sides are committing atrocities against civilians, and described hospitals struggling to cope with casualties.

Three days ago Hadgemes Gegressie, 37, fled his home in the frontier town of Humera, in the restive Tigray region where forces loyal to the local administration and the national military are engaged in fierce clashes.

Amnesty International reported on Thursday that scores, possibly hundreds, of civilians were massacred with knives and machetes in a town south of Humera last week.

Gegressie told the Guardian of extensive damage to buildings in Humera and killings “based on ethnicity”.

“I don’t know whether my family is alive or dead. There are no communications. They cut the internet and the telephone lines … I am already suffering for my family,” he said, speaking at the customs post on the border with Ethiopia.

A second refugee said he had seen “killing and looting” in Humera, and now feared for his four children.

“I visited some wounded people in the hospital, taking some fruit and water for them, and I saw at least 100 people who had been shot at, among them women,” said Nugus Gady, a 55-year-old farmer.

“It became very difficult to stay. You can’t sleep at night. The shooting was coming from the Eritrean side as well.”

Gady described militia with the Ethiopian army who “shot people carrying weapons without any warning” after Tigrayan forces were forced to withdraw from Humera because of food and water shortages.

“They were trying to defend us but they could not,” he said.

With communications down and the media barred, independent verification of such incidents and the status of the conflict is difficult. There is no confirmation of the refugees’ claims.

However the reports of atrocities will fuel an increasingly bitter conflict, which may stoke ethnic and other tensions across Africa’s second most populous country.

Amnesty International said it had not been able to independently confirm who was responsible for the killings in Mai Kadra last week but witnesses reported that forces loyal to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), which is in power in the province, were responsible after they were defeated by the federal EDF forces.

“We have confirmed the massacre of a very large number of civilians, who appear to have been day labourers in no way involved in the ongoing military offensive. This is a horrific tragedy whose true extent only time will tell as communication in Tigray remains shut down,” said Deprose Muchena, Amnesty International’s director for east and southern Africa.

Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, launched military operations in Tigray after he accused local authorities of attacking a military camp in the region and attempting to loot military assets. The TPLF denies the attack and has accused the prime minister of concocting the story to justify the offensive.

Airstrikes and ground combat between government forces and the TPLF have since killed hundreds and raised international concern over the willingness of Abiy, Africa’s youngest leader, who won a Nobel peace prize last year, to risk a lengthy civil war.

The Guardian has viewed photographic evidence showing dozens of corpses laid out on rope beds and flatbed trucks. The images appear to corroborate the reports of atrocities, though do not indicate who was responsible.

Amnesty quoted testimony from three people who said they had been told by survivors of the massacre that the attackers were members of the Tigray Special Police Force and the TPLF who entered the town after a clash with national forces and militia from the neighbouring Amhara province.

“Amnesty International has not yet been able to confirm who was responsible … but has spoken to witnesses who said forces loyal to the TPLF were responsible for the mass killings, apparently after they suffered defeat from the federal EDF forces,” it said.

Tigray’s leader, Debretsion Gebremichael, who chairs the TPLF, denied his forces were involved in the killings.

“This is unbelievable … this should be investigated,” Debretsion said in a text message to Reuters, accusing Abiy of “creating facts on [the] ground”.

There was no immediate response to the Amnesty report from the Ethiopian government.

More than 11,000 Ethiopian refugees have crossed into Sudan since fighting started and humanitarian organisations say the situation in Tigray is deteriorating. 

About 7,000 of those crossing have arrived at Hamdayat, in Sudan’s Kassala state, with another 4,000 arriving at Luqdi in al-Qadarif state. Most of them are Tigrayan and about 45% are female, the UN said.

The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s governing coalition for decades before Abiy came to power in 2018. He won last year’s Nobel peace prize for ending a war with neighbouring Eritrea.

The political reforms the 44-year-old former soldier pushed through won wide praise, but have allowed old ethnic and other grievances to surface.

Tigrayan leaders have complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions and blamed for the country’s problems.

The postponement of national elections due to the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated tensions and when parliamentarians in Addis Ababa, the capital, voted to extend officials’ mandates, Tigrayan leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal.

Both sides have access to heavy weapons, armour and considerable stocks of ammunition, and observers have warned that a lengthy conflict is possible.

In a letter to the Guardian, 39 academics based in the UK who specialise in studying Ethiopia, expressed their concern at the ongoing military confrontation and called for London “to break its silence and use all diplomatic means at its disposal in support of an immediate end to the hostilities and finding a way to resolve the underlying conflict”.

“Over the past two years, we have been watching [Ethiopia] oscillate between hopeful optimism and deadly conflict, and these latest developments represent a serious escalation of violence that threatens to drag Ethiopia into a civil war with devastating consequences for its people, its economy and regional stability,” the letter reads.

There is little sign of any moves to end the conflict.

On Friday, Ethiopia’s parliament appointed a new head of the Tigray region, a day after it stripped 39 members of the TPLF, including Gebremichael, of immunity from prosecution.

Ethiopia has long been seen as a cornerstone of US strategic interests in the Horn of Africa region.

On Thursday, the Republican senator for Idaho, Jim Risch, who is chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee, said the risk of the conflict descending into civil war was “a real, present, and immediate danger to regional stability, US national security interests, and, most importantly, the safety and welfare of the Ethiopian people and Ethiopia’s democratic transition”.

“The United States and the international community must continue to direct engagement to ensure all sides commit to an immediate ceasefire, protecting all civilians, providing prompt humanitarian access, restoring internet and phone access, and pursuing a peaceful resolution through dialogue,” Risch said.





No.18 article:
France marks five years since Paris attacks with silent ceremonies

French PM and mayor of Paris attend events held at Bataclan and other sites targeted by gunmen and suicide bombers

France has marked five years to the day since terrorists carried out a series of coordinated terrorist attacks across Paris, killing 130 people.

The prime minister, Jean Castex, and the mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, carried out a series of silent ceremonies at each of the sites where the gunmen and suicide bombers loyal to Islamic State struck on 13 November 2015.

It was France’s worst peacetime attack and led to a wave of international sympathy for the traumatised nation.

On Friday, Castex and Hidalgo laid wreaths at the seven sites where the terrorists struck. The ceremonies were brief and relatively discreet. This year the public had been advised to remain at home under the Covid-19 lockdown rules, but several people turned out anyway to place flowers and cards in memory of the victims.

Friday’s commemorations came as France remained on high alert after three recent attacks by Islamist extremists, including the beheading of high-school teacher Samuel Paty and the killing of three people in a church in Nice.

In 2015, the first attack happened at 9.15pm on Friday 13 November outside the Stade de France during an international football match. Shortly afterwards, another group of heavily armed terrorists drove around the capital’s trendy districts north of the Seine shooting at crowded bars, cafés and restaurants.

Another group stormed the Bataclan during a concert attended by 1,500 people, taking members of the audience hostage and killing 90 people.

Ten months earlier, in January 2015, terrorists had killed 12 people in an attack on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo after it published caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad considered offensive to Muslims. In the following two days, five more people were killed by a terrorist gunman, including four people at a Jewish supermarket.

The French president, Emmanuel Macron, has recently come under fierce criticism for proposing a new law on “Islamist separatism”. The Élysée says the legislation –to be presented to the Assemblée Nationale at the beginning of next month – is aimed at strengthening the country’s secular traditions and preventing the radicalisation of future terrorists. Critics have accused the president and government of targeting the wider Muslim community.

After Paty’s killing, police raided the homes of individuals and offices of a number of Muslim organisations that had no link to the murder in order to “send a message”, according to interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, who also announced the Collective Against Islamophobia in France was being disbanded.

As protests against Macron erupted in many Islamic countries, including Bangladesh and Iran, along with threats to boycott French goods, Darmanin provoked further outrage by questioning why supermarkets had specific halal and kosher food sections.

On Friday, Franck Riester, a delegate minister in charge of foreign trade and economic attractiveness, told foreign journalists this comment was Darmanin’s “personal” view. He insisted the government was not targeting French Muslims and hit back at criticism of its response to the terrorist attacks.

“France is under attack and as we have seen so is Austria and some Islamic countries, so this is a common fight against terrorism,” Riester said.

“We will continue to defend its citizens and those on its soil and defend our values and will not be influenced or pressured by anyone. I absolutely don’t accept the position of those who say this (terrorism) is France’s fault or the fruit of its politics and choices. That’s the world turned upside down.”





No.19 article:
People encouraged to stay at home for Hindu festival, with Delhi particularly affected

Diwali celebrations in India have taken a more sombre tone this year, as the double spectres of the pandemic and pollution cast a shadow over festivities.

The Hindu festival of light is the most important celebration of the year for many in India and this weekend would usually be marked by raucous parties and fireworks displays.

However, the preparations and planned celebrations across the country have been unusually muted, particularly in the capital, Delhi, where coronavirus cases have reached record levels and the city’s annual pollution hit “emergency” levels and enveloped the city in a thick toxic smog.

“We are not celebrating like other years, it will be a quiet Diwali for us,” said Sumita Majumdar, a housewife in Delhi. “We will only put out candles and pray for good health. We have not done any shopping for Diwali this year, it is not about celebration but survival.”

WhatsApp messages going viral in India encouraged people to stay at home and light candles for the “Covid warriors who have left us”, and to “offer support and spread “cheer to those who have lost their people and who have suffered losses in jobs and business”.

Delhi recorded 8,600 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, the highest number since the pandemic started, as well as 85 deaths, and hospitals in the city reported that their intensive care units were almost full.

India is the second-worst affected country by the Covid-19 pandemic, with 8.73m cases. Overall, new cases have been declining across the country over the past month but health experts fear Diwali could be a “super-spreader event” that could prompt a second wave, especially if people throng to temples and relatives’ homes as normal.

Gatherings of up to 200 people are still allowed but over the past month, India’s health minister, Harsh Vardhan, has been campaigning for people to have a socially distanced Diwali.

At Delhi’s popular and bustling Lajpat Nagar market this week, warnings were broadcast over loudspeakers telling Diwali shoppers to wear masks and maintain social distancing.

With evidence showing that air pollution is linked to higher death rates from coronavirus and more vulnerability to the virus, firecrackers, highly popular during the festival but also major air pollutants, have been banned in the capital and other cities across India.

There has been a push towards a “digital Diwali”. In Delhi, prayer ceremonies will be broadcast on television and social media to encourage people to stay at home. In an attempt to stop the use of firecrackers during Diwali, the UN environment programme launched a series of augmented reality filters where people could have exploding e-firecrackers, known as e-pataakhas, on their Facebook and Instagram posts instead of setting off the real thing.





No.20 article:
R number now between 1.1 to 1.2, but slowdown will not be reflected in death toll for several weeks

The rate of increase of new coronavirus infections in England appears to be slowing, data suggests, although the death toll is expected to remain high for weeks to come.

The latest estimate for the R number – the number of people each infected person goes on to infect – is between 1.0-1.2 for the UK and 1.1-1.2 for England, down from 1.1-1.3 for both the week before. If R is above 1, the epidemic will grow; below 1 it will eventually fizzle out.

According to the latest figures from the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage), the number of new cases are growing by between 1% and 3% a day in the UK, compared with 2%-4% a day the week before. In other words, while cases are still on the rise, it is spreading more slowly.

The estimates reflect the situation over the preceding couple of weeks, given time lags in the range of data used. That means the apparent slowdown is unlikely to be down to the latest national lockdown in England, but rather the impact of measures such as tier 3 restrictions – although it is hoped the new lockdown will reduce R in England further.

A mixed picture has emerged in other parts of the UK, with the latest R number for Northern Ireland estimated to likely be below 1, while figures for Wales put R between 1.0 and 1.3. For Scotland, the R number released on Thursday, was between 0.8 and 1.1.

According to Office for National Statistics data, the percentage of people in the community with Covid-19 in Northern Ireland now appears to have levelled off, but has increased in Wales.

“Positivity rates in Scotland have increased over the last six weeks but it is too early to say that they have levelled off,” the team add. 

The findings join other datasets in suggesting the spread of the disease is now slowing across the country, with cases in the UK doubling between 28 and 63 days, although prevalence remains high.

New figures from the ONS reveal that around 1 in 85 people in the community in England – about 654,000 people – had coronavirus between 31 October to 6 November 2020, with about 47,700 new cases per day – although this does not include cases settings such as universities or care homes.

The previous week the survey suggested 618,700 people, or 1 in 90, had the virus, with a similar number of new cases per day.

However there are reasons for concern. The new ONS data reveals that the percentage of those testing positive is decreasing in older teens and young adults, and levelling off in other groups under 35 years – although prevalence remains high – but is increasing in older populations, including those most at risk from Covid.

“Positivity rates continue to increase in those aged 35 years and over and are now above 1% amongst those aged 35 to 49 and 50 to 69 years,” the team wrote.

In addition, experts have cautioned that it will be some weeks before any slowdown in the spread of the disease, or even a potential future shrinking of the epidemic, is seen in the death toll.

“Although there is some evidence that the rate of growth in some parts of the country may be slowing, levels of disease are very high in these areas; significant levels of healthcare demand and mortality will persist until R is reduced to and remains well below 1 for an extended period of time,” the Sage group have said.

The suggestion of an overall slowdown chimes with data from the Covid symptom study app, led by researchers at King’s College London and based on swab results of app users with symptoms, that on Thursday put R below 1 in all regions of the UK and on Friday indicated the number of daily new Covid cases was declining across the country.

However other data suggests the situation may be more complex: on Thursday new results from the React-1 study led by Imperial College London based on swabs collected from more than 160,000 people between 16 October and 2 November suggested there was an uptick in prevalence in mid-October compared with the month before, followed by a sharp fall and subsequent sharp rise before lockdown began.

The team said that meant they were not yet confident that infections had levelled off, noting cases might continue to grow.

Prof Steven Riley, a co-author of the study, added that the React-1 data suggests there are about 100,000 new infections every day in the community on England on average.

“[At the very end of this round of testing] we are observing the very highest prevalence that we have observed at any point nationally,” he said.





No.21 article:
Nigeria cracks down on &#x27;end Sars&#x27; protesters, alleging terrorism

Authorities suspend accounts of supporters and fine media for ‘exaggerated reporting’

Nigerian authorities have cracked down on “end Sars” protesters, charging prominent supporters of financing terrorism and sanctioning coverage of recent abuses by security forces.

Authorities have suspended the bank accounts of prominent supporters, fined media agencies accused of “exaggerated reporting” of police abuses – including broadcasting graphic footage of soldiers gunning down protesters in Lagos last month – and conducted arrests of demonstrators.

Nigerian authorities appear to have used coercive financial measures to suppress protests against police brutality and independent media reporting, Human Rights Watch said in a report published on Friday.

Twenty individuals and entities, judged as prominent supporters of “end Sars” protests against the since-disbanded, infamously brutal special anti-robbery squad, have had their accounts suspended by Nigerian banks, preventing them from receiving funds. On 4 November, the Central Bank of Nigeria obtained a court order authorising it to block the accounts for 90 days.

Those targeted had been raising or received money in support of protests that had erupted across Nigeria last month, providing medical and legal aid for injured and arrested demonstrators, grants for journalists to cover police and army abuses at the protests, and help to families of those killed during the demonstrations.

Lawyers for Nigeria’s Central Bank argued in court this week that the account-holders were involved in “suspected terrorism financing”.

Among the accounts suspended was Gatefield, a public policy organisation that had offered financial assistance to journalists covering the demonstrations, its founder, Adewunmi Emoruwa, said. 

“We were providing financial and technical support to independent journalists and media organisations to report on police brutality and to document the protests. But then the government restricted Gatefield’s account through a back-channel instruction to Access Bank. The idea is to create a media blackout in a bid to cover up the various atrocities committed by the state against the peaceful protesters,” he said.

In late October, Nigeria’s media regulator, the national broadcasting commission, fined three of the country’s prominent news agencies for broadcasting social media footage of the shootings in Lekki by soldiers that drew condemnation around the world.

Nigeria’s army and government officials have since said footage from the scene was manipulated, and Buhari’s government have vowed to regulate social media in the wake of the shootings. At least 12 people died at Lekki and at another shooting elsewhere in the city by security forces, according to Amnesty International.

Emoruwa said: “From the threats to journalists and media organisations, and the various attempts to pass a social media gag legislation there is a valid concern about the state of democracy in Nigeria.”

Since the killings, government officials have both vowed to investigate them and discredited any accounts that abuses had taken place. Several witnesses have said they saw soldiers carting dead bodies away from the scene. 

Nigeria’s army, which initially denied they were present, have claimed they only shot blank rounds, despite dozens of protesters treated for gunshot wounds in nearby hospitals. Last week, Nigeria’s attorney general, Abubakar Malami, told journalists that “hoodlums in army uniform” could have been behind the shootings.

Growing numbers of arrests against protesters in recent weeks have also caused alarm. Last week, police officers surrounded Onomene Adene, whose brother was organising fresh protests. She told Nigerian broadcaster, Channels TV that an officer had turned up pretending to be a member of her church delivering a package before several officers appeared demanding to be taken to her brother, Eromosele. He was arrested without charge, she said, before being taken to the capital Abuja.

Tola Onayemi, a lawyer who helped to provide the family with legal representation, said a range of state agencies were clamping down on citizens’ rights. “Eromosele put out a poster talking about the protests and the response was to basically arrest him and move him to Abuja,” he said.

Onayemi helped organise a network of almost 800 lawyers around the country to provide free legal support to protesters and victims of police abuses. He said 253 people were arrested during last weekend. “It is incredibly worrying. The protest requests are very simple, stop police brutality, preserve our lives, but the response has been telling. There’s been more effort put into trying to end the protests than dealing with police brutality in the country.”

Six people, including journalists, were among others arrested on Friday at a protest in Abuja, sparking wider outcry.

In recent weeks, waves of graphic footage showing police and army officers shooting and abusing protesters and civilians have fuelled further dismay in Nigeria that the largest protest movement in decades – widely seen as a symbol of hope and change from younger generations – has met violence and suppression.

After curfews were adopted in October to quell demonstrations, outbreaks of attacks by armed groups spiralled around the country, destroying government buildings, police stations and looting. Protesters decried the violence as being unrelated to the demonstrations yet government officials consider them linked to the “end Sars” protests.

While protests have since waned from last month, the creation of a new unit, the special weapons and tactics force, and failure to commit to the prosecution of Sars officers has fuelled anger.

Several states across the country set up judicial panels to investigate Sars abuses, following orders from President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. Yet a history of judicial panels in Nigeria leading to no accountability by abusive officers has deepened cynicism. Last year, a presidential panel recommended 23 Sars officers be prosecuted for abuses, but the recommendation has not been implemented.

In Lagos, representatives of the protest movement chosen to attend the judicial panel have had their bank accounts suspended, and have since boycotted the proceedings. Nigeria’s military has rebuffed the panels attempts to investigate them or invite them to hearings.





No.22 article:
There is hope that Covid-19 immunisation might soon be a reality, but some scientists are aiming for a broader solution

Hopes have been raised worldwide this week that a Covid-19 vaccine is getting closer, after one version was shown to be 90% effective in reducing disease symptoms, but a handful of scientists are working on an ambitious plan for a different sort of vaccine.

Their project, which is fraught with technical and financial challenges, is to find a vaccine that could protect against not just Covid, but other viruses in the same family that cause Sars, Mers and the common cold.

There is no precedent for such a plan. No existing licensed vaccine protects against an entire family of viruses, although scientists are working on a “universal flu” vaccine as well as a pan-HIV vaccine.

The global impact of Covid-19 has illlustrated the advantages of a pan-coronavirus vaccine. Such a vaccine could protect against not just diseases we know about, but prevent another grim outbreak caused by a new coronavirus spilling over from animals, experts say.

Dr Laura Walker, the chief scientific officer of Adagio, a company focused on developing antibody therapies that can broadly neutralise the two Sars viruses and other potentially emergent coronaviruses, said: “All of society is shutting down and thousands of people are dying … so you need something on day one for next time. And the only obvious, the most practical way to do that would be to have something in advance.”

She says similar Sars-like viruses are out there in the bat populations, and some of them have been shown to be capable of infecting human cells so what is needed are antibody therapies and vaccines that protect against past, present and future coronaviruses.

Once we have a vaccine, it could force Sars-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – to adapt, said Jeff Baxter, the chief executive of VBI Vaccines, one of the companies working on a pan-coronavirus vaccine. “Viruses are incredibly good at adapting,” he said, “and that’s when we may see significant mutations.”

In order to develop a vaccine that protects against significant mutations of Sars-CoV-2, or a family of coronaviruses, scientists need to find regions that are similar or “conserved” across the individual viruses for the immune system to destroy. The immune system can launch its attack by employing broadly neutralising antibodies – molecules that bind to proteins on the virus’s surface that allow it to enter human cells.

“In the last few years, it’s been shown that there are broadly neutralising antibodies to HIV and to influenza – so this gives you the idea that you can target the viruses that are somewhat different,” said Prof Dennis Burton, chair of the department of immunology and microbiology at Scripps Research.

“For example, Sars-CoV-2 and Sars-CoV – they are quite a lot different, but they’re no more different than different strains of HIV. So, if you can generate or isolate broadly neutralising antibodies to both Sars viruses, then you could use those antibodies against both viruses – and even maybe Sars-CoV-3, which we haven’t seen yet.”

“But there’s a lot of science to be done,” he said.

After you identify the neutralising antibodies for different coronaviruses, then you’ve got to work out how to induce them through a vaccine, which could take years, he said. 

Altogether, at least five companies are taking on the gargantuan task of developing vaccines that can broadly protect against beta-coronaviruses.

All these efforts are in the very early stages, buoyed by the financial stamina of the enduring Covid-19 pandemic. So far, none have even entered human trials – which takes time, effort and millions in funding – so their safety and effectiveness is yet to be determined.

“Every time that there’s an outbreak, everybody cares – the media cares, scientists care, and every lab in the world is working on it. Then as soon as that virus is gone, either because of lockdowns or herd immunity, the funding dries up and people just don’t care any more,” said Walker.

“But … this one has disrupted everybody’s lives so seamlessly that I think it might change things.”

Although there are conserved surfaces across the beta-coronavirus family, which includes Mers-CoV (the virus that causes Mers) Sars-CoV (the virus that causes Sars) and Sars-CoV-2 – antibodies directed to those protein sites were rare, said Walker.

Partly, the problem lay in the fact that these conserved proteins were covered by a shield of sugars that made it difficult for antibodies to access, she explained.

DIOSynVax, another company working on a pan-coronavirus vaccine, is developing technology designed to modify the sugars in order to guide antibodies to the conserved regions.

Meanwhile, Entos Therapeutics has largely sidestepped the sugar issue by working on technology that primarily targets another weapon in the immune system’s arsenal: T-cells.

Two sets of specialised white blood cells – B-cells and T-cells – work like brothers-in-arms for the immune system. Some T-cells are slayers, annihilating respiratory cells the virus has colonised. Other “helper” T-cells take on a supportive role, including some that are tasked with stimulating B-cells to produce antibodies.

Usually, vaccine developers look for antibody levels to determine whether their product is effective – because T-cells are much harder to measure.

Osivax, which has a universal flu vaccine in mid-stage clinical trials, is hoping to replicate its technology, which also primarily targets T-cells, for its pan-coronavirus vaccine candidate.

While developing its universal influenza vaccine, Osivax co-founder Alexandre Le Vert found that because the flu virus mutates rapidly, the mutations on the surface of the virus enable escape from antibodies. But it was much more difficult for the virus to escape a T-cell attack, he said.

Another company, Valo Therapeutics, is focused on generating T-cells by using an alternative method – a vector-based vaccine.

After identifying parts of coronavirus proteins that can generate T-cells, the company plans to use its patented technology to coat them on to a vector – such as a weakened or inactivated virus – and deliver this as a vaccine, according to the company’s CEO, Paul Higham.

Given B-cells and T-cells work in parallel, stimulating T-cell production might or might not have some beneficial effects to the antibody response, said Danny Altmann, professor of immunology at Imperial College London.

But if the approach generates only T-cells, will that ensure protection? “I would say the jury’s completely out on that question,” he said.





No.23 article:
Rai Rai Ken is back in business in Tokyo but pandemic has taken a heavy toll on ramen shops

More than a century after it welcomed its first ravenous customers in downtown Tokyo, Rai Rai Ken is back in business. On a recent afternoon, diners at its new premises in the bowels of the Shin-Yokohama Ramen Museum barely looked up as they demolished servings of noodles made according to the restaurant’s original recipe.

Rai Rai Ken is unlikely to recapture its heyday, when specially hired Chinese chefs served up to 3,000 customers a day in Tokyo’s Asakusa district. But its reappearance last month, albeit away from the cut and thrust of the high street, was a rare piece of good news for Japan’s Covid-hit restaurant sector.

Between April and September, restaurants accounted for 10% of all bankruptcies, according to Teikoku Databank. But there was worse news for purveyors of Japan’s favourite comfort food. In the nine months to the end of September, 34 ramen chains filed for bankruptcy – the first time since 2000 that bankruptcies have exceeded 30 by that point in the year. If the trend continues, 2020 could be the worst year on record for ramen shops.

The coronavirus pandemic has presented ramen restaurants with an unprecedented challenge. Many operate out of tiny premises where social distancing and profits are incompatible, with customers crammed in along narrow counters.

Bigger chains have responded by installing plastic shields between spread-out seats, increasing delivery services and offsetting price rises by charging less during certain periods, in the hope that they can stay afloat during the pandemic.

The rest face a dilemma: ask Japan’s famously price-sensitive diners to pay more, risking driving them away, or accept the inevitable and close.

The decision is complicated by a generally accepted rule that no ramen shop hoping to retain its customers’ loyalty can charge more than ¥1,000 yen a bowl. Prices vary depending on the region, but Tokyo eateries generally charge around ¥800, while the national average is a little over ¥500, according to the ministry of internal affairs.

The pandemic has also deprived ramen shops of foreign visitors, who before the collapse of tourism would happily queue around the block to try authentic ramen at Tokyo’s better-known chains.

In fact, Covid-19 is magnifying challenges long faced by Japan’s estimated 35,000 ramen restaurants, according to Robbie Swinnerton, a food writer and restaurant reviewer for the Japan Times.

Among the wide variety of ramen devotees – from hard-up university students to mothers of young children in search of a quick lunch – the group on whom the industry depends most is office workers craving a “late-night, post-booze bowl at the train station on the way home”, says Swinnerton, who has reviewed about 30 ramen joints in Tokyo.

“With fewer people working late in the office or going out drinking – and fewer people using trains – due to Covid, this has got to be hurting the ramen trade. But I also think tastes and demographics are changing, so there is probably less demand in general for ramen. The boom years for the ramen chains will not come back the way they were. Japan seems to be changing structurally in a way that is being accelerated by the pandemic.”

The industry is also undergoing a generational change that could hasten the demise of restaurants that opened during the era of breakneck economic growth in the 1960s and 70s and whose owners are struggling to find successors.

The effects of the pandemic aside, Kazuaki Tanaka, a ramen researcher and writer, believes the industry is settling into a state of equilibrium after years over overheating fuelled by new openings and a rash of recipe innovations ranging from seafood-based broths to tsukemen dipping noodles.

“Talk of a ramen crisis is overblown,” says Tanaka, who reckons he has eaten about 15,000 bowls of ramen in the past two decades – an average of more than 700 a year. “It’s far from being on the verge of collapse. Now that the boom has ended, the industry is maturing, and only the good places are surviving.”

There is wavering on the ¥1,000 principle as more people are willing to pay extra for “craft” ramen, inspired by growing demand for unusual or organic ingredients, and the cuisine’s entry into the gourmet fold that began in 2016 when Tsuta became the first ramen restaurant to be awarded a Michelin star.

“Younger chefs who trained under veteran cooks are opening their own places rather than taking over ageing restaurants, so the quality will keep on improving,” Tanaka says. “They trained the traditional way, but they have their own ideas.”

Rai Rai Ken’s resurrection should serve as both a cautionary tale and cause for optimism. In 1976 it served what many thought would be its last bowl of ramen, after the then owner failed to find someone to take over the family business. It would be another 44 years until diners were again able to sample its trademark noodles and soy-based soup coupled with char siu pork, fermented bamboo shoots and shavings of spring onion.

After several minutes of socially distanced slurping, the Guardian’s bowl of standard Rai Rai Ken ramen – priced at a little over ¥1,000 – was empty but for a couple of spoonfuls of soup. In paying gastronomic homage to its first shop, which opened in 1910, the brand’s re-emergence seems to confirm Tanaka’s buoyant prognosis for ramen’s post-Covid future.

“The secret lies is doing something different to everyone else,” he says. “It’s about the soup, the noodles, the selection of toppings, and how they all work together. If you can do that properly then people will queue up to eat your ramen. And they will keep coming back.”





No.24 article:
Masks, gel, sticks: how a Madrid salsa group kept dancing despite the Covid pandemic

Teacher Juan Margallo has found inventive ways of letting dancers practise safely

Under a purple Madrid sky and on a carpet of horse-chestnut leaves, cigarette ends and broken beer bottles, six people are dancing their way through the second wave of the pandemic.

For all its grace and vigour, the Cuban rueda de casino that they dance is not quite what it once was. The thin light from a lamp in a park south of the city centre reveals masks covering smiling mouths and gelled hands clasping not other hands – but the opposite ends of two plastic pipes.

The 1.2-metre lengths of plastic pipe are not the only changes since Covid forced members of the Salsa Tabacalera group to dance outdoors and limit numbers to three couples. In a strikingly rare madrileño concession to the ears of those nearby, the group dances in apparent silence, listening to the songs of Los Jubilados de Cuba through earphones and a radio loop.

The modifications were the brainchild of Salsa Tabacalera’s teacher, Juan Margallo. When the pandemic hit, Margallo, a 52-year-old lighting technician and musician, looked for ways to keep moving.

“Dancing is a real passion for me and it’s something I just need to do,” he says.

“But then the pandemic came along and threatened to do away with all that. So I had the idea of the sticks. With the sticks, the masks, and dancing in the open air, the risk is almost nil.”

Margallo, a mix of musicologist, drill sergeant and Spanish MacGyver, has also found the pipes have yielded some unexpected benefits for his students.

“The thing is, the sticks actually help with the dancing, and they’ve become a bit of a teaching tool for me,” he says.

“People tend to bring their habits to their dancing – we’ve all got them – but they can get in the way of progress because they can make us too rigid or make us kick about too much. You may not notice it, but your partner will. When you have the stick, you’re more aware of all that and far more conscious of what you’re doing. It’s making a bit of a virtue of necessity.”

If the group’s moves lack some of their former intimacy, they want for little when it comes to verve or enthusiasm.

“I love the energy we transfer between ourselves and I love dancing in sync,” says Marta Fernández, a 40-year-old hospital worker.

“Juan – Mr Inventor – is always looking for a way to allow us to carry on dancing. Now it’s with stick, masks and gel. It’s not the same, but at least it’s viable.”

For Claret Martínez, the pipes and the odd looks have already ceased to be awkward.

“The sticks allow us to come together again and carry on dancing,” says the 30-year-old teacher.

“People do look quite confused or shocked when they see us but others take an interest and want to join in. But we don’t pay too much attention because we’re dancing.”

Aside from the occasional curious dog walker, their plumbing-enhanced gyrations attract little attention in the Jardín del Rastro. Despite the odd quizzical glance, the dark huddles of young people are more intent on cracking beers and launching lungfuls of marijuana smoke into the cold night air than in venturing over for a closer look.

Like the teenagers, tonight’s dancers – who come from Spain, Peru, Colombia and the US – are savouring the moment.

“Dancing takes you out of yourself,” says Samuel Villa, a 40-year-old IT worker. “It helps you forget about your situation. It’s a way to escape and to enjoy life.”

For 27-year-old Ada Chang, these al fresco dances are one of the few constants in difficult times. “Dancing helps bring us together,” says the flight attendant. “Life without this would be boring and sad. It just wouldn’t be the same.”

Margallo, who has been beguiled by Cuba and its music since seeing Buena Vista Social Club and others play live in Madrid in the 1990s, describes the dancing as a small but necessary an act of resistance.

“We tend to be a bit gloomy but we haven’t suffered as much as others have,” he says.

“Life always finds a way, even during wars, and not giving in to sadness is a human obligation.”





No.25 article:
Police identify man suspected of theft of Pope John Paul II&#x27;s blood

Reliquary stolen from cathedral altar in Spoleto, Italy, in September

Italian police have identified the man suspected of stealing a vial containing the blood of Pope John Paul II from a cathedral in the Umbria region.

The gold and crystal reliquary was stolen from an altar dedicated to the late pontiff in Spoleto in September.

Police identified the man, reported to be aged 49 and resident of Tuscany, thanks to CCTV footage in the cathedral and surrounding area. He has allegedly been connected to the theft of other ecclesiastical assets in the past.

The vial, one of three relics that contain droplets of the pope’s blood, has not been found. Police believe it may have ended up on the parallel market, possibly in the hands of collectors, as such relics are of great religious value.

John Paul II died in 2005 after leading the Catholic church for 27 years. One of the most popular popes, he became a saint in 2014.

Blood was taken from him shortly before his death and used as the official relic for veneration during his beatification in 2011. Such relics tend to be either body parts of saints or their clothing.

The vial was being temporarily housed in the Spoleto cathedral before a planned transfer to a new church in Umbria named after the pope.

“Give the reliquary back to the cathedral and the faithful,” the archbishop of Spoleto, Renato Boccardo, who was a close aide of John Paul II, said after the theft.

This is not the first time one of the late pontiff’s relics has been stolen. In 2014, months before his canonisation, a metal frame containing a blood-stained piece of cloth from the robe he was wearing when he was shot in an assassination attempt at St Peter’s Square in 1981 was stolen from a church in a small town in Abruzzo.

The theft triggered a massive search, involving sniffer dogs. The cloth was eventually found among rubbish in the garage of one of the thieves, who threw it away not realising its value.





No.26 article:
Killing of reporter adds to grim toll of violence against Mexican journalists

Israel Vázquez became the third journalist to be murdered in two weeks – and the eighth this year – while reporting on Monday

Early on Monday morning, Israel Vázquez, a crime reporter in the Mexican city of Salamanca, received a tip that a plastic bag full of human remains had been dumped at the side of a street.

He reached the scene before the police, but as he prepared to broadcast on Facebook live, gunmen opened fire from a passing car, and shot him eight times. He died of his injuries later in the day.

He was the third Mexican journalist to be murdered in less than two weeks – and the eighth this year.

Jesús Alfonso Piñuelas, founder of two media outlets in Sonora state, was shot dead on 2 November. Arturo Alba Medina, a TV host in Ciudad Juárez was shot on 29 October as he drove through the border city. Press reports say he was struck by 10 bullets.

The string of killings has cemented Mexico’s place as one of the world’s deadliest countries for members of the press, and underscored the risks facing journalists who cover sensitive subjects such as crime, politics and the security forces.

“You want to kill a journalist, you can do it without much of a chance that you’ll be caught,” said Jan-Albert Hootsen, Mexico representative of the press freedom group the Committee to Protect Journalists.

In at least five cases, the journalists’ murders were directly related to their work, Hootsen said. It remains unclear if Piñuelas and Alba’s deaths were linked to their journalism, but such cases are seldom investigated with any rigor, he said.

“There’s an ongoing crisis of violence and impunity. Since successive Mexican governments haven’t made any serious attempts to combat impunity, the situation has gotten steadily worse.”

In 2019, Mexico suffered the second highest number of killings after war-torn Syria, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ).

Vázquez, 31, had only been a journalist for three years, but he was well-regarded by his colleagues at the digital news outlet El Salmantino. He covered sports as well as crime, and often took the night shift.

Like most Mexican reporters, he knew that his work involved a certain degree of self-censorship in the name of survival, said co-workers.

“He was a person who was very careful with his broadcasts,” said Verónica Espinosa, Guanajuato correspondent for the news weekly Proceso. “He didn’t give sensitive details” in his reports.

Guanajuato, which surrounds Salamanca, has seen soaring violence as rival crime groups jockey for drug trafficking routes, extortion rackets and control of the lucrative market in stolen gasoline.

Journalists in the state routinely take extra security precautions, said Espinosa: working in teams, publishing without bylines and omitting potentially sensitive details from their stories.

But such safety measures are not always enough. Víctor Manuel Jiménez, a reporter at Rotativo Digital Guanajuato – another local news outlet – left home on 1 November to attend a baseball game in the city of Celaya and never returned.

The official response to such crimes has often been half-hearted. When reporters in Salamanca demanded a meeting with the local mayor, Betty Hernández, after Vázquez’s murder, they were stunned when she appeared to blame him for his death.

“The truth is, look, going at six or five in the morning to cover a story in that place, which everyone knows is dangerous,” Hernández said, in video of the meeting.

“But we’re journalists!” one person can be heard responding.

Esponosa said the mayor’s response was “absurd” but typical of the way Mexican officials often imply that victims like Vásquez are culpable in their own deaths. “It criminalizes him and makes him responsible for security conditions that are not the responsibility of a citizen, much less a journalist,” she said.

Journalists covering protests have also come under attack in Mexico.

On the same day Vázquez was murdered, four journalists were injured, when police in the city of Cancún opened fire on a crowd protesting against femicides.

Activists called for the march after the murder of a woman named Bianca Alejandrina Lorenza, 20, whose dismembered body was found in a plastic bag at the weekend. When members of the group attempted to storm the local city hall, police opened fire with live ammunition.





No.27 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Ernest Boateng’s wife, Mary Agyeiwaa Agyapong, died shortly after the birth of their second child

Before the pandemic struck, Ernest Boateng and his wife, Mary Agyeiwaa Agyapong, were planning for the future. She was expecting their second child and – after her maternity leave – wanted to become a specialist diabetes nurse; he hoped to join the RAF.

But as the coronavirus tore through the UK, Agyeiwaa Agyapong became ill. On 7 April she was admitted to Luton and Dunstable university hospital, where she had been working as a nurse until signed off with shortness of breath. She tested positive for coronavirus and was taken to theatre for an emergency caesarean. Her baby, five weeks early, was born alive. But after five days in intensive care, the 28-year-old died. Boateng was alone, with a premature daughter and two-year-old son to look after.

“I was completely lost,” he says, speaking from his home in Luton, his daughter, Mary, gurgling in his arms. “I had this lovely, cute baby girl, but her mum was not around, she was gone. I had to try and pick up from where we left off and just get on with the journey.”

For Boateng, that journey has meant becoming the sole carer for two young children – and, recently, a campaigner for expectant couples. Last week he wrote to Boris Johnson, urging the prime minister to make it a legal requirement for employers to allow all pregnant women who pass 20 weeks gestation to work from home or be suspended on full pay.

“Being a campaigner is not something I ever saw myself doing,” Boateng says. “But now it’s become part of my story, part of my life. Pregnant women need to be protected – I don’t want any family to have to go through the kind of trauma me and my kids are going through.”

Bedfordshire hospitals NHS foundation trust said Agyeiwaa Agyapong was signed off sick with pregnancy-related issues on 12 March and was not treating coronavirus patients beforehand. She was “a fabulous nurse, and a great example of what we stand for”, said trust’s chief executive, David Carter. A full inquest into her death is due to start this March.

It has been more than seven months since her death, but some days Boateng still struggles to believe she has gone. “Sometimes it comes as a shock to me,” he says. “When I’m just by myself, sometimes I just ask myself – is she really dead? Is she really gone? Is that how this world is? Something I’ve not been able to fully deal with the fact that she’s gone from this life and that’s it.”

Without thinking, without questioning, and through sheer necessity he has thrown himself into looking after their children. “I don’t know how I do it, but I just do it,” he says. “I don’t have a plan, I don’t have any book that I’m referring to. The only thing that keeps me going is that I love my kids. I am all they have got now. And I have to give them my best, I can’t fail them. And I can’t fail Mary.”

The couple met in 2016, when she was already a nurse and he was studying at Oxford Brookes University. They were both from Ghana originally, but while Agyeiwaa Agyapong had lived in the UK since she was 16, Boateng was still struggling to adapt after 12 months. She helped him understand the British way of life, he explains, and value the culture of both countries. “With me and Mary it was like it just had to happen,” he says.

“Mary was very warm. Regardless of age, gender, whatever, she would accept everybody,” he says. It was part of what made her such an incredible nurse: “Nursing was Mary’s second nature. And caring for people was what she loved to do.”

callout-coronavirus

In their home, pictures of Mary and the family together line the walls. Their son, AJ, now three, still asks where Mummy has gone. Like her, his heart is full of kindness, says Boateng. “He will come to me and say: ‘Daddy are you OK? Are you sure Daddy? Can I give you a hug?’”

Sometimes he will wake Boateng in the middle of the night to check whether he is crying, after hearing his father weep in the days and weeks after his mother’s death. “After his mum passed the only thing I could do was just give him a lot of hugs,” says Boateng. “So now he has also understood that emotions when someone is sad, or is in the worst moment, the only thing you can do is give them a hug.”

In a week during which the UK reached the grim milestone of 50,000 coronavirus deaths, Boateng says he knows he is not walking alone along this hard, sometimes dark path: “Our individual stories might be different but we’ve all lost a loved one,. Some were very close, some may have been distantly related, but we have all lost someone dear to us. We all wish they were still here.”

Out of the maelstrom of grief, he is trying to look to the future. He wants to study again, move into human rights law. He wants to make his children, and his late wife, proud. “I have to make sure I don’t disappoint them,” Boateng says. “I have to come out stronger. And, you know, show the world that we’ve lost, but we’ve not lost hope.”





No.28 article:
Digested week: Covid vaccine and Cummings exit offer hope … of sorts

It will take months to roll out immunisation, and the PM’s top adviser is leaving just in time to avoid his Brexit aftermath

MondayAs many of you will know, my default responses to most situations are mistrust and despair. Yet today I listened to the news and felt something approaching hope. My mood had lifted over the weekend when it became clear Joe Biden had won the US presidential election and that the world was going to be a safer and more stable place after four years of Donald Trump. That feeling was deepened this morning when I heard that there was a genuine contender for a successful coronavirus vaccine in the near future. There’s sure to be a biopic of Uğur Şahin and Özlem Türeci – the husband and wife team behind BioNTech – already in development. Suddenly it felt like there was a way back to normality that didn’t involve repeated lockdowns and testing. It would be so nice to wake up in the morning without a feeling of both intense anxiety and loneliness. I have missed my work friends and colleagues dreadfully and hadn’t realised how much I depended on them. Then, of course, I had to spoil the moment by doing the maths. The UK has secured 40m doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine – enough for 20 million people – and I wasn’t sure whether I would make the cut as I was only in tier 8 (out of 11) in order of priority to get the jab. I then read that even working flat out, the government estimated it would only be able to give about 1m vaccinations a week, meaning that it would take the best part of a year to roll out the current stocks – even if other vaccines proved successful in the interim. Still, the hope was nice while it lasted.

TuesdayToday is the 25th birthday of our son – our youngest child – and somehow it feels far more significant than either his 18th or his 21st because back then he was at university and had yet to give much thought to what sort of life or career he might want. Robbie is now indisputably an adult – he’s far more grown up and sorted than I was at his age – and though I take pleasure and pride in the man he’s become I can’t help missing the younger, more dependent version who was happy, among other things, to come along to football matches with me. I’m also not entirely sure where all the intervening years have gone though his actual birth is etched in my memory as, like his sister before him, he was whisked off to intensive care moments after he was born – though thankfully he wasn’t in anything like the critical state Anna had been. Still, at least it has never been hard knowing what to give Robbie for his birthday as he’s always in need of cash. All year he has been saving for the moment he turned 25 and his car insurance became cheaper. What he really wants is a van (a 2004 Toyota Hiace with 100,000 miles on the clock) in which he and his girlfriend can bung some surfboards and a sleeping bag so they can spend their weekends and holidays at campsites by the sea with a few other friends in their vans. Now the moment has arrived when that possibility becomes more of a financial reality and he has spent much of the last month eyeing up potential contenders. May the van of his dreams rise up to meet him.

WednesdayI support the second lockdown – though I would have preferred it to have been introduced when Sage recommended it – but the novelty has already worn off after a week. I’ve done everything that needs doing in the garden (the bananas are safely wrapped in their fleeces for winter) and my entire life seems to revolve around the television. During the daytime I follow what’s going on in Westminster on Parliament TV and in the evenings my wife are on a non-stop diet of dramas and documentaries. The undoubted highlight at the moment is Sky Atlantic’s The Undoing: the acting is superb – Hugh Grant seems to get better and better with age, though Donald Sutherland, at 85, is still the classiest actor on the show – and the storyline is gripping. Each of the three episodes has ended on a seemingly game-changing cliffhanger and even though we must have already met the murderer, I don’t have a clue who it is. My documentary viewing veers between hospital emergencies, endless second world war programmes – I can’t help feeling the BBC4 schedulers are out to remind us that however bad we feel things are now they could be a whole lot worse – and Cornwall. By my count, this is either the third or fourth series about Cornwall in the last 18 months, which suits me fine as I have a need for something unchallenging and familiar occasionally and I would happily watch images of Cornish landscapes even without a presenter or a voiceover. Each series claims to be showing us the real Cornwall behind the holiday destination, but it’s reached the point where I’ve become sure that some of the same characters are starting to appear on the different shows. There may be high unemployment in the county, but at least there are a growing number of opportunities in TV.

ThursdayAs the rest of us considered the fact that the UK had become the first European country to exceed 50,000 coronavirus deaths, No 10 was engaged in its own internal warfare, culminating in the resignation of its director of communications, Lee Cain. Having begun his career by dressing up as a chicken for the Daily Mirror and chasing David Cameron around the country during the 2010 election, Cain went on to become a close ally of Dominic Cummings as part of the Vote Leave campaign. And when Boris Johnson became prime minister, the old Vote Leave clique were rewarded for their loyalty with plum jobs in Downing Street. Quite why Cain has chosen to quit now is not entirely clear. He was known to have been unhappy that Allegra Stratton, the prime minister’s soon-to-be press secretary who will take the daily televised briefings, would not be reporting directly to him and had demanded he be promoted to No 10 chief of staff. Here it gets even more confusing, because some insiders say Stratton and Johnson’s fiancee, Carrie Symonds, were both unhappy about Cain’s macho style – he’s never knowingly gone out of his way to avoid a fight – and had persuaded Johnson not to offer him the job. Cain meanwhile claims that Johnson did offer him the job he wanted but that he had, for reasons unknown, turned it down. These sorts of spats are normally resolved in organisations by a judicious change of title. Leave Cain in the same role but give him the job description of Executive Chief of Staff (Global) and that way everyone stays happy and onside. Except it doesn’t appear to have worked in this case. Nor does it seem that the prime minister played much role in deciding who was to get what job. Rather he seems to have left it to Stratton and Symonds, who herself was sacked from her communications job at Tory HQ, to decide. A curious way to run a government. Now we hear Cummings is also leaving, despite having hung on after causing massive reputational damage to both himself and Johnson by taking a wrecking ball to the government’s coronavirus comms strategy with his Durham safari back in April. So now, with no Brexit trade deal in sight despite there being fewer than 50 days until the 31 December deadline, there will be no Vote Leave people left in Downing St when the the UK leaves the EU to manage the aftermath and pick up the pieces. While few will feel anything but relief and joy at his departure, the government has seldom looked quite so clueless or lacking in any form of responsibility. Classic Dom.

FridayIt’s going to be hard for anyone to beat the Republican party’s PR own goal in choosing to hold a press conference at the Four Seasons Total Landscaping centre in Philadelphia rather than at the Four Seasons hotel. Watching Rudy Giuliani standing between a sex shop and a crematorium, still trying to maintain the fiction that Donald Trump had won, will be one of my favourite memories of the US election. I’m not sure the Republicans – or the hotel group for that matter – will ever fully recover.

But here in the UK, we shouldn’t be afraid to acknowledge our own bunch of idiots who this week have gone out of their way to make themselves look stupid. We’ve had the head of the Football Association, Greg Clarke, proving he knows nothing about diversity and inclusiveness at a select committee. We’ve had Pilot Officer Matt Hancock promising to personally fly in vaccine supplies from Belgium if there are Brexit delays at the border, despite having failed to let Alok Sharma in on his cunning plan before the Downing Street press conference a few hours earlier. Then we’ve had the “northern powerhouse” minister Jake Berry insisting that northerners prefer football while southerners go to the ballet and opera. Has he not noticed that there are a fair number of well-supported football teams south of Manchester or that some of our greatest opera singers come from the north? Or that there are plenty of people, like me, who are passionate about both. Maybe that makes me a Midlander. But while I have just about got used to watching football in empty stadiums on telly – I guess I’ve had decades of experience of TV football watching to help me prepare – I can’t bring myself to watch opera on TV. I just can’t emotionally connect with the singers in a way that’s meaningful: too much of the performance gets lost on the small screen. There will be tears when I can finally see live opera again.

Digested week, digested: Rake America Great Again





No.29 article:
A very good week for very good news

This week’s vaccine news brought hope of an end to all this, though it’s not all plain sailing from here

No doubt about the most hopeful story of the week. With much of the planet once again at a pandemic standstill (a pandstill?) and fears deepening over the economic, social, pedagogical and psychological effects of lockdown, even the slightest hint of a vaccine breakthrough was enough to set thoughts leaping ahead.

Thoughts like: how soon can we roll it out? Will we be back to normal by spring? Can I hug my mum soon? And can my kids please retrieve their adolescence now?

As ever with an Upsidey story like a vaccine, it’s not all plain sailing. So some of our journalists spent much of the week trying to figure out how things might proceed. Some of the most illuminating pieces included:

How excited should we be? Three-minute read

How will a vaccine be rolled out in the UK? Two-minute explainer

Plans to administer thousands of jabs. Three-minute read

Covid vaccine tracker. Two-minute read

Vaccine volunteers – in pictures. Quick flick-through

Of course, the Guardian does not have a monopoly on solid, explanatory journalism, so as a service to Upside readers, we also admired:

How do we solve the ‘cold chain’ delivery problem? (Wired)

When will we be back to ‘normal’? (The Conversation)

How does Pfizer calculate the efficacy of its vaccine? (Reuters)

How does the vaccine actually work? (The Week)

Did they delay announcement to stymie Trump’s re-election bid? (Answer: no.) (Forbes)

There was a delightful little story-behind-the-story, meanwhile. The husband-and-wife team behind the vaccine are Germans of Turkish background. So dedicated are they to their work that they even started and ended their wedding day in the lab, with just a quick break to dash to the register office.

Our Berlin correspondent, Philip Oltermann, investigated their story, and spoke to one half of the dynamic duo.

Elsewhere this week, we enjoyed:

How Europe’s lockdown is starting to reduce the R number. Three-minute read

The countries pioneering a green future. Three-minute read

Wet farming: an experiment for a warmer, damper world. Four-minute read

The fishing app that confronts illegal trawling. Two-minute read

Covid 19- what can we learn from the London blitz? 15-minute podcast

Almost every week, there is encouraging data from the world of renewable energy. This week we learned that newly installed capacity has hit record levels in 2020.

This is hopeful: another breakthrough in the 40-odd-year struggle against HIV and Aids, via the New York Times.

This is lovely: instead of putting his grandfather, a veteran of the second world war, into a nursing home, Roger Gilbert took him on a bucket-list odyssey around the US before he died.

This is promising: five new UK centres to help move the country towards a circular economy.

This is utterly gratuitous: how octopuses taste with their arms, via New Scientist.

With our consumer champion correspondents who reckon they have won back millions of pounds for Guardian readers over the years by fighting their consumer disputes.





No.30 article:




No.31 article:
For EU leaders to seek solutions abroad to end prejudice against millions of their own citizens is insulting and meaningless

Terror attacks in France and Austria have put Europe’s 25 million Muslims back in the spotlight. The unwanted attention is familiar. Discussing Muslims as a security risk invariably reaches fever pitch after an Islamist-inspired terrorist act. This time the attackers came from Chechnya, Tunisia and one had roots in North Macedonia. But never mind: anxiety over the Muslim “enemy within” goes deep.

Anxious debates on the place of Islam in Europe and claims that European Muslims are footsoldiers in an existential confrontation between Europe and Islam and represent an impossible-to-integrate “other” have dogged Muslims across the continent for decades.

There is a dangerous new shrillness to the conversation this time, however. 

The rhetoric over the alleged “Islamisation” of Europe is fired up by xenophobic and populist parties including such figures as Hungary’s Viktor Orbán, but it has been embraced by too many mainstream European politicians.

 EU home affairs ministers are this week discussing measures to block online Islamist propaganda, provide imams with training in “European” values and pay more attention to the integration of Muslims. And given the fears of increased Islamist-related terrorism, some of these steps are justified. But governments must ensure such actions do not fuel an increase in violence, discrimination and hate against their own Muslim citizens.

Amnesty International has warned French authorities not to contribute to a “portrayal of all Muslims as suspects” and to stop “stereotypical, stigmatising and discriminatory comments targeting Muslims and refugees”, although the French president, Emmanuel Macron, denies allegations of fostering racism against Muslims.

The reality is that the relationship between European governments and their Muslim citizens is in dire need of a reset. The climate of mutual suspicion is both a rebuke to the values of inclusion and tolerance that the EU claims to uphold and it lends support to the extremist claim that there can be no coexistence between Islam and the west.

Crafting a new social contract into a constructive conversation requires the transformation of outdated thinking and the acknowledgement of past errors and misperceptions.

As an important first step, the myth of European Muslims as eternal outsiders, with a culture and customs that make them forever “untrue” Europeans, must be challenged.

This means not conflating the actions of a tiny minority of Islamist extremists with the beliefs and conduct of the majority, which abhors such views. It means accepting not only Islam’s historical role and influence in Europe, as Macron has done, but also recognising, as Angela Merkel did in 2018, that Islam is a part of modern Europe.

Crucially, it demands an end to the outsourcing of Europe-Muslim relations to foreign leaders. The war of words between EU leaders and Recip Tayyip Erdoğan of Turkey, and even Macron’s interview with the Arab news channel Al Jazeera in which he explained his respect for Islam as well as his plans to appoint an envoy for the Muslim world, are beside the point.

Worse, they are counterproductive. EU leaders talking to their foreign counterparts over the heads of their own Muslim citizens is insulting and meaningless. All it does is reinforce perceptions of European Muslims as exotic, alien and forever non-citizens.

Neither Erdoğan nor Pakistan’s Imran Khan have any real interest in improving lives of European Muslims. Nor do they share their concerns, priorities and values. Truth be told many European Muslims fled these very countries to find shelter here. The last thing they need is counsel from foreign powers.

Anti-Muslim racism and hate must be tackled head on. Discrimination against so-called “third generation migrants”, mainly young men, often results in marginalistion and disaffection, which in turn can lead to radicalisation. European Muslim women who wear the headscarf should not have to fight the perception that they are victims in need of help or a public menace.

The lived reality of many Muslims points in another direction. The large majority of Europeans who follow Islam live fulfilling and productive lives as law-abiding and taxpaying European citizens. Many are in politics (although not at EU level). Across Europe, Muslim entrepreneurs are revitalising impoverished urban neighborhoods, creating jobs and prompting innovation in business. They excel in medicine, sports, art and culture. Their stories need to be told.

As the Open Society Institute has noted, European Muslims and non-Muslims share the same concerns, needs and experiences including “better quality of education, improved housing, cleaner streets and [the tackling of ] antisocial behaviour and crime”.

“There is no evidence supporting the common contention that Muslims are living in a separate, parallel society,” according to Germany’s Bertelsmann Foundation.

Finally, it’s important to shift the focus from religion to Europe’s broader equality agenda as articulated in the EU’s anti-racism action plan, adopted in September following the Black Lives Matter protests.

An overwhelming majority of Muslims in France and Germany describe themselves as loyal to their country and see no contradiction between French/German and Muslim values. “There is no evidence supporting the common contention that Muslims are living in a separate, parallel society,” says the Bertelsmann Foundation.

The ambitious blueprint recognises the deep roots of structural racism across Europe and that anti-Muslim hatred is a form of racism. It should be systematically used to tackle the marginalisation of European Muslims.

Empowering national equality bodies in EU states to include anti-Muslim hatred in their anti-racism work is one important step. Changing police culture and conduct another.

The good news is that even as some national politicians step up their anti-Muslim rhetoric, local politicians have adopted a different, more inclusive approach. Additionally, Covid-19 has highlighted the strong presence of Muslims in frontline services across the continent.

Anti-Muslim hatred and prejudice can be seen as a Muslim problem. In truth, it is much more than that. It is a stain on European values, Europe’s internal cohesion and its global reputation. In addition, rebuilding the post-pandemic European economy demands all hands on deck and the contribution of all citizens.

In the end it is very simple: Europe’s Muslims are not going anywhere. They are here to stay because Europe is home.

• Shada Islam is a Brussels-based commentator on EU affairs

• This article was amended on 13 November 2020 to clarify that one of the recent terror attackers had roots in North Macedonia, rather than being from there as an earlier version said. 





No.32 article:
Typhoon Vamco hits the Philippines – in pictures

Typhoon Vamco has killed at least seven people and unleashed some of the worst flooding in years in the Philippines’ capital, Manila





No.33 article:
Details are emerging about the ‘most important vaccination programme for decades’

Urgent preparations are under way across the UK for the rollout of the Covid vaccine, after the momentous news on Monday that the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine had proven 90% effective. Jonathan Van-Tam, England’s deputy chief medical officer, has said the country and the NHS is gearing up for the “most important vaccination programme we’ve done for decades”. But that has raised questions about which organisations inside and outside government will be doing what to speed delivery.

A: Politically, the government is responsible. But operationally, in England, the NHS is in charge of delivering an unprecedented logistical challenge – immunising the country against the coronavirus.

A Whitehall official explains: “Ultimately the government is in charge of the vaccine rollout. It’s a Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) programme. We lead on the policy and the NHS leads on the operational delivery of that plan. So it’s an NHS vaccination programme – it will be delivered by the NHS. But who’s responsible for it? Ultimately ministers are responsible for it.”

So if things go wrong as the rollout unfolds – for example, if parts of the country don’t receive enough doses of the vaccine – then ministers will be held to account for that by parliament, just as they have been for the many failures of the government’s £12bn test and trace programme.

Neither the DHSC or NHS England have formally announced that this is the division of responsibilities involved in the rollout, however.

It is not yet known how the vaccine rollout will happen in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, though the NHS there is likely to also play the lead role. The 40m doses of the Pfizer vaccine are for the whole of the UK and the DHSC has spoken to the devolved administrations about this, but nothing has been decided yet.

A: NHS England is finalising the details of its and the DHSC’s “deployment plan” for England. That may emerge as soon as next week, but it is understood that delays have occurred, so publication may slip until later in November.

The plan is likely to outline the different but overlapping roles to be played by community-based vaccinating sites, run by GPs, which will administer 200-500 jabs a day; mass vaccination sites, where 2,000-5,000 people a day will be immunised; and the third model of vaccine delivery planned, namely pop-up sites and healthcare professionals in vehicles, who will bring the vaccine to places such as care homes and prisons.

However, one source with knowledge of the plan said that it was unlikely to specify how many people each of these types of methods should be vaccinating every day. “The government is not using targets for this, given what’s happened with all the different targets [around coronavirus testing and PPE delivery] around the Covid pandemic this year”, the source said.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

A: Yes, for several reasons. GP surgeries, health centres and hospitals already deliver immunisations, such as the MMR and six-in-one jabs that most young children have. The NHS is the only organisation with the personnel, expertise and premises needed, given the scale of the task, although the service, especially in England, is short-staffed. And lastly, the public generally trust the NHS in a way they are unlikely to trust any private firm that ends up doing immunisations. Serco and Sitel’s very poor performance in delivering test and trace is prominent in ministerial thinking.

A: Almost all of them, one way or the other. The task in hand – to give two jabs, several weeks apart, to tens of millions of people as soon as possible – is so enormous that all kinds of NHS staff will be involved. NHS England calls this their “all hands to the pump” approach. Paramedics, podiatrists, physiotherapists and many others will be involved, not just doctors and nurses. They will come from GP surgeries, hospitals and community-based health services. Hospitals will lose some of their personnel, potentially for months, when they are seconded to the vaccine drive.

Hospital bosses admit privately that this is not ideal, and that their services may be impaired at a time when they will still be tackling winter pressures and the second wave of Covid-19. But they say the job of vaccinating the population is so urgent and life-savingly important that the temporary disruption to normal care is justified in the longer-run.

A: Yes, especially initially, when the first task will be vaccinating the ten different groups deemed the greatest priority. They include care home residents, NHS and social care staff, over-80s and the 2.2 million people on the “shielding” list because they have serious underlying health conditions.

In England, the 1,260 primary care networks – groups of GP practices – have to quickly identify at least one site in their area that will be open for vaccinations between 8am and 8pm seven days a week, including bank holidays, and deliver a minimum of 975 jabs a week.

However, many other healthcare professionals – and even student nurses and doctors – will become involved, especially once the mass vaccination sites start opening.

The Army will be involved, too. They will help with the creation of pop-up sites and also the transportation and delivery of supplies across the UK of whatever vaccines are available.





No.34 article:
Some trials of lateral flow test from US firm Innova found it was much less accurate than the government said it was

The lateral flow test bought by the UK government for mass testing in Liverpool, and potentially the whole country, could miss up to half of those who have Covid-19, according to experts.

The government has great expectations of the Innova test, having signed two contracts with the California-based company behind it. Innova told the Guardian it was now shipping more than one million tests a day to the UK.

The Guardian understands the government also hopes to use the test to reduce the length of self-isolation among people identified as the contacts of those with the coronavirus.

Results of an evaluation of the lateral flow tests, which pick up the antigen of the virus from a nose or throat swab or saliva within half an hour, were released by the government on Wednesday. It said they could be used to pick up infection in people with no symptoms.

“Extensive clinical evaluation from Public Health England and the University of Oxford show Lateral Flow Tests are accurate and sensitive enough to be used in the community, including for asymptomatic people,” the Department of Health and Social Care said in a statement.

It said the tests now being deployed in Liverpool had 99.6% accuracy. “Findings from PHE Porton Down and Oxford University shows newly deployed Lateral Flow Tests are highly reliable, sensitive and accurate in multiple settings,” it claimed. It had “an overall sensitivity of 76.8% for all PCR positive individuals but detects over 95% of individuals with high viral loads”. PCR is the gold-standard swab test that is widely used at present but requires lab processing.

Prof Sir John Bell of Oxford University, the government’s life sciences adviser, said that the test could be used to pick up infections in people who would not otherwise know they had one.

“The data in this validation report demonstrates that these inexpensive, easy to use tests can play a major role in our fight against Covid-19,” he said. “They identify those who are likely to spread the disease and when used systematically in mass testing could reduce transmissions by 90%. They will be detecting disease in large numbers of people who have never previously even received a test.”

But Professor Jon Deeks, an expert in assessing Covid-19 tests, disagreed with their assessment of accuracy and said it would be dangerous to use the tests to rule out disease. 

One trial of the tests was carried out in a community test centre, where 58% of the Covid-19 cases were detected. Another involved experienced nurses testing people in hospital, which picked up 73% of the Covid-19 cases. Some were sent to Porton Down, where they picked up 79%.

“For the first time we are being allowed to see data on the performance of the test that the government have purchased for their mass screening Moonshot programme. The DHSC data show that up to half of the Covid cases may be missed by the test, and it may give more false positives than true positives when used in mass screening,” he said.

“I am really concerned that people are not given information to understand what the results mean. A negative test indicates your risk is reduced to between a quarter and one half of the average, but it does not rule out Covid. It would be tragic if people are misled into thinking that they are safe to visit their elderly relatives or take other risks.

“It is basic epidemiology that tests which miss cases like Innova are not fit for use to rule out disease – such as is needed to decide whether students are safe to travel home at the end of the year. The government’s plan is both wrong and dangerous.

“It appears that these data were not released before as they were not ready. Decisions to introduce mass testing don’t appear to have been based on any serious scrutiny of the evidence.”

Professor Sebastian Johnston from Imperial College London said the government announcement “gives the impression that all lateral flow antigen tests have high-sensitivity following extensive clinical testing by PHE/Oxford. This is very far from the truth.”

Of 40 tests which had been evaluated, only one – Innova – had been assessed in detail. “Yes it will be nice to have a single rapid test that can quickly detect people with high virus loads and get them isolated rapidly,” said Johnston. “This single test will not be good enough to say you are almost certainly negative, as its sensitivity is not good enough, especially in the hands of the general public.”

Peter Santeusanio, VP of product management at Innova Medical Group in California, told the Guardian that the ambition is for the tests to be used with saliva samples at home. People would use their smartphone camera to read the device and find out their result from an app.

“We, as far as I know today, are the only antigen test that is being used in the UK government to the best of my knowledge that is completely validated for saliva testing,” said.

“Saliva testing is critical because saliva testing enables home testing. Eventually.”

He believes lateral flow tests can be used to help people get out of isolation if they are negative. Two tests, two days apart, would be enough to tell whether they are infected, he suggested. “Different people will have different protocols. But, in general, our position on this test is [if] you take the first test and the first test is negative, you would wait for two days, take the second test. And if you’re still negative, you know, you are probably OK, but if you want belt and suspenders, wait two more days.”





No.35 article:
&#x27;Rotten&#x27;: stores in China face backlash over label for large clothing sizes

Customers ‘shocked’ by descriptions of larger items in RT-Mart, prompting apology for ‘inappropriate’ sign

A major retailer in China has been forced to apologise after one of its stores classified small clothing sizes as “beautiful” and large sizes as “rotten”.

The signs inside the RT-Mart superstore depicted a size chart with small to medium sizes described as “slim” and “beautiful”, with larger sizes as “rotten” and “horrible”.

It was spotted by a customer who photographed and shared them to social media, adding the comment: “I was shocked when I saw this size chart at a RT-Mart today. Am I completely rotten?” The post quickly went viral, drawing accusations of fat shaming women and discrimination.

“It’s not only disrespecting women but also extremely vulgar,” said one.

RT-Mart is headquartered in Taiwan and has more than 400 stores in mainland China. Jack Ma’s Alibaba Group Holdings, China’s e-commerce giant is a major shareholder in RT-Mart’s parent company.

One commenter joked that Ma, who was recently questioned by the Chinese regulators ahead of a planned – but since delayed - float of his company, Ant Group, would now face interrogation by the state-run Women’s Federation.

RT-Mart issued an apology for the “inappropriate” sign, claiming internal inquiries determined it was an isolated incident at one store. It said the signs had been removed and it would not happen again.

“We sincerely apologise to the public and accept the public’s criticism,” the statement from RT-Mart said. “Thank you very much for your understanding and support of RT-Mart!

There was little forgiveness among netizens, with numerous pledges to boycott the store and skepticism that it was one rogue outlet displaying the signage.

“Businesses that can do such things are rotten to their bones,” said one.

“I just want to know, if this happened in Europe or America, would the company be punished financially,” said another.





No.36 article:
Friday briefing: Johnson-Cummings – end of the affair?

PM’s top adviser poised to be next victim of No 10 purge, reports say … Met pledges 40% ethnic minority recruits … Scotland the brave

by  Martin Farrer

Morning everyone. I’m Martin Farrer and these are the top stories this morning. 

Tory MPs are warning Boris Johnson that he is down to his last chance to sort out the dysfunctional mess in Downing Street as the fallout from the resignation of communications chief Lee Cain continues to reverberate around Westminster. As backbenchers queued up to give their unflattering verdicts on the way in which No 10 has lurched from one crisis to another, speculation grew that Dominic Cummings, the PM’s chief adviser and a close ally of Cain, could quit his post by Christmas. The controversial figure, who is widely disliked by Conservative MPs, fuelled some of the reports by telling the BBC that his “position hasn’t changed since my January blog” when he said that he wanted to make himself “largely redundant” by the end of 2020. It is uncertain whether this week’s bloodletting will see more victims, but it was being interpreted as a turning point for Johnson’s regime. Tory MPs were unsparing in their criticism with Sir Roger Gale saying Johnson had to “get a grip”, while another Tory, who asked not to be named, said of the Downing Street team: “They’re children. Ideologues and self-obsessed fools.”

Met reform – The Metropolitan police will have to hire 40% of its new recruits from ethnic minority backgrounds and stop and search incidents will have to be justified to community panels as part of new plans to be unveiled today to tackle the race crisis engulfing Britain’s biggest force. The Guardian has learned that the Met commissioner, Cressida Dick, is expected to accept that the force is not free of racism or discrimination, and has agreed the reforms after months of negotiations with the capital’s mayor, Sadiq Khan. The action plan is the latest in a long line of attempts to address the problem of lack of trust in the police among black communities.

‘Bash the virus’ – Uğur Şahin, the scientist behind the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine against Covid-19, has told the Guardian that he believes the treatment can “bash the virus over the head”. Şahin, the chief executive of BioNTech, said in his first interview with a British newspaper that it “will have a dramatic effect” in curbing the spread of the disease, which has now infected more than 50 million people around the world. Britain hit a new daily high of 33,470 confirmed coronavirus cases on Thursday, with another 563 deaths. There was also a record figure of new cases in the US – 143,231 – as well as other countries including Russia, Japan, Croatia and Greece. Follow all the developments in the pandemic at our live blog here.

Admissions reform – University leaders have given their backing to a radical overhaul of admissions policy which would mean UK students would only be offered places once they have their A-level results. The long-awaited reform aims to make the system fairer by eliminating the use of predicted grades, which are often unreliable, and will bring the UK into line with other countries, possibly as early as 2023/24.

Fox attack – Donald Trump’s claims that there was widespread fraud in last week’s US presidential battle have been given the clearest repudiation yet after a coalition of federal and state officials said the elections were the most secure in American history. A statement by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency said there was no evidence that any voting system had deleted or lost votes, had changed votes, or was in any way compromised. As he faced more calls to concede defeat, Trump unleashed a series of tweets denouncing Fox News, accusing the network of having forgotten “what made them successful, what got them there”.

Barack Obama believes Trump won the presidency in 2016 in part because sufficient numbers of Americans had been “spooked by a black man in the White House” for the preceding eight years. Writing in his newly released memoir of his time in the Oval Office, Obama says those voters were prey to “the dark spirits … of xenophobia, anti-intellectualism, paranoid conspiracy theories, an antipathy toward black and brown folks”. The book, A Promised Land, also recalls how Joe Biden, then vice-president but now president-elect, advised Obama to delay the raid to kill Osama bin Laden in 2011.

They’re back – David Marshall has entered the pantheon of Scottish sporting heroes after saving Aleksandar Mitrovic’s penalty to send Steve Clarke’s side to next summer’s delayed Euro 2020 finals. The shootout victory in Belgrade means Scotland will play in a major men’s finals for the first time since the 1998 World Cup in France. As an added bonus they also get to take on England in one of the group games. Andy Robertson, Scotland’s captain, said he had never felt so emotional after a game, adding that he “can’t wait” for next summer’s competition. Ryan Christie, who scored Scotland’s only goal in regular time, also gave an emotional TV interview as he dedicated the win to the “whole nation”.

A year ago, the broadcaster Adrian Chiles opened a book on attention deficit disorder. Suddenly the good, the bad and the mad bits of his life started to make sense. He describes the impact the diagnosis has had on his life.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/12-66840-20201113_TIF_ADD.mp3 

Despite death, deafness and drugs, AC/DC are back in black again with a new album that few expected would ever be made. Angus Young and Brian Johnson tell Michael Hann how it felt to be back in the studio after the passing of lynchpin Malcolm Young and the Geordie singer losing his hearing after decades of hard rocking. “It just shows the resilience and the bond that exists between us,” Johnson says. “We walked into the studio, and you could feel the electricity in the air.”

Gareth Southgate said after England cruised to a 3-0 friendly win over the Republic of Ireland that he is looking forward to a “super occasion” against Scotland when the two sides meet in the Euro 2020 group stage. There was heartbreak for Northern Ireland, though, as Michal Duris’s extra-time goal sent Slovakia through next summer’s tournament. In Swansea, a youthful US side held Wales to a goalless draw, in the absence of manager Ryan Giggs. Paul Casey got off to a seven-under flier in the first round of the Masters at Augusta, where another member of the old guard, Tiger Woods, shot a wonderfully composed 68. The term BAME can be insulting and should be retired from use, a survey of UK sporting organisations has found. Jack Willis, Ollie Lawrence and Will Stuart will make their first starts in an England XV to play Georgia showing seven changes from the Six Nations-clinching win over Italy. EFL clubs have collectively agreed to accept the Premier League’s offer of a £50m bailout for teams in League One and League Two. Lewis Hamilton has said that winning a seventh world championship would be a feat “far beyond his wildest dreams”. And the pandemic has exposed the inequalities that lie beneath the shiny veneer of the Women’s Super League, writes Suzanne Wrack.

The annual John Lewis Christmas ad has relegated gift-giving to the backburner and instead brings kindness to the fore as the store chain seeks to reflect the year of coronavirus. The two-minute animation features a hedgehog who hopes to fly, a group of hip-hop pigeons and lots of love hearts to deliver its message. Concerns about the impact of the virus on economies everywhere will send the FTSE 100 down by 1% this morning, futures trading shows, while the pound is on $1.312 and €1.116.

The Guardian leads with the latest developments in the Downing Street/Dominic Cummings soap opera – “Tory MPs warn PM: final chance to ‘get a grip’ on chaos in No 10”. The Times finds some positive spin with “PM hopes to win back friends with softer touch”, but the Telegraph is notably negative about the future of Boris Johnson’s favourite aide: “‘Beginning of the end’ in No 10 for Cummings”. The story also gives the Star another chance to use its Cummings cut-out-and-keep mask. Under a strapline saying “Cummings wants to leave No 10 without losing face”, the headline reads “Let’s help Dom go!”.

The FT has an optimistic-sounding headline that reads “Central bank chiefs upbeat over vaccine boost to global economy”, but the i has a gloomier take: “Vaccine goal put at risk by baseless safety fears”. The Express reports on “Queen’s vow to keep serving her country”, the Mirror has “£450m lotto winner on death crash charge”, and the Mail launches a campaign to let relatives visit lonely loved ones in care homes this Christmas – “The clamour that cannot be ignored”. In Scotland, the only thing that matters today is the national team’s win over Serbia. “We’re back”, says the Record. The Herald has a picture of the players celebrating with the headline “The wait is over… Scotland are back”.

The Guardian morning briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.37 article:
Papua New Guinea stands by for new government after MPs abandon James Marape

Opposition takes control of parliament and prepares for no-confidence motion on 1 December to end Marape’s premiership

Papua New Guinea could be set to install a new government after dozens of government members – including nine ministers – abandoned prime minister James Marape in parliament to sit on the opposition benches.

The opposition took control of parliament on Thursday and voted 57-39 to suspend parliament, ostensibly to block the passage of the government’s budget, but more fundamentally to remove Marape.

Parliament has been suspended until 1 December, when a motion of no-confidence will be moved against Marape.

Marape’s brief prime ministership appears imperilled, and he may find himself dislodged from power by a range of opposition forces allied against him.

Critics of Marape, in particular the opposition leader Belden Namah, have accused the prime minister of under-delivering on promises around corruption reform and economic development, and of leading a government of empty slogans such as “take back PNG” or promising to make PNG “the richest black Christian nation” on earth.

Marape was also criticised for failing to arrest those responsible for a massacre in Tari last year, in which 18 women and children were killed, despite promises that tribal violence and sorcery killings would be stamped out.

His support for an abortive but expensive deep-sea mining project in the Bismarck Sea, and his attempt to nationalise Porgera mine, were also held up as significant failures.

Under PNG’s constitution, new governments are given an 18-month grace period following an election before a vote of no-confidence can be brought against a prime minister. Marape became prime minister after elections in May 2019.

Marape’s grace period expires on 30 November, but opposition forces, bolstered by dissenting members of the government, have sought to block the budget.

With parliament now suspended, that budget will not be handed down, and the no-confidence motion will be brought the day after Marape’s grace period runs out.

Marape has lost key frontbench supporters, including the deputy PM Sam Basil, foreign affairs minister Patrick Pruaitch, and commerce and trade minister William Duma.

But he has vowed to fight on, saying “it’s not over till it’s over”, and saying he was rallying support to secure the 56 votes needed to hold power.

“Papua New Guineans must know this is a debate between those who want to maintain the status quo of corruption, big boys’ elite politics, multinational lobbyism for foreign interests, and those new leaders with a blend of strong experience, patriotic leaders who want to do the right thing, changing [the] country’s policies and laws for a better future for our children,” Marape said.

Controlling PNG’s unicameral parliament is a perennial challenge for prime ministers. Governments are drawn from loose and broad coalitions, often reliant on personal alliances.

But these are prone to sudden rupture, and Marape was always vulnerable. His Pangu party controls only 23 seats in the 111-seat parliament, and he relied, as PNG prime ministers have before him, on the support of numerous other parties.

Namah, a former military officer and deputy PM with a long and colourful career in parliament, appears unlikely to be PNG’s next prime minister.

There are several candidates to succeed Marape, including East Sepik governor Allan Bird, the deputy leader of the People’s National Congress party, Richard Maru, and the foreign affairs minister, Pruaitch.

The former prime minister Peter O’Neill, who remains a prominent MP, is not considered a realistic chance to retake the premiership.

Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison, is set to visit PNG next week. PNG is Australia’s nearest neighbour and its former territory, and Australia remains the country’s largest aid donor and most influential relationship.

Morrison would not be drawn on the upheaval in PNG on Friday.

“I’m not going to speculate on those events,” he said. “But it’s my intention to be with prime minister Marape next Wednesday as planned.”





No.38 article:
Belarus tells banks to seize money raised to help out protesters

Money frozen in accounts of people who were hoping to use it for treatment or to pay fines

Authorities in Belarus have ordered banks to seize money raised in small donations and paid out as compensation to victims of a police crackdown on protesters.

The funds were transferred to people who were beaten or fined after taking part in ongoing demonstrations against the regime of Alexander Lukashenko.

After a presidential election, believed to have been rigged, in which Lukashenko declared an overwhelming victory, hundreds of people were left with injuries after systematic police violence on the streets and in jails. Thousands of people were also given fines, which prompted activists to set up fundraising efforts to provide compensation or support to pay the fines.

The BY_help fund, set up by the London-based Belarusian Andrei Leonchik, raised £2m within a few days of putting out the call in August, mostly from small donations from Belarusian citizens keen to show solidarity. After telephone consultations, it made payments ranging from small amounts to cover fines to several thousand pounds for those left with serious injuries.

By the beginning of this week, the group said it had received more than 8,700 applications for financial support and had paid out in more than 3,300 cases where people had been detained, injured or fined.

But authorities have now ordered banks to freeze any funds transferred by Leonchik, as well as opening a criminal case against him, according to leaked documents. One letter addressed to several Belarusian banks said Leonchik, together with the opposition leader Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, was collecting money “to support protest actions in Belarus” with the aim of toppling the government, and ordered them to freeze funds.

Tikhanovskaya, who fled Belarus after receiving threats in the aftermath of the election, claims she won despite her officially tally of 10%, and wants to lead a transition government that would prepare for new, free elections. She has met several European leaders, including the French president, Emmanuel Macron, who have voiced support for her. Lukashenko retains the backing, publicly at least, of the Kremlin.

“I have absolutely no links with Tikhanovskaya, and that was our intention from the very beginning,” said Leonchik, 38. He said he had deliberately decided to keep his fund separate from another fund, Belarus Solidarity, which makes payments to striking workers or helps them to leave the country. “This was a deliberate decision: they are the solidarity movement and we are the humanitarian movement,” he said.

Hundreds of people have been affected by the crackdown on the payments. On Tuesday morning, reports started coming in from people who had funds in their accounts frozen, and the numbers have grown since.

Some, who had already spent the money to pay off fines or on other expenses, found their accounts were overdrawn. In some cases, people had all access to their accounts blocked. The order to banks refers to a sum of 1.4 million Belarusian roubles (£415,000). Leonchik said some people were transferred funds from other accounts and so were not yet affected.

After the initial crackdown in August, Belarusian authorities have continued on the path of repression, with more than 20,000 people estimated to have been detained at some point, and many still facing criminal charges. Most of the opposition are either in jail or in exile, and while Lukashenko has promised constitutional reform, most see the process as window dressing.

The violence from Lukashenko’s police and plain-clothed goons continues. On Wednesday, Belarusian media reported that 31-year-old Roman Bondarenko, who was bundled into a van by security forces on Tuesday evening in Minsk, had died in hospital of head injuries.

Prior to last month’s election, the US president-elect, Joe Biden, voiced his support for the Belarusian opposition and promised to back them if elected. “Although President Trump refuses to speak out on their behalf, I continue to stand with the people of Belarus and support their democratic aspirations,” he said in a statement.





No.39 article:
Madrid surrealism show offers escape from pandemic reality

Exhibition explores how surrealist movement influenced culture and design in 20th century

Anyone tiring of the many mundane strictures of the new normality can, in Madrid at least, escape temporarily into a world where hands serve as chairs, tables spin on bicycle wheels and horses obligingly proffer lamps from their heads.

An exhibition in the Spanish capital examines the countless ways in which the surrealist movement has influenced culture and design over the past century, from the sofa Salvador Dalí modelled on Mae West’s lips, to the music videos of Björk.

The show, a collaboration between the La Caixa Foundation and Germany’s Vitra design museum, brings together 279 works of art and design by the likes of Dalí, René Magritte, Marcel Duchamp, Man Ray, Lee Miller, Le Corbusier, Ray Eames, Gae Aulenti and Iris van Herpen.

“The influence of surrealism goes far beyond a single era, a few manifestos and magazines and a few creators,” said Isabel Salgado, exhibitions director at La Caixa Foundation.

“Surrealism helped to break the dogma of functionalism – the dogma that insisted that form had to be linked to a function. Surrealism used the unconscious as a valid creative tool and one that opened the door to memory, imagination, desire and fate.”

After being introduced to the surrealists and their work, visitors are led through three atmospherically lit rooms that explore the movement’s subversion of reality, its relationship with eroticism (a red lit room), and, finally, its fascination with the wild and the irrational.

The show, called Objects of Desire: Surrealism and Design 1924-2020, is intended to immerse people in what its curator, Mateo Kries, describes as “one of the most influential dialogues between the world of art and design in the 20th century”.

But Kries, the director of the Vitra design museum, hopes it will also speak to visitors about the present day “and the possibilities of art and design inspiring our own view on the present”.

While many of the works on display are familiar, such as Man Ray’s Le Violon d’Ingres and the footage from Un Chien Andalou, some of the modern exhibits are less well known.

Displayed alongside three Björk videos – Utopia, Mutual Core and Hidden Place – is an undulating 2018 dress from Van Herpen, and the show’s final piece, Dunne &amp; Raby’s Designs for an Overpopulated Planet: the Foragers.

The Foragers speculates on the lengths to which humanity will have to go in order to carry on feeding itself over the coming decades. In it, the British design duo create a series of DIY machines that use “synthetic biology to create microbial stomach bacteria, along with electronic and mechanical devices, to maximise the nutritional value of the urban environment”.

As Kries points out, the piece’s position in the show is far from accidental. “Dunne &amp; Raby imagine a kind of fictional future scenario in which we will have to live in a world that is overpopulated – and I think a pandemic can be a natural part of that scenario – and they imagine what objects we would need,” he said.

“There’s that element of speculation, of fiction – maybe also of dreaming and of dystopias – that comes into the world of contemporary design and opens new perspectives for contemporary designers to think about our reality in a wider way.”

• Objects of Desire: Surrealism and Design 1924-2020 is at the CaixaForum in Madrid until 21 March 2021





No.40 article:
WHO drops censorship of words &#x27;Taiwan&#x27; and &#x27;China&#x27; on social media after backlash

Health body says countries’ names had been blocked on their Facebook page because of an ‘onslaught’ of cyber attacks

The World Health Organisation has removed social media filters which were censoring the words “Taiwan” and “China” from its Facebook page after an online backlash, but said the blocks were because of an “onslaught” of cyber attacks.

The about-face comes amid intense criticism over China’s continued blocking of Taiwan – which has gone more than 215 days without a local case of Covid-19 – from participation in meetings of the WHO’s decision-making body, the World Health Assembly.

This week internet users began reporting the WHO’s Facebook page would not allow comments that included the word Taiwan. The Guardian’s attempts to post comments found it was also blocking the word “China”. Posters began replacing characters in the word to get past the censors, including “ⓉⒶⒾⓌⒶⓃ ​ ⒸⒶⓃ ⒽⒺⓁⓅ”, or using the island’s former name, “Formosa”.

Taiwan’s foreign ministry said the block ran contrary to the neutrality the WHO should be upholding, and expressed its “strong regret and dissatisfaction”, but a spokesman for the WHO said the moves were a “practical measure” which didn’t reflect a value judgement or policy.

“During the World Health Assembly, WHO faces an onslaught of cyberattacks by online activists on a number of controversial issues, using keywords such as ‘Taiwan’ and ‘China’,” the spokesman said.

The social media team applied filters as the “onslaught” hindered its ability to moderate conversations, he said. After the block was lifted the WHO’s page was flooded with pro-Taiwan and anti-China messages.

The WHO’s history with Taiwan has been controversial, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic. China, which considers Taiwan a rogue province and its government to be separatists, has blocked its admission to the WHA despite an increase in international support for their inclusion.

Intense lobbying for Taiwan’s inclusion preceded a WHA meeting last week but it remained excluded. The WHO maintains any inclusion is a matter for WHA member states to vote on.

Taipei says it has much to share with the global community given its success in preventing a large outbreak. It has reported around 580 cases of Covid-19 in total, mostly imported and contained by the quarantine system, and just seven deaths.





No.41 article:
Thousands rescued as Vamco hit on the heels of Typhoon Goni, one of the strongest storms in the world this year

Thick mud and debris have coated many villages around the Philippine capital after a typhoon caused extensive flooding that sent people fleeing to their roofs and killed at least 39 people.

Thousands of people have been rescued by Friday, though waters have mostly receded. The military was rescuing people in places where waters remained high.

Amphibious assault vehicles, usually used in counter-insurgency operations, were deployed for the rescue work, military chief of staff General Gilbert Gapay said in an emergency meeting with disaster-response officials.

“We’ll continue to look for the missing, help in damage assessment,” Gapay said. He reported 39 deaths and 32 other people missing.

Typhoon Vamco passed north of Manila between Bulacan and Pampanga provinces overnight Wednesday and early Thursday, toppling power poles and trees and damaging homes.

More than 350,000 people had been evacuated to safety, mainly residents fleeing vulnerable coastal and low-lying areas before the typhoon hit. Philippine National Police said more than 100,000 people had been rescued, including 41,000 in the capital region.

At least 3.8 million households lost power in metropolitan Manila and outlying provinces, but crews have restored electricity in many areas and power was expected to be fully restored in about three days. Government offices were closed and classes suspended for public schools on Friday.

Vamco hit the Philippines on the heels of Typhoon Goni, one of the strongest typhoons in the world this year, which left more than 30 people dead or missing and damaged or destroyed 270,000 houses. Tens of thousands of people remain displaced.

The Philippines is hit by about 20 typhoons and tropical storms each year and also had active seismic faults and volcanoes, making it one of the world’s most disaster-prone countries.





No.42 article:
Aung San Suu Kyi&#x27;s party returns to power in Myanmar

Election result is likely to further entrench divisions within the country, particularly resentment within minority communities

Aung San Suu Kyi’s party will return to power for another five year term after securing a widely predicted victory in what is the country’s second general election since the end of full military rule.

According to the Union Election Commission, Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy has won 346 of the 412 seats declared so far, a result driven by her continued status as an icon of democracy in the country – despite international outrage at her treatment of the Rohingya.

Myanmar’s military-backed opposition, which has performed poorly, said on Tuesday there had been “many contentious events” during the election, though no evidence was provided to support these claims.

International and local observers have not reported any major irregularities.

There was little doubt that the NLD, which had already claimed victory on Monday, would be returned to power. Aung San Suu Kyi, who spent around 15 years under house arrest on the orders of the military junta, remains hugely popular among the Barmar majority.

On social media this week, videos showed her supporters gathering on the streets to celebrate late into the night, despite a curfew that is supposed to be in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.

There are concerns the election could escalate infections, and opposition parties say coronavirus restrictions, which limited campaigning in some areas, have not been enforced fairly.

It is feared the election will further entrench divisions within the country, particularly resentment within minority communities, who once considered Aung San Suu Kyi an ally but now feel betrayed by her government.

Voting was cancelled for an estimated 1.5 million voters in areas dominated by ethnic minority communities, apparently due to security concerns. In addition, about 1.1 million Rohingya – who remain in camps in both Myanmar and Bangladesh, where many fled following a brutal army crackdown in 2017 – continue to be denied citizenship and are disenfranchised. The Fortify Rights group said earlier this week it was concerned about the arrests of activists and a crackdown on free expression and assembly. “A core principle of elections under international law is universal and equal suffrage and that is not what took place yesterday,” Ismail Wolff, regional director of Fortify Rights, said in a statement released on Monday.

Many had hoped that Aung San Suu Kyi’s election in 2015 would bring greater democratic freedoms, but her critics say she has failed to deliver on reforms or bring stability. While she promised to deliver peace, conflict in parts of the country, including Rakhine state, has only intensified, and anger among minorities has been heightened.

“After five years in power the NLD is seen as a party of the Burman Buddhists in the centre – governing for them and in their interests,” said Richard Horsey, an independent political analyst based in Myanmar.

The country’s first-past-the-post electoral system, where the majority of seats are in Burman heartland, means the odds are stacked against minorities, who feel increasingly disenfranchised. “If so early in Myanmar’s transition a big chunk of minority communities feel ‘this whole electoral democracy thing, it’s not going to work for us,’ then that’s very dangerous,” Horsey added.

Under the constitution, a quarter of parliamentary seats are reserved for the military, with which the NLD has an uneasy relationship.

There are questions over what will happen when Aung San Suu Kyi, who is 75, no longer dominates politics in Myanmar.

“While she’s around things are pretty predictable. That means it is very bad for the Rohingya, and not too bad in terms of political stability at the centre of the country and relations between the military and the civilian government – which are tense and awakward, but not mutually destructive,” said Horsey. “If something were to happen to Aung San Suu Kyi, all bets are off.”





No.43 article:
Student who tested positive on Thursday was genomically linked to defence cluster, but city may reintroduce masks on public transport next week

New Zealand will stay at alert level one but mandatory mask-wearing on public transport in Auckland and on flights may return next week after a new community case was confirmed on Thursday.

Auckland, which was partially shut down on Friday with about 100,000 people asked to work from home, has reopened and weekend events can go ahead, though the Covid response minister, Chris Hipkins, has urged people to be cautious.

The warning follows the new case, a student who lives in central Auckland,being genomically linked to a defence worker who was infected at a quarantine hotel earlier this month. On Thursday the student’s case was being described as having an unknown source, but Friday’s genomic link made further undetected spread of the virus “less likely”.

The defence cluster began with a defence worker passing Covid-19 to a colleague at a work meeting. Hipkins questioned why these meetings weren’t being done virtually and defence on Friday announced that they would be from now on.

While there was not yet the level of risk to lift the alert level, Hipkins said he would take an order to cabinet on Monday seeking to make mask use on public transport in Auckland mandatory, including all flights in and out of the city.

The student, who is aged in her 20s, is the fourth case linked to the defence cluster. Work is continuing to try to determine where and how the student contracted the virus.

Her three close contacts have moved to a quarantine centre and have tested negative. Those who visited places where the student was while contagious have been asked to get tested.

She reported feeling symptoms on Monday and was tested on Tuesday. But on Wednesday she went to work wearing a mask, in a customer-facing role at A-Z Collections clothing store. Her test came back positive on Thursday.

While infectious she took a number of Uber rides and visited four central Auckland restaurants and cafes for food and takeaways, as well as one of New Zealand’s major department stores, Smith &amp; Caughey’s. She also briefly visited a city university campus and doctors’ rooms.

The woman lives in a 170-unit apartment complex, with a shared pool and gym, in the city centre. Residents have been asked to self isolate but some have reportedly been seen leaving carrying overnight bags. In response, public health protection workers were being deployed to secure the building on Friday.

In August, Auckland entered a second three-week lockdown after a cluster of more than 100 infected people developed in the city’s south. Auckland is New Zealand’s largest city and home to 1.7 million people. Fewer than 2,000 people have become infected with Covid-19 in New Zealand while 25 have died.

The results of the government’s elimination strategy and hardline border policies have been praised around the world, and the freedom New Zealanders enjoy is envied. Sporting matches, concerts and eating and drinking out are all possible, and the prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, has resisted lobbying by Australia and some Pacific nations to open the borders.





No.44 article:




No.45 article:
Tribute work to New Zealand&#x27;s most famous artist sold in London as original

Auction house sold painting by John Robinson that was advertised as a work by Colin McCahon, including a forged signature and false date

A painting created as a tribute to one of New Zealand’s most influential modern artists has been sold at a London auction house as an original, leaving the artist whose work it actually was “bewildered” as to how such a mistake could have been made.

John Robinson, who lives in Dunedin, painted the “Untitled” black and white oil on paper as a tribute to the late New Zealand artist, Colin McCahon.

McCahon is widely regarded as New Zealand’s foremost painter and his work is valuable and widely sought after.

The Tribute painting by Robinson sold at the Chiswick auction house in London for more than NZ$13,000 (£6,875). The artist said his signature had been sliced off the bottom of the painting, and McCahon’s signature forged, and an earlier date added.

When the painting was advertised at a New Zealand auction house in 2019 under Robinson’s name it was valued at NZ$2,000.

“It’s so bizarre, I have no idea how it ended up there [in London]. There’s no room for confusion that this was a true attempt at forgery,” said Robinson.

“(For) anyone who is familiar with my work, or McCahon’s work, there is no mistaking the two. I don’t know what to do, I’m a little bewildered. It’s twisted.”

The original title of the painting by Robinson titled “Variation on a theme by McCahon” and it was painted in 1987, after McMahon’s death.

“It was never intended to be a forgery in any way, but it echoes some of his landforms,” Robinson said.

“I was very familiar with his works. And when he died I did about six of these pictures as a tribute, and they were exhibited in Moray Gallery in Dunedin.

“It’s not a good feeling [to be associated with an alleged forgery].”

McCahon, who died in 1987, is widely seen as New Zealand’s most influential modernist artist. His painting Canoe Tainui broke the record for New Zealand’s most expensive artwork in 2017, selling for NZ$1.35m.

Other McCahon pieces have sold for NZ$270,000 (Woman with Lamp), NZ$265,000 (Gate) and NZ$117,500 (Now is the Hour we Must Say Goodbye).

New Zealand art historian and chair of NZ Art Crime Research Trust, Penelope Jackson, said it was apparent to her that the purchaser likely did “no research” before acquiring the tribute piece as an original.

“Robinson is also a victim here – he has been transparent about his tribute works and someone else has tampered with them including cutting a section off,” she said.

Robinson said the Chiswick auction house “wasn’t to know” the piece wasn’t genuine, and it wasn’t common practice for auction houses to engage in research to authenticate their sales.

“I think they took it at face value and took it from there,” says Robinson.

Chiswick Auction house has not responded to requests for comment, but local media have reported that the auction house has refunded the buyer for their purchase and intends to send the painting back to New Zealand.

Jackson says this is not the first time someone has tried to sell a McCahon that was not real.

“A few forgers over time have thought McCahon is a good artist to forge given how valuable his works are and supposedly they look relatively easy to paint,” said Jackson.

“They are not. The reality is quite the opposite.”

Robinson said he currently had no plans to go to the police, but the ordeal has left a sour taste in his mouth.

“The big question for me is, what happens to the painting now?,” says Jackson.

“The last thing you want is for a piece like this to go back into circulation and eventually onto the open market again.”





No.46 article:
SeaDream 1: five passengers test positive for Covid-19 on Caribbean cruise ship

The SeaDream is carrying 53 passengers and 66 crew, with the majority of passengers hailing from the US, according to Sue Bryant, a cruise ship reporter who is aboard the ship.

She told the Associated Press that one passenger became sick on Wednesday and forced the ship to turn back to Barbados, where it had departed from on Saturday. However, the ship had yet to dock in Barbados as local authorities tested those on board. The captain announced that at least five passengers had tested positive, Bryant said.

The incident marked the first time SeaDream had resumed its West Indies voyages since the pandemic, with the ship originally scheduled to return to Barbados on Saturday, according to an online itinerary. The ship had made several stops in St Vincent and the Grenadines before turning back.

The Norway-based SeaDream Yacht Club, the ship’s parent company, wouldn’t say how many passengers tested positive in the initial round of testing.

Bryant said passengers were required to have a negative PCR test to enter Barbados and underwent another test on the dock administered by the ship’s doctor.

“We all felt very safe,” she said, adding that the ship had been implementing strict hygiene protocols. “Yet somehow, Covid appears to have got on board.”

SeaDream said the ship’s medical staff has tested all crew members and that all tested negative. The company also said it was re-testing all guests, noting they are all under quarantine along with non-essential crew members.

“We are working closely with local health and government authorities to resolve this situation in the best possible way,” SeaDream said. 

“Our main priority is the health and safety of our crew, guests, and the communities we visit.”

Government officials in Barbados did not return messages for comment.

Waters around the Caribbean have been largely bereft of cruise ships this year, with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suspending cruise ship operations at US ports in mid-March. The no-sail order expired on 31 October. 

Last week, the Cruise Lines International Association, which represents 95% of global ocean-growing cruise capacity, said its members were voluntarily suspending cruise operations in the US until the end of the year. 

SeaDream was among the first cruise lines to resume service in Europe. In August, the company reported that an asymptomatic passenger had tested positive for the coronavirus after disembarking from SeaDream I in Denmark. All other passengers and crew tested negative, the company said.








