No.1 article:
How Iowa’s Governor Went From Dismissing Mask Mandates to Ordering One Herself

“I don’t want to do this,” Gov. Kim Reynolds said, joining a wave of Republican governors issuing new mask orders as her state faces a spiraling hospital crisis.

For months, Gov. Kim Reynolds of Iowa saw little need to intervene in the choices of Iowans, who she insisted could make their own decisions about whether to wear a mask to protect against a dangerous pandemic.

“No, I’m not going to mandate masks,” she said this summer, dismissing the order as an unenforceable “feel-good” measure. “I believe in Iowans,” she said again in September. Weeks later, as coronavirus cases climbed precipitously, she stood barefaced onstage at a rally for President Trump and threw “Make America Great Again” hats into a crowd.

But as the virus ravaged her state and hospitals filled to the brink, Ms. Reynolds abruptly reversed herself this week and began requiring masks indoors. She joined a wave of Republican governors who are newly and at times reluctantly wielding the power of their offices as the coronavirus erupts to crisis levels across the United States. On Wednesday, the country passed 250,000 virus-related deaths, with no end in sight.

“No one wants to do this,” Ms. Reynolds said in a live address to Iowa, which has the third-highest rate of new cases in the nation. “I don’t want to do this.”

Ms. Reynolds has offered little insight into her reversal, but interviews with more than a dozen political, health and business leaders in Iowa — some of whom the governor consulted before issuing the order — show that her hand was forced by a spiraling hospital crisis. As pressure built from doctors, mayors and even people serving in her own administration, the message was clear: If she did not act, Iowa’s hospitals could soon be overflowing with coronavirus patients, leaving few ambulances, beds or doctors left to care for anyone else.

“It says that it’s serious,” said A.J. Spiker, a former chairman of the Iowa Republican Party who worked alongside Ms. Reynolds when she was the lieutenant governor, describing a particularly emotional and urgent tone in her announcement. “Just the way she said things as she spoke, I know her well enough to know that she’s concerned.”

Ms. Reynolds’s reversal comes as other Republican governors are moving to embrace directives they once eschewed. The governors of North Dakota and Utah have also issued mask mandates in recent days, while still resisting the more aggressive approach taken by Democrats who are again shutting down indoor dining at restaurants and closing other businesses where the virus is known to spread.

The changes reflect both the increasing threat the coronavirus poses in the United States, as well as the shifting political landscape.

The country is recording more than 158,000 new cases per day on average, the highest so far of the pandemic; more than 76,000 people are hospitalized with the virus nationwide, far higher than earlier peaks; and deaths are again on the rise. President Trump has largely ceded the pandemic response to governors, and the states where the virus is emerging at the highest rates — North Dakota, South Dakota and Iowa — are all Republican-led.

In Iowa, Ms. Reynolds had been facing pressure for months — from mayors, doctors, nurses and farmers, who feared that rising cases could lead to interruptions to the food supply chain in a state where agriculture and meat processing are major industries.

Like most other governors, Ms. Reynolds closed down businesses in the spring, but she resisted issuing a stay-at-home order and did not require masks as communities reopened.

Now, as the virus surges across the Midwest, more than 4,100 people are testing positive for the virus in Iowa every day on average, an 86 percent increase over the last two weeks. Hospitalizations have doubled in the same period, and coronavirus patients now make up one out of every four hospitalizations in the state.

The crisis led to a significant move last week, when the Iowa State Board of Health, whose members Ms. Reynolds appointed, urged her to issue a mask mandate. The board’s vote was itself a sign of how the virus’s worsening toll has forced people to change their thinking. Board members, most of whom are Republicans and work in health care, had discussed face coverings at previous meetings but did not come out in favor of a mandate.

At the most recent meeting, however, they voted 7 to 2 to encourage the governor to issue the order.

“Circumstances have changed enough in Iowa,” said Chris Atchison, the board’s vice chair, who said he could recall only one other instance in which members had made a recommendation to the governor in his more than three years on the board.

Suresh Gunasekaran, chief executive of the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, said that the governor had become increasingly focused in recent weeks on the swell of patients hospitalized with Covid-19, and the rising percentage of hospital beds that were devoted to them.

“What has really changed in the last couple of weeks is the hospitalization rate,” Mr. Gunasekaran said, describing his regular discussions with the governor, her aides and health officials in the state. “I think that was what really persuaded the whole state, including the governor.”

The governor began moving to tighten restrictions last week, requiring masks in some circumstances and tightening the rules on attendees at youth sports games and other events.

She introduced a full mask order this week, citing rising hospitalizations.

“If Iowans don’t buy into this, we lose,” Ms. Reynolds said, warning that the hospital system could collapse. “The cost in human life will be high.”

Still, her order contains a number of exceptions. People must wear a mask in indoor public places, but only if they will be within six feet of another person for at least 15 minutes. Indoor dining is still permitted. School districts are allowed to decide for themselves whether or not to require masks; about one third of Iowa’s school districts currently do not require them.

Health experts say masks are crucial to stopping airborne virus particles from spreading, and protect both the wearer and others.

At a news conference on Tuesday, Ms. Reynolds at one point seemed to equivocate on the effectiveness of masks, saying “there’s science on both sides” and “if you look, you can find whatever you want to support wherever you’re at.” But when asked how Iowans should sort through the range of exceptions, she was straightforward: “If they’re confused,” she said, “I’d say just put the mask on.”

Scoffing at the mixed messaging, Democrats in Iowa criticized the order as a half-measure that would do little to quell a growing crisis.

“This would have been a good thing to do in early October,” said Rob Hogg, a Democratic state senator in Iowa who was among those who wondered whether Ms. Reynolds, an ally of Mr. Trump, may have been reluctant to take action earlier and risk angering conservatives or the president in the weeks before the election.

A spokesman for Ms. Reynolds said that the election was not a factor in her decision. He declined to elaborate on the shift in her thinking, and said she was not available for an interview.

But as the situation deteriorated in Iowa and across the country, her perspective seemed to change.

Mayor Brad Hart of Cedar Rapids, a Republican in a nonpartisan office, said that he had spoken to the governor months ago to see if there was any possibility of a statewide mask mandate. “We talked a lot about it and she just had a different view,” said Mr. Hart, who came to believe that a statewide mandate “wasn’t going to happen.”

He decided to issue his own order for his city of 133,500, even though he said he had been told by the governor’s office that he did not have the authority to do so. Afterward, he noticed a significant increase in the number of people wearing masks, and he said the governor did not push back.

But by this month, Ms. Reynolds had begun reaching out with the intention of swaying public opinion.

Tom Vilsack, a former Democratic governor of Iowa, said Ms. Reynolds called him in recent days and asked him to record a public service announcement urging the public to wear masks.

Underscoring the surge of cases in Iowa and across the country recently, many Iowans have recently learned for the first time that they know someone who had contracted the coronavirus. In one high-profile example, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the oldest Republican in the Senate, announced he had tested positive this week.

“When you start knowing the people that actually have contracted the virus and are impacted by it then it becomes more real,” Mr. Vilsack said.

Mayor Mike Matson of Davenport, Iowa’s third-largest city with a population of about 101,500, said he had been in touch with the governor in recent weeks and had relayed the concerns of hospital administrators and health officials who were growing increasingly panicked about rising hospitalizations, I.C.U. space, and the pressures on hospital staff.

“She has been very gracious to listen to me,” said Mr. Matson, a Democrat, who said he had spoken with the governor by phone and via text message. “I just wanted her from my perspective to know how serious it is.”

“I was glad she did it,” he said, but he added: “We waited a little long.”

Mayor Bob Scott of Sioux City, whose position is nonpartisan, said he similarly wished Ms. Reynolds had issued the order sooner and worried that the crisis was already spinning out of control.

“This should have happened three weeks ago,” he said, pointing to the dwindling room at hospitals. “We don’t have that many beds left.”





No.2 article:
How the Out-of-Control Pandemic Is Speeding the Testing of Vaccines

The surge in coronavirus cases worldwide is helping researchers measure more quickly how well their vaccines protect against Covid-19.

The coronavirus is spreading out of control in the United States, overwhelming health systems and killing more than 1,100 Americans a day. But there is a slender silver lining: It is hastening the testing of vaccines that could eventually end the pandemic.

The surging virus has already allowed Pfizer and Moderna to accelerate the testing of their vaccines, which appear to be very effective at preventing Covid-19.

And if, as seems inevitable, the virus continues to proliferate — it is spreading faster than ever in the United States and some other countries — it is likely to speed the evaluations of promising vaccine candidates from other pharmaceutical companies.

“We are seeing something apocalyptic play out in terms of the level of transmission in the country right now,” said Dr. Peter Hotez, a vaccine scientist at the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine. “Unfortunately, this pandemic is still raging, and that affords lots of opportunities to look at vaccine efficacy.”

Over the last week, an average of more than 158,000 new coronavirus cases have been confirmed each day in the United States. More than 159,000 were reported on Tuesday.

In late-stage vaccine trials, the faster that participants get sick, the faster that drug developers gain enough data to know whether their vaccines are effective.

Researchers determine how well a vaccine works by comparing the rate at which volunteers who receive a placebo get sick versus the rate for those who receive a vaccine. If the vaccine offers strong protection, the number of people who get the placebo and then fall ill will far exceed the number of vaccinated people who get sick.

The trials are designed so that once a certain number of participants contract Covid-19, an independent panel of experts will conduct a preliminary examination of the data. (Other factors, such as how much time has passed since participants have been vaccinated, can factor into that timing, too.) The trial ends after a certain number of cases — around 150 to 170 — have accrued. That number is chosen to make sure the results have sufficient statistical power to tell how well the vaccine works.

Pfizer announced on Wednesday that its vaccine was 95 percent effective and had no serious side effects. The company, along with its German partner BioNTech, reached those findings after 170 participants in its trials — the vast majority having received a placebo — contracted Covid-19. 

The news came barely a week after a preliminary analysis found Pfizer’s vaccine to be more than 90 percent effective. That data was analyzed after 94 participants caught Covid-19, nearly three times the number that the company had originally planned would set off an early look to gauge the vaccine’s efficacy.

The same phenomenon aided Moderna, which announced on Monday that an early analysis had found its vaccine to be 94.5 percent effective. The company had planned on needing only 53 cases of Covid-19 to turn up in its trial before experts would take a first look at the data. But the nationwide surge in infections helped Moderna blow past that number: The results were based on 95 sick participants.

The relatively large numbers of sick people in the trials — coupled with the vaccines’ apparent effectiveness — could help bolster public trust.

“It’s going to be hard enough to convince people to take this vaccine as it is,” said Geoffrey Porges, an analyst for the investment bank SVB Leerink. “So the more confidence you can have, by virtue of having higher statistical power, by virtue of having more events — then that should go somewhere.”

In the coming weeks and months, the worsening pandemic could make results from other closely watched trials, such as one for a vaccine developed by Johnson &amp; Johnson and another by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, available sooner and with greater statistical power.

The fast-growing pandemic could also speed up trials of treatments for Covid-19.

The drug company Regeneron, for example, is testing the antibody treatment that President Trump received after he caught Covid-19. A company spokeswoman said enrollment in its trial — participants are Covid-19 patients who have not been hospitalized — had accelerated slightly this month.

Even if the grim situation in the United States ultimately helps vaccines and treatments become available sooner, the country would have been much better off if it had kept the pandemic under control, public health experts said.

“This is not how anyone would want it to play out,” said Natalie Dean, a biostatistician and an expert in vaccine trial design at the University of Florida. “I’d rather be South Korea,” which has kept the virus at bay since early in the year, she said.

Vaccines are unlikely to be widely available for months. By then, tens of thousands of additional Americans will probably have perished.

Pfizer and Moderna, whose vaccines appear effective, have been waiting to see if side effects pop up in participants before the companies submit their data to the Food and Drug Administration for authorization to distribute the vaccines. Once the F.D.A. gives them the green light, manufacturers will have to ramp up production and work with governments to distribute the vaccines. Shots will initially be available only for health care workers and other vulnerable groups. When vaccines do become widely available, it is not clear if their protection will last for months, years or decades.

Hoping to fast-track their testing, drug makers have been setting up trials in Covid-19 hot spots all over the world — not just in the United States.

In China, where the virus was rampant early this year, new cases have slowed to a trickle. As a result, Chinese vaccine makers are running late-stage trials of their candidates in countries like the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Argentina and Peru.

Novavax, based in Maryland, which is developing one of the 12 vaccines that are in the final phase of clinical testing, has enrolled more than 9,000 participants in Britain since beginning a Phase 3 trial there in September. Novavax’s president for research and development, Dr. Gregory Glenn, told analysts last week that he was “feeling very good about our ability to collect cases.”

Britain reported more than 20,000 new cases on Tuesday, part of a surge that picked up around the start of October.

Dr. Glenn added: “If you’re in the right spot at the right time, you can very quickly accumulate cases. I think we are in the right spot at the right time in the U.K.” Novavax plans to start a Phase 3 trial in the United States this month.

Vaccine developers select different parts of the world to conduct their trials for several reasons. They need to ensure that the vaccine has been tested on populations that reflect the world’s diversity. They also must make sure they can enroll participants in regions where the virus is spreading.

“What is a hot spot initially will not necessarily stay a hot spot,” said Dr. Dean of the University of Florida, who has studied how to make clinical trials flexible enough to work during epidemics.

That’s why developers testing Covid-19 vaccines have been carefully watching where the virus is surging to make decisions about where to set up sites to enroll participants.

Johnson &amp; Johnson is testing one version of its vaccine in the United States and other countries. The trials — which are set up or planned at more than 200 locations globally, including in 30 states — were chosen in part by modeling the case numbers in different regions, said Jake Sargent, a company spokesman.

Johnson &amp; Johnson announced on Monday that it had started another trial of its vaccine, testing two doses instead of one. The company aims to enroll 30,000 participants in Belgium, Colombia, France, Germany, the Philippines, South Africa, Spain, Britain and the United States. Johnson &amp; Johnson said the locations were chosen “in countries and areas with high incidence of Covid-19.”





No.3 article:
Mexico, Outraged at Arrest of Ex-Official, Threatened to Toss U.S. Agents

Mexican officials made the threat after weeks of anger at the surprise arrest of a former defense minister. Their gambit appears to have worked — the charges were dropped.

From the moment U.S. federal agents arrested a former Mexican defense minister last month on drug trafficking charges, the highest levels of the Mexican government were outraged at being kept in the dark about the case, seeing it as an egregious breach of trust between allies.

Those emotions reached a peak in recent days, as Mexico City issued an unheard-of warning to its counterparts in Washington: If the United States did not rethink its pursuit of Salvador Cienfuegos Zepeda, Mexico would consider expelling American federal drug agents from the country, jeopardizing a decades-long partnership that has helped bring several top drug lords to justice, according to three people in the United States who are familiar with the case.

That threat appeared to work. On Wednesday, at the request of Attorney General William P. Barr himself, a federal judge in Brooklyn said she would formally dismiss the charges against Mr. Cienfuegos, a former army general.

The Justice Department’s reversal stunned officials in the State Department and in Congress, who said Mr. Cienfuegos’s release would be an abrupt departure from the Trump administration’s aggressive pursuit of organized crime and drugs from Mexico. The dismissal was said to especially anger officials with the State Department’s Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, which oversees Mexico policy.

Seth DuCharme, a former top aide to Mr. Barr who now serves as the acting U.S. attorney in Brooklyn, sought to explain the move, saying that by releasing Mr. Cienfuegos he was seeking to protect “the United States’ relationship with Mexico,” particularly where joint law enforcement matters were concerned.

But that explanation did not satisfy Senator Bob Menendez of New Jersey, the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee, who said both Mr. Barr and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo needed to explain what had gone wrong.

“There is no explanation for Attorney General Barr’s decision to abruptly drop drug trafficking charges against General Cienfuegos,” Mr. Menendez said in a statement. “Cooperation with the Mexican government is essential for upholding our national security, and those bilateral ties must be built on common respect for our own rule of law and due process.”

In the past, U.S. authorities worked with their Mexican counterparts in capturing major drug trafficking suspects, who are often arrested in Mexico, by Mexican forces. Mr. Barr visited Mexico City twice last winter to discuss with Mexican officials closer cooperation on gang violence, drug trafficking and immigration.

But in this case the Justice Department quietly indicted Mr. Cienfuegos last year, did not alert Mexican officials, and waited until he visited the United States to take him into custody. It is not clear what led the department to forgo Mexican cooperation, angering an important ally and leading to the embarrassing setback of dropping the case.

The release of Mr. Cienfuegos — who arrived back in Mexico on Wednesday, with no guarantee that he would ever face charges — illustrates how foreign policy can interfere with the day-to-day prosecution of the drug war. Prosecutors acknowledged the challenges in a letter to the Judge Carol B. Amon, of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, saying they had dropped the charges because of “sensitive and important foreign policy considerations.”

Judge Amon, in dismissing the indictment, appeared to agree that there was little else to do about the charges.

“Although these are very serious charges against a very significant figure, and the old adage ‘a bird in the hand’ comes to mind,” she said, “still I have no reason to doubt the sincerity of the government’s decision.”

One official familiar with the decision to drop the case cast doubt on the Justice Department’s claims that Mr. Cienfuegos’s release was the result of a formal policy between the United States and Mexico.

Word of the dismissed indictment was hailed as a triumph by the government in Mexico, where President Andrés Manuel López Obrador thanked the U.S. for “listening to our position and rectifying.”

The U.S. ambassador had informed the Mexican foreign minister of Mr. Cienfuegos’ arrest soon after he was apprehended at the Los Angeles airport, sparking an uproar inside Mr. López Obrador’s nationalist administration.

In the days following the arrest, high ranking officials gathered for a flurry of meetings in which they expressed fury at having been blindsided by one of their closest allies and strategized how to respond, according to two people familiar with the matter. The feeling in the room was not that Mr. Cienfuegos should have been spared prosecution, but that American law enforcement had violated their trust by keeping Mexico unaware of the investigation of such an important figure, the people said.

The military, one of the most powerful institutions in the country and a close ally of the president’s, was particularly livid at what was viewed as a violation of Mexican sovereignty. Enraged military officials pushed the government to take action.

The frustration quickly began to spill out into the public sphere.

When asked how to interpret the lack of communication from U.S. officials, Mr. López Obrador did not mince his words. “What’s not fair is that they operate in Mexico, they even link up with Mexican institutions, they extract information and reach a resolution without informing the Mexican government what it is they’re investigating.”

Marcelo Ebrard, Mexico’s foreign minister, suggested that the Cienfuegos capture had jeopardized the country’s extensive security cooperation with the United States. “There will be a revision” of Mexico’s collaboration with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, Mr. Ebrard said in an interview with Proceso magazine.

“There will be cooperation, but it will have to be on a different basis,” he added. “Everything should be different.”

Mr. Cienfuegos, who had served as Mexico’s defense minister from 2012 to 2018, was charged in Brooklyn in October with laundering money and trafficking heroin, cocaine, methamphetamines and marijuana from late 2015 through early 2017 on behalf of the H-2 drug cartel, an offshoot of a larger and older criminal mafia, the Beltrán-Leyva organization.

The charges were the result of a multiyear inquiry that investigators called Operation Padrino, or Godfather — a reference to what they claim was Mr. Cienfuegos’ nickname in the underworld. The investigation, which began in late 2013, was bolstered, court papers say, by a sprawling wiretap that covertly captured thousands of BlackBerry messages, some of which are said to implicate Mr. Cienfuegos in chatting and orchestrating meetings with cartel leaders.

Officials say that Mr. Cienfuegos helped the H-2 cartel, which has committed horrific acts of violence as part of its smuggling business, with its maritime shipments. In exchange for lucrative payouts, the officials say, Mr. Cienfuegos also directed military operations away from the cartel and toward its rivals.

At the court hearing on Wednesday, Mr. DuCharme said his office remained confident in the strength of its investigation and “stands behind the case.” But under questioning by Judge Amon, he admitted that the decision to drop the charges against Mr. Cienfuegos had been made “at the highest level of the Justice Department,” identifying Mr. Barr by name.

One of the people familiar with the matter said that the prosecutors who had built the case against Mr. Cienfuegos were “devastated” that their superiors had decided to drop the pursuit of him in U.S. courts. Though Mr. Barr suggested in a news release on Tuesday that Mr. Cienfuegos would be “investigated and, if appropriate, charged” in Mexico, it remained unclear what would happen.

Edward Sapone, Mr. Cienfuegos’ lawyer, said that he and partners had believed from the start of the case that their client’s arrest was unjust because it violated a treaty under which the U.S. government had agreed to notify the Mexican government in advance about the arrest of any high-level suspect.

Mr. Sapone added that he had been prepared to challenge Mr. Cienfuegos’ arrest — in motions or at trial if necessary — but that late last week, federal prosecutors reached out to him to let him know they were considering approaching Judge Amon with a motion to dismiss the charges.

“I commend to the U.S. attorney’s office for making litigation unnecessary,” he said.





No.4 article:
New York City to Close Public Schools Again as Virus Cases Rise

In a big setback for the city’s recovery, the nation’s largest district will return to all-remote learning.

New York City’s entire public school system will shut on Thursday, signaling that a second wave of the coronavirus has arrived as the city is still struggling to revive from its devastating spring, when it was a global epicenter of the pandemic.

The shutdown was prompted by the city’s reaching a 3 percent test positivity rate over a seven-day rolling average, the most conservative threshold of any big school district in the country. Schools in the nation’s largest system, with 1.1 million students and 1,800 schools, have been open for in-person instruction for just under eight weeks.

It was a major disappointment for Mayor Bill de Blasio, who was the first big-city mayor in the country to reopen school buildings. Moving to all-remote instruction will disrupt the education of many of the roughly 300,000 children who have been attending in-person classes and create child care problems for parents who count on their children being at school for at least part of the week.

“Today is a tough day, but this is a temporary situation,” Mr. de Blasio said on Wednesday in a news conference that had been delayed for five hours amid frantic caucusing by the mayor, governor and union leaders. He declared that “our schools will be back,” but added that reopening might not take place until next month or later.

The closure pointed to the start of an alarming new phase of the city’s battle against the coronavirus, and the mayor and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo both indicated Wednesday that further restrictions to public life “were coming, and coming soon,” as Mr. de Blasio put it. Limited indoor dining and gyms have been open for under two months.

The return of schoolchildren to classrooms had been a ray of normalcy in a dark time for the city, with theaters still shut, many offices vacant and the mass transit system facing the threat of deep service cuts if federal aid does not arrive soon.

Over the summer, New York had maintained a low virus transmission rate that was the envy of the nation — and its rate is still much lower than the nation’s worst-hit regions. But the city has struggled recently to tamp down the surge that is spiraling out of control across so much of the country, particularly the Midwest and Mountain States.

Though it was clear for at least a week that the city was quickly approaching the dreaded 3 percent threshold, the actual delivery of the expected news seemed to devolve into disarray on Wednesday.

Mr. de Blasio delayed his daily news conference from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m. after he and his aides spent the morning scrambling to ensure that the governor was informed about their plan to close schools. And because the average positivity rate came in at exactly 3 percent, top city officials went over the math several times to make sure it was accurate.

At a contentious news conference earlier in the afternoon, Mr. Cuomo began to shout at reporters who asked whether the schools would be open Thursday and declined to answer the question until a reporter mentioned a Times report about the impending closure.

The midafternoon announcement sparked deep frustration among city parents who for months have had little certainty about whether schools would be open and were left with just a few hours to make child care arrangements for Thursday morning.

The timing of the announcement also drew derisive statements from city officials, including the public advocate, Jumaane Williams. “People are scared and stressed, and need plans and assurances,” he said. “Today, we have only executives governing by haphazard tweets and combative press conferences, from City Hall and the State Capitol to the White House.”

Virus transmission in city schools had remained very low since classrooms reopened at the end of September, and the spike in cases does not appear to be caused by the opening of school buildings.

“Our schools have opened and have been remarkably safe,” the schools chancellor Richard A. Carranza said Wednesday.

Still, the city is choosing to end in-person learning while the state is allowing indoor dining and gyms to remain open at reduced capacity. Nonessential workers are also continuing to use public transportation to commute to offices.

That dynamic has infuriated parents run ragged by fluctuating school schedules and has frustrated public health experts who have been pushing for more in-person instruction. It has also led to calls for the mayor and Mr. Cuomo to make keeping classrooms open their highest priority.

Across much of Western Europe, bars, restaurants and theaters are closed while elementary schools at least have remained open. Mr. de Blasio has said that indoor dining should be reassessed; only Mr. Cuomo has the authority to close indoor dining rooms.

The city’s public school families, the vast majority of whom are low-income and Black or Latino, have endured roughly eight months of confusion about whether and when schools would be open or closed.

Mr. de Blasio had put school reopening at the center of his push to revive the city, and he has repeatedly said that remote learning is inferior to classroom instruction. But many teachers and parents have said that the city has not done nearly enough to improve online learning.

The mayor has said that closures will be temporary, but cautioned that schools would not automatically reopen the moment that the seven-day positivity rate dipped below 3 percent again.

He said it would be too disruptive for children and educators to toggle between open and closed schools every few days, suggesting he would wait until community spread of the virus had stabilized at a lower rate.

The mayor said Wednesday that he and Mr. Cuomo had spent much of the morning discussing how to safely reopen schools. The two men have agreed that there will be much more testing of students and staff members when schools do reopen, and the mayor said he will require all students to have a permission slip allowing them to be tested in their school buildings.

The mayor and the teachers’ union, the United Federation of Teachers, have faced intense criticism as the 3 percent closure threshold drew nearer.

Mr. de Blasio has said repeatedly that the union had not pressured him to set the threshold; instead, he called the metric a “social contract” during a recent radio interview, arguing that it was a symbol of how seriously the city had approached school safety.

The mayor set the 3 percent threshold over the summer, when average positivity rates were hovering around 1 percent or below. City officials said the number was agreed upon by the mayor’s public health team as part of a package of safety measures that they set out to be the strictest in the world.

In an interview last week, Michael Mulgrew, the union’s president, said he thought the 3 percent threshold was sound.

He cited warnings from experts that even if there was low transmission in schools, infection could still spread into them from the broader community, increasing the likelihood that students and staff members might carry the virus into their homes and neighborhoods.

Mr. Mulgrew said he was dismayed that schools were closing so soon and asserted that expressions of frustration about a shutdown from some New Yorkers seemed hypocritical.

“We had a lot of criticism from people when we were opening schools,” he said. “They didn’t want them open. A lot of that came from the very same people who are yelling now that they want them open.”

He also called on New Yorkers to take the virus seriously in order to drive down numbers again. “If we want to keep our schools open, it’s up to everyone else” to take precautions, Mr. Mulgrew said.

While city parents have come to expect contradictory messages about schools from the mayor and governor, Mr. Cuomo said during a recent news conference that he did not plan to intervene in the city’s effort to close schools.

But he said “the problem is not coming from the schools” and encouraged the city to come up with new metrics for a shutdown once schools reopen. The governor has said the state will force schools to close only if they are in a region where the seven-day positivity rate reaches 9 percent.

Mr. Cuomo also said that viral spread was more prevalent in bars and restaurants and at indoor family gatherings, though he had not ordered restaurants or gyms to close.

Some other large school districts have recently inched closer to reopening, either by outlining plans to welcome children back into classrooms or by restarting in-person learning for children with disabilities and other vulnerable students.

But many other large districts, including Los Angeles and Chicago, have not yet reopened, though Chicago is making plans to bring younger children back into classrooms in January. Philadelphia recently delayed reopening schools, and Detroit suspended in-person instruction because of high test positivity rates.

In a stroke of bad timing, New York said last month that families had only until this past Sunday to decide if they wanted their children to return to in-person classes at all, most likely until at least next September. Parents have had to make that decision while knowing that schools could close at any moment.

Students who opted back into classroom instruction were set to restart classes between Nov. 30 and Dec. 7. They will now have to wait weeks longer to return to school buildings.

Many of the city’s charter schools, which educate about 135,000 of the city’s public school students, have not yet opened for any in-person classes.

The city has faced criticism from educators and parents for its relative lack of focus on improving remote learning compared with the readying of school buildings for students, even though roughly 70 percent of children have been taking remote classes full time.

Even students enrolled in the city’s hybrid learning system were spending at least half of their week in virtual classes, with the rest of their instruction in person.

On Wednesday, Mr. Carranza said some 60,000 students, including some children in homeless shelters, have not received iPads or laptops they requested from the city, in part because of a national shortage of devices. Other students lack sufficient internet access.

Many teachers have reported that children sometimes struggle to log on for classes because of technology issues. Teachers have also said they have received little training in how to deliver better instruction online.





No.5 article:
Cases of Mask-taken Identity

Julianne Kassidy had one ex she definitely didn’t want to run into. (Don’t we all?)

In late October, it had almost been a year since Ms. Kassidy, 20, a college student in Los Angeles, had last seen this former boyfriend — until she walked into a grocery store, and there he was. Her heart raced, she felt sweaty and she started panicking. Would he follow her to the car? Would she have to talk to him?

Then it dawned on her: He didn’t recognize her because, per local and national guidelines, she was wearing a face covering.

“He looked at me dead in the face and walked right past me,” Ms. Kassidy said. “I was like, ‘Oh, thank God.’”

Saved by the mask.

The main role of a mask is obviously to protect you and the people around you from the coronavirus. But some people are finding another positive benefit to wearing them: anonymity. The ability to walk down the street and not be recognized is a gift many are cherishing. For some it means the end of unwanted small talk when they are trying to run errands. For others, it allows them to be exactly how they want to be in public — there is no need to put on a fake smile or hold back tears — regardless of who is around.

“Do you know how many random men used to tell me I would be prettier if I smiled?” said Ms. Kassidy, who also works for a lighting design company. “I haven’t heard that in nine months, and it’s incredible. It’s none of their business.”

Of course, there are downsides to everyone being hard to recognize. There are awkward encounters when friends and family members mix each other up (“I thought you were Sarah!” ”I look like Sarah?!”). Others feel masks sever a connection to their community.

Christopher Franklin has lived in Norman, Okla., since 2012. While it’s one of the bigger cities in the state, it has a small-town feel to it. “I waited tables for a long time, so I know everybody,” he said. “I run into people all the time.”

Mr. Franklin, who is 35 and works for a pharmacy software company, used to dread bumping into people he knows. It gave him anxiety to be peppered with questions or have to think of what to say. He has even had a few panic attacks.

Sure, wearing a mask limits those encounters. But it also makes it easier for him to chat with people when a run-in still occurs.

“I suppose it’s a vulnerability thing, or it could just be a breathing regulation thing or a ‘we are in this together’ unity thing,” he said. “I really don’t have a good answer, I just know I feel a lot less anxious when I am wearing it in public. It makes it a little bit easier to talk to people.” He said even when the pandemic ends and masks are no longer medically necessary, he will keep one in his pocket.

Mr. Franklin also has someone in his life he doesn’t ever want to see again. “It’s a fellow, and I would rather not share why I dislike him,” he said. “There is no great way to explain it, but we all have these people we would rather see first than vice versa, right?”

Indeed.

Mr. Franklin was in a gas station, and the man in question walked up to the counter in front of him. He immediately thought he could use his mask as a shield. “I looked away from him, and I made sure it was far up and covered my face,” he said. “I saw him looking at me twice. I counted it. Then he left. He didn’t seem to recognize me. Just that extra seed of doubt that someone may not be who you think, it was enough to keep him away.”

What about in even more sociable environments?

Luke Chileski is a sophomore at Allegheny College in Meadville, Pa., which has about 1,800 students and an average class size of 11 people. “There are a lot of people whose names I know, and there are a lot of people who I’ve had one or two conversations with,” he said.

Mr. Chileski, 20, likes premeditated social gatherings. “If I know someone I know is going to be at a certain place, and I talk to them, I don’t care. I’ll mentally prepare to have that conversation,” he said. “I like having friends.”

But spontaneous encounters, not so much. “Sometimes when people spring up on me and pester me with a whole bunch of questions, it is rough for me,” he said. “I will immediately turn around and leave the dining room if I see people I know.”

This year has gone much smoother than the last because of one handy prop: his mask, which allows him to see and be seen only when he wants.

The day after Mr. Chileski moved in, a friend of a friend waved to him in the parking lot, but he didn’t recognize her because of her mask. It was the perfect excuse to avoid saying hi (although he later figured out who it was and apologized because he felt bad ignoring her). Some of his classes still meet in person, and he can sit anywhere in the room without being pinpointed. He no longer gets approached in the cafeteria line or while running errands.

“The masks are kind of a good thing because they just let me be,” he said. “For outgoing people that must stink, but for me, it’s phenomenal.”

Bhushan Sethi, 47, lives on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and runs around Central Park, either the loop or the reservoir, daily. He is a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, and this ritual is his “me” time. “It’s my way of processing some stuff and preparing for the day,” he said.

As the park has grown more crowded during the pandemic, Mr. Sethi guesses he is running past clients, colleagues and friends he knows. But his mask helps him stay in the zone without worrying too much about who is around him. “You don’t look for people now,” he said. “There just aren’t as many casual collisions.”

Not that Mr. Sethi is some kind of misanthrope. “I am very proud of watching all these people wearing masks,” he said. 

Some people, however, dislike being overlooked, and so they are wearing “signature” masks, in bold prints like leopard or gingham — or, more radically, changing their hair color.

Kendra Vanderwerf, 34, runs a hair salon in her home in Ontario, Canada. With her striking red hair and five-foot height, clients come up to her regularly, even when she’s wearing her mask. “People recognize me as the tiny thing wandering around with bright hair,” she said. Her husband, David Vanderwerf, 40, a teacher, offers another distinguishing characteristic: He walks with a cane.

But she doesn’t have the same clues to identify others. “I am waiting in the conversation for them to drop a hint to who they are,” she said. “I don’t want to be mean and say, ‘I can’t recognize you with your mask on,’ even though I can’t.” She has occasionally had to ask leading questions about work and their families to gather more information.

The situation makes Ms. Vanderwerf sad. “I don’t want people to be anonymous, because I still like making those connections with people,” she said. “When we run into students, I love hearing them say my husband is their favorite teacher. That conversation makes my day.”

She’s discussed the issue with clients, and more of them have asked for different, noticeable hairdos as well. “I’ve had a major uptick in vivids, which is the bright, crazy hair,” she said. “I used to have five a month. Now it’s more like 20.” Recently she used “blues and yellows and a little green” for a style inspired by Van Gogh’s “The Starry Night.”

Even the most intimate bonds can be muddled by the mask. A joke about bringing home the wrong husband is making the social-media rounds: “Stay alert people!”

Cheyenne Vance and her boyfriend were in the frozen foods aisle of the grocery store, buying the chicken nuggets she loves, when a masked woman walked past them pushing her cart. Her boyfriend did a double take and recognized the sweater as a Christmas present he gave last year. Even when he uttered “Mom?”, however, he wasn’t totally sure it was her.

But it was. Soon the three of them were laughing and joking about what food items they were going to buy. Ms. Vance, who hadn’t met her boyfriend’s mother before, wanted to make sure it was understood she was the one paying for her $8 chicken nuggets.

“My food is expensive because I’m gluten-free,” said Ms. Vance, who is 24 and works in customer service in Kingsport, Tenn. “It was a little embarrassing.”

Mr. Franklin of the gas-station near miss works at a medical marijuana dispensary in his free time. The other day he was chatting with a client for a few minutes, before he started considering it may be someone he already knows. “She had a lot of similarities to a good friend of mine,” he said. “I had to look at her medical marijuana card to be sure. I was going to feel really, really awful if I didn’t recognize her because of a small piece of cloth over her face.”

Judah Guber, 37, who works in digital strategy and, like Mr. Sethi, lives on the Upper East Side, has one of those faces that people think they recognize. “The guy I get most these days is Peter Scanavino from ‘Law and Order: SVU’ and sometimes Simon Baker,” he said. “I also get Anderson Cooper all the time.”

“Strangers stare at me, and I’m always like, ‘Do I have something on my face?’” he added, laughing.

Wearing a mask has only compounded Mr. Guber’s problem. With half his face covered, people really have no idea if he is a celebrity or not.

“I passed by Stumble Inn, this bar, the other day and someone said, ‘I think that is Mark Zuckerberg.’” he said. “I turned around, and I heard him say to his friends, ‘Is it really him?’”

Mr. Guber was not flattered. “I wish I was more anonymous when wearing a mask,” he said.





No.6 article:
Asylum Seeker Who Lost His Son on Trek to Greece Is Charged in His Death

Rights groups warn that the charges set a worrying precedent and are part of a strategy by Greek authorities to deter migrants from attempting to travel to the country.

ATHENS — Greek authorities have charged an Afghan man in the death of his 6-year-old son as the pair tried to reach the country by sea, a move that rights groups say sets a worrying precedent in criminalizing migrants and is part of a strategy to dissuade them from attempting to travel to the country.

The man, Ayoubi Nadir, a 25-year-old Afghan asylum seeker, has been charged with endangering the life of a child, and is accused of abandoning his son after the boat bringing them and 22 other people to Greece capsized this month.

Accounts from the Greek authorities and the man’s lawyer said the boat capsized near the island of Samos just after midnight on Nov. 8. The boy’s body was found washed up on the shore that day.

The man’s lawyer, Dimitris Choulis, said the case against his client was unfounded. He said the man was being punished for trying to seek a better life for his family.

“They could charge all refugees with the same thing,” he said, adding that it was the first such case he had heard of in Greece.

Mr. Choulis said the Greek authorities should instead be focusing efforts on investigating why there was a delay in response to calls for help from Aegean Boat Report, a nongovernmental organization that tracks migrant boats, which alerted the Greek Coast Guard to a vessel in distress.

A distress call was received by the Coast Guard in Samos shortly after midnight on Nov. 8, according to Mr. Choulis and a Coast Guard document, and coordinates were given for the boat’s location off the northeastern coast of the island.

The document said the Coast Guard reacted “at once” and sent two boats to the location where a search was carried out. Hours later, the body of the boy, and a pregnant woman who was unconscious but still alive, were found in an “extremely inaccessible” rocky area.

But Mr. Choulis and Aegean Boat Report disputed the assertions of a swift rescue, and said that the authorities did not do enough to reach the child quickly.

Tactics used by Greek authorities have been called into question by rights groups before. Earlier this year, The New York Times detailed the illegal pushback of boats filled with hundreds of people from Greek territory. A recent report by the EU Observer newspaper detailed how the Greek Coast Guard received orders to push a rubber boat of migrants back into Turkish territorial waters.

Adriana Tidona, a European migration researcher for Amnesty International, said the organization has observed a deterioration of Greece’s approach to migrants and asylum seekers in the past year, from a human rights perspective.

Policy changes in the past year that included amendments to Greece’s migration law in May have reduced safeguards for asylum seekers significantly, she said, and increased the possibility for asylum seekers to be detained.

Allegations of widespread pushbacks, violence at the border, the criminalization of aid groups and now these new charges, create “just one more way to discourage the journey” of asylum seekers fleeing violence in their own countries, Ms. Tidona said.

“I think what we are concerned about is that this is a tactic to discourage people from seeking asylum in Greece,” she said, “and potentially sending the signal that if you come with your family, this is a possibility you will encounter.”

The head of the Coast Guard in Samos, Dimitris Tsinias, has denied the reports of a delayed response, saying that two vessels were sent to the spot where the boat capsized within 50 minutes of the distress call, arriving at 12:50 a.m., although the coordinates given were not at sea, he said, but on a rocky section of the island’s northeastern coast.

A search was carried out both at sea and on land, he said, adding that the pregnant woman was found alive at 3 a.m. and the body of the boy was found at 6 a.m., wedged among the rocks. The boy’s father was subsequently found in a mountainous part of the island with several other migrants, Mr. Tsinias said, rather than near his son.

“We didn’t find the man crying next to his child,” he said, his account contrasting with the lawyer’s and local volunteers’ description of a distressed and bereaved father. “He had abandoned him.”

“If it was my child, I would have been there,” he said.

Mr. Tsinias also rebuffed the allegations from rights groups of a shift toward tougher deterrent tactics by Greek authorities.

“I have not received any such orders,” he said. “We made our judgment based on this isolated incident and deemed that a prosecutor should be informed.”

As for the allegations from the Aegean Boat Report, Mr. Tsinias said the group had provided the Greek Coast Guard with “fake information” in the past, and that it had often “aligned with” the Turkish Coast Guard.

Vassilis Kerasiotis, a lawyer and the director of HIAS Greece, an organization that provides free legal services to asylum seekers in Greece, said the case was unprecedented and a troubling development, and that it was part of a broader shift toward criminalizing refugees and migrants by Greece.

Charging a father who is fleeing conflict of endangering his child by attempting the boat crossing to Greece “signifies an escalation of this approach,” he said.

“These people they don’t have any — zero — possibility of safe legal entry into Greek territory,” he said, noting that criminalizing the journey could be counter to Geneva convention norms that protect refugees.





No.7 article:
Apple Halves Its App Store Fee for the Smaller Companies

App makers bridled at the 30 percent commission, which has drawn scrutiny from regulators looking into antitrust claims.

Apple, facing growing antitrust scrutiny over what it charges other companies for access to its App Store, said on Wednesday that it would cut in half the fee it took from the smallest app developers.

Developers that brought in $1 million or less from their apps in the previous year will pay a 15 percent commission on those app sales starting next year, down from 30 percent, the company said.

The move, which will have little impact on Apple’s bottom line, is an abrupt change from the company’s public intransigence over its fees. For 12 years, the App Store has helped fuel Apple’s remarkable growth, and the company has appeared reluctant to do anything to tamper with it. Even when its fee policy emerged as the focus of antitrust complaints, Apple aggressively defended it.

Now Apple appears to have found a way to earn good will from thousands of developers and give its executives ammunition for defending its commission to regulators and journalists, all without costing the company much.

The change will affect roughly 98 percent of the companies that pay Apple a commission, according to estimates from Sensor Tower, an app analytics firm. But those developers accounted for less than 5 percent of App Store revenues last year, Sensor Tower said. Apple said the new rate would affect the “vast majority” of its developers, but declined to offer specific numbers.

Apple said in a statement that it had made the change because 2020 was a difficult year for many small companies.

“We’re launching this program to help small-business owners write the next chapter of creativity and prosperity on the App Store, and to build the kind of quality apps our customers love,” Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said in a news release. The smaller commission will help “developers fund their small businesses, take risks on new ideas, expand their teams, and continue to make apps that enrich people’s lives,” he said.

The fee cut probably won’t calm the waters between Apple and the larger app developers that have long protested the fee most loudly, and could just be a sop to state and federal regulators.

Epic Games, maker of the popular game Fortnite, sued Apple in August over its fee. A month later, 13 companies and groups, including Spotify and Match Group, formed the nonprofit Coalition for App Fairness to fight the “app tax.” And American and European regulators are investigating Apple for anticompetitive behavior, partly because of its commission.

“The only good thing about this cynical, Machiavellian ploy by Apple to split developers with selective handouts is that it shows they’re sweating,” said David Heinemeier Hansson, a prominent software developer whose company, Basecamp, will still have to pay the 30 percent commission.

Tim Sweeney, Epic’s chief executive and another of Apple’s toughest critics, also accused Apple of trying to divide developers. By charging smaller companies less, “Apple is hoping to remove enough critics that they can get away with their blockade on competition and 30 percent tax on most in-app purchases,” he said in a statement. “But consumers will still pay inflated prices marked up by the Apple tax.”

In its news release, Apple included comment from several smaller companies that welcomed its change and that said it would help them reinvest in their businesses or offer more free features to users.

Apple introduced its 30 percent commission in 2008 with its App Store, which had just 500 offerings. Now the App Store is one of the world’s largest centers of commerce, facilitating half a trillion dollars in sales in 2019.

That has made the commission the biggest driver of Apple’s internet-services business, which brought in more than $53 billion over the past year.

Apple charges 30 percent of all sales of “digital goods and services” in an app, such as a virtual item in a game or a subscription to a music, TV, news or dating app. (In the second year of a subscription, Apple’s cut drops to 15 percent.) Apple doesn’t take a cut of physical goods or services, such as an Uber ride or shoes bought in the Amazon app.

With the world’s migration online, particularly during the pandemic, the App Store has become an increasingly crucial gateway to customers for companies of all sizes. Apple’s growing power has prompted both lawmakers and developers to call its 30 percent cut “highway robbery.”

No company has fought Apple’s commission harder than Epic. In August, the company baited Apple into kicking its wildly popular Fortnite game off the App Store, and then quickly sued Apple and rolled out a sophisticated public-relations campaign against it. This week, Epic expanded its legal fight to Australia, where the laws could favor its complaints.

Epic has argued that Apple could charge a more reasonable rate. Epic runs its own online marketplace for games, taking 12 percent of other companies’ sales — and turning a profit of 5 percent to 7 percent, the company said.

Apple has argued that 30 percent matches other companies’ rates, including app stores run by Google, Microsoft and Samsung, and game stores from Sony’s PlayStation and Microsoft’s Xbox.

Still, Apple has not applied its cut evenly. Bigger companies with services that Apple wanted on iPhones, to make the devices more attractive to buyers, have negotiated better rates. Documents released by House lawmakers in July showed that Apple executives offered Amazon a 15 percent commission to release its Amazon Prime Video app on the App Store in 2016.

Apple said it would use the combined sales of all of a developer’s apps in the previous calendar year to determine which rate to charge a company. Any developer, including new ones, with $1 million or less in the prior year will pay the 15 percent rate for the year, even if its sales surpass $1 million that year.





No.8 article:
‘Harry Potter’ and the Prisoners of Quarantine

On TikTok, Gen Z “Harry Potter” fans edit themselves into the movies in a quest for escapism, representation and community.

Caroline Chou, 19, pins a green screen to the goldenrod walls of her childhood bedroom in San José, Calif. She’s already changed into her uniform: a white button-down shirt, pleated skirt and green striped tie. A wand and heavy tome lie on the bed, in case she needs props.

Chou, who would normally be on campus at the University of California, Los Angeles, has adjusted to a new normal during the coronavirus pandemic. She spends her weeks clicking between online college courses and two remote, part-time jobs.

And on the weekends, she slips away to Hogwarts.

Chou is one of many Gen Zers who has found her niche on Harry Potter TikTok, a corner of the app devoted to remixing, reliving and affectionately roasting the perennially popular franchise. Harry Potter TikTokers produce and devour their own fancam videos, memes, dances and trends. But millions of views go to videos like Chou’s, where fans — predominately girls and women — are editing themselves into the movies.

These edits frequently give creators a chance to romance their favorite characters, à la Wattpad fan fiction. With strategic cuts or more advanced editing, users can star as “Harry Potter” protagonists, whose love interests include everyone from the Weasley twins to Luna Lovegood to — overwhelmingly — Draco Malfoy.

Self-insert videos also offer young fans, many of whom grew up with Harry Potter, comfort and escapism during the pandemic. After online classes, they can go to a potions lesson. Separated from their usual social lives, they can befriend other Potterheads on TikTok. And queer people and people of color, who have been notably marginalized in the Harry Potter universe, can finally become protagonists in the stories they’ve long adored.

Setup and costuming are just two steps in Chou’s production. As she builds her universe over a Zoom interview, the Slytherin scours YouTube for clips from the “Harry Potter” movies, choreographs her scenes and films herself. Later, she’ll use Adobe Premiere Pro to bring herself out of her green-screened bedroom and onto the Hogwarts campus through keying, masking and color correction.

The end result is a 12-second montage of her admiring five of the “Harry Potter” boys. The whole process takes about two hours, but some of her videos — which can be as long as 60 seconds — have taken up to 10.

Marjorie Law, a 22-year-old Slytherin in Santa Clarita, Calif., is similarly meticulous. In October, she spent about 10 hours editing herself into Harry’s place in an early “Half-Blood Prince” scene, invisibility cloak and all.

For Chou and Law, Harry Potter edits double as wish fulfillment and professional practice. Chou, a film student who wants to be a director, got into TikTok after one of her professors encouraged her to stay creative during quarantine. Law studies digital media at Otis College of Art and Design in Los Angeles, and hopes to work in visual effects. Like most Harry Potter fans, they both grew up wishing they could attend Hogwarts.

“Now that I’m older, with the magic of technology, I can see myself there,” Law said.

Creators like Chou, who is Taiwanese-American, and Law, who is Chinese-American, also add more racial diversity to the movies.

“It’s a great opportunity for any person of color,” said Belle Miranda, a 19-year-old TikToker and one of Law’s nearly 80,000 followers. “I can write my own spinoff: What if a Latina Ravenclaw was inserted in the series?”

Emelee Chanthabury, 22, received multiple comments comparing her to Cho Chang, the only notable Asian character in the “Harry Potter” series, when she first started editing herself into the movies. Chanthabury, like Cho Chang, is a Ravenclaw who fancies Cedric Diggory. But the two look nothing alike: Chang is of Chinese descent, whereas Chanthabury is Laotian and white.

“It was weird, because I never saw myself as different; I never saw myself as a side character,” Chanthabury explained. “I’m seeing myself as a main character in the story.”

The experience has introduced Chanthabury to a community of fans like her. “When I go through my followers and my comments, it’s all Asian women, and it brings me so much joy,” she said.

This is one of Harry Potter TikTok’s other major draws: Like the message boards and chat rooms of yore, fans are using the app to meet and befriend fellow Potterheads. They communicate in group chats on Instagram, Snapchat and by text messages. Sometimes, they even collaborate on videos together. Law uses Zoom with her Harry Potter friends — the self-christened “Hogwarts Cheeto Girls” — regularly, and just met one in person for the first time. Chou recently edited herself and Melina Spahn, a 20-year-old Hufflepuff from Germany, into a scene from “Order of the Phoenix.”

“The fact that you live across the ocean and here we are fighting Death Eaters together,” Spahn commented on the post. “I love this.”

Erin McDonald, 19, has relied heavily on these friendships in the last few months. Her parents moved from her home state of Virginia to San Luis Obispo, Calif., during her first semester of college. So when quarantine forced McDonald to move back home, she found herself across the country from her childhood friends.

McDonald found solace in TikTok, quickly gaining more than 120,000 followers for her videos romancing the Quidditch captain Oliver Wood. She and Chanthabury have an ongoing video series with their friend, Mia Oberholzer, 19, a Slytherin from Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Another of McDonald’s TikTok friend groups, the “Harry Potheads,” is comprised mostly of younger teenagers. They call her Papa Ernie, and the group meets on Zoom every night.

Ever the Hufflepuff, McDonald said her favorite thing about Harry Potter TikTok was its overwhelming positivity. When she found herself unwittingly at the center of some fandom drama in October, the issue was resolved with no hard feelings. On another account, she posts “Harry Potter” scene edits in which various characters encourage her eating disorder recovery.

As a bisexual woman, McDonald said she also wanted to create more space for fans like her, especially given what some see as the “Harry Potter” author J.K. Rowling’s feeble attempts at gay representation. Rowling’s recent comments about transgender people have likewise spurred legions of fans to make “Harry Potter” their own.

While other fans thirsted over Draco Malfoy, McDonald was one of the first users to edit herself into a relationship with Hermione Granger. Multiple creators followed suit, including Beth McAlpine, a 16-year-old Hufflepuff from London.

“It’s like fixing a part of your childhood that was missing,” McAlpine said.

The pull of childhood comforts is especially strong for young Americans today, with coronavirus cases climbing, a contentious presidential election just barely in the rearview mirror and an upcoming holiday season mired in travel restrictions. In the face of overwhelming uncertainty, Gen Z is fleeing our world for the safety of Harry Potter’s. Of all the videos Oberholzer has made for her over 226,000 followers, the most-viewed shows her spending Christmas with the Weasleys.

Harry Potter TikTok is also closely linked to the “shifting” community on the app, where users try different techniques like meditation or visualization to enter a semiconscious state similar to lucid dreaming. Shifters will write scripts dictating what they want to do on their liminal adventures. At Hogwarts, their goals are almost universally lighthearted: whether making friends, finding love or doing class work, it’s a privilege just to be there.

“It’s currently 9 a.m. and I just woke up from a full five months at Hogwarts,” one shifting video claims. “Take me back home, I hate it here.”

Chou wants to shift to Hogwarts, but she hasn’t been able to make it happen yet. Editing herself into the movies will have to do for now.

“Seeing myself actually in it — like physically, visibly in it — is so surreal,” Chou said, after she was finished shooting for the day. She sat at her desk, a copy of “Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets” to her right.

“For those 30 seconds, I can pretend I’m there, and not in this world that is on the verge of collapse,” she added.





No.9 article:
Boeing 737 Max Is Cleared by F.A.A. to Fly Again

The U.S. agency said changes in software, design and training had made the plane safe to operate after two fatal crashes and 20 months out of service.

After 20 months on the ground, Boeing’s 737 Max will soon fly again, ending a tragic episode that cost 346 people their lives and did serious damage to the big U.S. jet builder.

The company on Wednesday got clearance for the plane to return to American skies after convincing the Federal Aviation Administration that changes in design, software and crew training would eliminate the flaws that caused fatal crashes in 2018 and 2019.

This will not put Boeing’s troubles behind it. The company, which had predicted billions of dollars in losses because of the grounding, has also been crippled by the ruinous blow that the coronavirus pandemic has inflicted on global aviation.

An industrial icon, Boeing is the largest manufacturing exporter in the United States, one of the federal government’s biggest contractors, a blue chip stock and a major employer whose fortunes help shape the national economy.

Boeing expects to start 2021 with a global work force of about 130,000, down nearly 19 percent from its head count at the start of this year. Reviving its Max business will be a major test of the company’s ability to withstand the pandemic and re-establish its longtime stature.

“This is their core aircraft, so the future lays on the shoulders of the Max,” said Vitaly Guzhva, a professor of finance at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.

The Max is the latest offering in Boeing’s 737 line, a single-aisle jet used by airlines around the world for flights of a few hours. There are more than 380 Max planes in the global fleet, according to Cirium, an aviation data firm. Thousands are on order.

Regulators elsewhere are expected to follow the F.A.A.’s lead, though it may take time to conclude their own reviews. The U.S. agency has worked with its counterparts in Canada, the European Union and Brazil on revised pilot training requirements.

The Max was grounded worldwide in March 2019 when the F.A.A. joined regulators in dozens of other countries in banning the plane after the two crashes, in Indonesia and Ethiopia.

Investigators have attributed the crashes to a range of problems, including engineering flaws, mismanagement and a lack of regulatory oversight. Attention focused on software known as MCAS, which was designed to push the plane’s nose down in certain situations.

In August, the F.A.A. determined that a series of proposals by Boeing “effectively mitigate” its safety concerns. The agency’s chief, Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines pilot, took the controls on a test flight in September, saying he liked what he saw.

“The path that led us to this point was long and grueling, but we said from the start that we would take the time necessary to get this right,” Mr. Dickson said in a video message on Wednesday. “I am 100 percent comfortable with my family flying on it.”

But at a news conference on Tuesday in anticipation of the F.A.A. announcement, relatives of victims on the second plane that crashed, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, questioned whether Boeing had done enough to address safety concerns.

“Aviation should not be a trial-and-error process; it should be about safety,” said Naoise Ryan, whose husband, Mick, was aboard that flight on March 10, 2019. “If safety is not prioritized, then these companies should not be in business.”

In a letter to employees, Boeing’s chief executive, David Calhoun, welcomed the lifting of the ban, promising to proceed deliberately with the plane’s return to service and to “never forget” the victims of the crashes.

“We will honor them by holding close the hard lessons learned from this chapter in our history to ensure accidents like these never happen again,” he said.

The changes ordered by the F.A.A. include updating MCAS to avoid erroneous activation, updating display software to alert pilots when data from sensors conflicts, rerouting some internal wiring and updating the flight manual.

Even in the United States, it could be months before the Max starts carrying passengers again. The F.A.A. must still approve pilot training procedures for each U.S. airline operating the Max, planes need to be updated, and airlines suffering from a huge decline in traffic during the pandemic may feel little urgency to act quickly.

American Airlines is expected to be the first U.S. carrier to fly the Max, with plans to use the plane from Dec. 29 to Jan. 4 for flights connecting Miami with La Guardia Airport in New York.

United Airlines said it expected to start flying the Max in the first quarter of next year after 1,000 hours of work on every plane and “meticulous technical analysis.” Southwest Airlines said it did not expect to resume flights until the second quarter.

The Air Line Pilots Association, which represents nearly 60,000 pilots in North America, including those at United and Delta, said that it was still reviewing changes to training procedures, but that the proposed engineering fixes “are sound and will be an effective component that leads to the safe return to service.”

The F.A.A. decision removes some uncertainty as Boeing seeks to rehabilitate its reputation, resume fulfilling longstanding orders for the Max and manage the sharp slowdown in business caused by the pandemic.

The company has lost more than 1,000 orders this year, mostly for the Max, after accounting for orders that either were canceled or are likely to fall through. Aircraft contracts typically allow buyers to cancel or renegotiate terms if deliveries are delayed, adding to the urgency for Boeing to resume delivering the planes. Still, the company has more than 4,200 orders in its backlog, most of them for the Max.

For decades, Boeing had taken an incremental approach to the 737, choosing to update the plane rather than conceive a new model. That strategy had benefits, including reducing the need for pilot retraining. But it also resulted in a patchwork design that sometimes required workarounds. The placement of larger, more efficient engines caused the Max to tilt up during certain maneuvers. MCAS — for maneuvering characteristics augmentation system — was programmed to counter that.

In both crashes, faulty sensors activated the software, sending the planes toward the ground as the pilots struggled to pull them back up. In a September report, Democrats on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee said internal Boeing documents showed that concerns raised by employees about MCAS had been dismissed or insufficiently addressed. That report and one from the Transportation Department’s inspector general accused Boeing of misleading the F.A.A. by playing down the complexity of MCAS, perhaps to avoid costly pilot training.

The House committee also faulted the agency’s practice of outsourcing some certification functions to employees of the companies it oversees.

On Tuesday, the House passed a bipartisan bill aimed at changing F.A.A. certification procedures and requiring an expert panel to review Boeing’s safety culture. The Air Line Pilots Association applauded the legislation, saying that it included much-needed changes to the certification process. The authors of a similar bill passed by the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee on Wednesday said they would work with leaders in both houses to get a version of reform legislation enacted into law.

Boeing is nearing the end of a dreadful year. In addition to the Max crisis and the pandemic, quality concerns have slowed deliveries of its wide-body 787 Dreamliner.

Still, several factors are working in Boeing’s favor. Orders for the Max may be difficult to cancel; some airlines, like Southwest, rely exclusively on Boeing planes, making it difficult to switch to the other major manufacturer, Airbus; and the Max offers savings on maintenance and fuel that may be difficult for some to pass up, especially as corporate clients pressure airlines to cut carbon footprints.

Boeing’s stock has risen more than 40 percent this month, with investors encouraged by news from Pfizer and Moderna that coronavirus vaccines under development appear to be highly effective.





No.10 article:
Threats and Tensions Rise as Trump and Allies Attack Elections Process

Confrontations have escalated in swing states, with elections officials in both parties facing threats of violence, as the president and other Republicans try to subvert the country’s voting system.

President Trump’s false accusations that voter fraud denied him re-election are causing escalating confrontations in swing states across the country, leading to threats of violence against officials in both parties and subverting even the most routine steps in the electoral process.

In Arizona on Wednesday, the Democratic secretary of state, Katie Hobbs, issued a statement lamenting the “consistent and systematic undermining of trust” in the elections and called on Republican officials to stop “perpetuating misinformation.” She described threats against her and her family in the aftermath of Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory over Mr. Trump in her state.

In Georgia, where Mr. Biden holds a narrow lead that is expected to stand through a recount concluding Wednesday night, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, has said he, too, received menacing messages. He also said he felt pressured by Senator Lindsey Graham, a close Trump ally and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, to search for ways to disqualify votes.

In Pennsylvania, statehouse Republicans on Wednesday advanced a proposal to audit the state’s election results that cited “a litany of inconsistencies” — a move Democrats described as obstructionist and unnecessary given Mr. Trump’s failure to present any evidence in court of widespread fraud or other problems. Republicans in Wisconsin on Wednesday sought recounts in the state’s two biggest counties. Mr. Biden reclaimed both states after Mr. Trump won them in 2016.

Nowhere was the confusion and chaos more evident than in Michigan on Tuesday night, when two Republican members of the canvassing board in Wayne County, which includes Detroit, initially refused to certify election results, pointing to minor recording discrepancies. It was a stunningly partisan move that would have potentially disenfranchised hundreds of thousands of voters from a predominantly Black city, and after a stream of public backlash, the two board members reversed their votes and agreed to certify.

“You could see the racism in the behavior last night,” Mike Duggan, the Democratic mayor of Detroit, said at a news conference on Wednesday, condemning Republican efforts to block the voting results. “American democracy cracked last night, but it didn’t break. But we are seeing a real threat to everything we believe in.”

Late Wednesday, in yet another about-face, the two Republican election board members said they were rescinding their votes to certify the results. In affidavits, they effectively said that they had been bullied into voting for the certification and that they did not believe the Democrats on the board were following through with their promise to ensure an independent audit of the Wayne County results.

Jonathan C. Kinloch, the vice chair and one of the two Democratic members of the Wayne County canvass board, said in an interview that the vote to certify remained binding. 

In courtrooms, statehouses and elections board meetings across the country, the president is increasingly seeking to force the voting system to bend to his false vision of the election, while also using the weight of the executive office to deliver his message to lower-level election workers, hoping they buckle.

The effort has been joined by surrogates like Mr. Graham, who has used his visibility as a senior United States senator to make false claims about vote processing in Nevada; forward disputed accusations about mail ballots in Pennsylvania to the Justice Department; and level unsubstantiated accusations about supposedly fraudulent votes for Mr. Biden.

Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer and the former mayor of New York, have made blanket attacks against cities with large Black populations like Atlanta, Detroit and Philadelphia, painting those places in evidence-free tirades as too corrupt to be trusted to hold honest elections.

The extraordinary assault on the voting system by the president and his allies has taken on added intensity as the deadlines for certifying results in several states approach. Once certified, the final tallies will further forestall Mr. Trump’s attempt to overturn his loss.

Barring some breakthrough in the president’s legal push, his strategy appears to center on disrupting the process through which states finalize their vote counts and submit their delegate slates to the Electoral College.

Republicans’ attempts to follow his lead in Wayne County failed in the face of Detroit residents who were outraged by what they saw as an open attempt to disenfranchise them. A public comment session with hundreds of voters and civil rights leaders rippled into a three-hour uproar, as they condemned the fact that two white officials were threatening the voting rights of hundreds of thousands of Black voters.

“You look at Black cities and you have extracted a Black city out of the county and said the only one at fault is the city of Detroit, where 80 percent of the people who reside there are African-Americans,” exclaimed the Rev. Wendell Anthony, the president of the Detroit chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., his face almost touching the computer screen. “Shame on you,” he added. “You are a disgrace.”

“But on Jan. 20, 2021, at 12 noon,” he said, “no matter what you do, the president of the United States will be Joseph Biden and the vice president, for the first time ever, will be a Black woman named Kamala Harris.”

“Do you know how many young Black teenagers voted for the first time this year?” Benita Bradley of Detroit said during the Zoom call on Tuesday night. “And you sit here and slap those people in the face. What you are doing to brown and Black people in this community makes you part of the problem, you are the problem. You are the reason why young kids don’t see the promise in voting. But our country will go forward. We will unify.”

The two Democratic members of the Wayne County canvassing board, Mr. Kinloch and Allen Wilson, reacted with similar shock and anger at the initial refusal to certify the votes. After the two Republican members reversed course and voted to certify, the process moves to the Board of State Canvassers, where the results are to be finalized by Nov. 23.

Dana Nessel, the Democratic attorney general of Michigan, said she had kept a wary eye on the Wayne County proceedings, and was particularly worried about any potential litigation stemming from a canvass fight.

“I keep hoping we’ll see a light at the end of the tunnel,” she said. “But it was obvious that these are plans that have been in place for a long time and it’s just a matter of how far the Republicans will take this.”

The announcement late Wednesday about the Republican board members’ attempt to rescind their certification votes arrived in a news release from a public affairs firm based in Leesburg, Va., called ProActive Communications, which has done consulting work for Mr. Trump’s campaign and whose founder, Mark Serrano, has been a frequent television defender of the president’s. Mr. Trump’s 2020 operation paid the firm more than $2 million for its consulting services, according to records kept by the campaign finance website OpenSecrets.

The Wayne County canvassing board’s reversal on Tuesday was a distillation of these waning days of the Trump presidency — a clash over an attempt by Mr. Trump to present once more an alternative version of reality. With only minor irregularities reported, the two Democratic members were prepared to accept that Michigan had conducted a smooth election and to certify the results despite some minor errors, a routine step in the process. The Republican members, William Hartmann and Monica Palmer, had made clear in the days leading up to the meeting that they were prepared to accept Mr. Trump’s assertions that Democrats were stealing his presidency.

Ms. Palmer had raised questions on social media about Mr. Biden’s lead in the race in the days after the election, searching for discrepancies in online data from the secretary of state’s office. She also queried Republicans who had applied to be poll challengers at the T.C.F. Center in Detroit, where absentee ballots were counted, seeking examples of the party’s monitors being denied access.

Mr. Hartmann had filled his Facebook page with false allegations and conspiracy theories that the vote was manipulated against the president. One post included allegations about malfeasance in Detroit that a judge has called “not credible,” and another featured a video promoting a cornucopia of fraud allegations — including against Detroit — that have unraveled in court or been debunked by election officials. Mr. Hartmann also promoted a video from the right-wing cable network One America News that Facebook flagged as having “false information” about the coronavirus death rate.

Tuesday’s inflammatory meeting also drew attention to Mr. Hartmann’s social media feeds, where old posts showed racist depictions of President Barack Obama, whom Mr. Hartmann once referred to as a “Muslim President” (Mr. Obama is Christian).

Neither Ms. Palmer nor Mr. Hartmann responded to requests for comment, but Mike Shirkey, the Republican leader of the State Senate, said in a statement on Wednesday that there had been “disturbing reports of individuals who allegedly threatened the children of members of the Wayne County Board of Canvassers.”

Ms. Hobbs, the secretary of state of Arizona, said her experience as a social worker had prepared her for “threats of violence and vitriol” and called them “abhorrent.” She said they would not prevent her from performing her duties. “Our democracy is tested constantly, it continues to prevail, and it will not falter under my watch,” she said.

She called on the president, Congress and elected leaders to cease spreading misinformation that undermines the system.

“It is well past time that they stop,” she said. “Their words and actions have consequences.”





No.11 article:
Reconsidering Melbourne’s Public Housing Lockdown

Why the harshest example of an already-harsh lockdown had left many with a lingering sense of discrimination.

When we moved from Los Angeles to Australia in 2017, one of the first things my then-14-year-old son noticed was his peers’ attitudes about wealth — and housing in particular. When someone asked him where he lived in Melbourne, my son used a large public housing tower at the end of our street as a landmark, saying “I live a block behind those commission flats.” His classmates immediately started teasing him, jeering that he actually lived in public housing.

My son found this bewildering. In Los Angeles he went to a large public school that had students from all over the economic spectrum. But in L.A., it was his friends who lived in big houses in the Los Feliz hills who were uncomfortable about their circumstances, downplaying the wealth of their families. There was a certain pride among the kids who came from less money, a very American sense of honor in knowing that their accomplishments were their own and not thanks to economic privilege.

I kept thinking about those teasing classmates as I reported the story published this week about the lockdown at Melbourne’s Flemington and North Melbourne public housing towers. Many of the residents I spoke with had a real sense that the wider community views them as lesser — a sense made all the greater by their treatment during the lockdown.

Since the story published, much of the conversation on Twitter and in the comments has been about how successful Melbourne’s response has been to the virus, and how this lockdown was a necessary part of that response. Interestingly, I heard the same thing from most of the residents of the towers, who were all notably community-minded. Thier issue was not with the lockdown itself but with the way it was implemented, and the vastly different way they were treated compared to other Melbourne residents. The words I heard most often to describe how this made them feel were: other, lesser, disposable.

Visiting the North Melbourne tower was especially interesting, because I’d spent a lot of time there in the late 1980s as a young teenager. I had a friend who lived there, and I remember it as a desolate place. It feels completely different now — the lobby is sparkling clean, and a lush community garden takes up one side of the grounds. Everyone I spoke to was studying at university or running a nonprofit or helping to organize and uplift their community — or all three of those things. It felt like a hopeful place — which it absolutely did not when I spent time with my friend there 30 years ago.

When I asked North Melbourne tower resident Barry Berih if he felt supported or neglected by the wider community during the lockdown, his answer surprised me: He felt a huge amount of support from the young people of Melbourne, both via social media and in terms of the people he saw showing up in person to help. There was a generational divide, he thought, but it made him optimistic that young people saw the tower residents as worthy of empathy and respect.

I thought about my son’s classmates, and hoped that Mr. Berih is right.

Here are this week’s stories:

Enjoying the Australia Letter? Sign up here or forward to a friend.





No.12 article:
Anthony Edwards Drafted No. 1 by the Minnesota Timberwolves

James Wiseman went to the Golden State Warriors at No. 2, and the Charlotte Hornets picked LaMelo Ball at No. 3.

The Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday night started an N.B.A. draft unlike any other by selecting Georgia guard Anthony Edwards with the first overall pick.

James Wiseman, a center from the University of Memphis, went second to the Golden State Warriors, while LaMelo Ball, the popular guard from Chino Hills, Calif., was taken third by the Charlotte Hornets.

In a draft that was staged virtually because of the coronavirus pandemic, with prospects watching from home and team executives making their selections from their practice facilities, N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver announced the picks from an ESPN television studio in Bristol, Conn.

Unlike in previous drafts, there was no clear-cut favorite at No. 1. Ultimately, after spending months weighing their options, the Timberwolves went with Edwards, a 6-foot-5 shooting guard. He was the Southeastern Conference’s freshman of the year after averaging 19.1 points and 5.2 rebounds a game. Edwards was not the best perimeter shooter available in the draft — he shot just 29.4 percent from the college 3-point line — but he operated at Georgia with N.B.A.-level athleticism, manufacturing production at the rim.

“It’s an indescribable feeling,” Edwards said in a televised interview after he was selected.

The Timberwolves already have two young stars around whom they plan to build — Karl-Anthony Towns, 25, and D’Angelo Russell, 24, have both been All-Stars — and Edwards could be a nice fit playing alongside Russell in the backcourt.

As a part of its comprehensive draft research, Minnesota’s front office conducted more than 1,000 telephone interviews in recent months and compiled reams of evaluations. At the end of the process, the Timberwolves came away from a wide pool of prospects convinced that Edwards was the best player for them.

The event was overshadowed in part by an injury that the Warriors’ Klay Thompson sustained to his lower right leg in a workout in Southern California a few hours before the draft. The severity of his injury was unknown, and the team said that Thompson would undergo additional testing. Thompson missed all of last season after tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in the 2019 N.B.A. finals.

While that news was still circulating, the Warriors selected Wiseman with the second pick. Regarded as the top big man in the draft, the 7-foot-1 Wiseman played in just three games as a freshman at Memphis before he ran into eligibility problems with the N.C.A.A. and eventually declared for the draft. He was a dominant force in those three games, averaging 19.7 points, 10.7 rebounds and 3 blocks while shooting 76.9 percent from the field.

Though Wiseman’s college career provided a small sample for N.B.A. scouts and executives to evaluate, there is little question that he has unusual skills for a player his size. Long, lean and explosive, he can run the floor and has a soft shooting touch.

Ball’s path to the N.B.A. was unconventional. Like his older brother Lonzo, who plays for the New Orleans Pelicans, LaMelo has been scrutinized from a young age — in part because of his advanced skills (he once scored 92 points in a game as a high school sophomore), but also because of the promotional work done on his behalf by his father, LaVar Ball, a bombastic presence in basketball circles.

Ball left high school early to play in Lithuania, then spent last season with the Illawarra Hawks of Australia’s National Basketball League.

In Australia, Ball began to reveal his potential, averaging 17 points, 7.5 rebounds and 7.0 assists in 12 games. He also showed room for improvement: His attention wandered on defense, and he shot just 37.3 percent from the field — and 24 percent from 3-point range — before his season was cut short by a foot injury.

He is regarded as a gifted passer and has terrific length for a guard. But he is raw, with funky shooting mechanics.

Patrick Williams, a forward from Florida State, went fourth to the Chicago Bulls; Isaac Okoro, a swingman from Auburn, went fifth to the Cleveland Cavaliers; Onyeka Okongwu, a forward from the University of Southern California, went sixth to the Atlanta Hawks; and Killian Hayes, a guard from France, went seventh to the Detroit Pistons.

With the eighth pick, the Knicks selected Obi Toppin from Dayton. A 6-foot-9 forward, Toppin won virtually every national player of the year award after averaging 20 points and 7.5 rebounds per game while shooting 63.3 percent from the field as a sophomore. Toppin grew up in Brooklyn and attended Ossining High School in Westchester County.

“Me repping my city, it’s amazing,” Toppin said through tears in a televised interview. “A lot of people pray to be in this position, and I’m not going to take it for granted.”

The Nets, who are gearing up for the debut of their superstar tandem, Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving, got some help along the perimeter by acquiring guard Landry Shamet from the Los Angeles Clippers in a three-way trade with the Pistons, according to a person with knowledge of the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly. The Nets gave up the No. 19 pick as a part of the deal, and Luke Kennard was sent to the Clippers from the Pistons.

The Philadelphia 76ers added some shooting skill, too, by acquiring Seth Curry from the Dallas Mavericks in exchange for Josh Richardson and a second-round pick, according to a person with knowledge of the trade who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.

In other notable picks, the Washington Wizards selected Deni Avdija, a forward from Israel, at No. 9. Cole Anthony, a point guard from North Carolina and the son of the former N.B.A. player Greg Anthony, was selected 15th by the Orlando Magic. And Kenyon Martin Jr., whose father also starred in the league, was drafted late in the second round by the Sacramento Kings.

Before the pandemic wrought havoc on the league calendar, the draft had been scheduled for June 25 at Barclays Center in Brooklyn.

Before it was finally staged, the draft was preceded by a flurry of trade activity.

On Wednesday morning, the Knicks worked their way up the draft order by sending picks No. 27 and 38 to the Utah Jazz in exchange for the No. 23 pick and the rights to Ante Tomic, a 33-year-old center who has spent his entire pro career overseas. They wound up trading that pick for two others: Nos. 25 and 33, a nifty maneuver for their new front office. The Knicks ultimately selected Immanuel Quickley, a shooting guard from Kentucky, at No. 25.

Earlier in the week, the Milwaukee Bucks agreed to send a smorgasbord of players and draft picks to the Pelicans for Jrue Holiday, one of the league’s top two-way guards.

The Bucks have been under immense pressure to upgrade their roster around Giannis Antetokounmpo, who will be eligible to sign a so-called supermax extension with the Bucks starting on Friday. Antetokounmpo, the 15th pick in the 2013 draft, has won back-to-back N.B.A. Most Valuable Player Awards and the 2020 Defensive Player of the Year Award.

The Los Angeles Lakers, fresh off their 17th N.B.A. championship, were also busy, agreeing to a deal with the Oklahoma City Thunder to acquire the point guard Dennis Schroder, one of the top reserves in the league last season.

And Chris Paul, the veteran point guard, has joined the Phoenix Suns after the Thunder traded him for a package that included Ricky Rubio and Kelly Oubre Jr.

Teams are expected to begin reporting to training camps on Dec. 1 for individual workouts. The season is scheduled to start on Dec. 22.





No.13 article:
Stitched Into Neighborhoods, Dance Studios Battle to Stay Open

Small schools like Dwana Smallwood’s in Bedford-Stuyvesant often give children a way into dance. Now they are struggling to pay rent.

“Good morning, dancers! Let’s get creative today,” Dwana Smallwood, with a bright and reassuring smile, told her students in a video posted to Instagram on March 20. Her dance studio, in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, had just closed for what she thought might be a few weeks. While her students were stuck at home, she was helping them stay active, inviting them to make their own 30-second dances with everyday objects like pillows and chairs.

“Make sure you get up and use your bodies,” she said in the video. “Use the skills you have. Remember what I say: If you don’t use it, you lose it.”

Eight months later, Ms. Smallwood, a former star of Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, still has not returned to teaching in person. After planning an online fall semester, she canceled it when only 20 students, less than a quarter of her usual enrollment, signed up. Her income has plummeted, but rent is still due: about $8,000 a month for the space she founded in the neighborhood where she grew up, which she calls “still one of the most underserved communities in Brooklyn.” In September, she announced on Instagram that her school, whose students are mostly Black girls and young women, was on the brink of closing for good.

Across the city, dance studio owners face similar situations, struggling to keep their businesses afloat as the coronavirus pandemic stretches on. While Ms. Smallwood’s operation is relatively small, even owners of larger, more established studios have found themselves in precarious positions, frustrated by a lack of clear reopening guidance from the city and state. It’s an uphill battle, but Ms. Smallwood and others are pressing forward: raising money, joining forces to strategize and, in some cases, forging ahead with reopening as safely as they can.

Dance studios are integral to the city’s performing arts ecosystem; their survival has implications beyond the walls of any one business. Small schools like Ms. Smallwood’s, for instance, often give children an entry point into dance training, in environments where they might not otherwise encounter it.

“We are the people who plant the seeds into these huge organizations and teach and mentor our kids to aspire to American Ballet Theater, to New York City Ballet, to Ailey,” Ms. Smallwood said in a phone interview. “We are the ones on the ground, finding and cultivating those children, providing them with confidence and brain stimulation and letting them know there is something to aspire to besides the four corners of your block.”

As businesses like restaurants and gyms have been allowed to reopen with restrictions, dance studio owners say they have been overlooked. Pavan Thimmaiah, the director of PMT House of Dance in Manhattan, reopened his studio with precautions in place — like limited class sizes, a mask requirement and high-quality air filters — as soon as the city’s Phase 4 of reopening began in late July. He says that under the state’s New York Forward plan, his business falls under “fine arts schools,” which are listed as “permitted to operate with restrictions.”

From there, however, the plan can be interpreted in multiple ways. Mr. Thimmaiah’s studio, located on West 25th Street — where the rent could afford him “a very nice car every month,” he said in an email — has weathered three inspections, and he has become a vocal advocate for more specific reopening guidelines that take dancers’ needs into account.

Over the past few months, he has led the formation of the Dance Studio Alliance, a network of 16 studios ranging from high-profile hubs like Broadway Dance Center in Midtown to smaller spaces like Sweet Water Dance &amp; Yoga in the South Bronx. On a recent Zoom call, members of the alliance expressed frustration with the vagueness of existing guidelines, in particular the conflation of dance studios with gyms, which currently cannot hold indoor classes. (In a separate category, dance classes are permitted at colleges and conservatories, like the Juilliard School.) One studio owner received clearance to reopen; another called the department of health and was told she couldn’t; another reopened and was shut down by the city sheriff’s office.

The dance advocacy organization Dance/NYC has been working with several partners, including Gibney in Lower Manhattan, to draft their own comprehensive reopening guidelines for dance studios. They plan to propose these to city officials, though perhaps at a time when the city is not bracing for another potential shutdown.

“We’ve come to a point where if we don’t do it for ourselves, no one will do it for us,” said Alejandra Duque Cifuentes, Dance/NYC’s executive director, noting that the city’s arts advisory council for reopening included no dance representatives.

Lucy Sexton, the executive director of New Yorkers for Culture &amp; Arts, pointed out that in recent months, the dance field has been having “wonderful conversations about antiracism and racial equity.” But to have any real impact, these must translate into action, even — especially — at the level of small businesses.

“The people who are starting to close are the smaller organizations that are run by and for people of color,” she said. “Are we going to allow that to happen? Are we going to come out at the end of this with a whiter and more centralized ecosystem than we had going into it? I think we need to be very conscious and act accordingly.”

In the meantime, studio owners are doing what they can to get by without shuttering entirely. The Dwana Smallwood Performing Arts Center has received some grant and loan money, but not enough to cover all its expenses, Ms. Smallwood said. She has started a fund-raising campaign with the goal of reopening in January, and so far has raised over $100,000.

Ms. Smallwood founded her school in 2013, having returned to her hometown after several years in South Africa, where she developed a dance program at the Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls. (A gift of $1 million from Ms. Winfrey allowed her to open the school.) She deliberately sought out a space in a part of Bedford-Stuyvesant that she describes as “a cultural desert,” with few other arts offerings.

“It’s a hidden gem,” said Judith Best, a longtime neighborhood resident whose daughter attended the school. “It needs to remain where it is.”

Ms. Smallwood said her landlord has offered to let her break her lease with no penalty, but she doesn’t want to abandon what she has built, especially in a community hit hard by Covid-19. (A survey she sent to her staff and students found that 70 percent had lost someone they knew to the virus.) Dance, she said, can “revitalize people’s level of hope and healing and balance and sense of self, in a system that feels hopeless.” She sees it as a form of sustenance, a necessity.

Like Ms. Smallwood, Karisma Jay, the founder of AbunDance Academy of the Arts in Flatbush, Brooklyn, serves a predominantly Black community that has suffered disproportionately from the coronavirus. After holding virtual classes through the spring and taking a summer hiatus, she started offering a combination of online and in-person instruction, investing in safety measures for her studio like air filtration and frequent cleaning.

Students alternate between virtual and live classes, coming into the studio every other Saturday. They dance at least six feet apart, with masks. Those who don’t feel comfortable attending can follow along from home on Zoom.

Ms. Jay, who grew up in Brooklyn and toured as a performer with “STOMP,” has also opened up her space for rentals, another source of income. “I could not stay unopened for another six months,” she said. “I was watching the news, and there was this pizzeria owner, and the reporter was asking, ‘You reopened — how do you feel about that?’ And he’s like, ‘I feel like I have to pay my rent.’ Period.” (She pays about $10,000 a month in rent and utilities.)

But her decision to cautiously and partially reopen was not just financial. “For what we’re going through mentally, emotionally, physically, we need an outlet,” she said. “We need someplace where we can feel a sense of connectivity.”

Even when teaching online, which she does alone in the studio, Ms. Jay strives to make her students feel present in the space. And she doesn’t sacrifice discipline, giving detailed, one-on-one feedback. (For young dancers, her academy is a steppingstone to larger performing arts institutions like LaGuardia High School and Dance Theater of Harlem School.)

On a recent Saturday night, she held onto a barre and watched her iPad closely as students, in their living rooms and bedrooms, practiced a phrase that would be their homework for the week. “Tendu, plié, piqué — right!” she exclaimed. “That’s it! That’s fabulous.”

While her doors are open for now, Ms. Jay said she is living “in the unknown,” unsure what the next day will bring for her business.

“What do I know?” she said. “I know we had classes today and they go until 9 p.m. I know what our Zoom password is to log in. I know that our children and our community and our city need the arts.”





No.14 article:
A New Study Questions Whether Masks Protect Wearers. You Need to Wear Them Anyway.

Masks prevent people from transmitting the coronavirus to others, scientists now agree. But a new trial failed to document protection from the virus among the wearers.

Researchers in Denmark reported on Wednesday that surgical masks did not protect the wearers against infection with the coronavirus in a large randomized clinical trial. But the findings conflict with those from a number of other studies, experts said, and is not likely to alter public health recommendations in the United States.

The study, published in the Annals of Internal Medicine, did not contradict growing evidence that masks can prevent transmission of the virus from wearer to others. But the conclusion is at odds with the view that masks also protect the wearers — a position endorsed just last week by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Critics were quick to note the study’s limitations, among them that the design depended heavily on participants reporting their own test results and behavior, at a time when both mask-wearing and infection were rare in Denmark.

Coronavirus infections are soaring throughout the United States, and even officials who had resisted mask mandates are reversing course. Roughly 40 states have implemented mask requirements of some sort, according to a database maintained by The New York Times.

Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, advocates a national mask mandate, as does President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.

“I won’t be president until January 20th, but my message today to everyone is this: wear a mask,” Mr. Biden recently wrote on Twitter.

From early April to early June, researchers at the University of Copenhagen recruited 6,024 participants who had been tested beforehand to be sure they were not infected with the coronavirus.

Half were given surgical masks and told to wear them when leaving their homes; the others were told not to wear masks in public.

At that time, 2 percent of the Danish population was infected — a rate lower than that in many places in the United States and Europe today. Social distancing and frequent hand-washing were common, but masks were not.

About 4,860 participants completed the study. The researchers had hoped that masks would cut the infection rate by half among wearers. Instead, 42 people in the mask group, or 1.8 percent, got infected, compared with 53 in the unmasked group, or 2.1 percent. The difference was not statistically significant.

“Our study gives an indication of how much you gain from wearing a mask,” said Dr. Henning Bundgaard, lead author of the study and a cardiologist at the University of Copenhagen. “Not a lot.”

Dr. Mette Kalager, a professor of medical decision making at the University of Oslo, found the research compelling. The study showed that “although there might be a symbolic effect,” she wrote in an email, “the effect of wearing a mask does not substantially reduce risk” for wearers.

Other experts were unconvinced. The incidence of infections in Denmark was lower than it is today in many places, meaning the effectiveness of masks for wearers may have been harder to detect, they noted.

Participants reported their own test results; mask use was not independently verified, and users may not have worn them correctly.

“There is absolutely no doubt that masks work as source control,” preventing people from infecting others, said Dr. Thomas Frieden, chief executive of Resolve to Save Lives, an advocacy group, and former director of the C.D.C., who wrote an editorial outlining weaknesses of the research.

“The question this study was designed to answer is: Do they work as personal protection?” The answer depends on what mask is used and what sort of exposure to the virus each person has, Dr. Frieden said, and the study was not designed to tease out those details.

“An N95 mask is better than a surgical mask,” Dr. Frieden said. “A surgical mask is better than most cloth masks. A cloth mask is better than nothing.”

The study’s conclusion flies in the face of other research suggesting that masks do protect the wearer. In its recent bulletin, the C.D.C. cited a dozen studies finding that even cloth masks may help protect the wearer. Most of them were laboratory examinations of the particles blocked by materials of various types.

Susan Ellenberg, a biostatistician at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, noted that protection conferred by masks on the wearer trended “in the direction of benefit” in the trial, even if the results were not statistically significant.

“Nothing in this study suggests to me that it is useless to wear a mask,” she said.

Dr. Elizabeth Halloran, a statistician at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, said the usefulness of masks also depends on how much virus a person is exposed to.

“If you show this article to a health care provider who works in a Covid ward in a hospital, I doubt she or he would say that this article convinces them not to wear a mask,” she said.

But Dr. Christine Laine, editor in chief of the Annals of Internal Medicine, described the previous evidence that masks protect wearers as weak. “These studies cannot differentiate between source control and personal protection of the mask wearer,” she said.

Dr. Laine said the new study underscored the need for adherence to other precautions, like social distancing. Masks “are not a magic bullet,” she said. “There are people who say, ‘I’m fine, I’m wearing a mask.’ They need to realize they are not invulnerable to infection.”





No.15 article:
With a Second Doping Suspension, a Solid Career Is Reduced to a Footnote

Robinson Cano has Hall of Fame-worthy statistics, but another positive drug test will cost him 162 games and turn his career into a farce.

Robinson Cano ruined his Hall of Fame chances more than two years ago, when he was first suspended for using a banned substance. His second suspension, a 162-game ban announced by Major League Baseball on Wednesday, turns his career into a farce.

That is a shame, because Cano has some of the best statistics in major league history for a player at his position. Only eight second basemen have compiled more hits than Cano, who has 2,624. All have plaques in Cooperstown, and only two — Roberto Alomar and Craig Biggio — have been active in Cano’s lifetime.

But Cano, who turned 38 in October, will soon disappear into baseball’s memory hole, becoming more of a historical footnote than a headliner. He will be one of those guys you will think of, years from now, and shrug: He could really hit. I guess.

For the Mets, this development is probably just as well, excising another symbol of the last two discouraging seasons. Upon taking control of the team this month, the new owner Steven A. Cohen fired Brodie Van Wagenen, the general manager who engineered the bold but disastrous trade for Cano in December 2018, about six months after Cano had flunked a drug test with the Seattle Mariners and been suspended for 80 games.

That time, Cano was caught using furosemide, a diuretic better known as Lasix, which is frequently used as a masking agent for performance-enhancing drugs. Cano said the substance had been given to him by a doctor in the Dominican Republic for a medical ailment and, without specifying the ailment, insisted that he “would never do anything to cheat the rules of the game that I love.” Van Wagenen, who was Cano’s agent before working for the Mets, soon echoed his point.

“I don’t want to get into semantics, but I do think it’s important remembering Robbie was not suspended for a P.E.D.,” Van Wagenen said after making the trade. “He was suspended for a diuretic.”

Cano then had his worst season in more than a decade.

He improved in 2020, but Wednesday’s news offered a possible reason: He tested positive for Stanozolol, an unsophisticated and easily detectable steroid developed in the 1960s that has led to suspensions for the All-Stars Rafael Palmeiro, Jorge Polanco and Ervin Santana, the former Mets reliever Jenrry Mejia and the 2008 No. 1 overall draft pick, Tim Beckham.

Cano’s current agent, Kyle Thousand, did not respond to a request for comment.

Cano’s positive test essentially invalidates his 2020 stats: a .316 average with an .896 on-base plus slugging percentage, his best mark since 2013, when he was with the Yankees. Cano became a free agent after that season, and the Yankees offered him seven years and $175 million to stay.

If Cano had accepted, the deal would have just expired. Instead, he wisely took advantage of a bad team’s desperation to be relevant. The Mariners splurged on Cano for 10 years and $240 million, and could hardly believe their luck when the Mets took the second half of the deal off their budget — and gave up the franchise’s best prospect, outfielder Jarred Kelenic, for the privilege.

The deal was bigger and even worse than that, of course — the Mets got a closer, Edwin Diaz, whose struggles in 2019 may have cost them a chance at the playoffs, and also gave up a pitching prospect, starter Justin Dunn, who had a solid debut season for Seattle last year. To help offset the cost of Cano, Seattle took the highly paid veterans Jay Bruce and Anthony Swarzak.

As for 2021, Cano took the contract off Cohen’s payroll all by himself, an unexpected gift to the owner and his new team president, Sandy Alderson, who preceded Van Wagenen as general manager. In a statement, Alderson said the team was “extremely disappointed” in Cano.

“The violation is very unfortunate for him, the organization, our fans and the sport,” he added.

Unfortunate for Cano? Absolutely, although he is still signed through 2023. But the sport has been through this with him before, and the organization and fans should be happy. Cohen is the majors’ richest owner, so the savings from lopping Cano off the payroll are all relative. But it cannot hurt to have even more financial freedom and an open spot at second base with D.J. LeMahieu available in free agency.

LeMahieu just led the majors in hitting, at .364, and has been the Yankees’ best player in each of the last two seasons. Even without LeMahieu, the loss of Cano can help the Mets, who could shift Jeff McNeil to second base and clear left field for Dominic Smith.

Then again, the Mets can think even bigger under Cohen. They could engage not only LeMahieu, but also the other jewels of the free-agent market: starter Trevor Bauer, closer Brad Hand, catcher J.T. Realmuto, outfielders Marcell Ozuna and George Springer.

Nothing is off-limits, it seems, except Cano’s access to major league ballparks in 2021.





No.16 article:
Director of Mass MoCA, Playground for Artists, Moves On

After three decades, Joseph C. Thompson feels ready to let go (sort of).

NORTH ADAMS, Mass. — On a recent overcast morning here in this former factory town, Joseph C. Thompson donned his cowboy hat, hopped on his bicycle and pedaled to the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art to give his final official tour of the institution he has run since he helped found it 33 years ago.

While there is always more work to be done, this seemed to the 62-year-old director like as good a moment as any for moving on. He recently completed an expansion that brought the complex to 650,000 square feet — roughly the total area of the Louvre. He saw the museum through a pandemic-forced closing and reopening. And in January, the museum will open James Turrell’s light-manipulating Skyspace in a former water tower, a project the artist envisioned when he and Mr. Thompson first walked the property in 1987.

“No doubt I have a terminal case of founderitis,” he said, “and by rights probably should have left years ago.”

Walking through the museum with Joe, as most people call him, hearing him recount harrowing tales of birthing the museum, seeing how jazzed he still gets when a visitor’s eyes adjust to the mind-bending magenta of Mr. Turrell’s 2017 light installation “Guardian (Wedgework),” it is clear that Mass MoCA has not only been Mr. Thompson’s life’s work, but his life.

He helped transform this northern corner of the Berkshires — which had high rates of unemployment, teen pregnancy and high school dropouts — into a thriving art destination with hotels, restaurants and retail.

He raised a son here, now 22, and a daughter, 17. Perhaps most importantly, he made Mass MoCA a place of pilgrimage for artists, where they could create unusually longstanding exhibitions — Sol Lewitt’s wall paintings, Laurie Anderson’s virtual reality installations, Anselm Kiefer’s steel pavilion of 30 paintings and all those luminous Turrells.

The museum now consists of 28 buildings, attracts an average of 300,000 visitors a year and bills itself as the largest museum of contemporary art in the world.

Reaching this point hasn’t been easy. It took over a decade to get the museum open and to persuade the state — as well as individual donors — to support the undertaking.

“I could write a book on how not to build a museum,” Mr. Thompson said. “We started with no endowment, no cash reserves, no line of credit, so we were living on whatever it is we made that week and — given that museums lose money every week they’re open — that was just a very challenging environment.”

As a result, Mr. Thompson’s homespun, easygoing aura belies a dog-with-a-bone intransigence that convinced the former Massachusetts Gov. Michael S. Dukakis to award the museum a grant of $35 million and prevailed on Gov. William F. Weld not to demand that money back.

Mr. Thompson’s evangelical salesmanship induced local shopkeepers to pony up their own small contributions. His entrepreneurship enabled Mass MoCA to generate revenue by developing commercial real estate in the area, like a local courthouse and the Porches Inn, a boutique hotel across the road.

And Mr. Thompson managed to persevere despite a relatively modest $12 million annual operating budget (recently reduced to $10.5 million because of the pandemic).

“Joe’s a tough guy,” said Thomas Krens, who first had the idea for the museum. “Without Joe, Mass MoCA never would have happened.”

Having realized while in Germany for the 1985 Cologne art fair that abandoned factories could be used to show art, Mr. Krens teamed up with Mr. Thompson — one of his former students — and Michael Govan, now director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, to start Mass MoCA.

But Mr. Krens left in 1988 to become director of the Guggenheim, taking Mr. Govan with him. He offered to bring Mr. Thompson, too, but Mr. Thompson decided to stay put.

Born in Oklahoma, where he worked on an oil field after college, Mr. Thompson came to the director position with limited experience — a B.A. from Williams College, degrees in art and business from the University of Pennsylvania and a stint at the Williams College Museum of Art.

The idea of starting a contemporary art museum in a former textile mill and electronics plant in a depressed region of New England initially struck Governor Dukakis as harebrained. “Northern Berkshire was dying — in fact Berkshire County was dying,” Mr. Dukakis said. “The notion of doing this was really coming out of left field but there wasn’t anything else to do. We had to do something.”

Over the years, Mr. Thompson has encouraged artists to spread their wings and stay a while — considerably longer than the usual few months of most rotating exhibitions, including some for 25 years. (In most cases, the elaborate installations are funded through private donations.)

“It’s quite a place,” Mr. Turrell said. “Each artist is dealt with in depth.”

Mr. Turrell’s exhibition at Mass MoCA is his only comprehensive retrospective on public view, encompassing one of every major category of the artist’s work, and at least one piece from each of his seven decades of practice. The new Skyspace is his largest free-standing circular piece to date — 40 feet in diameter and 40 feet high — with a capacity for 70 viewers.

Situated in a repurposed concrete tank, which previously held standby water for the factory’s fire protection system, Skyspace includes a retractable roof cap as well as a programmable light system.

Ms. Anderson said she has found the museum freeing, a place where commerce feels far away and she can “just try stuff out.”

“It’s a much longer relationship with visitors,” she added. “It’s like having your own private museum.”

In preparing for his massive show at Mass MoCA last year, “Mind of the Mound,” Trenton Doyle Hancock said that he found the creative license hard to fathom, and that Denise Markonish, the senior curator and director of exhibitions, explained to him that the institution’s mission “was to make artists’ dreams come true.”

“I had been working on not just painting but animation, a short film, a comic book and all sorts of other side projects,” Mr. Hancock said. “They gave me an opportunity to put all of those things under one roof, to basically create a theme park based on my imagined world.”

Similarly, Nari Ward, whose 2011 show, “Sub Mirage Lignum,” featured large-scale sculptures covered in wooden strips, said, “They never got frightened as the work evolved.”

“Joe is like a frustrated installer,” Mr. Ward added of Mr. Thompson, who worked with the crew. “He came in with his tool belt. You don’t see a lot of directors taking that on.”

To be sure, such hands-on involvement can lend itself to micromanaging, and Mr. Thompson acknowledged that he can drive his staff a little nuts with details like the size of a font or the patina of the floor. But curators say the director has given them the creative freedom that matters most. “Not many museums would create a working polar plunge in their galleries,” Ms. Markonish said, referring to Taryn Simon’s 2018 “Cold Hole” installation. “Most curators hop from one institution to the next. Here, we stay because he lets us see our vision through.”

Mr. Thompson early on recognized that the museum had to move into the performing arts — from David Byrne to the Bang on a Can Summer Music Festival — because its distinct forms brought in different demographics.

“Whether it’s country or rap or indie or experimental jazz or new music — each of those have a passionate fan base,” Mr. Thompson said. “I’m convinced that many of our performing arts visitors don’t know what Mass MoCA stands for, but they get there to follow the music or the theater or the dance that they love and they visit the museum on that Saturday afternoon and they find out it’s not as bad as they think and come back.”

Rachel Chanoff, the curator of performing arts and film since the museum’s inception, described Mr. Thompson’s “reckless optimist” approach as, “‘Let’s make it the cultural living room of this community. Let’s have dance parties, let’s have picnics, let’s have cooking lessons.’”

Mass MoCA has, indeed, become an important anchor in the area, with close relationships to its fellow institutions, namely the Clark and the Williams College Museum of Art. “The Clark gave about $5 million dollars or more to Mass MoCA, which is very unusual in light of the more typical competition,” said Michael Conforti, the Clark’s former director, who is a trustee emeritus of Mass MoCA. “We need to help one another.”

Other institutions have modeled themselves after Mass MoCA, like Dia Beacon, which was opened by Mr. Govan; Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Arkansas; and the Armory and the Shed in New York. “Mass MoCA has certainly been an influence for me in developing Watermill,” said the avant-garde artist Robert Wilson, referring to the arts complex he founded on Long Island in 1992.

What is next for Mr. Thompson? Mr. Krens suggested that he might have a role for him in the ambitious new cultural corridor he is creating in North Adams, which features a railroad and architecture museum.

Of course, Mr. Thompson could see this moment as an opportunity to relax, to fly his small airplane or ride his road bike. He is still facing the stress of a trial on charges stemming from a 2018 collision with a motorcyclist, to which he has pleaded not guilty and said is unrelated to his departure.

Tracy Moore, the deputy director, is serving as interim director and chief executive while the museum looks to replace Mr. Thompson, who will stay on through next summer as an adviser.

“My job is pretty clear for the next eight months or so — to wrap up Turrell and I’ll be out rattling my tin cup,” he said. “We’ve too often managed by triage or robbing Peter to pay Paul, and I’d really like to put in place some resources so that the next person has a little bit of gas money or ‘Oh my God’ money so they can fix issues or make things possible.

“I want to make it better for the next person.”

Advertisement





No.17 article:
No Papers, No Jobs: The New Street Vendors of Queens





No.18 article:
‘Within Seconds Everything Was Gone’: Devastating Floods Submerge the Philippines

TUGUEGARAO CITY, Philippines — Brown water submerged nearly everything, as entire villages were swallowed by the deluge.

The floods, fast and furious, left few people with enough time to make it even to their rooftops. Homes provided little refuge from the devastation.

Francisco Pagulayan, 45, sat dazed as he stared at three white coffins on the roadside near his village. Two of his seven children — Ian, 17, and Frank, 19 — along with his mother-in-law, Virginia Bautista, were killed when a landslide buried their modest wooden home.

“There was a loud boom, and within seconds everything was gone,” said Mr. Pagulayan, who lives in Baggao, a village in Cagayan Province. “They survived the flash flood, but were buried by the landslide.”

This is typhoon season in the Philippines. People know what to do. Those who can, evacuate. Those who can’t, prepare as best they can. Cagayan Province, at the very northern tip of the Philippine island chain, knows the drill.

But the storms are getting more ferocious and more frequent, the tragic consequence of a changing climate that is making disasters more intense. Rapid development and deforestation along flood-prone areas have exacerbated the devastation.

The Cagayan River stretches over more than 300 miles, snaking through the north. It is one of the country’s longest and most beautiful rivers, cherished as a source of abundance and life. As of Monday, 24 of the 28 towns in Cagayan Province were under water.

From the air, it is now hard to distinguish where the Cagayan ends and the land begins.

Torrential rains and back-to-back typhoons ripped through the Philippines in the last two weeks, turning the once picturesque river into a sea of murky brown, killing dozens and setting off deadly landslides.

“I was born here and I never saw the water rise so fast,” said Jocelyn Malilin, a 49-year-old widow in Tuguegarao City.

Ms. Malilin clambered to the roof of her bungalow with her two daughters, two grandchildren and other relatives last Friday just as the Cagayan began to overflow. Her aunt, Socorro Narag, lived nearby, but had resisted appeals to prepare for the typhoon. It was only later, amid the chaos and confusion, that Ms. Malilin realized her aunt was missing.

“‘It’s just a storm,’” she recalled her saying.

Ms. Malilin sent two nephews to check on Ms. Narag. But when they returned, they told her that her aunt had died, apparently after falling down. Her body was brought to the roof so it wouldn’t be swept away by the rising water. It stayed there until the entire family was rescued.

“We knew that the water would eventually stop rising,” Ms. Malilin said. “Maybe she was watching over us.”

Last week, Typhoon Vamco forced water to spill over the Magat Dam, a tributary of the Cagayan on the island of Luzon and one of the Philippines’ largest reservoirs. The Cagayan’s banks quickly overflowed.

“This is the first time in 45 years, that I know of, that this has happened,” said Manuel Mamba, Cagayan’s governor. “The Cagayan River was so wide, even before. But now it resembles an ocean.”

State weather forecasters had not placed the region in Typhoon Vamco’s treacherous path, only noting that it could cause floods. Typhoon Goni, which occurred a week earlier, had been described as the region’s strongest storm of the year, but it caused relatively little damage, leaving many Filipinos off guard.

In some areas, power and communications have been out for days. It didn’t help that President Rodrigo Duterte had already shut down ABS-CBN Corp., the country’s only broadcast network available in some areas and capable of alerting residents to the unfolding crisis.

The flooding has now affected eight regions and three million people, according to the United Nations’ humanitarian office. As many as 70 have already been killed. Many of the deaths occurred in the low-lying suburbs of Cainta and Rizal, east of Manila, the capital.

The water is now steadily receding, but many villages remain inaccessible, said Mr. Mamba, the governor. Rescue workers, military and the police have been forced to deliver relief by air and have plucked hundreds of survivors from rooftops since Sunday.

“There are places here that are impossible to go to, even by boat,” he said.

Mr. Mamba attributed much of the tragedy to illegal logging and quarrying along the river, which the government has tried to prevent for years. Deforestation in watershed areas, as well as siltation, have also made living near the river more dangerous.

“Our casualties may be low, but you need to think how this would affect the local economy down the line,” Mr. Mamba said.

Bong Quizzanganong, a Catholic businessman in Tuguegarao, described the flooding in biblical terms: like a raging wall of water sent from above. He said he was used to the river causing minor flooding, “but not like this.”

Mr. Quizzanganong tried cruising around in his off-road vehicle to survey the damage from the flooding, but was forced to retreat because of the raging current.

Helicopters observed children splashing around in the murk. A man led a carabao, a type of water buffalo, on one of the few roads that remain accessible.

“We want all the isolated areas to be reached, because when you see people living, sleeping on the rooftops waving at you, you could almost feel how relieved they are to see you,” said Lt. Col. Wildemar Tiu, a co-pilot on the relief mission.

Some places have remained totally isolated since the storm, but Colonel Tiu said the air missions would continue until all areas had been reached.

“You wonder how they must feel right now,” he said of those who were still waiting to be rescued. “We want to believe that, at least, we are giving them hope.”





No.19 article:
Getting ‘Black Mayonnaise’ Out of One of America’s Dirtiest Waterways

A long-awaited dredging of the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn, a Superfund site, has begun in earnest. It may not be finished for at least a decade.

In the middle of the Gowanus Canal, across from a luxury apartment complex and waterfront promenade, a yellow excavator was perched atop a floating barge. Again and again this week, it plunged its claw into the murky water, emerging each time with a scoop of fetid black muck. After more than 150 years, the famously filthy canal in Brooklyn is finally being cleaned out.

Since the mid-1800s, industrial pollutants, raw sewage and storm runoff have accumulated in the waterway, making it one of the most contaminated in the country. As the surrounding industrial wasteland gave way in recent decades to gleaming apartments, and as restaurants and bars popped up on streets dominated by warehouses and parking lots, the noxious sediment — known as “black mayonnaise” because of its color and consistency — lurked below the water’s surface.

Now the canal is undergoing its own transformation. The Environmental Protection Agency has begun a $1.5 billion project to remove the sludge and clean the Gowanus.

The work could take more than a decade. But its onset is a milestone for the canal, which earned the nickname Lavender Lake for its unnatural hue.

The project also comes after decades of political maneuvering, as well as activism from nearby residents, some of whom had questioned when, if ever, the cleanup would take place.

“There was a collective sigh of relief of sorts that we are actually seeing tangible vessels in the waterway, ready to work,” said Brad Vogel, the captain of a canoe club called the Gowanus Dredgers, which was formed in 1999 to support the dredging of the canal.

In recent years, developers and the city have eyed the surrounding neighborhood, also called Gowanus, as a target for the construction of new apartment buildings (a Whole Foods Market opened there in 2013). But the canal, ever filthy, helped maintain the area’s industrial character. Its designation as a Superfund site in 2010 kept even more development at bay.

While a successful cleaning could help turn the canal into an attraction, Mr. Vogel said it would not change the “feral and quirky” elements of the neighborhood that the dirty water helped spawn.

“The canal, because of its idiosyncrasies and the harm and imbalance that it’s been subjected to over time, certainly generated a unique community feel here in Gowanus,” Mr. Vogel said.

Carved out of a tidal wetland in the mid-1800s, the 1.8-mile canal that runs from Butler Street to Gowanus Bay was for many years a passageway for barges servicing oil refineries, chemical plants, tanneries and manufactured gas plants. Industrial waste gushed into the canal.

That flow slowed in the mid-20th century as maritime shipping declined. But sewage and storm-water runoff, which can include oil from city streets and other debris, have continued to pour in.

An E.P.A. spokesman said the chemicals and sewage give the sediment its mayonnaise-like texture. Liquid tar, decomposing plants and carcasses, and other pollutants turn it black.

The sediment is, on average, 10 feet thick along the bottom of the canal, whose depth reaches about 40 feet near its mouth. It contains several contaminants, including high levels of cancer-causing chemicals known as PCBs and heavy metals like mercury and lead.

Between 1911 and the 1960s, attempts to flush the contaminants out through a tunnel did not eliminate the gunk or the putrid stench that sometimes emanates from the waterway. The flushing tunnel was put into operation again in 1999, shut down in 2010 because of equipment problems and restarted in 2014, according to the E.P.A.

Still, the presence of sewage and refuse swept off streets or tossed in by people — and the aroma — has imbued the canal with an almost fantastical aura.

People shared rumors that bodies were dumped in the waterway, which some sardonically referred to as Venice. In 2007, a small whale strayed into the mouth of the canal and died.

There were people who could recall lighting the water on fire, said Bob Lewis, 78, who has lived in the neighborhood for 35 years and watched the dredging unfold on Monday.

The dredging is divided into three phases corresponding to different segments of the canal. The first phase is expected to be completed in 2023. It includes dredging the upper section from Butler Street to the Third Street Bridge and layering the dredged channel with sand, gravel and other material to keep any remaining contamination from leaching out.

The dredged sediment will be processed at a facility in Jersey City, N.J., and transformed into a material that can safely be used to cover landfills, the E.P.A. said.

Mr. Vogel said he hoped that the dredging of the rest of the canal could be completed over the next decade.

For many residents, the project has been a long time coming. Matt Cline, 34, who lives in Gowanus, stood Monday on the promenade near the excavator with his baby slung to his chest. He smiled and took a selfie as the excavator behind him pulled up another pile of muck.

“I was definitely skeptical that it would ever happen,” Mr. Cline said.

But the pace of the effort has raised questions about what happens if sewage or other runoff flows back into the Gowanus, even after portions of the canal are dredged. As part of the cleanup plan, the city is expected to build two underground holding tanks to reduce the flow of raw sewage into the canal.

The city and the E.P.A. have disagreed on the best plan for the tanks, and it is not clear how fast they can be built. The city’s Department of Environmental Protection estimated on Tuesday that the tanks could be ready by 2032.

Walter Mugdan, a deputy regional administrator for the E.P.A., said that until the tanks are completed, discharges from the sewer system will continue to flow into the canal. But he said the city would have to do “maintenance dredging” if the amount of discharge is excessive.

The city is also considering rezoning the neighborhood, which would bring in an estimated 8,200 units of housing. A formal public review of the plans begins in January.

Katia Kelly, 59, who is part of the Voice of Gowanus, an activist group, said the city should wait until the holding tanks and dredging were complete before considering more development. She worries that the rezoning could also push out small manufacturers and other businesses, she said.

“All of the buildings and all of what makes Gowanus Gowanus is going to disappear,” she said.

Brad Lander, the councilman whose district includes most of the area around the canal, said that the rezoning plans emphasize light manufacturing and the arts, despite a focus on new residential development. He said the plans were “premised on the idea of a clean canal” and surmised that the E.P.A. project would make Gowanus an even more attractive place to live.

Mr. Lewis and his wife, Julie Lewis, 76, shared an apprehension about the rapid changes in the neighborhood, but viewed the dredging positively.

“I’m glad it’s happening,” Ms. Lewis said. “They’ve been promising it for a long, long time.”





No.20 article:
Save America’s Restaurants

A fresh round of federal aid can keep restaurants in business during the winter months while protecting public health.

American cities have sought to keep restaurants in business during the coronavirus pandemic by allowing indoor dining. With the virus spreading out of control across large swaths of the country, continuing to allow it risks an even greater public health disaster. There is ample evidence that the coronavirus spreads with ease among people eating in enclosed spaces.

Yet, even as case counts climb, politicians have remained reluctant to protect public health by imposing painful restrictions, instead relying on cosmetic measures — hoping that they will appear to be doing something even as they are effectively doing nothing.

A growing number of municipalities and states have imposed curfews on restaurants and bars, as if the virus were a vampire. Last month, Gov. Gavin Newsom of California advised diners in his state to “keep your mask on in between bites.” That is absurd.

The promising news about coronavirus vaccine trials offers growing reason for optimism that sometime next year, Americans again will be able to eat safely inside their favorite restaurants.

What the public interest requires for now is a suspension of indoor dining in areas where the virus is spreading, combined with federal aid to keep restaurants in business.

The House already has passed a bill that serves the purpose. The RESTAURANTS Act — it is an acronym, but we won’t bore you with the full name — would provide up to $120 billion in grants to independent restaurants, small restaurant chains (with fewer than 20 locations) and catering firms. The aid would cover the difference between last year’s revenues and this year’s revenues, and could be used to cover most expenses, including payroll.

A pending Senate version, which has bipartisan backing, would provide aid to big chains, too. McDonald’s and its ilk don’t need the money, but it’s easy to imagine a deal.

Representative Earl Blumenauer, the Oregon Democrat who sponsored the House bill, said he’s been heartbroken by the growing roll call of restaurant failures in his Portland district, punching holes in the fabric of his community. The money is intended to get restaurants through winter, when outdoor dining is less tenable in many parts of the country. “It’s a bridge to better weather,” he said.

Providing aid to restaurants also could make it easier for cities to suspend indoor dining.

It is one of the defining perversities of the country’s response to the pandemic that many cities have kept indoor dining open while schools are closed — prioritizing economic activity over the welfare of children. New York City, which for much of the fall stood out as the rare big city where children still could learn in classrooms, announced Wednesday that it would close its schools for in-person learning, even as the city allows people to eat inside restaurants, drink in bars and exercise in gyms.

Again: Children are allowed to eat in restaurants but not learn in classrooms.

The public interest urgently requires an inversion of that pattern. The United States should emulate European countries, where schools have closed last, or not at all. Federal aid for restaurateurs would make it easier for local leaders to justify prohibitions on indoor dining. While that alone wouldn’t totally control the virus or reopen schools, it would help.

Public health officials have warned for months that there is a clear link between indoor dining and the spread of the virus. Analysts at JPMorgan Chase have shown that in-person spending at restaurants predicts coronavirus case counts: more money, more problems. A new study due out in the journal Nature used cellphone data to reach similar conclusions.

Many other kinds of businesses also need aid, of course. Workers also need aid. State and local governments also need aid. We have repeatedly urged Senate Republicans to pass a version of the broad economic aid plan that House Democrats first passed in May. But it’s clear that that’s not going to happen. Democrats can still win control of the Senate next year by prevailing in a pair of Georgia runoff elections, but that’s not soon enough.

The resurgence of the virus is again disrupting economic activity, and in the absence of federal aid, the harsh reality is that many restaurants are not going to survive.

There is nothing to be gained by waiting until January, or by refusing to reach agreement where agreement appears possible. Congress may not be able to do the big things, but this is a clear chance to do something. Save the nation’s restaurants — and save lives.





No.21 article:
When Trump Was Right and Many Democrats Wrong

Children have suffered because many mayors and governors were too willing to close public schools.

Some things are true even though President Trump says them.

Trump has been demanding for months that schools reopen, and on that he seems to have been largely right. Schools, especially elementary schools, do not appear to have been major sources of coronavirus transmission, and remote learning is proving to be a catastrophe for many low-income children.

Yet America is shutting schools — New York City announced Wednesday that it was closing schools in the nation’s largest school district — even as it allows businesses like restaurants and bars to operate. What are our priorities?

“I have taught at the same low-income school for the last 25 years, and, truly, I can attest that remote schooling is failing our children,” said LaShondra Taylor, an English teacher in Broward County, Fla.

Some students don’t have a computer or don’t have Wi-Fi, Taylor said. Kids regularly miss classes because they have to babysit, or run errands, or earn money for their struggling families.

“The amount of absences is mind-blowing,” she said.

Adeola Whitney, chief executive of Reading Partners, an outstanding early literacy program, referred to the traditional “summer slide” in which low-income students lose ground during the summer months and told me: “The ‘summer slide’ is now being dwarfed by ‘Covid slide’ projections.”

Granted, the United States has done such a poor job of controlling the virus that as the pandemic rages across the country it may be necessary to shut some schools. But that should be the last resort.

I’ve been writing since May about the importance of keeping schools open, and initially the debate wasn’t so politicized. But after Trump, trying to project normalcy, blustered in July about schools needing to open, Republicans backed him and too many Democrats instinctively lined up on the other side. Joe Biden echoed their extreme caution, as did many Democratic mayors and governors.

So Democrats helped preside over school closures that have devastated millions of families and damaged children’s futures. Cities such as Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, D.C., have closed schools while allowing restaurants to operate.

It’s true that Trump was simply trying to downplay the virus. If he wanted schools open, he should have fought the pandemic more seriously and invested federal money to help make school buildings safer against the virus’s spread.

Yet today, while we all want in-classroom instruction, the practical question is whether to operate schools that don’t have optimal ventilation and other protections. The United States has answered by shuttering many schools and turning to remote learning even as many businesses have stayed open or reopened. Much of Europe pursued the opposite route, closing pubs and restaurants but doing everything possible to keep schools operating — and the evidence suggests that Europe has the smarter approach.

In both Europe and the United States, schools have not been linked to substantial transmission, and teachers and family members have not been shown to be at extra risk (this is more clear of elementary schools than of high schools). Meanwhile, the evidence has mounted of the human cost of school closures.

“Children learn best when physically present in the classroom,” notes the American Academy of Pediatrics. “But children get much more than academics at school. They also learn social and emotional skills at school, get healthy meals and exercise, mental health support and other services that cannot be easily replicated online.”

One child in eight in America lives with a parent with an addiction — a reflection of America’s other pandemic. I’ve seen kids living in chaotic homes, and for them the school building is a refuge and a lifeline.

America’s education system already transmits advantage and disadvantage from one generation to the next: Rich kids attend rich schools that propel them forward, and low-income children attend struggling schools that hold them back.

School closures magnify these inequities, as many private schools remain open and affluent parents are better able to help kids adjust to remote learning. At the same time, low-income children fall even further behind.

“Students are struggling,” Austin Beutner, superintendent of the Los Angeles Unified School District, where more than four-fifths of students live below the poverty line, told me. “And if you’re not becoming proficient in reading in first, second, third grade, you may face a lifetime of consequences.”

Research from Argentina and Belgium on school strikes indicates that missing school inflicts long-term damage on students (boys seem particularly affected, with higher dropout rates and lower incomes as adults). McKinsey &amp; Company has estimated that in this pandemic, school closures may lead to one million additional high school dropouts.

Dropouts live shorter lives, so while the virus kills, so do school closures. One study this month estimated that closures of primary schools in the United States will cause many more years of life lost, because of increasing numbers of dropouts, than could be saved even if schools did spread the virus freely.

Across the country from Taylor’s classroom in Florida, Lauren Berg is an elementary school principal in McMinnville, Ore. Berg said some students flourish with distance learning, but three or four students in each class struggle to attend regularly.

The school tries everything: It gives out Chromebooks, hot spots, headphones, even personal timers with meeting times pre-scheduled with alarms. Teachers drop off food and school supplies, or sit in driveways to try to get pupils to log in to the system. “Even with all of this,” Berg said, “we are still missing some students.”

Let’s follow Europe: Close bars, and try harder to keep schools open.





No.22 article:
A Simple Theory of Why Trump Did Well

Elections are complicated, but the money the government sent to more than 150 million Americans didn’t hurt.

Officials are still counting votes for the 2020 presidential election, but that hasn’t stopped professional commentators from drawing any number of broad conclusions about the state of American politics from the results thus far.

Two narratives about what happened stand out. First, the idea that left-wing slogans like “defund the police” cratered the Democratic Party in down ballot fights for the House and Senate, and second, that President Trump’s modest gains with Black and Hispanic voters herald the arrival of a working-class, multiracial Republican Party.

There are obvious objections to both stories. There is no hard evidence that voters turned against Democratic congressional candidates because of “defund the police” and other radical slogans. It does not show up in the congressional generic ballot — there is no decline that corresponds with the unrest of the summer — and there’s little other data to support the idea of a direct causal relationship between the slogans and the performance of Democratic candidates.

What we have, instead, are the words of moderate Democratic lawmakers who believe those slogans left them unusually vulnerable to Republican attacks. But this is a textbook case of assuming one thing caused the other because they followed in chronological order. Perhaps Democrats slipped because they were associated with “defund the police” or perhaps — as Democrats as different as Doug Jones, Beto O’Rourke and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez have suggested — it had something to do with poor campaign infrastructure and a message that was unresponsive to the electorate.

The problem with the second narrative — Republicans have built a new working-class, multiracial coalition — is that it takes Trump out of the context of past election results. If preliminary exit polls are any indication — and they have real flaws as measurement tools — Trump did hardly any better with Black voters than George W. Bush in 2004 and quite a bit worse with Hispanic voters. Far from a seismic shift, Trump, with 32 percent support among Hispanics (a four-point upswing from his first run) is doing about as well as John McCain did in 2008.

But even as we throw cold water on these narratives — at least until there’s more evidence to back them up — we’re still left with the unanswered question of how Trump performed as well as he did. He may not have transformed the Republican coalition, but he held onto much of his 2016 support and even enlarged it, if not in percentage terms then in absolute ones. Democrats who thought he would be swamped by high turnout were wrong; not only did he benefit, but his ability to turn nonvoters into voters is what likely kept him in the game.

At the risk of committing the same sin as other observers and getting ahead of the data, I want to propose an alternative explanation for the election results, one that accounts for the president’s relative improvement as well as that of the entire Republican Party.

It’s the money, stupid.

At the end of March, President Trump signed the Cares Act, which distributed more than half a trillion dollars in direct aid to more than 150 million Americans, from stimulus checks ($1,200 per adult and $500 per child for households below a certain income threshold) to $600 per week in additional unemployment benefits. These programs were not perfect — the supplement unemployment insurance, in particular, depended on ramshackle state systems, forcing many applicants to wait weeks or even months before they received assistance — but they made an impact regardless. Personal income went up and poverty went down, even as the United States reported its steepest ever quarterly drop in economic output.

Now, the reason this many Americans received as much assistance as they did is that Democrats fought for it over the opposition of Republicans who believed any help beyond the minimum would degrade the will to work for whatever wage employers were willing to pay. “The moment we go back to work, we cannot create an incentive for people to say, ‘I don’t need to go back to work because I can do better someplace else,’ ” Senator Rick Scott of Florida argued on the floor of the Senate.

But voters, and especially the low-propensity voters who flooded the electorate in support of Trump, aren’t attuned to the ins and outs of congressional debate. They did not know — and Democrats didn’t do a good enough job of telling them — that the president and his party opposed more generous benefits. All they knew is that Trump signed the bill (and the checks), giving them the kind of government assistance usually reserved for the nation’s ownership class.

Nearly everything in politics has multiple explanations and there are many factors that can and do explain the election results. But I would not ignore the extent to which the Republican Party’s strong performance can be explained simply by the fact that it was the party in power when the government put a lot of money into the hands of a lot of people who didn’t have it before.

The upshot of this, for the incoming Biden administration, is straightforward: Do not listen to the debt worriers and the deficit hawks. Ignore the calls for means-testing and complicated workarounds. Embrace, instead, the simplicity of cash. Take a page from the left and give as much direct help to as many people as possible.

The concentration of its coalition in cities and suburbs is such that the Democratic Party faces a number of structural obstacles to winning and wielding power. There’s no easy solution to this problem, but there are ways to make the path less difficult. And one of them is as straightforward as cutting a check when there’s a national crisis and keeping it going for those who need it when there isn’t.





No.23 article:
Albert R. Jonsen, 89, Dies; Brought Medical Ethics to the Bedside

A former Jesuit priest and leader in bioethics, he believed that an ethicist should be part of a patient’s medical team when hard decisions have to be made.

Albert R. Jonsen, who brought the field of bioethics to the bedside and whose way of reasoning influenced generations of medical ethicists, died on Oct. 21 at his home in San Francisco. He was 89.

Dr. William Andereck, his personal physician and a colleague, said Dr. Jonsen had been in poor health but had preferred that the cause of his death not be made public.

Dr. Jonsen was almost legendary among bioethicists, respected for his wisdom and vast knowledge. “He was a sage,” said Dr. Joseph Fins, chief of the division of medical ethics at Weill Cornell Medical College in New York.

Dr. Fins recalled a dinner with Dr. Jonsen at a restaurant on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. The conversation, he said, proceeded like “a reverse Socratic dialogue.” Instead of the professor asking students a question, Dr. Fins and others at the table would ask Dr. Jonsen a question. He would provide an answer, which would provoke the next question.

“There was no bottom to that well of knowledge,” Dr. Fins said.

Dr. Jonsen’s field, bioethics, is concerned with helping medical professionals, patients and families make difficult decisions on topics like the right to die and informed consent. It also weighs in on policy choices involving matters like the use of children or prisoners in medical research.

Dr. Jonsen was a distinguished academic for most of his career — president of the University of San Francisco, where he taught philosophy and theology; chief of the division of medical ethics at the University of California, San Francisco; and chairman of the department of medical history and ethics at the University of Washington. But that path took an abrupt turn when he accepted a challenge from Dr. Andereck “to see how well his ideas worked in the real world,” as Dr. Andereck put it.

Dr. Jonsen had endorsed four principles of bioethics: autonomy — allowing patients to make informed choices; beneficence — enabling health care professionals to make decisions that benefit the patient; non-maleficence — avoiding causing harm that outweighs any benefits of treatment; and respect for patients and their families.

In a lecture Dr. Jonsen once compared the bioethicist to a balloonist floating high above the earth and able to see what lies ahead. Below him on the ground is a frantically pedaling bicyclist — the doctor — “negotiating the ethical curves and potholes that suddenly appear in clinical practice,” Dr. Andereck said.

“Al’s original idea,” he added, “was that the philosopher in the balloon would somehow be able to shout down to the bicyclist, like a navigator from above, giving him sage advice and direction.”

In 2003, having known him for 30 years, Dr. Andereck suggested, in effect, that Dr. Jonsen come down from the balloon and climb on the bicycle — to see how well his ideas would work in the intensive-care and surgical wards of San Francisco’s hospitals.

“He and I would start seeing real cases,” Dr. Andereck said. “He would see what happened when he gave advice and doctors said, ‘Thank you, Dr. Jonsen, but no.’”

All too often, Dr. Andereck told Dr. Jonsen, doctors either weren’t listening to bioethicists or did not even know they were there.

Dr. Jonsen’s bedside method used a form of reasoning called casuistry, which he had learned in his training to be a Jesuit priest. (He later left the priesthood.) The idea, similar to legal reasoning, is that when an ethicist is confronted with a difficult decision, resolution can come by looking at other cases like it and seeing how they were resolved.

For example, doctors and nurses often agonize over what to do when they are caring for a patient who is clearly not going to recover but is being kept alive with multiple high-tech support systems because the family refuses to let the patient go. The doctors and nurses may come to feel that they are brutalizing the patient, letting him or her live on for another week or so but at the cost of constant pain.

Dr. Jonsen would begin by gathering all the relevant facts — the prognosis, the benefit of continued treatment and the burdens on the patient. Then he would ask the family what was known about the patient’s wishes and preferences and their worries about quality of life. He would look at similar cases and how they had been resolved. His goal was to organize the facts and clarify the obligations so that the family and medical professionals could all agree on how to proceed.

His real-world experiences with Dr. Andereck led Dr. Jonsen to promote a new idea in ethics consultation: placing the ethicist at the bedside as a part of the medical team.

He and Dr. Andereck went on to establish a clinical ethics consultation service as part of Sutter Health, a large Northern California network of hospitals and clinics. The service provides more than 700 ethics consultations a year to doctors, patients and their families.

Dr. Jonsen’s many passions extended far beyond bioethics. As a philanthropist he donated money to social causes, ecological foundations, academic institutions and the Society of Jesus, the Jesuit order. He spoke seven languages, liked to sketch, immersed himself in opera and baroque music, and traveled widely.

As his nephew William Carrick said in an interview, “I often wanted to ask him if there was a list of countries he hadn’t been to.”

Albert Rupert Jonsen was born in San Francisco on April 4, 1931. His father, also named Albert, was an advertising executive with the Hearst newspapers. His mother, Helen (Sweigert) Jonsen, was the daughter of San Franciscans who had arrived in the city before the Gold Rush of the mid-19th-century.

After high school, Dr. Jonsen studied for the Jesuit priesthood and was ordained in 1962. He received a doctorate in religious studies from Yale University in 1967 and taught philosophy and theology at the University of San Francisco, a Jesuit institution, before being named its president in 1969.

He left the priesthood in 1976 to marry Mary Elizabeth Carolan.

In 1974, President Gerald R. Ford appointed him to the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research, which was formed in response to disclosures in 1972 that for more than 40 years hundreds of poor Black men with syphilis in Alabama had deliberately been left untreated — and not informed of their condition — as part of government research known as the Tuskegee Study.

As part of a 1979 report, the commission recommended the broad adoption of principles of medical ethics in government research, including stipulations for informed consent by research subjects.

President Jimmy Carter subsequently appointed Dr. Jonsen to another medical bioethics commission, which called for expanding the principle of informed consent to include all patients.

The Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences, elected Dr. Jonsen a member in 1981. He chaired the department of medical history and ethics at the University of Washington School of Medicine from 1987 to 2003.

Dr. Jonsen co-wrote a number of influential books on ethics, including “Abuse of Casuistry. A History of Moral Reasoning” (1986), with the British philosopher Stephen Toulmin; and “Clinical Ethics: A Practical Approach to Ethical Decisions in Clinical Medicine” (1982), with the bioethicists Dr. Mark Siegler and William Winslade. That book is in its eighth edition and has been translated into seven languages.

Dr. Jonsen is survived by his wife; his brothers, Robert and Richard; and a sister, Anne Marie Carrick.

Dr. Jonsen, who left little to chance, wrote his own obituary before he died.

“Having everything arranged ahead of his passing is consistent with his being organized and conscientious,” Dr. Andereck said.

He noted that as “a philosophical man,” Dr. Jonsen was not afraid of death. “He contemplated it and was really quite prepared in every respect,” Dr. Andereck added. He said death had come “without a struggle.”

“His goal for a good death was to land the plane softly,” he said, “and he nailed it.”





No.24 article:
Why Do We Care So Much About Diana’s Dresses?

“The Crown,” Season 4, has raised the question again. The answer may not be what you expect.

And so, once again, to Princess Diana. Like Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, she has become a sort of cultural Rosetta Stone we return to over and over, seeking to discover answers to our own choices in her limpid blue stare and cacophonous, attention-grabbing wardrobe.

This time around the re-examination comes courtesy of “The Crown,” Season 4, a.k.a. the Diana Season. The scrutiny has been building since the 20th anniversary of the princess’s death in 2017, when Virgil Abloh declared Diana his Off-White muse and Kensington Palace held an exhibition devoted to her outfits. And though it got a boost last year with a new musical (with costumes by William Ivey Long and a featured song titled “The Dress”) that was supposed to be headed to Broadway, the chatter reached a fresh apogee this weekend with the release of the Netflix show.

The one where the princess, in the form of the actress Emma Corrin, catches the Windsor eye, makes her public debut, gets married and miserable, develops an eating disorder and becomes a Fashion Icon nonetheless.

The one that inspired British Vogue to put Ms. Corrin on the cover of its October issue in a sapphire blue Oscar de la Renta taffeta ball gown with the headline “Queen of Hearts.” The one that has been the subject of a 3-D virtual show at the Brooklyn Museum, “The Queen and the Crown,” featuring assorted items from the series’s costume department, including a raspberry floral two-piece dress made for the princess’s Australian tour and the remake of that famous meringue of an overblown wedding dress.

The one that has spawned Twitter thread after Twitter thread comparing true outfit to fictional outfit, and paean after paean to Diana’s Greatest Fashion Moments in pretty much every single glossy magazine.

Why do they matter? It’s not really about the dresses, people. It’s about how they got us to now.

After all, if there’s one thing “The Crown” does with its fealty to the clothes that were, it is to show how cringe-worthy some of those fashion moments actually were. (Amy Roberts, the costume designer, has said that she didn’t recreate them exactly but rather tried to capture their essence, just as Peter Morgan, the show’s creator, talks about his allegiance to historical truth over accuracy.) The pie-crust collars and sailor bibs and pussy bows. The frumpy, Laura Ashley puff-sleeve smocks and midi-skirts. The novelty knitwear. The Easter egg overalls and gingham.

The saccharine mash-up of romance and posh schlubbiness teetering delicately between pastoral and kitsch before blossoming into pure Disney fantasy: taffeta, velvet, iridescent blues — the frumpy duckling turning into a polka-dot-and-silk-swathed swan.

Right now, understandably, we can’t get enough of such vicarious fashion exposition, given our loungewear-limned reality. The hazy, sentimental lens of nostalgia can make even the pretty bad delicious, in an ironic, self-aware way. Rowing Blazers has already rereleased Diana’s famous black sheep sweater — the one she wore to a couple of her husband’s polo matches — to so much hoo-ha that even at $295 it is available for order only and will not arrive until January at the earliest. And this is only Diana, Episode 1.

The famous shirred black “revenge dress” the princess wore to a gala in 1994, the same evening her husband confessed his affair to the BBC, and the more body-con designer outfits of her divorce years are still to come, perhaps in Season 5. As are the John Galliano-designed Dior slip dress worn to the Met gala in 1996 and the Versace column worn on a tour of Australia the same year. Ditto the simpler button-ups and chinos that became the uniform of her humanitarian work. And the tragedy that froze her in time.

Plus, there’s yet another Diana project, the feature film “Spencer,” starring Kristen Stewart, waiting in the wings.

Despite all of this, Alexandra Shulman, the editor of British Vogue during Diana’s heyday and current contrarian columnist for The Daily Mail, wrote in a recent piece, “Princess Diana was dazzling, but it’s nonsense to claim she was a fashion inspiration.”

It sounds like sacrilege. But she’s right. Diana didn’t send designers or fans spinning out in new directions because she put her clothes together in an especially creative inventive way, or because she gravitated toward the outré and imaginative, which she then wore with such élan that she left a trail of ideas in her wake. (Indeed, she was introduced to fashion by Anna Harvey, then the deputy editor of British Vogue and Diana’s designer conduit, who does not appear to be part of “The Crown” cast of characters.) Diana wasn’t one of those public figures with an identifiable and consistent personal style, though she clearly loved to get dressed.

Rather, the greatest trend she ever set — bigger than the fad for engagement rings with oval sapphires surrounded by diamonds, or the biggest of her big shoulders — was as the original fashion reality TV star: a public figure who used her clothes as a personal weather vane, not to advance the agenda of state but for direct communication to the outside world, even when she was simply smiling and standing by. She wore her emotions not just on, but as, her sleeves. And because we could all see them, we could all relate.

As Joe DiPietro, who wrote the book for the Diana musical (due next spring on Netflix, of course, since theater is on hold during the pandemic), told Elizabeth Holmes in her prescient new book, “HRH: So Many Thoughts on Royal Style,” which traces the dress histories and strategies of the women of Windsor from the queen through Kate Middleton and Meghan Markle: “She really was the first great social media influencer, manipulator.”

It’s part of what made her mesmerizing, and it’s what makes her seem so relevant. It is, arguably, why every garment Melania Trump wears is parsed for what it says about her marriage, why Kim Kardashian’s clothing evolution since she became a West has been so closely tracked. Diana primed the stage, and now we are all living in it.

She didn’t move the art of dress forward; she kept it spinning right where it was. But in doing so, as Mr. DiPietro said, she helped make the art of Instagram possible.





No.25 article:
Kim Ng Has Been Ready for Years

When the moment arrived — when a major league team finally hired a woman to run its baseball operations — Kim Ng found a fitting way to tell her mother and four younger sisters. She gathered them all outdoors, at a gazebo in Wanaque, N.J., where her mother lives, and took them back in time.

Ng played a video clip from 2000 on her iPad. On the screen, a young Derek Jeter, the star shortstop for the reigning world champion Yankees, presented Ng with an award from an organization for women in the business of sports. She was the Yankees’ assistant general manager at the time, and now, all these years later, the man in the video was giving her a chance at the top job with his own team.

As the video concluded, Ng told her family she would be moving to Miami.

“We’re scratching our heads and thinking, ‘What’s she talking about?’” Ng’s mother, Virginia Cagar, 73, said in a telephone interview. “And she said, ‘I’m going to be joining Derek Jeter and the Marlins.’”

The news, announced on Friday by the Miami Marlins, the team Jeter runs as chief executive and a part owner, had a seismic impact in sports. Never before had a woman ascended to the role of full-time general manager in any of the major men’s leagues in North America. After three decades as an executive with the Chicago White Sox, the Yankees, the Los Angeles Dodgers and Major League Baseball, Ng had finally broken through.

“I was not the kid that was always going to follow the rest of the group,” Ng (pronounced Ang) said at a news conference in Miami on Monday. “That was not me. I was going to do my own thing and I didn’t care what people said. I was just going to do it.”

Ng, 52, is also the second person of Asian descent — after Farhan Zaidi of the San Francisco Giants — to lead a baseball operations department. Ng’s parents, both United States citizens of Chinese descent, went to college in Indiana, where Ng was born. Her father, Jin Ng, who died when she was 11, worked as an accountant. Her mother, who was born in Thailand but moved to Long Island at 5, worked as a banker.

Ng spent most of her childhood in the New York area, where her family became Yankees fans. She attended Public School 173 in Fresh Meadows, Queens, where she played stickball with friends, using cars and manhole covers as bases. The family then moved to Glen Cove on Long Island, where Ng played in her first organized softball league, and to Ridgewood, N.J., where she played softball and tennis in high school.

Empowerment was a major theme of her childhood.

The tennis stars Billie Jean King and Martina Navratilova were inspirations, Ng said, largely for what they embodied. King fought for equality, she said, and Navratilova “changed the idea of what it looked like to be a female athlete.”

The women’s rights movement of the 1970s also had an early impact on Ng’s family, clearing a path for Cagar’s career in the financial industry. But sports was much slower to change; as a concerned mother, Cagar said, she tried to nudge Ng into her field, or toward a law career. Her suspicion about the lack of opportunities in baseball was well founded.

“Women were always looked at as intruders into a supposedly man’s sport,” said the Hall of Fame manager Joe Torre, 80, who worked with Ng with the Yankees and the Dodgers and at Major League Baseball headquarters. “That change evolved over the years when they started opening the clubhouse to female writers, which obviously was the right thing to do. I came from a family with two sisters, and they were such loyal baseball fans. The female could know as much about the game as the male fan, that’s for sure.”

At the University of Chicago, Ng honed her love of the game as a scrappy middle infielder and captain for the softball team. Kim Vance, who coached the team then, said Ng was a smart player with a fiery side that made teammates better.

“Of course, the coach always loved to have that influence on the team,” Vance said. “She was a real natural leader.”

Ng wrote her college thesis on the impact of Title IX, the groundbreaking 1972 federal law that greatly expanded women’s access to sports by forbidding gender discrimination at educational institutions. She graduated in 1990 with a degree in public policy and took an internship with the White Sox.

“An internship at that time was kind of new to me, and I said, ‘Well, what’s my return on investment?’” Cagar said, laughing as she recalled the exchange with her daughter over the cost of financing her private university education. “She said, ‘Nothing.’ She was working for free.”

Working under the executives Ron Schueler and Dan Evans, Ng handled special projects and salary arbitration cases for the White Sox, earning a promotion to assistant director of baseball operations and impressing club officials with her inquisitiveness and keen understanding of rules and procedures. She moved on in 1997 to the American League office, where she was responsible for approving teams’ transactions, and a year later became the Yankees’ assistant general manager, working under Brian Cashman through 2001.

Those were glorious seasons for the Yankees, who won three World Series in a row and a fourth consecutive A.L. pennant in 2001. Ng soaked in the atmosphere, spending more and more time around championship-caliber players like Jeter and expanding her on-field knowledge by learning from the team’s architect, Gene Michael, and its amateur scouting director, Damon Oppenheimer. Ng wanted to know how scouts viewed the game, Oppenheimer said, and what statistics they valued. 

“She had great people skills, and that was the thing that stood out to me,” Oppenheimer said. “She was probably the smartest person in the room and never had to make everybody feel that way.”

Ng left for the Dodgers in 2002, again teaming with Evans, who was the team’s general manager. Evans assigned Ng to oversee player development and scouting. Sometimes he would send her on road trips, making Ng the go-to pointperson for the team and the news media.

On one of those trips, Evans did what a mentor does, mapping out the path ahead for Ng. Someday soon, he told her, she could have a chance to interview for general manager jobs, so she should start planning her strategy. Ng smiled.

“She’s got that little impish grin,” Evans said, “and she goes, ‘You don’t think I’ve thought about that already?’”

Word was getting around. When Jim Duquette became the Mets’ general manager in 2003, he tried to hire Ng as his assistant. She stayed with the Dodgers, and soon after, at a conference in Phoenix, a Mets special assistant mocked Ng’s Chinese heritage while yukking it up at a bar.

Duquette fired the assistant — a former pitcher, Bill Singer, who claimed he could not recall the comments — and came away with even more respect for Ng.

“Here was a blatantly difficult situation that became public, and she just handled it with such grace and class,” Duquette said. “She had every right to be upset and angry, and it was one of those things like, ‘Eventually, I’ll forgive.’ But she was very, very firm with Bill in particular and with us as an organization: It was not acceptable, under any circumstances.”

It was with the Dodgers, Ng said, that she first believed she could handle a general manager’s job, though the team hired Paul DePodesta to succeed Evans and then Ned Colletti to replace DePodesta after having interviewed Ng. Colletti increased Ng’s responsibilities, assigning her contracts to negotiate (as she had done with the Yankees), and giving her the lead on some trade talks. He recommended her for general manager openings, and eventually Ng would interview for the role with the Seattle Mariners, the Los Angeles Angels, the San Diego Padres and the Giants.

“I’d say, ‘How did it go?’ and a couple of days later she’d get a call back that they were going in a different direction,” Colletti said. “You could see the disappointment, but she stayed with it — and I think, perhaps, that the more she invested in it, the more she refused to give up. That’s a tremendous trait.”

The Dodgers reached the National League Championship Series three times under Colletti, twice with Torre as the manager. Torre said he developed a strong rapport with Ng, admiring her communication skills and breadth of experience.

“There was no aspect of the game she wasn’t familiar with,” Torre said. “It was just a very comfortable conversation all the time, because you didn’t have to try to measure your words when you were around her. You could talk to her the same way you’d talk in the clubhouse. She was one of the group. I shy away from saying ‘one of the guys’ — but she fit in really well, let’s put it that way.”

She fit in so well that when Torre took a job in Major League Baseball’s central office, in 2011, he persuaded Ng to join him in New York. She served as senior vice president of baseball operations for 10 seasons, helping to set and enforce protocols for international signings, among other duties. Torre once accompanied Ng to the Dominican Republic, and he remembers her commanding attention and respect.

“That’s not easy,” Torre said. “In the Dominican, they run their own show. But she went over and they hung on every word she was saying.”

The job also gave Ng insight into the workings of all 30 major league teams. She kept landing interviews for general manager openings, but Torre said he sometimes wondered how seriously teams took her. There was no denying the strength of Ng’s résumé, but nobody seemed willing to break the gender barrier.

In Jeter — who was seeking a replacement for Michael Hill, whose contract was not renewed — Ng had more than a friendly advocate. Jeter, whose mother is white and whose father is Black, has valued diversity in reshaping the Marlins since he took over as chief executive and a part owner under Bruce Sherman in late 2017. The team’s chief operating officer, Caroline O’Connor, is among the highest-ranking women in Major League Baseball, and people of color hold influential jobs throughout the Marlins’ front office.

Yet Jeter is also famously driven, a Hall of Famer and a five-time World Series champion who did not get into ownership to lose. With the Marlins coming off their first playoff appearance in 17 years, Jeter’s motivation for hiring Ng was simple: He believed she was the best fit for the job.

“He’s known her for 22 years,” said Suzyn Waldman, the Yankees’ radio analyst and a pioneer for women sportscasters. “Derek is very thorough, and he doesn’t want to fail, either. Do you think he’s going to pick somebody he doesn’t think can help the team, just to make a statement?”

Jeter spoke only briefly at Ng’s news conference and did not take questions, ceding the spotlight to her. Duquette, Colletti and Waldman all called her the most qualified first-time general manager in their memory, and for Ng, the recognition underscored her commitment to remaining undeterred despite the discouraging rejections.

Ng said she felt an immense responsibility to continue setting an example for other minorities and women, particularly younger ones thinking about a future in sports.

“There’s an adage, ‘You can’t be it if you can’t see it,’” Ng said. “I suggest to them, ‘Now you can see it.’”

After watching the Marlins’ news conference, Cagar spoke highly of Sherman and Jeter for hiring her daughter. She noted that all girls, including Ng’s nieces, Riley, Rain and Eva, would now have more opportunities in sports.

But Cagar’s final message was for her trailblazing daughter, who turned an unpaid internship into an unprecedented leadership role, even if it took 30 years.

“You go, girl,” Cagar said. “Show them boys how it’s done. And, by the way, the return on investment has been fantastic — with more to come.”





No.26 article:
What if Instead of Calling People Out, We Called Them In?

Nyla Conaway, 19, remembers being “called out” for changing her profile picture on Instagram in solidarity for … something. She can’t quite remember what for, only that an older student she didn’t know told her it was a scam. “It just made me feel really embarrassed, like a ton of people had seen it and now I just looked really stupid,” she said.

Katie Wehrman, 18, still feels guilty for calling out a boy in her high school for something he said about a local politician and L.G.B.T.Q. rights — schooling him in an all-class Snapchat group.

Sophia Hanna, 18, has never been called out herself, but has spent more time than she’d like to admit during this pandemic watching two beauty bloggers call each other out.

“It just fires something emotionally,” she said, noting that she doesn’t even like makeup tutorials. “There’s like a dopamine trigger that makes me keep scrolling.”

The women are students in a class taught by Loretta J. Ross, a visiting professor at Smith College who is challenging them to identify the characteristics, and limits, of call-out culture: the act of publicly shaming another person for behavior deemed unacceptable. Calling out may be described as a sister to dragging, cousin to problematic, and one of the many things that can add up to cancellation.

“I am challenging the call-out culture,” Professor Ross said from her home in Atlanta, where she was lecturing on Zoom to students on a recent evening, in a blue muumuu from Ghana. “I think you can understand how calling out is toxic. It really does alienate people, and makes them fearful of speaking up.”

That perspective has made Professor Ross, 67, an unlikely figure in the culture wars. A radical Black feminist who has been doing human rights work for four decades, she was one of the signatories of a widely denounced letter in Harper’s Magazine, for which she herself was called out. “There’s such an irony for being called out for calling out the calling-out culture,” she said. “It really was amusing.”

At Smith College, Professor Ross teaches courses called White Supremacy in the Age of Trump, of which the “calling in” module is part, and Reproductive Justice. Yet she tells students when they enroll: “If you need a trigger warning or a safe space, I urge you to drop this class.”

“I think we overuse that word ‘trigger’ when really we mean discomfort,” she said. “And we should be able to have uncomfortable conversations.”

She doesn’t believe people should be publicly shamed for accidentally misgendering a classmate, which she once did, leading to a Title IX complaint that was later dismissed; for sending a stupid tweet they now regret; or for, say, admitting they once liked a piece of pop culture now viewed in a different light, such as “The Cosby Show.”

“If it were on TV right now, I’d watch the reruns,” she said.

“What I’m really impatient with is calling people out for something they said when they were a teenager when they’re now 55. I mean, we all at some point did some unbelievably stupid stuff as teenagers, right?”

Professor Ross thinks call-out culture has taken conversations that could have once been learning opportunities and turned them into mud wrestling on message boards, YouTube comments, Twitter and at colleges like Smith, where proving one’s commitment to social justice has become something of a varsity sport.

“I think this is also related to something I just discovered called doom scrolling,” Professor Ross told the students. “I think we actually sabotage our own happiness with this unrestrained anger. And I have to honestly ask: Why are you making choices to make the world crueler than it needs to be and calling that being ‘woke’?”

The antidote to that outrage cycle, Professor Ross believes, is “calling in.” Calling in is like calling out, but done privately and with respect. “It’s a call out done with love,” she said. That may mean simply sending someone a private message, or even ringing them on the telephone (!) to discuss the matter, or simply taking a breath before commenting, screen-shotting or demanding one “do better” without explaining how.

Calling out assumes the worst. Calling in involves conversation, compassion and context. It doesn’t mean a person should ignore harm, slight or damage, but nor should she, he or they exaggerate it. “Every time somebody disagrees with me it’s not ‘verbal violence.’” Professor Ross said. “I’m not getting ‘re-raped.’ Overstatement of harm is not helpful when you’re trying to create a culture of compassion.”

There was call-out culture when Professor Ross was young. “We called it ‘trashing,’” she said, referring to a term used by Jo Freeman, in an essay in Ms., to describe infighting within the women’s movement.

“It used to be you’d be calling someone out to a duel. This is how Alexander Hamilton got shot!” Professor Ross said. “What’s new is the virality and the speed and the anonymity.”

Civil conversation between parties who disagree has also been part of activism, including her own, for quite some time.

As executive director of the D.C. Rape Crisis Center from 1979 to 1982, she used her own story of sexual assault to facilitate a conversation with incarcerated rapists, teaching them Black feminist theory.

She worked to improve the participation of women of color as a program director at the National Organization for Women and is credited, along with 11 others, as having coined the term “reproductive justice” — a combination of “reproductive rights” and “social justice” in response to what they believed was missing from Bill Clinton’s 1994 health care reform plan.

Later, as the program and research director for the Center for Democratic Renewal, which monitored hate groups, she found herself on a mountaintop in rural Tennessee, teaching antiracism to women whose families were members of the Ku Klux Klan. 

She thought of what her organization’s founder, the Rev. C.T. Vivian — who had been Martin Luther King’s field general — told her when she started her job: “When you ask people to give up hate, you have to be there for them when they do.”

And so she was.

In the early 1990s, Professor Ross accompanied Floyd Cochran, once the national spokesman for the Aryan Nations, on a national atonement tour.

“Here’s a guy who had never done anything but be a Nazi since he was 14 years old, and now he was 35 with no job, no education, no hope. And we helped people like them,” she said. After The Los Angeles Times wrote an article about their unlikely friendship, in 1997, Professor Ross and Mr. Cochran were each paid $10,000 for a Hollywood adaptation option of their story. But when the script came back, there was a fatal flaw: It ended with the two falling in love.

“Floyd was married, and I don’t fall in love with Nazis,” Professor Ross said.

Sometime in those years, Professor Ross found herself on a street corner in Janesville, Wis., in the dead of winter, watching as Ken Peterson — a defector from the K.K.K. — filmed an interview with “The Geraldo Rivera Show.” Mr. Peterson and his wife, Carol, had to flee their home quickly, and Ms. Peterson was shivering in the cold.

“I stood there for the first half-hour watching her, and at some point I made the decision to share my coat with her,” Professor Ross said. “I just couldn’t maintain that anger, I couldn’t maintain that posture.”

The idea of “calling in” occurred to Professor Ross at a speech she was organizing at Smith in 2015 to honor Gloria Steinem. What was up with all the nastiness she saw on Twitter, she asked a young woman.

“Oh, you mean ‘calling out’?’’ the woman said.

“You-all named it?’” Professor Ross said in surprise.

She soon assembled a group of students to practice the techniques of “calling in” and took the message on the road. During quarantine this summer, she began offering an online course called Calling In the Calling Out Culture, and is working on a book of the same name.

She has also been hired by nonprofits and women’s organizations to help them grapple with their own reckonings around race and gender. “I wouldn’t call myself a mediator,” she said. “I’m like a one-time consultant, rearranging relationships. ‘We’re on Indian land,’ ‘we’ve got trans students,’ ‘we’ve got buildings named after slave owners.’” The hardest part, she said, is “to convince them is that they aren’t each other’s enemies.”

Not that Professor Ross is conflict averse. “I have no problem calling out politicians who aren’t living up to the oaths that they swore to,” she said. She cited Colin Kaepernick, someone who quite effectively called out a powerful organization, the N.F.L. “The thing I am sharply critical of is punching down, calling out people who have less power than you simply because you can get away with it. But there is a very strategic use of punching up.”

Indeed, after the #MeToo movement and global protests of police violence in response to the killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, employees have called out bosses, consumers have called out corporations, students have called out peers, and victims have called out abusers.

“Folks have figured out that social media shaming and attention makes things happen,” said Meredith Clark, an assistant professor of media studies at the University of Virginia who recently published a study of call-out culture called “Drag Them.” “It evokes apology from things and places that wouldn’t normally enter into that sort of dialogue, and it allows people who otherwise would have no recourse to influence their own experiences.”

More troublesome, Professor Ross and others agree, is when small infractions become big infractions; when context gets lost and facts are distorted, or it becomes difficult to discern between the two.

“These algorithms can’t distinguish between outrage and shaming that is proportionate and outrage and shaming that is disproportionate to the original transgression,” said Molly Crockett, an assistant professor of psychology at Yale University who studies moral outrage online.

Back on her Zoom call, Professor Ross pulled up another slide, this one with a photo of Natalie Wynn, a popular YouTuber who has put together a kind of taxonomy of call-out culture after being “canceled” multiple times.

Its characteristics include presumption of guilt (without facts or nuance getting in the way); essentialism (when criticism of bad behavior becomes criticism of a bad person); pseudo-intellectualism (proclaiming one’s moral high ground); unforgivability (no apology is good enough); and, of course, contamination, or guilt by association.

“This happened to me with the Harper’s letter,” Professor Ross said, referring to the last point. “Just the fact that my name appeared on the same letter with J.K. Rowling. I mean, give me a break. I wish I knew her and I wish she knew me, but that’s not the truth.”

As it turns out, all of that shaming may be counterproductive. Multiple studies, Ms. Crockett said, have found that shaming can make people more resistant to change.

And, as anyone who has partaken in a game of casual doom scrolling knows, it can also be bad for health — physical and mental.

When Professor Ross’s students were asked to describe how thinking about a call out made them feel, they used descriptions like “pit in stomach,” “nauseous” and “sweating through all my clothes.”

Some said later that the prospect of call outs had made them hesitant to speak up or ask questions in classes, or endlessly planning for the arguments that might ensue.

“I had this weird moment recently where I was, like, ‘Oh man, J.K. Rowling is saying some real bad stuff. It’s too bad that I once supported Harry Potter,’” said Ms. Hanna, a first-year student from Nebraska, referring to comments about transgender people made by the author. “And then I took five seconds to be, like, ‘I am concerned about someone finding out that I, until quite recently a child, liked a children’s series?’ Should I be concerned about this? This feels like it’s no great thing to be concerned about.”

Katherine Albert-Aranovich, a sophomore from Los Angeles, said she has deleted all of her social profiles, to try to be “removed from that negativity.”

Rebecca Alvara, of Phoenix, described the mental gymnastics of trying to buy herself a hoodie with the image of a band she liked. “I was, like, ‘but what if they’ve done something terrible? And I just don’t know about it yet? Should I not buy this?’ And so I panicked and I was, like, ‘No, it’s fine. I don’t need it anyway.’”

The students are eager to practice calling in, or least trying. But they have questions.

Is interjecting calling in? What’s the difference between calling in and a regular confrontation? What if calling out in fact is the most effective way to seek progress — as with, say, in the case of a public figure? And when is politely trying to “call in” simply no longer effective?

“You can’t be responsible for someone else’s inability to grow,” Professor Ross said. “So take comfort in the fact that you offered a new perspective of information and you did so with love and respect, and then you walk away.

“We have a saying in the movement: Some people you can work with and some people you can work around. But the thing that I want to emphasize is that the calling-in practice means you always keep a seat at the table for them if they come back.”





No.27 article:
Quotation of the Day: Hospitals Full, Iowa Governor Begins to See Value of Masks

“No one wants to do this. I don’t want to do this.”

KIM REYNOLDS, governor of Iowa, who is now requiring masks indoors as the coronavirus ravages her state. She had rejected mask mandates for months.





No.28 article:
Subway Service Could Be Cut 40% if No Federal Aid Arrives

On Wednesday, transit officials announced some new details of proposed service cuts, including slashing weekend service and eliminating bus lines, to address its multibillion-dollar budget hole.

Subway service in New York City slashed by 40 percent. Bus routes eliminated and service on the rest cut by a third. Service on two of the country’s busiest commuter rails reduced by half.

This is the sober scenario the Metropolitan Transportation Authority laid out on Wednesday as the agency faces a deadline to balance its budget while grappling with an enormous multibillion-dollar financial hole caused by the pandemic and little prospect of any immediate relief from Washington.

Transit officials say their doomsday plan is a worst-case scenario made necessary because even with President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. assuming office in January, it is unclear if there will be a breakthrough in Congress on another stimulus package.

The M.T.A., the nation’s largest transit agency — which operates the subway, buses and two commuter rails — is seeking $12 billion in federal aid, an outcome that is far less likely if Republicans retain control of the Senate.

Without federal help and with the state and city facing their own financial emergencies, the agency said it would be forced to impose some version of its proposed cuts, a move that would damage the region’s lifeline and undermine New York’s recovery from the pandemic.

“New York was already going to have a difficult time,” said Nick Sifuentes, executive director of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, an advocacy group. “But these cuts on transit are like doubling down on the difficulty level of New York getting back on its collective feet again. What might have taken a couple of years could now potentially take decades.”

In recent months, the M.T.A., which received $4 billion in an earlier federal stimulus bill, has painted increasingly grim pictures of the transit system’s future as part of a strategy to pressure Congress into providing more support. 

But with a looming Dec. 31 deadline for passing next year’s budget, transit officials have been forced to provide some more details about what the sweeping cuts they first announced in August might include, alarming riders, union officials and elected leaders. The agency is expected to provide more specifics next month before adopting its 2021 budget. 

On Wednesday, the agency said subway weekend service would be hit hardest by cuts, with 15-minute wait times between trains and some lines eliminated entirely. Service cuts for buses would affect up to a quarter of all bus routes — especially those with low ridership — though no bus riders would be more than half of a mile from another bus line or subway station. 

And on the Long Island Rail Road and Metro North commuter rails, service could be reduced on some lines while others eliminated entirely on weekdays and weekends. 

Transit officials also announced that they would slash 9,367 jobs from the transit work force, nearly half of which would come from the division that runs bus service. Union leaders warned that such a drastic step would provoke a fiery response from their members, including a work slowdown that would worsen service even before any official cuts were made.

“The New York City Transit work force will correctly view this as the greatest betrayal of their careers,” said John Samuelsen, the international president of the powerful Transit Workers Union. “There will be a rank-and-file rebellion, which will lead to chaos. It will lead to a disruption in service.”

“M.T.A. workers control production maintenance and on-time performance on buses and the subway,” he added. “They don’t need to strike to make their voices heard.” 

Transit officials portrayed their proposal as a response to two bleak realities — the agency’s  $16.4 billion deficit through 2024 and a ridership that has stalled at around 30 percent of pre-pandemic levels.

The latest analysis of M.T.A. finances and ridership by the consulting giant McKinsey &amp; Company projects that even in the best-case scenario, ridership will not reach 90 percent of pre-pandemic levels before 2024. 

“We’re going to have to match our service structure and service schedules to equal rider demand,” Robert Foran, the agency’s chief financial officer, said at the M.T.A. board meeting on Wednesday. “This is just ugly. This though is something we have to consider, you know, if we’re going to survive.”

With New York facing a new wave of virus cases and the widespread distribution of promising vaccines not expected to happen until well into next year, it is unclear how quickly ridership will start to rebound. 

The economic fallout from hollowing out the transit system would also ripple across the region: By 2022, it could cost the New York area as many as 450,000 jobs and $50 billion in lost earnings, according to a report by the Rudin Center for Transportation at New York University and Appleseed, an economic analysis firm.

The plan also risks sending the system into a so-called death spiral, in which increasingly unreliable service keeps riders from returning to the system, exacerbating the agency’s  financial crisis by depriving it of fare revenue.

And the timing of cuts — which transit officials say could come as early as May — would coincide with an already scheduled 4 percent fare increase that will take effect in the spring, which could make it more challenging to coax riders back to public transit as greater numbers of workers return to their jobs in person. 

“If the M.T.A. has to make major service cuts it will kneecap itself, it will lose a significant amount of revenue,” said Danny Pearlstein, a spokesman for the Riders Alliance, an advocacy group. “If those cuts come with a fare hike it will drive even more people from transit, worsening the M.T.A.’s financial picture and hastening the transit death spiral.” 

On Wednesday, the agency also moved forward with plans to borrow $2.9 billion from the Federal Reserve’s emergency program in an effort to stave off cuts and shore up the agency’s finances.

“We are fighting very, very hard to get mass transit funding into the next Covid relief bill. We know how vital it is for New York,” Senator Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat and the minority leader, said in an interview on Wednesday. “Some in the Senate have resisted, but we have overcome that resistance in the past and I am hopeful we will overcome it again.”

Mr. Biden, who has been a regular commuter on Amtrak between his homes in Delaware and Washington, is considered a strong advocate of public transit. Major transit agencies across the country have been decimated as ridership collapsed during lockdowns. 

The full scope of the M.T.A.’s plan to reduce costs is expected to emerge in a few weeks when the board, which is controlled by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, votes on a budget. 

“Transit is the lifeblood of the city, the ease of getting to work and moving around helps the city’s dynamism and helps its growth. It makes it attractive,” said Andrew Rein, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a fiscal watchdog. “We need to see the details in order to determine whether the severity of these cuts will be so painful that they are a drag on the economy.” 





No.29 article:
Layers of Tragedy, in a Cemetery and in the Mountains

Armenians flee what they consider their historical home, after the end of a six-week war with Azerbaijan over the region of Nagorno-Karabakh.

KELBAJAR, Azerbaijan — It’s the little things that stick with you.

The men extracting the engine from a junked car on the side of the road. The passing truck filled with a living room’s worth of red upholstered furniture. The ruddy faces of the Russian peacekeeping troops, leaning forward out of the hatches of their armored personnel carriers, rumbling down into a desolate, hazy valley.

Perhaps focusing on the little things is the mind’s way of functioning when faced with tragedy.

This is Kelbajar, the scene this past week of the latest wrenching turn in the generations-long conflict between Armenians and Azerbaijanis.

The mountainous district is part of the breakaway enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, which is legally part of Azerbaijan, but inhabited almost exclusively by ethnic Armenians. Armenian troops captured Kelbajar in 1993, driving out thousands of Azerbaijanis who were forced up a frigid mountain pass on foot to escape; last week, after thousands died in a six-week Azerbaijani offensive to regain Nagorno-Karabakh, it was the Armenians fleeing what they consider their historical lands, many of them burning their houses as they left.

Around you here is the specter of death: the whispers about the bodies of Armenians still scattered on roadsides to the south and the vacant eyes of the soldiers when they speak of Azerbaijan’s armed drones. There is also the wreckage of a Soviet-era Azerbaijani cemetery, a piece of a gravestone, engraved with minarets, abandoned in the tan grass.

I returned last week to Nagorno-Karabakh, with the photographer Mauricio Lima, to document the immediate aftermath of this century’s most vicious war in the long-volatile Caucasus Mountains. With Russia to the north, Turkey and Iran to the south, the energy-rich Caspian Sea to the east and the strategically pivotal Black Sea to the west, the Caucasus seems destined to suffer as regional powers compete for influence.

And it feels as if the violence is unending. The killings of Armenians by Azerbaijanis in the early 20th century; the tit-for-tat violence of the late 1980s, which escalated into riots, pogroms, war and Armenia’s violent expulsion of more than half a million Azerbaijanis from what became the Nagorno-Karabakh enclave. And now, a six-week war that ended last week after the deaths of more than 2,000 Armenians and an unknown number of Azerbaijanis.

As we headed toward Nagorno-Karabakh last Friday, we passed a column of Russian forces in what seemed an absurd scene. Our bus squeezed between some cows on the roadside along Armenia’s graceful, blue, mountain-framed Lake Sevan to the left, and Russian armored personnel carriers, with backpacks, cases and cardboard boxes marked fragile piled haphazardly on top of these mechanized killing machines, held in place by green netting.

It turned out we were all heading to the same place — the Dadivank Monastery, a centuries-old Armenian holy site whose fate now concerns Armenians and historians around the world. It is part of the Kelbajar District, which was supposed to be transferred to Azerbaijani control on Sunday under the peace deal brokered by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia last week, a handover later delayed to Nov. 25.

The Russians set up an observation post next to the monastery, where Armenians had flocked to bid farewell and baptize their babies. As I spoke with the monastery’s abbot, Hovhannes Hovhannisyan, the monastery’s guard’s house down below went up in flames. The monastery’s longtime guard had set it on fire, even though the abbot had asked him not to.

To explain the man’s mind-set, Abbot Hovhannisyan evoked the Armenian Genocide of 1915.

“The people always thought this way,” the abbot said, referring to Armenians, as tall licks of flame tore through the house roof below and thick yellowish smoke enveloped the monastery. “It is better to burn the house that he built, so as not to leave it to be defiled.”

We drove on deeper into Nagorno-Karabakh. After passing more burning, smoldering and charred houses, we entered areas that will remain under Armenian control. The question is: How many Armenians will return?

In Stepanakert, the capital of the enclave, the streets were desolate. There were munitions craters in the pavement, shrapnel pockmarks on building walls, burned-out stores, broken glass, broken windows, shattered soft-drink-cooler doors. There was no hot water and no heating, and the only mobile internet service was Azerbaijani, coming from the land that the Armenians had just lost.

One of the few people out on the streets was Mayor Danielyan, 58. He invited me to his house to look in the direction of the historic hilltop town of Shusha, six miles away — now controlled by Azerbaijan. It was now up to the Russian peacekeepers — almost 2,000 of them to be deployed along the line with imposing checkpoints and heavy armor — to keep the Armenians and Azerbaijanis apart.

“For now, unfortunately, we must live separately in order to exist,” Mr. Danielyan said. “One can only hope and dream of living together.”

We stopped at the military cemetery. I had been there a month earlier, during the third week of the war, and found a hillside scraped away for the recent dead. There were about 60 new graves now, with holes already dug out for more, across three stair-step rows bulldozed into the hill.

Standing down below, I was at eye level with the barren clay, tree roots poking out of it. I knew that within it were the remains of men who had just weeks ago been alive.

Looking up I saw the rows of fresh graves, bright artificial roses and chrysanthemums, framed pictures of soldiers, a nailed-together wooden cross scrawled with a last name, Beklaryan, in black marker. Looking higher I saw the jumble of gravestones from the 1990s war, the likenesses of stern Armenian fighters in uniforms and horizontal-stripe undershirts etched into them.

And looking higher still I saw an orange stela, memorializing the Nagorno-Karabakh residents who had died in World War II.

Layers of tragedy, I thought, form these sharp mountains and rolling hills.

And then it was time to go. It was 1 p.m. on Saturday, and at midnight, the only open road out of Nagorno-Karabakh was supposed to come under Azerbaijani control. Soldiers rerouted us onto a side road through the mountains, jammed with traffic for six miles, we were told. For hours, stuck in the town of Kelbajar, we barely moved, surrounded by fleeing Armenians. The truck behind us was carrying what seemed to be an entire house, intact.

As night fell, the scene became increasingly apocalyptic. Houses around us went up in flames, and columns of white smoke rose into the dark sky. At one point, a brawl broke out, and, with barely any cellphone service, no one knew where to go.

Eventually, we turned around and left by the main road, passing power lines that had been knocked down. But before we did, a man came out of the truck in front, lit a cigarette and unleashed a monumental tirade of profanity.

The man, Arsen Nalbanzyan, told me that in the district of Armenia where he lives, 31 of the 36 villages were Azerbaijani during Soviet times. “We lived normally,” he said of Azerbaijanis and Armenians, describing shared weddings and being godfathers to each others’ children. Even in recent years, he said, he would get drunk with Azerbaijani friends in Moscow and St. Petersburg.

It was the country’s elites, he said, who fomented hatred among people for their own ends.

“This was all done for money, for cash,” Mr. Nalbanzyan said, his face lit up by car headlights, the air around us thick with smoke from burning houses in the frigid night. “They didn’t think about the people — people like us.”

“And now” — expletive — “who knows what will happen?”





No.30 article:
Somalia Worries That a U.S. Withdrawal Will Be Disastrous

An elite commando unit supported by U.S. forces could fall apart, officials say, leaving the country more vulnerable to the Shabab and other terrorist groups.

NAIROBI, Kenya — The American-trained Somali commando force Danab is usually deployed to counter the Qaeda-linked group Al Shabab: liberating areas it controls, ending its attacks on government offices and beachside restaurants, and targeting senior Shabab operatives.

But with President Trump expected to withdraw American troops from Somalia, the highly specialized Somali force will be left in limbo, jeopardizing whatever security gains it helped achieve in recent years, officials and observers said. The U.S. military presence has been heavily focused on training, equipping and supporting the elite 850-soldier Somali unit.

“The United States troops and the Danab unit they have trained are the ones who have taken a critical lead in disrupting terrorism activities,” said Hussein Sheikh-Ali, chairman of the Hiraal Institute research group and a former national security adviser to the Somali president. “If the mentor leaves, the unit might just literally collapse.”

Following the Pentagon’s formal announcement on Tuesday that the United States will reduce its military presence in Afghanistan and Iraq, acting Defense Secretary Christopher C. Miller, a former Green Beret and top counterterrorism official, is also expected to approve in the coming days plans to remove most if not all of the more than 700 American troops in Somalia conducting training and counterterrorism missions.

The plans under discussion, part of Mr. Trump’s campaign promises, would be to shift those duties to U.S. forces in neighboring Djibouti and Kenya, according to senior American officials — allowing those stations to carry out strikes against the Shabab.

The planned cuts come at a critical time, as Somalia prepares to hold parliamentary and presidential elections in the coming months. But the vote is being undermined by wrangling between federal and regional authorities, giving groups like the Shabab and the Islamic State an opening to disrupt the polls.

Amid escalating tensions over the elections, tribal conflict continues, hunger is a widespread problem, and regional and international powers are competing for influence in Somalia, a strategically important nation in the Horn of Africa.

Even in the face of relentless American drone strikes, the Shabab have been resilient, transforming into a leaner organization that holds sway over large stretches of the Somali hinterland. The group continues to expand its bomb-making operations, infiltrate government institutions and carry out attacks against civilian and security targets in both Kenya and Somalia. It is also awash in cash, collecting millions of dollars in tariffs and payoffs and investing in real estate and businesses, according to a recent United Nations report.

If the United States pulls out of Somalia now, experts say it will not only present another huge challenge for the Somali government but also exert additional pressure on security agencies’ ability to tackle the threat from Al Shabab.

“Al Shabab will frame this as a victory,” said Omar Mahmood, senior Somalia analyst at the International Crisis Group. “They will use it as evidence of their ability to take on a world power like the United States and force them to leave Somalia.”

Somali officials have voiced concern about the troop withdrawals. When the plans first surfaced in October, President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed tweeted that a victory over the Shabab “can only be achieved through continuous security partnership and capacity-building support” with the United States.

A senior official with the European Union delegation in Somalia, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that any withdrawal of troops would help the Shabab and that the consequences could be grave.

Nathan Sales, the State Department’s counterterrorism coordinator, declined on Tuesday to comment on plans to withdraw troops. But he said that the Shabab continued “to pose a significant threat inside Somalia and increasingly in the region as well.”

It is not clear whether other parts of the U.S. government — including the ambassador, other State Department diplomats and the C.I.A. offices based at a heavily fortified bunker at the airport in Mogadishu, the Somali capital — will also withdraw from Somali territory.

The plans to remove troops come as a military conflict intensifies in Ethiopia and spills into its neighboring countries — threatening a wider regional battle that could destabilize the Horn of Africa. Ethiopia, which has extensive leverage over Somali security developments, also recently pulled thousands of its troops from Somalia, creating a security vacuum that extremist groups could capitalize on.

Rashid Abdi, a Horn of Africa researcher and analyst, said in a phone interview that a U.S. withdrawal from Somalia would be a bad signal to other countries in the region, which is racked by economic trouble from the coronavirus pandemic and further stressed by continuing violence and by political tensions brewing in Tanzania and Uganda.

Maj. Gen. J. Marcus Hicks, a retired commander of U.S. Special Operations forces in Africa, said in an email that a sudden American withdrawal from Somalia and other hot spots would “undermine our security, damage our ability to lead internationally, and strengthen our adversaries.”

General Hicks added that an abrupt withdrawal would also advance the interests of countries like Russia, China, and Iran, all of which have expanded their military, diplomatic and commercial interests in Africa often at the expense of American interests.

As with the troop reductions in Iraq and Afghanistan, the proposed drawdown in Somalia is being carried out without consultation with advisers to the incoming Biden administration. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has signaled his interest in drawing down U.S. troops overseas, but not necessarily at the accelerated pace and with such scant consultation with allies as President Trump has ordered.

Some observers, including a senior Trump administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity, noted that a Biden administration could order some or all of the troops and their equipment back into Somalia soon after taking office.

Though the United States military left Somalia after rebels downed two American Black Hawk helicopters in 1993, killing 18 soldiers, it has since returned, funding stabilization projects, countering terrorist groups like Al Shabab and re-establishing a diplomatic presence in the capital in 2018.

“I think clearly we will probably begin to see America come back again because Al-Shabaab is resurgent,” Mr. Abdi, the researcher, said in a phone interview. “This is a strategic country and there’s no way America can abandon Somalia.”

But congressional officials say the optics of Mr. Biden sending troops back into Somalia — no matter the merits — would be politically perilous, especially with the progressive wing of the Democratic Party.





No.31 article:
Iran Accelerates Nuclear Program, but Offers Path Back From Confrontation

The government in Tehran has put uranium into its newest centrifuges. At the same time, Iran’s foreign minister appears to offer a return to commitments that would prohibit exactly that.

WASHINGTON — Days after President Trump asked for options to take military action against Iran’s major nuclear site, the government in Tehran has sent conflicting signals, taking a major step to speed up its production of nuclear fuel while also offering President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. a way to defuse a confrontation.

On Wednesday, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency said Iranian engineers had, for the first time, begun to put uranium into next-generation centrifuges that can enrich fuel faster than before. That move is explicitly prohibited in the 2015 nuclear accord, which Mr. Trump abandoned two and a half years ago.

When the agency issued a report last week noting that the high-speed centrifuges had been moved into the Natanz production site, “they had not started operations,” said Rafael Grossi, the head of the inspection agency. “It is now happening.”

The move is something akin to waving a red flag in the faces of Mr. Trump and the Israelis.

But the provocation coincided with Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, appearing to offer Mr. Biden a path for returning both sides to where they were when Mr. Biden left the vice presidency in January 2017.

In a video interview with an Iranian newspaper broadcast on Tuesday, Mr. Zarif described a way for the United States to recommit to United Nations Security Council resolutions on Iran, in return for an Iranian return to the limits imposed by the 2015 nuclear agreement.

“This needs no negotiations and needs no conditions,” Mr. Zarif said, but he offered few other details.

Mr. Zarif appeared to be offering to roll back the advances Iran has made over the past year, during which it has exceeded the production limits in the 2015 accord twelvefold. Mr. Biden, in return, would have to issue an order ending all of the nuclear-related sanctions imposed by Mr. Trump — all of which violated American commitments under the deal.

But other Iranian officials have stopped short of saying they would actually re-enter the nuclear deal as negotiated, and some officials have said the United States would have to pay reparations for oil sales lost because of Mr. Trump’s decision to reimpose sanctions. That would be nearly impossible, as a political matter, for Mr. Biden, whose aides also say the deal must be improved to block pathways to Iran getting enough nuclear material for a weapon after all limitations are lifted in 2030.

Yet a return to the agreement would prohibit the injection of nuclear fuel into the new centrifuges, and require Iran to rid itself of the excess uranium it has added to its stockpile in response to what Mr. Trump has called his “maximum pressure campaign” on Iran.

While Iran’s actions seem contradictory, that is often the nature of Iranian signaling to the United States.

The nuclear program, which suffered an explosion at its centrifuge-production facility in July that has been widely attributed to Israel, is under the control of Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has said that acquiescing to the United States in the 2015 deal was a mistake. His hard-line supporters, such as the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, opposed the negotiation of the deal.

Mr. Zarif negotiated that accord, and remains one of its biggest defenders in Tehran. But the government he serves, under President Hassan Rouhani, faces an election next year and could be swept out of office, amid criticism by Iranian hard-liners that the government was duped five years ago, and has seen none of the promised economic benefits of agreeing to give up its nuclear capability.

After the nuclear agency issued a report last Wednesday, showing slow but steady progress in uranium enrichment by Iran, Mr. Trump asked his top aides for options, including possible military strikes. He was dissuaded from striking by a combination of Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, the acting secretary of defense, Christopher C. Miller, and Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

They warned that a military strike on Natanz — by missile, bombs or cyberattack — could lead to rapid escalation.

In response to Mr. Trump contemplating an attack on Iran’s nuclear facility, a spokesman for Iran’s government, Ali Rabiei, said on Tuesday that Iran would retaliate with “full force.”

But the issue does not appear settled, and the Iranian decision to insert fuel into the advanced centrifuges, called the IR-2 and the IR-4, could easily be seen as a provocation.

Until now, Iran’s production has been slow and steady, with officials like Mr. Zarif declaring that it is easily reversible. The new centrifuges produce fuel far more efficiently than the models they replace — and so, if they work, they could drastically increase Iran’s stockpile.

But they can be turned off as quickly as they were turned on, and that was the core of Mr. Zarif’s message, which appeared aimed not at Mr. Trump, but at Mr. Biden and his yet-unnamed foreign policy team.

Mr. Zarif worded it carefully, talking about returning to compliance with United Nations resolutions rather than to the 2015 nuclear deal. As a practical matter, that is close to the same thing: The U.N. resolutions gave an international imprimatur to a deal negotiated between Iran and six nations. (China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany joined the United States.)

Mr. Zarif suggested that by recommitting to the U.N. Security Council resolutions, there would be no need for an initial, detailed negotiation.

But Mr. Biden would not want to make that move unless he had ironclad commitments that Iran would also return to full compliance — and answer a series of questions from the International Atomic Energy Agency about evidence of nuclear activity at another site. So far it has stonewalled on those issues.





No.32 article:
Bruno Barbey, Magnum Photographer of War and Peace, Dies at 79

He was “a formidable visual architect” who captured the streets of Paris during the violent demonstrations in 1968 and documented the human experience in other parts of the world.

Bruno Barbey, a French photographer for the Magnum Photos agency who produced powerful, empathetic work in war zones as well as in peacetime, died on Nov. 9 in Orbais-l’Abbaye, in northeastern France. He was 79.

His wife, Caroline Thiénot-Barbey, said the cause was a pulmonary embolism.

Jean Gaumy, a Magnum colleague, described Mr. Barbey in an email as “a formidable visual architect” whose pictures told the story of the “transformation and movements of the world.”

In May 1968, when students in Paris ignited a political movement with mass protests against universities and the government, Mr. Barbey photographed enduring images of the rage on the streets: students hurling projectiles at the police; protesters passing cobblestones to one another to build barricades; armed police officers storming fleeing students; demonstrators at night carrying Molotov cocktails on a street already ablaze.

“At one point, I went with Marc Riboud and Henri Cartier-Bresson to buy helmets to protect our heads from all the stones being thrown,” Mr. Barbey told The Guardian in 2014, referring to two other Magnum photographers; Mr. Cartier-Bresson was a founder of Magnum. “We quickly realized that they made it impossible to use our Leicas properly, so we threw them away.”

Three years later, Mr. Barbey was in Northern Ireland photographing its sectarian conflict. On a street in Londonderry, he found several young men edging along one wall of a building and wielding what looked like cricket bats as they prepared to attack British soldiers in riot gear just around the corner.

In Belfast, he came upon an armed British soldier leaning against the remnants of a burned-out car and talking to three boys.

Twenty years later, in 1991, he chronicled the Allied operation to push invading Iraqi forces out of neighboring Kuwait. One photo depicted a half-dozen exhausted and relieved Marines driving away from the burning Burgan oil field. A companion shot showed four camels — demonstrating far less urgency than the Marines — set against the same conflagration.

Photography “is the only language that can be understood anywhere in the world,” Mr. Barbey once said.

Bruno Barbey was born on Feb. 13, 1941, in Berrechid, Morocco, just south of Casablanca, and grew up in various parts of the country: Rabat, Salé, Marrakesh and Tangiers. His father, Marc, was a diplomat; his mother was Marie Clement-Grandcourt. From a young age he knew he wanted to travel the world like Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, the French writer and aviator.

Bruno’s parents sent him to Paris for high school, where he was a “dunce and a thwarted lefthander,” he wrote in his retrospective photographic book, “Passages” (2015). He and his friends skipped classes to see movies by Italian neorealist filmmakers like Roberto Rossellini and Vittorio De Sica.

Mr. Barbey entered Ecole Des Arts et Métiers in Vevey, Switzerland, in 1959 to study photography and graphic arts, but left after a year, because his courses had focused on advertising and industrial photography. He craved the freedom to pursue a single subject for an extended period as the Swiss documentary photographer Robert Frank did in his groundbreaking book “The Americans,” which was published in France in 1958.

Following Frank’s example, Mr. Barbey drove through Italy in a used Volkswagen in the early 1960s, photographing its people in black-and-white in a neorealist style.

“My goal,” he wrote in “Passages,” “was to capture the spirit of the place.”

He caught dozens of moments in the life of a nation: a family racing along on a scooter, each person ebullient save for the pregnant mother; a group of girls whose joyful expressions contrast with that of a doleful beggar holding out his hand behind them; little boys playing with realistic-looking weapons; and a host of other characters like prostitutes, priests, old men and Mafiosi.

The photographs — which would later be published as “The Italians” in 2002 — brought him to the attention of Magnum, where he worked for more than 50 years. In addition to the Paris demonstrations, he covered conflicts in the Middle East, Nigeria, Vietnam and Cambodia and recorded life in China, Brazil, India, Japan and Spain.

He spent much of 1981 in Poland during the rise of the Solidarity trade union, capturing Poles in a period of turmoil and torment. He collected the pictures in “Portrait of Poland” (1982).

“He brought genteel attention to the human experience — with a lot of kindness,” Gilles Peress, another Magnum photographer, said in a phone interview.

Mr. Barbey, whose photographs have been widely exhibited, received the French National Order of Merit and was elected a member of the French Academy of Fine Arts, Institut de France, in 2016. He served as a Magnum executive at two different times.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Aurélie Barbey; a son, Igor; two sisters, Loïse Barbey-Caussé and Adelaïde Barbey-Guissinger; two brothers, Dominique and Guy; and four grandchildren.

Although he left Morocco at age 12, Mr. Barbey kept returning there, lured by its rich colors, light and architecture. Many of his photographs were of quiet moments: a bride showing off her hands decorated with a henna design; a golden-hued interior with a distant figure in a black-and-white striped robe blending into the floor’s design; red hides drying in the sun; and a person in black walking down a lane bracketed by pink walls.

“Its very difficult to photograph there,” Mr. Barbey was quoted as saying on Magnum’s website, “because in Islam photography is supposed to bring the evil eye.”

He added: “You have to be cunning as a fox, well-organized and respect some customs. The photographer must learn to merge into walls. Photos must either be taken swiftly, with all the attendant risks, or only after long periods of infinite patience.”





No.33 article:
N.Y. Shuts Funeral Home Where Dozens of Bodies Were Found in Trucks

The Brooklyn funeral director says New York failed to help mortuaries struggling with an onslaught of bodies at the height of the pandemic.

The grisly discovery captured the tragedy and chaos of the pandemic at its height in New York City: dozens of bodies found decomposing in a pair of trucks parked outside a Brooklyn funeral home, supposedly because it had run out of space.

Following an investigation into the Andrew T. Cleckley Funeral Home, the state health commissioner on Monday revoked the funeral director’s license and the mortuary’s business registration, saying he had mishandled the remains of the deceased. Mr. Cleckley was also fined $68,000 in civil penalties.

He is already facing six lawsuits accusing him and other funeral directors who operated out of his mortuary of failing to carry out their duties to handle remains respectfully and lawfully. Some families say that their loved ones’ remains were kept in an unrefrigerated truck or otherwise stored improperly.

Mr. Cleckley said Tuesday that the bodies found in the trucks had not been under his care, but were the responsibility of the other funeral directors he rented his mortuary out to.

“There were other funeral homes operating out of this place who had the remains, that weren’t doing their responsibilities and disposing of the remains in a timely fashion, nor treating them with proper respect and care,” he said in an interview.

A state health official said Mr. Cleckley was given the opportunity this summer to defend his case in front of an administrative law judge. The judge ultimately made the recommendation to revoke Mr. Cleckley’s license and issue a civil penalty, which Howard Zucker, the New York State health commissioner, upheld on Monday.

Under state regulations, funeral directors are required to store bodies awaiting burial or cremation in appropriate conditions that prevent infection to others.

“The department maintains very strict standards that funeral homes have to adhere to in terms of managing capacity appropriately, and also making sure that they are appropriately providing services in a respectful and competent manner,” said the official, Gary Holmes, a spokesman for New York State Department of Health.

At the height of the pandemic, the state provided refrigerated trailers to funeral homes, like those that the city has provided to hospitals around New York, he said, and also eased restrictions on licenses so that out-of-state funeral directors could come and volunteer their services.

Mr. Cleckley was seen on Tuesday packing belongings into a van outside his funeral home on Utica Avenue, which sits between a Dollar Store and a shop selling lingerie.

The funeral home had been inundated with bodies, he said, because cemeteries and crematories were overwhelmed.

“This was crazy. New York City, New York State did nothing to help us funeral directors,” he said.

At the height of the outbreak, New York City’s system to handle the dead — its hospital mortuaries, cemeteries, crematories and city-run morgues — was under extraordinary strain, as beleaguered workers tried to grapple with the single worst mass casualty event to hit the city since the Spanish flu pandemic a century ago.

Funeral directors were caught between the volume of bodies coming out of hospitals and nursing homes, and the backlogs that made them unable to cremate or bury people quickly.

Mr. Cleckley opened his funeral home in 2015 with his wife and initially built a business serving other local morticians by transporting bodies to them. But in 2017, he said, he started offering a full line of services, like embalming and cremation, to his partners.

In April, neighbors complained of a stench coming out of a U-Haul and a trailer-truck in front of Mr. Cleckley’s funeral home. At the time, Mr. Cleckley said that he had been overwhelmed by the relentless tide of bodies during the pandemic. He said he had used the trucks for overflow storage, but only after he had filled his chapel with more than 100 corpses.

“I ran out of space,” he said. “Bodies are coming out of our ears.”

Mr. Cleckley, 41, who grew up in Queens, said Tuesday he didn’t have enough money to pay the $68,000 fine. His lawyer, Robert Osuna, criticized the commissioner’s decision, saying that Mr. Cleckley was being held responsible because he was the main leaseholder of the funeral home and that the other funeral services were not being investigated.

“He was scapegoated for the entire funeral industry,” Mr. Osuna said. “The crematories had shut down, families were pressuring funeral home directors. There was a great deal of pressure and to hold him solely responsible is wrong.”

“Cleckley was an essential worker,” he added, “but he is the only one punished for his service.”

A handful of lawsuits have been filed against Mr. Cleckley, as well as Armistead Burial and Cremation Services, one of the firms that operated out of the funeral home.

In one lawsuit, Assata Constant, whose father died in late March, said that after taking her father’s remains to Mr. Cleckley’s funeral home, she was told by an employee that U-Haul trucks were being used specifically for storage of bodies.

When Ms. Constant visited the funeral home in April, the lawsuit says, she “observed numerous exposed and decomposing bodies, including bodies stored in unrefrigerated ‘U-Haul trucks.’”

Relatives of Hermite Mercius, who died in April, said in another lawsuit that they had contracted out Armistead Funeral Services to take her remains. But they became alarmed when the photographs they requested of Ms. Mercius looked nothing like her. When they asked for additional photographs to make sure her remains were being treated appropriately, they said Armistead did not respond.

Worried, the family went to the funeral home, the lawsuit said, and “to their horror, learned from the Medical Examiner’s Office that her uncremated remains were found among the many dozens of bodies found stuffed into an unrefrigerated U-Haul and stacked inside a small room at Cleckley.”

Kimoya Francis also used Mr. Cleckley’s services after her brother died on March 31. His body was not among those found in the trucks, but had been left in the funeral home for about five days in early April.

When she saw her brother’s body a day before the funeral, “it was clear that something had gone wrong,” she said in an interview Tuesday. Ms. Francis and her mother filed a lawsuit against the funeral home in May.

“He didn’t look like himself anymore. It was clear that he was improperly stored,” Ms. Francis said. “It’s bad enough that he died, but then to have his remains disrespected, it’s still shocking.”

“If it’s the case that funeral homes were overflowing then stop accepting bodies,” she said. “Don’t just throw them around.”

Mr. Cleckley insists he did his best to take care of the remains of the deceased. “I was trying to help my fellow New Yorkers get through the roughest time in, in the last hundred years,” he said. “I was a victim of circumstance.”





No.34 article:
Second Epstein Investigation Begins at Victoria’s Secret, but What’s Changed?

An internal review started after Jeffrey Epstein’s ties to the company were revealed has not produced any public findings. Some employees question whether workplace issues have been properly addressed.

It has been more than a year since L Brands, the owner of Victoria’s Secret, said it was hiring a law firm to investigate its billionaire founder Leslie H. Wexner’s close ties to the convicted sex criminal Jeffrey Epstein, but no findings have been made public and the review has seemed to fade from view.

Maybe a new law firm will fare better.

After Mr. Epstein’s July 2019 arrest, revelations about his sweeping power over the retail magnate’s fortune and how he may have used his link to the lingerie giant to prey on women prompted the company to swiftly declare that it had hired lawyers to conduct a “thorough review” of the matter.

The company enlisted Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell, the white-shoe law firm that it had relied on for legal counsel for years, and that once employed Mr. Wexner’s wife, Abigail. But nothing about the scope of the investigation has been released since, and many former Victoria’s Secret employees, including two who had interacted with Mr. Epstein, said they were never contacted by lawyers.

Now, a second inquiry has begun at the company. A shareholder lawsuit filed in May suggested Davis Polk was too close to L Brands to be truly independent. The shareholder said they asked the board in February to replace Davis Polk or hire another firm as a “check” for its review of Mr. Wexner and Mr. Epstein’s relationship.

Last month, at least five current and former Victoria’s Secret employees were surprised to hear from a new lawyer with no affiliation to Davis Polk. Sarah K. Eddy, a partner in the litigation department of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz, said she was commencing a separate investigation on behalf of two independent L Brands board members: Sarah Nash, who became its chairwoman this year, and Anne Sheehan.

In an email obtained by The New York Times, Ms. Eddy said her firm was investigating “allegations raised in shareholder demand letters and civil complaints concerning, among other things, connections between L Brands and Jeffrey Epstein.” The former employees, who spoke on the condition of anonymity citing fear of retribution, all said they had received similar calls and emails. Shareholder complaints have also raised concerns about allegations of misconduct and a culture of harassment and misogyny at L Brands and its lingerie powerhouse, suggesting that the new investigation could be looking into those issues.

Ms. Nash, a former executive at JPMorgan Chase and chief executive of Novagard Solutions, and Ms. Sheehan, an expert in corporate governance, joined the L Brands board last year after an activist investor pushed for more diversity and fewer directors with business and social ties to the Wexners.

Ms. Eddy declined to comment. A representative for Davis Polk did not respond to requests for comment.

The new investigation is the latest jolt for L Brands and Victoria’s Secret, months after the pandemic foiled a plan to sell the lingerie brand to a private-equity firm. Even before the revelations about Mr. Epstein, Victoria’s Secret was battling a decline while facing criticism that its lingerie-clad models were out of step with current views of beauty. That put fresh attention on its management and the board of L Brands, which also owns Bath &amp; Body Works.

Mr. Wexner, 83, has sought to distance himself from Mr. Epstein, who died in prison in August last year in what was ruled a suicide. But L Brands has also faced intense scrutiny about its workplace environment. An article by The Times in February showed that Mr. Wexner and his former chief marketing officer, Ed Razek, presided over an entrenched culture of misogyny, bullying and harassment at L Brands and Victoria’s Secret.

Mr. Wexner stepped down as chief executive and chairman of L Brands in May, but nearly all of Victoria’s Secret’s remaining top leaders are men he hired or promoted, including the brand’s interim chief executive, who was appointed to that role despite an extramarital affair with a subordinate that became widely known inside the company. The scarcity of women in the highest ranks of the company has frustrated some employees.

“This year, we have amended our board governance, made significant policy changes, initiated a robust diversity and inclusion strategy, and greatly enhanced associate communication,” Ms. Nash said in a statement. “It’s truly a new day for L Brands, and I’m excited about the progress we continue to make for our associates, customers and communities we serve around the world.” She said she was proud that half of its board was now women.

Two current employees said they were cautiously optimistic that Wachtell’s independence could allow the new investigation to address the company’s workplace culture. 

In May, the company’s board said Stuart Burgdoerfer, L Brands’ chief financial officer for more than a decade, would also become interim chief executive of Victoria’s Secret. Some current and former employees wondered how significantly Mr. Burgdoerfer could improve the company’s culture. Several years ago, while he was having an extramarital affair with an L Brands employee, fliers with both of their photos were placed on car windshields in a company parking lot, saying in part: “Hope you two can buy enough lingerie to make up for the damage you caused your families!!!”

News of the affair and the fliers spread through the company and even reached at least one Wall Street analyst. The matter was never addressed internally with rank-and-file staff. Mr. Burgdoerfer and the employee, who left the company this year, were recently married.

Charles McGuigan, the longtime chief operating officer of L Brands, who departed in July, was also in a serious relationship with an employee who worked in store design and construction. Five current and former employees said the situation was viewed as particularly egregious because Mr. McGuigan also oversaw human resources for a time while in the relationship.

Brooke Wilson, a company spokeswoman, said the relationships “were fully and thoroughly disclosed to the appropriate people, including the board.” She said there were no reporting relationships between the individuals or violations of company policy.

Until last year L Brands had given investors few reasons to complain. Mr. Wexner previously had a sterling reputation as the longest-serving chief executive in the S&amp;P 500 and was a major force in shaping the American mall through L Brands, which once owned chains like Abercrombie &amp; Fitch and Express. He and his wife are prominent in Ohio as the biggest donors to Ohio State University. (Davis Polk, the law firm the company first enlisted for its investigation, has contributed money to Ohio State’s Wexner Center for the Arts.)

But the ties to Mr. Epstein, who had unusual control over Mr. Wexner’s billions and obtained assets like a New York mansion and private plane through their connection, dented the tycoon’s legacy. Three former L Brands executives told The Times this year that Mr. Wexner was alerted in the mid-1990s about Mr. Epstein’s attempts to pitch himself as a recruiter for Victoria’s Secret models, but the C.E.O. did not appear to act.

In February, L Brands announced a plan to sell a majority stake in Victoria’s Secret to the private-equity firm Sycamore Partners, whittling the public company down to Bath &amp; Body Works. Once the sale closed, Mr. Wexner planned to step down as chief executive and chairman of L Brands but remain on its board.

Then the pandemic hit, dealing an outsize blow to mall chains, especially apparel sellers, and Sycamore backed out of the deal after some legal wrangling. In May, there was a management shuffle at Victoria’s Secret and Bath &amp; Body Works, which are still being run as separate companies within the publicly traded L Brands, and Ms. Nash replaced Mr. Wexner as board chair. Mr. Wexner and his wife remain on the board, but three directors retired, including a former Ohio State president as well as two who had served for more than three decades.

Morale has been low in a difficult year that has included hundreds of layoffs in New York and Columbus, Ohio, tied to the pandemic.

While L Brands’ shares soared 92 percent this year through Monday, they remained 64 percent below a 2015 peak.

On Wednesday, L Brands reported that net sales for the quarter that ended Oct. 31 had increased 14 percent to $3 billion, driven by the performance of Bath &amp; Body Works. The company swung to a net profit of $331 million in the period, compared with a $252 million loss a year earlier.





No.35 article:
Virus Cases Rise, but Hazard Pay for Retail Workers Doesn’t

They were hailed as heroes during the first wave of the pandemic, but wage increases were fleeting, and companies, whose businesses are booming, have been slow to pay out more.

With coronavirus cases rising across the country, retailers are preparing for another rush from shoppers worried about new lockdowns and pandemic shortages.

But many retail workers, heralded as heroes during the first wave of the pandemic, are not being provided with the same level of bonuses and raises this time, even as the health risks for them increase. Even as some companies have announced new hazard pay in recent days, some industry observers say many retailers are not sharing enough of the profits they have earned during the pandemic with their workers, but are instead benefiting shareholders through stock buybacks.

Amazon, which said last month that its quarterly profit had increased nearly 200 percent, ended its $2-an-hour pay raise for workers earlier this year and then provided a pandemic-related bonus in June, but a spokeswoman said no new hazard pay was planned.

Walmart, which reported another big increase in quarterly sales on Tuesday, had paid a series of special cash bonuses, but the company has not raised wages broadly as a way to reward workers during the pandemic.

The grocery chain Kroger offered raises at the start of the pandemic and bonuses through mid-June, but those have ended. Employees nationwide have staged protests outside stores asking Kroger to reinstate the pay, especially given its booming business — sales are soaring, and it recently said its 2021 business results “will be higher than we would have expected prior to the Covid-19 pandemic.” This week, the company told workers that they would receive discounts at its fuel centers and a $100 store credit as a “holiday appreciation.”

On Wednesday, Lowe’s said in its quarterly earnings report that it had already paid more than $800 million in pandemic-related benefits to employees. At the same time, the company said it expected to buy back about $3 billion of its own stock in the fourth quarter, after spending about $1 billion on buybacks and dividends in the third quarter.

“We ask workers with the least to sacrifice the most, and they are not even getting compensated in return,” said Molly Kinder, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, who is preparing a report that ranks which largest retailers have been most generous to their workers during the pandemic. “The companies have the money to do this.”

The issue of hazard pay for retail workers reflects the harsh reality of the pandemic economy — a case of shifting supply and demand. In March and April, when retailers were overrun with customers and workers were calling in sick or quitting, the companies needed to give incentives to employees to stay on the job.

But when the additional unemployment benefits, totaling $600 a week, expired at the end of July, many more Americans needed jobs, making it easier for retailers to attract and retain workers.

The public attention has also waned, as news media accounts of workers getting sick from the virus faded and focus turned to protests over police violence and the election. “The headlines have moved on,” Ms. Kinder said.

But the risks to retail workers have not. As the number of new infections hits daily records, retail workers must spend hours inside, dealing with customers who may refuse to wear masks or wear them incorrectly. A large part of this burden has fallen on female, Black and Hispanic employees, who make up a sizable proportion of retail workers.

The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, which represents nearly one million grocery workers, said that 108 of its grocery workers had died as a result of Covid-19 and that more than 16,300 had been infected or exposed to the virus.

Some leaders in government have tried to step in and compensate retail workers for the risks they are taking. But efforts to include hazard pay for frontline workers in the various rounds of federal stimulus bills have all failed, including a proposal from Senator Mitt Romney, a Utah Republican.

Calling it “Patriot Pay,” Mr. Romney had proposed that essential workers receive raises of up to $12 an hour from May through July. That was meant to make up for any difference between what workers would earn on the job and what they were receiving in additional unemployment assistance. Mr. Romney’s proposal was never approved, and Congress remains at a stalemate over a new round of stimulus.

There may be other issues preventing retailers from continuing to offer pandemic pay raises. Even temporary raises, ostensibly limited to the extraordinary circumstances of 2020, can set expectations for higher pay permanently. Some analysts say retailers opt for bonuses instead of raises because they can be given out at random and do not normalize higher pay.

But a few big retailers have increased wages. Best Buy, which offered “appreciation pay” to hourly frontline workers starting in March, raised its starting rate for U.S. employees to $15 an hour on Aug. 2, the day after the additional pay was set to end.

Home Depot said on Tuesday that it would transition from paying a temporary weekly bonus to associates in stores and warehouses to permanently increasing wages for its hourly frontline workers. It’s not clear how generous those raises will prove for each worker. The company, which noted that average wages varied across the country, said it would invest $1 billion on the raises on an annualized basis.

The momentum behind higher pay in the retail industry appears to have picked up during the pandemic. Unions representing retail workers say they feel emboldened to push for significant pay increases as they enter various contract negotiations over the coming year, bolstered by what they see as the shopping public’s new appreciation for low-wage workers.

In Florida, where President Trump won this month, more than 60 percent of voters supported a measure that will raise the state’s minimum wage to $15 an hour from $8.56 by 2026. And multiple polls conducted during the pandemic show growing support among Democrats and Republicans to raise the minimum wage.

Pay bumps tied to the pandemic have been relatively modest, but raising wages a few dollars an hour can amount to a large increase in a retail worker’s take-home pay. Kroger gave a $2-an-hour pay raise from the end of March to mid-May and gave employees a bonus of $150 or $300, based on their part- or full-time status. In May, it offered a separate bonus of $200 or $400. In total, the company has spent about $1 billion on additional pay and safety measures in its stores during the pandemic.

Ollie’s Bargain Outlet, a roughly 370-store discount chain that has seen its sales and earnings boom, said on a recent earnings call that it stopped its “premium pay” of $1.50 an hour for frontline associates at the end of the second quarter and would replace it with some type of monthly “discretionary bonus.”

Absent federal action, some states have allocated funds that they received as part of the giant stimulus package, known as the CARES Act, to frontline workers.

In Vermont, retailers are invited to apply for state grants that can benefit their workers who have stayed on the job during the pandemic. Companies like CVS and Shaw’s, a regional grocery chain, have signed up for the grants, according to the state. The employers pass the money through to the workers, acting only as conduits.

But some retailers — wary of being perceived as accepting aid in place of struggling businesses — have blocked their workers from accessing the money, baffling state lawmakers.

Tim Ashe, president of the Vermont Senate, who proposed the grants, said it meant many local workers would go without a substantial check — totaling as much as $2,000.

“Imagine being told by your manager that corporate won’t fill out the paperwork that could get you $2,000,” Mr. Ashe said.

Dollar General, which reported $1 billion in operating profit in the second quarter, is one retailer that is turning down the state’s offer to compensate its employees for working through the pandemic. Mr. Ashe said the state official overseeing the program had told him that Dollar General “seemed completely uninterested.”

A company spokeswoman initially said Dollar General would not apply for the grants because “we believe these limited funds should support the small-business community,” but then said on Wednesday that the company was looking to apply. 

Dollar General said on Tuesday that it had spent $73 million on employee bonuses and planned to spend an additional $100 million this year, twice what it had initially planned.

“To demonstrate our ongoing gratitude and support for our employees directly serving our customers and communities during this pandemic, we are proud to double our initial plans for second-half bonuses,” Dollar General’s chief executive, Todd Vasos, said in a statement.

By comparison, Dollar General spent $602 million repurchasing its stock in the second quarter and has authorized the purchase of an additional $2 billion in stock.

Walmart, which operates six stores in Vermont employing hundreds of workers, had originally declined to apply for the grants. Like Dollar General, Walmart initially told Vermont officials that the money should go to smaller businesses. But on Tuesday, a Walmart spokeswoman said the company had changed its mind.

“After further discussions with local and state officials, we’re pleased to hear there was sufficient funding to provide bonuses to all small and medium-sized businesses in Vermont and that there are remaining funds for employees of larger companies,” the spokeswoman said.

In total, Walmart has spent $1.1 billion on bonuses rewarding its employees who worked during the pandemic. Full-time workers have received a series of three cash payments of up to $300 each. Walmart paid workers a bonus in September related to store performance, but has not indicated whether any additional bonuses related to the pandemic would be granted.





No.36 article:
Rosanna Carteri, Soprano Who Retired at Her Peak, Dies at 89

The graceful singer, celebrated in Verdi and Puccini, was only in her mid-30s when she left the stage to tend to her family.

Rosanna Carteri, an Italian soprano whose meteoric career came to an early end when she chose to retire in her mid-30s at the height of her artistry, died on Oct. 25 in Monte Carlo, Monaco. She was 89.

Her death was confirmed by Milan’s Teatro alla Scala, where she appeared in 19 productions between 1951 and 1963.

Ms. Carteri (pronounced car-TAIR-ee) was the final survivor of the 56 singers included in “The Last Prima Donnas,” Lanfranco Rasponi’s classic 1982 book of interviews with many of the women who dominated opera in the early and mid-20th century. While other divas who rose during that period remain alive — among them Virginia Zeani (now 95), Leontyne Price (93) and Renata Scotto (86) — Ms. Carteri’s death is nevertheless a marker on the slow diminuendo of an era.

A graceful presence with a voice that was clear and ardent, she embodied the Italian lyric soprano vocal type. She had the combination of lightness and fullness of sound that was ideally suited to the gorgeously suffering young heroines of Puccini and Verdi.

While celebrated for her sympathetic portrayals of those roles, in operas like “La Traviata” and “La Bohème,” her repertory ranged unusually widely during her 17 years onstage. It included works by Poulenc, Handel, Prokofiev, Rossini and many more, and she sang in a host of premieres.

But the most intriguing aspect of her career may have been her decision to step away from it, in 1966, to care for her young family. She was then at an age when many singers are just gaining steam, and her voice had not lost its ease or vibrancy.

It is unusual for a prima donna to step out of the limelight before age or declining abilities make it necessary. Mirella Freni continued singing credibly until she was 70; Magda Olivero, until she was 71. But the great Rosa Ponselle retired at 40, still masterly; Anita Cerquetti, at just 30. (And then there was Rossini, who lived for nearly 40 years after “Guillaume Tell” but never wrote another opera.)

“One must give one’s all, and as one’s name becomes increasingly known, the responsibilities augment daily,” Ms. Carteri told Mr. Rasponi. Referring to the main character of “La Traviata,” she added, “And that is why I decided to shut the door — much to my regret, for I was passionately attached to my work — and, like Violetta, say, ‘Addio del passato.’”

Rosanna Carteri was born on Dec. 14, 1930, in Verona, Italy. She began studying voice seriously even before she was a teenager, and by 14 was learning full roles with Ferruccio Cusinati, the chorus master at the mighty Arena di Verona. She was also taught piano and advised in those early years by her savvy, musically minded mother, Giulia (Rosoleni) Carteri, who had once aspired to become an opera singer. Her father, Ugo Carteri, was the managing director of a shoe company in Verona.

Ms. Carteri won a contest in 1948 sponsored by Italian radio, and the following year appeared onstage for the first time, as Elsa in Wagner’s “Lohengrin” — an implausibly weighty vehicle for an 18-year-old’s debut, particularly in an outdoor performance at the Baths of Caracalla in Rome, in front of an audience of many thousands.

But Ms. Carteri scored a success, and, as she told Mr. Rasponi, “everything came my way at once.” She debuted at La Scala at 20 and at the Salzburg Festival at 21; leading parts followed in Paris, London and elsewhere. As her celebrity grew, she appeared on Italian television and in films.

She made her American debut in 1954 as Mimì in “La Bohème” at San Francisco Opera, repeating the role later that year during Lyric Opera of Chicago’s first season. Over her career she appeared with some of the world’s leading opera conductors, including Tullio Serafin, Artur Rodzinski, Victor de Sabata, Bruno Walter and Herbert von Karajan, and opposite stars like Birgit Nilsson, Renata Tebaldi and Jussi Bjoerling.

A 1956 recording of “La Traviata,” also featuring Cesare Valletti and Leonard Warren, with Pierre Monteux conducting the forces of the Rome Opera, captures some of her sensitive artistry. The doomed courtesan Violetta is, in Ms. Carteri’s hands, an emotive yet poised figure.

Her rendition of the aria “Sempre libera” moves with desperately cheerful agility; the scene with her lover’s grimly disapproving father reveals a voice darkened with sorrow. In the great outpouring “Amami, Alfredo,” she conveys deep feeling through focus and evenness of tone, and in the final act she achieves intensity through a musical line that she often hushes to a painful thread, without ever sacrificing steadiness.

The sincerity she was able to project made her ideal for tragic characters like Violetta, Mimì, Marguerite in Gounod’s “Faust,” the title role in Massenet’s “Manon,” Liù in Puccini’s “Turandot” and Desdemona in Verdi’s “Otello.” Yet she also had a charming liveliness in comedy, appearing in roles such as Nannetta and Alice Ford in Verdi’s “Falstaff” and Adina in Donizetti’s “L’Elisir d’Amore.” For the sophisticated wistfulness of Puccini’s “La Rondine,” she was perfect.

Ms. Carteri sang the initial performances of works by Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco, Juan José Castro, Ildebrando Pizzetti and others. (She told Mr. Rasponi that she had appeared in so many premieres, “I simply cannot recall them all.”) When Prokofiev’s “War and Peace” was performed for the first time outside Russia, in Florence in 1953, she was Natasha Rostova under Rodzinski’s baton, and her immaculate account of Poulenc’s “Gloria” was captured on the work’s premiere recording.

She married Franco Grosoli, a successful and respected businessman in the meat industry, in 1959. They had a daughter, Marina, in 1960. When Ms. Carteri became pregnant again, she had a miscarriage. In Mr. Rasponi’s telling, she “canceled all her contracts in order to avoid any risks” in her next pregnancy. A son, Francesco, was born in 1966, and Ms. Carteri retired. The family moved to Monte Carlo in the 1970s, when Italy was hit by an epidemic of kidnappings of the wealthy.

Ms. Carteri’s husband died in 2014. She is survived by her two children and four grandchildren.

Some divas who step back from the time-consuming, labor-intensive production of staged operas continue touring in concert. Not Ms. Carteri. “I have occasionally given a few recitals,” she told Mr. Rasponi, “but it just does not work that way. You are either in the profession or out of it.”

“The consolation I have,” she added, “is that I stopped when I was at the very top.”





No.37 article:
Your Guide to Black Friday Shopping

Watch out for “deals” that aren’t really deals.

Black Friday, once a one-day blowout sale, has steadily ballooned over the past few years. Black Friday is now, in essence, Cyber Month — it’s not uncommon to see Black Friday sales promoted weeks ahead of the day itself.

This year, as early as mid-October, Wirecutter, the product recommendation site owned by The New York Times Company, saw Black Friday pricing on Wirecutter picks from retailers like Walmart, Best Buy and Target. The coronavirus pandemic is to blame for this phenomenon: Because of supply issues, Amazon pushed Prime Day (its annual deals bonanza) from July to October, which set off a domino effect of early holiday deals.

This new Black Friday timeline complicates things a bit because it’s hard to know when you’re getting the best price on what you want to buy. To help calm nerves, Newegg, Target and Best Buy are all offering price-match protection for select items this holiday season, meaning that if the retailer drops its price on one of those products you’ve already bought, you’ll be refunded the difference. Just be sure to read the fine print before you buy (Best Buy, for instance, requires you to create a free MyBestBuy account to be eligible).

But for everything else, and with the pandemic-related considerations of stock issues and shipping delays, I consulted my colleague and Wirecutter Deals editor Nathan Burrow, who has years of experience scouring the internet for the lowest prices to post on the Wirecutter Deals page. If you’re interested in more, subscribe to the daily Wirecutter Deals newsletter for the best deals the team finds.

Fitness deals. Better deals on fitness gear typically surface in December and January, Mr. Burrow said, just in time to make good on that New Year’s resolution. But since the pandemic shuttered gyms across the country earlier this year, the demand for at-home workout essentials has skyrocketed, making products like well-constructed dumbbells and resistance bands hard to find — and what you can find in stock tends to be cheaply made knockoff gear offered at higher-than-typical prices. If you see quality fitness gear in stock, buy now, even if the deal isn’t great; you may not see it pop up again.

The Nintendo Switch. Shoppers who have been itching to get their hands on the popular hand-held gaming device since the start of the pandemic know how difficult it has been to find. Whether you’d like to give the Switch this holiday season or keep it for yourself to fully embrace Animal Crossing, Mr. Burrow expects that discounts will be marginal at best and that the devices will probably continue to sell quickly. Both the Switch and the Switch Lite are available for purchase at full price now, but that may not last.

Work-from-home essentials. The pandemic-related shift to more working from home has driven up demand for essentials like office chairs, standing desks, monitors and monitor arms. That doesn’t mean there won’t be discounts this holiday season — it just means you have to act fast if you see a price drop on something you need.

Smart displays and other video-calling tech. If you are celebrating Thanksgiving remotely this year, you may need a new device to video chat with your loved ones. The Wirecutter Deals team has already spotted record low prices on the Amazon Echo Show and the slightly smaller Echo Show 8 from Target, Best Buy and Amazon. They’re worth buying now.

Kitchen gear you expect to use on Thanksgiving. Small kitchen appliances — KitchenAid stand mixers, Instant Pots, sous vide machines and more — reliably go on sale this time of year. If you know you’ll need an appliance for Thanksgiving prep, buy now. If not, you may be able to save slightly more on Black Friday.

Laptops — sort of. The Wirecutter Deals team has seen a lot of good early Black Friday deals on Wirecutter picks like the Lenovo c740, the Lenovo c940 and the Lenovo X1 Carbon (8th Gen) from Best Buy and Lenovo itself. Mr. Burrow expects the same deals again on Black Friday, supply permitting, but whether you can wait that long comes down to your needs. Because it’s a bit of a tossup, follow the Wirecutter Deals team coverage in the run-up to Black Friday, and we’ll do the vetting of deals for you.

Audio gear. Wait until Black Friday if anything audio-related — wireless earbuds, noise-canceling headphones, portable Bluetooth speakers, soundbars and more — tops your wish list. Mr. Burrow says it’s better to wait because the discounts will probably be steeper.

Apple devices. Apple rarely offers significant discounts on its products, but Mr. Burrow expects a few small drops on the new Apple Watch Series 6 and Series 6 SE come Black Friday. The Wirecutter Deals team has already spotted a few deals for the new 8th-generation iPad in the past few weeks, and it’s likely we’ll still see better deals closer to the big deals event. Even if you’re thinking of upgrading to the new iPhone (which probably won’t see markdowns), Mr. Burrow still suggests waiting: Many retailers, including Apple itself, will offer gift cards (rather than lower prices) in exchange for products purchased. It’s better to wait and collect a store gift card than to shop now and leave empty-handed.

Health and grooming. Mr. Burrow predicts that the price of razors, electric hair trimmers, toothbrushes and hairstyling tools will drop on Black Friday. Wait to nab these personal care products when they’re at their lowest.

Vacuums. Though many stores are now offering great early deals on all types of vacuums, it’s worth waiting until Black Friday to buy. Even if the prices don’t drop much lower, you’ll have more options to choose from: Whether you’re looking for a robot vacuum that does the work for you or a cordless Dyson stick vacuum, the deals will be there.

Mattresses. There will be a few Black Friday mattress discounts this year, but the best deals historically arrive in February. Unless your mattress is keeping you up at night, wait it out. The prices will be better, and you’ll have a better range of options, too.

Outdoor gear. REI doesn’t participate in Black Friday, but it holds two yearly sales, in May and September. During those sales, you will have a wider array of discounted gear to choose from, and a variety of retailers to choose from, because Backcountry and Amazon typically match many of REI’s discounts. But if you can’t wait, Mr. Burrow expects to see a few small deals on outdoor gear this month.

Bedding and linens. If you need a new comforter, it’s worth waiting a few months. We’ve come to expect better deals on a wider range of options in January and February. That’s when department stores typically host their seasonal white sales, offering bedding, linens and other household goods for cheap.

Interested in learning more about the best things to buy and how to use them? Visit Wirecutter, where you can read the latest reviews and find daily deals.




No.1 article:
Italy reports 653 new deaths – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Research shows that people with coronavirus are more likely to be highly infectious in the first week after symptoms appear.

A study, published in the Lancet Microbe, found that while genetic material of the Sars-Cov-2 virus was detected in samples from sufferers for several weeks afterwards, no live virus was found in any samples collected nine days after symptoms began.

Lead author, Dr Muge Cevik of the University of St Andrews said: “Our findings are in line with contact tracing studies which suggest the majority of viral transmission events occur very early, and especially within the first five days after symptom onset, indicating the importance of self-isolation immediately after symptoms start.”

California’s governor Gavin Newsom has issued month-long curbs on gatherings inside homes, and is telling people to work from home.

The latest figures show 9,811 new confirmed cases, meaning there has been more than a million infections in total. 18,360 people have died from coronavirus in the state.

You can read more here.

Pubs, restaurants and other hospitality outlets will remain closed until mid-December in Northern Ireland, the regional devolved government has announced.

Bars and licensed eating outlets were meant to re-open on 27 November but instead will be shut for another fortnight from this date.

Unlicensed cafes will be allowed to open this Friday but only for one week when they will be subject to the same closure restrictions. Close contact services such as driving lessons, hairdressers and beauticians will also only be available for a week.

You can read more here.

The US government will extend a ban on non-essential travel at land borders with Canada and Mexico until 21 December.

The rules were first introduced in March to stop the virus’ spread, and will be in place for another 20 days. They were due to expire on Saturday.

A significant number of Italians who want to be vaccinated against Covid-19 will have had their jabs by September 2021, according to an official.

Special commissioner for the virus emergency Domenico Arcuri said people could be vaccinated as early as January, after the European Medical Agency has authorised the Pfizer jab. 

He added that the elderly and people at high risk would get priority, as Italy is set to receive 3.4 million doses of the vaccine.

Brazil recorded 35,918 new cases of coronavirus and 606 deaths on Thursday, its Health Ministry has confirmed.

The country has now had almost 6 million cases of the virus since the start of the pandemic, according to Reuters. The official death toll now stands at 168,061.

Here’s a round up of the latest developments

• The US centre for disease has told Americans not to travel next week for Thanksgiving celebrations, and not to spend the holiday with people who aren’t in their household.

• Northern Ireland faces two weeks of tougher lockdown restrictions from the end of next week, as non-essential retail will also close. Health minister Robin Swann had warned colleagues that a delayed lockdown risked seeing the country’s health services overwhelmed

• Spain has announced 16,233 new cases and 252 more deaths from the virus. It takes Spain’s death toll to 42,291 since the start of the pandemic. 

• France’s health minister, Olivier Veran, has admitted that the mental health of the French was deteriorating during the second lockdown. The admission came as the French death toll from coronavirus increased by 429 to 47,127 people.

• Italy’s prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, warned Italians they would have to shun “hugs and kisses” at Christmas. The health ministry recorded 653 further coronavirus fatalities, taking Italy’s death toll from the virus to 47,870.

Northern Ireland will go into a fortnight of tougher lockdown restrictions from 27 November.

Non-essential shops will have to close, with pubs and restaurants remaining shut. Schools will be allowed to stay open. The measures were agreed by ministers on Thursday night. Existing restrictions on the hospitality sector were due to expire on 26 November.

The country’s health minister, Robin Swann had urged colleagues in Stormont to take action, otherwise health services could have been overwhelmed.

Some close contact services, such as hairdressers and cafes can open as scheduled on Friday but will have to close in a week’s time. Takeaway hospitality services will be allowed to stay open, but leisure and entertainment services will have to close.

Sporting events at an elite level will still be allowed to take place, but without spectators. A ban on households mixing indoor will continue and places of worship will close.

People will also be encouraged to stay at home and work from home.

 On Thursday, another 487 people tested positive for Covid-19. A total of 3,401 have been diagnosed over the last week. Another 12 deaths were reported on the same day, meaning 901 people have died from the virus in the country. 

Amazon in France has said it will postpone its Black Friday promotion next week amid the country’s ongoing lockdown.

A spokeswoman told Reuters that it will now take place on 4 December, as the country’s restrictions are set to expire on 1 December. The French finance ministry said that supermarkets and retailers had told them they were open to suspending the discount day.

The Scottish parliament has voted to support stricter Covid-19 measures, including tougher restrictions in 11 council areas and a travel ban.

On Tuesday, first minister Nicola Sturgeon announced that areas of west and central Scotland would be moved from tier 3 to tier 4 from Friday, for three weeks. Non-essential shops, and hospitality businesses will close, along with gyms and beauty salons.

The new limits will make it illegal to enter or leave Scotland without a reasonable excuse, with those breaking it facing a minimum £60 fine.

MSPs voted by 99 to 23 to express Holyrood’s support for the restrictions, rather than to accept or reject them, according to PA Media.

The US centre for disease control has told Americans not to travel next week for Thanksgiving celebrations.The guidance, according to the AP press agency, is amongst the strongest given by the US government on limiting celebrations because of the pandemic. Americans have also been told not to spend the holiday on 26 November with people who aren’t in their household.The body’s Dr Erin Sauber-Schatz cited more than 1 million new cases in the US over the past week as the reason for the new guidance.

“The safest way to celebrate Thanksgiving this year is at home with the people in your household,” she said.

Good evening. I am taking the Guardian’s global coronavirus blog for the rest of tonight, bringing you all the latest updates from around the world. Please keep in touch to share any thoughts, comments or news tips. I’m on Twitter as @HarryTaylr and you can reach me by email at harry.taylor@guardian.co.uk  





No.2 article:
Covid regulations will make it illegal to enter or leave Scotland

Scottish government accused of exceeding its powers with cross-border travel ban

The Scottish government has published draft regulations that make it illegal to enter or leave the country without a reasonable excuse, as well as significantly restricting travel within Scotland.

The regulations, which come into force on Friday at 6pm, were described as “deeply flawed” by opposition parties, which said they had “grave doubts” about the competence of Scottish ministers to legislate in this way.

According to the draft document, a person living in Scotland must not travel to any other part of the common travel area – England, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland – nor can anyone from those places travel to Scotland. Breach of these cross-border restrictions is punishable by a minimum £60 fixed penalty fine.

The restrictions on cross-border and internal travel are accompanied by a lengthy list of exemptions. An individual can leave Scotland to take a driving test, feed an animal or donate blood, in addition to the more usual exemptions around work, education and health.

Guidance accompanying the regulations also states that people in level 3 or 4 local authority areas – which includes much of central Scotland – “are now required to stay in that area unless they have a reasonable excuse to travel, such as work, education, or welfare reasons”. Going on holiday, whether elsewhere in Scotland or abroad, is not deemed a reasonable excuse.

The Scottish Conservative MSP and professor of public law Adam Tomkins said: “Is this within Holyrood’s competence? For one thing, freedom of movement would appear to be expressly reserved to the UK parliament under the Scotland Act. For another, it’s not clear that the Scottish parliament can make rules contrary to the common travel area, as agreed to by the UK and Ireland.

“It’s not at all clear if the draft regulations published today are within the remit of the Scottish parliament.”

A Scottish government spokesperson denied this, saying the regulations were “entirely within the remit of the Scottish parliament”.

“Restrictions on unnecessary travel are in place in law in various forms in England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Ireland and in many parts of Europe. In Scotland they are necessary to underpin an approach that puts different parts of the country under different levels of protective measures”.

Regulations in place in Wales state that travel into the country from England is not allowed without a reasonable excuse, for example, travelling for work purposes. Visiting family and friends or having a holiday is not deemed a reasonable excuse.

Regulations in place for England’s current lockdown state that no person may leave home without a reasonable excuse, which includes work, exercise and education.

At first minister’s questions on Thursday, the Scottish Labour leader, Richard Leonard, described the travel ban as “deeply flawed” and said: “The overwhelming majority of people are just trying to keep up with regulations in order to follow them. But the best-case scenario is that this travel ban will confuse them. The worst-case scenario is that it will criminalise them.”

Later on Thursday, MSP Oliver Mundell resigned from the Scottish Conservative shadow cabinet in protest at the travel curbs. He voted against the party whip in a Holyrood debate on the new regulations because of concerns about the impact border restrictions would have on communities in his Dumfriesshire constituency.

Party leader Douglas Ross said he was disappointed to see him go and appreciated that “he is only doing what he feels is best for his local area”.





No.3 article:
Strict guidance comes as diagnosed infections, hospitalizations and deaths are surging across the US

With the coronavirus surging out of control, America’s top public health agency pleaded with Americans on Thursday not to travel for the traditional Thanksgiving family gatherings next week and not to spend the holiday with people from outside their own household.

It was some of the firmest guidance yet from the government on curtailing traditional gatherings to fight the outbreak.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued the recommendations just one week before Thanksgiving, which falls on 26 November this year, at a time when diagnosed infections, hospitalizations and deaths are surging across the country.

In many areas, the healthcare system is being squeezed by a combination of sick patients filling up beds and medical workers falling ill themselves.

The CDC’s Erin Sauber-Schatz cited more than 1m new cases in the US over the past week as the reason for the new guidance.

“The safest way to celebrate Thanksgiving this year is at home with the people in your household,” she said.

If families do decide to include returning college students, military members or others for turkey and stuffing, the CDC is recommending that the hosts take added precautions: gatherings should be outdoors if possible, with people keeping 6ft apart and wearing masks and just one person serving the food.

Whether Americans heed the warning is another matter. The deadly comeback by the virus has been blamed in part on pandemic fatigue, or people getting tired of masks and other precautions.

And surges were seen last summer after Memorial Day and the Fourth of July, despite blunt warnings from health authorities.

The United States has seen more than 11m diagnosed infections and over 250,000 deaths from the coronavirus, with inadequate action being taken to prevent the spread of the disease amid a leaked warning from inside the White House on Wednesday of a pandemic that involves “aggressive, unrelenting, broad community spread across the country, without evidence of improvement but, rather, further deterioration”.

CDC scientists believe that somewhere around 40% of people who are infected do not have obvious symptoms but can still spread the virus.





No.4 article:
Tyson Foods managers bet on how many workers would get Covid, lawsuit alleges

The wrongful death lawsuit was filed last week by the son of a Tyson Foods employee named Isidro Fernandez, who died on 26 April after contracting Covid-19. The lawsuit included an alleged bet between managers as an example of the company’s negligence towards its workers during the pandemic, along with having employees work “elbow to elbow; most without face coverings”.

“Despite an uncontrolled Covid-19 outbreak, Tyson required its employees to work long hours in cramped conditions,” the lawsuit states. “Moreover, despite the danger of Covid-19, Tyson failed to provide appropriate personal protective equipment and failed to implement sufficient social distancing or safety measures to protect workers from the outbreak.”

As Covid-19 outbreaks were just starting to appear across the country, and states were issuing mandatory stay-at-home orders, workers at meat factories were continuing to fall ill.

At the end of April, Tyson closed or reduced production at several of its facilities, including the plant in Waterloo, after local officials pressed the company to halt production as cases rose. The company reopened the plant in early May after installing “enhanced safety precautions and protective social distancing measures”.

Before the plant closed, more than 1,000 employees out of about 2,800 at the plant had tested positive for Covid-19. At least five other employees who worked at the plant died during the pandemic. Families of three of the dead are also suing the company, according to the Associated Press.

In a statement to the Iowa Capital Dispatch, Tyson said that the company was “saddened by the loss of any Tyson team member and sympathize[s] with their families”.

The company declined to comment on specific allegations in the lawsuit. But it said its “top priority is the health and safety of our workers, and we’ve implemented a host of protective measures at Waterloo and our other facilities that meet or exceed [official] guidance for preventing Covid-19”.





No.5 article:
Trump administration in &#x27;staggering&#x27; isolation at UN on health issues

US left with few allies as it tries to change wording on topic of reproductive healthcare 

The outgoing Trump administration’s final days at the United Nations have resulted in a deepening of US isolation on social and health issues, with only a handful of allies including Russia, Belarus and Syria.

In one vote this week, the US was entirely alone in backing its own amendment to a seemingly uncontroversial resolution about efforts to treat medical complications from childbirth. It called for the removal of references to the World Health Organization (WHO) and the UN Population Fund.

No other nation agreed, with 153 voting against the amendment and 11 abstaining.

A UN diplomat said the spectacle of a western ally and a superpower so totally isolated was “staggering”.

“It’s amazing that they decided they want to put their isolation on record, on full display, like that,” the diplomat said.

Debates at the UN general assembly this week have been on social and humanitarian affairs and human rights issues, on which the US mission stepped up its largely unsuccessful campaign to remove mention of reproductive health from UN documents. The Trump administration sees the phrase as synonymous with abortion.

The US backed eight amendments to resolutions on issues such as violence against women and girls, trafficking of women and girls, female genital mutilation, and early, child and forced marriages.

Apart from the move to delete a reference to the WHO, which Donald Trump has blamed for the coronavirus pandemic, the proposed amendment involved removing references to providing reproductive health services to female victims of violence and oppression.

Each time the amendments were decisively voted down in the general assembly, with the US drawing only a very small group of between four and 14 supporters. Its only consistent allies were Russia, Belarus, Syria, Qatar and the Pacific island states of Nauru and Palau.

In one resolution about providing healthcare to women and girls during the pandemic, the US wanted to change the phrase “designating protection and healthcare services as essential services for all women and girls, especially those who are most vulnerable to violence and stigma”. The US mission demanded the deletion of the words “services as essential services”.

“It was more aggressive than last year,” a European diplomat said. “It’s not really surprising from the Trump administration, and we are used to this, but it was more aggressive now in that they teamed up with Russia, and they targeted African resolutions. They did not that last time.”

“We’ve seen the US approach harden on these issues over the past four years, but I think this year was uniquely challenging as they clearly decided they were going to put their foot down on sexual reproductive health services language, across every single kind of relevant human rights resolution,” a UN diplomat said.

After failing to change the wording of resolutions in negotiations before a vote was taken, the US took the added step of tabling amendments from the floor of the assembly, even though they were doomed to fail.

“It is kind of an aggressive move normally used by Russia, but this year US decided to do it too,” the diplomat said.

The US permanent representative, Kelly Craft, said the US objected to wording in the UN resolutions designed to “promote the global abortion industry”.

“The US could not be clearer,” Craft said in a tweet. “There is no international right to abortion. Abortion is not healthcare. Abortion is not safe in any circumstance.”

Explaining a vote on a French-Dutch resolution on sexual violence that mentioned reproductive health, the US delegate Jennifer Barber said: “It is particularly hypocritical that a resolution on violence against women promotes access to something that results in the loss of millions of baby girls every year.”

Craft and Barber are from Kentucky and were backed for their position by the powerful Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, despite having minimal or no international experience. Barber is a specialist in Kentucky tax law.





No.6 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Prof Neil Ferguson points to slow decline but warns it is too early for December forecasts

There are early signs that England’s second lockdown is reducing Covid infection rates, a prominent scientist has said, cautioning that it is too soon to say how low they will be by early December.

The extent to which the current measures suppress the spread of the virus is likely to determine how tight restrictions will be after 2 December, when the lockdown is expected to end, and whether there is scope for any relaxation in restrictions around Christmas.

Prof Neil Ferguson, an expert in modelling disease outbreaks at Imperial College London, who resigned from the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) in May, pointed to both pillar 2 case data – testing in the community – and new admissions to hospital as markers of a potential impact.

“There is evidence that infection rates are plateauing and may be starting to go down slowly,” he said.

He said these trends could be attributed to lockdown measures, although cases were already slowing somewhat due to the effect of tier 3 restrictions in some parts of the country.

“It is too early to assess what the overall impact by 2 December will be, though we should not expect too much, given schools are still open,” he said. “A halving of infection prevalence over the four weeks would be a positive result.”

Ferguson said that deciding what control measures were introduced after lockdown was lifted would be key.

“We now have clear evidence that tier 3 measures were working to bring down infection rates in some areas. Tier 2 was also having an impact, but a smaller one,” he said. “The decision is a political one, but if we don’t want to see infection levels rebound from 3 December, my assessment is that measures between tier 2 and tier 3 will be necessary in the great majority of locations.”

The lag between restrictions being introduced and their effects on the number of cases becoming apparent is down to a number of factors.

It generally takes about five days between someone becoming infected and showing symptoms – although it can take up to 14 days – with a test only recommended once symptoms have developed. It can then take a couple of days to receive test results, said Ferguson, while approximately a week of data is needed to see a trend.

It can take about two weeks before those infected deteriorate to the point of requiring hospital care, with more time generally passing before death occurs.

At present, data on infections in the community from a survey of randomly selected households, performed by the Office for National Statistics, is only available to 6 November and hence does not yet reveal the impact of lockdown.

Government data on cases by date reported reveals 20,291 people in England were reported as testing positive for coronavirus on Thursday. That is up from 17,189 on 18 November – breaking a six-day run of falling case numbers. However, unlike the ONS survey this data can be influenced by levels of testing available in different areas.

Over the past two weeks hospital admissions have grown, although there are some signs they may be growing at a slower rate than previous weeks.

“Looking at the data by day of specimen, we have only had one full week reported since the start of the lockdown,” said Prof Steven Riley, co-author of the React-1 study and also from Imperial College London. “Given the speculation about a possible increase in social contact just prior to the lockdown, we need the data for this week before we start drawing conclusions.”

According to a Guardian analysis of case numbers by sample date from the government figures up to 14 November, the only English regions where cases are falling week on week are the north-west and north-east and Yorkshire – a pattern that suggests the falls are probably a result of the tier 3 restrictions that were already in place before the national lockdown.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

“It is genuinely a bit too soon to tell whether lockdown is working, but the effect of lockdown 2.0 is certainly lagging its predecessor,” said George Batchelor, a co-founder of Edge Health, which helped compile the data. “Aside from schools and universities remaining open, casual observations would agree this is not a lockdown like the first one.” .

Batchelor said any effect of the latest lockdown on hospitalisations, or deaths, would take even longer to emerge. “The primary focus of the government and Sage is ensuring that the second wave of Covid does not overwhelm the NHS. However, as we described when lockdown was introduced, the NHS is generally the last to feel the benefit of greater social distancing and reduced transmission.”

callout-coronavirus

London and the south-east in particular are yet to experience this impact, with both regions’ three-day average for cases on 14 November up by a quarter compared with the week before. Hospital occupancy and ventilator use were also up by over a quarter week on week in both regions.

Prof Christina Pagel, director of the clinical operational research unit at University College London and a member of the Independent Sage group of experts, said: “England overall is going down, but only because of the north-west.

“The next few days will be really important to see what is happening [in London and the south-east] because it should be coming down this week – and if it is not coming down this week then that’s a problem.”





No.7 article:
At least 19 people killed during protests following the arrest of the presidential candidate

At least 19 people have been killed in Uganda over two days in the country’s worst unrest in a decade, as security forces try to quell protests triggered by the arrest of presidential candidate Bobi Wine.

Young people burned tyres and blockaded streets in Uganda’s capital, Kampala, on Thursday, and soldiers fanned out across the city with armoured vehicles, a day after the arrest of Wine, a popular reggae singer who is the leading challenger to President Yoweri Museveni in forthcoming elections.

“This is a war-like situation, so the army has to deploy,” Brig Flavia Byekwaso, a military spokesperson, told Reuters. “You can see what is going on, people are being stoned, people are being killed, vehicles are being vandalised, tyres everywhere. These things are spontaneous on all streets, so police cannot handle such a situation.”

Images posted on social media showed police in Kampala firing indiscriminately at people in buildings overlooking the protests and unidentifiable men in plainclothes, believed to be security personnel, firing automatic weapons. More than 350 people were arrested, police said.

The exact death toll in the unrest, which spread to other cities during the day, is uncertain. Kampala’s main mortuary reported receiving 19 bodies, with postmortems revealing the causes of death as gunshots, suffocation from teargas and injuries sustained by a “hit and run” car accident, the Observer, a local newspaper, reported.

Dr Byarugaba Baterana, the executive director of the Mulago National Referral Hospital in Kampala told reporters that a further nine people who had been admitted at the hospital ward had died of their injuries.

The police reported between seven and 16 deaths.

“We want warn the youths who have been lured into participating in illegal activities to desist from participating in such acts,” said Patrick Onyango, a Kampala police spokesman. “The joint security teams are on top of the situation and will handle anyone who attempts to destabilise the capital city.”

Wine, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, was detained on Wednesday while campaigning in eastern Uganda after authorities accused the 38-year old of violating anti-coronavirus measures by holding mass rallies.

Moments later, spontaneous protests erupted in Kampala and several other major towns. Security personnel responded with teargas. A journalist who spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said he had seen troops firing automatic rifles.

Byekwaso, the army spokeswoman, said squads of both military and police had clashed with protesters in different parts of Kampala. At least two witnesses in the city told Reuters some streets in the city centre were deserted. Schools and universities were reported to have postponed exams scheduled next week following the outbreak of violence.

Wine has been attracting massive crowds and his campaign has rattled the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM).

Museveni told a rally in Karamoja region that the protesters were “being used by outsiders … homosexuals and others who don’t like the stability and independence of Uganda. But they will discover what they are looking for. We shall not tolerate confused people. They are playing with fire”.

Earlier this month, Wine was temporarily blinded by police when he was arrested moments after being successfully certified as a candidate in next year’s election.

Security forces have frequently fired teargas at his rallies and detained and beaten his supporters.

In a statement issued before Wine’s detention on Wednesday, police had warned that presidential candidates would be arrested if they flouted guidelines limiting attendance at rallies to 200 people during the Covid-19 pandemic.

Known by supporters as “the ghetto president”, Wine is one of a new generation of politicians across Africa who are challenging longtime leaders, hoping to harness deep dissatisfaction among younger, more educated and often urban voters.

He broke into formal politics in 2017 when he won a seat in Uganda’s national assembly, and has been since been badly assaulted and detained many times.

David Lewis Rubongoya, the secretary general of Wine’s National Unity Platform party, said his arrest was unfair as Museveni and his supporters had been holding mass rallies.

“It’s not about Covid-19. It’s about repression … People are very angry and they are very right to be angry. People are tired of the double standards; they are tired of the oppression and dictatorship that has caused all these problems in the country,” Rubongoya said. “Museveni is issuing threats. But that will not deter us from our mission. We are determined to liberate this country from the dictator and oppressor. People are tired and fed up.”

Museveni is eligible to seek another term next year after lawmakers removed constitutional age limits on the presidency. The former rebel leader’s party insists he remains its most popular member.

Uganda has never witnessed a peaceful transfer of power since independence in 1962.





No.8 article:




No.9 article:
PPE contracts scandal needs full scrutiny

Faulty equipment wastes public money and leaves NHS staff less protected, writes Mike Cashman, while Dr Austin Connor says the excuse that the emergency nature of the pandemic meant that normal procurement processes couldn’t be followed is not credible

Public procurement rules exist to ensure best value for the customer (the public) and fair competition for the suppliers, thus creating a healthy market. Breaching those rules to award contracts to cronies, as now officially documented (PPE suppliers with political ties given ‘high-priority’ status, report reveals, 18 November), has at least three adverse effects: first, inadequate or unsuitable products may be purchased; second, public money may be wasted; and third, the market will be discouraged.

I note that the government’s initial attempt to block challenge was to claim that the Good Law Project had no “standing” – legal jargon for “none of your business”.

But it is indeed the public’s business – faulty procurement wastes our money and may leave NHS staff less well protected, and it damages competition if the market is fixed or appears to be fixed. If the government had provided some argument that the procurements were fair then at least that could have been assessed, but instead it chose to hide the process behind a legal manoeuvre, which I am pleased to see has failed. No wonder the government wishes to cripple the judicial review process.Mike CashmanMilton Keynes, Buckinghamshire

• The government’s main defence of its decision to award lucrative contracts in order to source protective equipment at great expense to the taxpayer and profit to its chums, is deceitful and disingenuous. It repeats the word “unprecedented” ad nauseam but the reality is that pandemics occur at least once a century, and this one was predicted as the greatest threat to the health and wealth of the UK as long ago as 2002.

Plans were drawn up for a possible influenza pandemic in 2011 and the Cygnus exercise, testing the UK’s pandemic preparedness, occurred in 2016. While the government refuses to publish the Cygnus report, we doctors know that it highlighted a lack of readiness, especially in terms of PPE, ventilators and hospital beds.

Not only did the government fail to address these issues, it allowed stocks to dwindle even further between 2016 and 2020, and made inadequate contingency plans for their procurement in the event of a pandemic. The excuse that the emergency nature of the pandemic meant that normal processes couldn’t be followed is simply not credible. There was plenty of warning and time to prepare but they chose not to.Dr Austin ConnorSouthcott, Devon





No.10 article:
Rheumatoid arthritis drug appears to help Covid patients in ICU

Trial suggests that tocilizumab improves outcomes for critically ill patients, say researchers

A drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis appears to help patients who are admitted to intensive care with the most severe coronavirus infections, researchers say.

Tocilizumab, a medicine that dampens down inflammation, improved outcomes for critically ill patients, according to early results from an international trial investigating whether the drug and others like it boost survival rates and reduce the amount of time patients spend in intensive care.

The findings have not been peer-reviewed or published in a journal, but if confirmed by more trial data, the drug will be on track to become only the second effective therapy for the sickest Covid patients, following positive results for the steroid dexamethasone earlier this year.

“We think these are very exciting results, we are encouraged by them,” said Prof Anthony Gordon, of Imperial College London, the UK’s chief investigator on the REMAP-CAP trial. “It could become the standard of care once we have all the data reviewed by guidelines groups, and also drug regulators.”

The trial has recruited more than 2,000 Covid patients in 15 countries to assess the potential benefits of tocilizumab and other immune system-modulating drugs such as sarilumab, anakinra and interferon.

Scientists on the trial released the early results after an analysis of the first 303 patients, who were randomised to receive treatments such as tocilizumab or no immune modulator, found an improvement in those receiving the drug. But the nature of the improvement is far from clear, because scientists have yet to disentangle whether the drug boosted survival rates, shortened time in intensive care, or both.

Previous trials of tocilizumab in coronavirus patients reported mixed results. One major trial of moderately ill Covid patients published last month found the drug made no difference to death rates or the chances of the patients requiring intubation.

Stephen Evans, a professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine, said the results needed to be “treated with caution” at this early stage.

“Perhaps combining the data from all the reported trials would suggest there is benefit of taking tocilizumab when severely ill with Covid-19 but it may not be large,” he said. Some critically ill patients die from overwhelming inflammation that is triggered by severe pneumonia caused by the virus, so dampening down the inflammation may help.

“It is possible that different drugs work best at different times during illness with Covid. It seems remdesivir may well work early in the disease process, and not at later stages, while dexamethasone works well at later periods, and not in earlier stages of the disease,” he added.

Dexamethasone, which costs about £5 per dose, was found in trials to cut the risk of death by a third for patients on ventilators. It is now part of standard care for Covid patients in hospital.

Tocilizumab costs between £500 and £1000 depending on whether patients receive one or two doses. “In comparison to dexamethasone, it is more expensive. In comparison to the costs of staying in intensive care, which can come into many thousands of pounds each day, it’s still relatively cheap,” Gordon said.





No.11 article:
The Guardian's Jason Burke explains what sparked the conflict, why it threatens to destabilise the Horn of Africa – and&nbsp;examines how the prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, the continent's youngest leader, has gone from winning a Nobel peace prize to presiding over a bloody conflict against the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF)





No.12 article:
Sonia Partridge, 35, died in hospital as England registers highest death rate in a decade

Tributes have been paid to a mother of 13 who died from the coronavirus as fresh data showed England has witnessed its highest death rate in over a decade due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

Sonia Partridge, 35, died at the University Hospital of North Tees in the early hours of Tuesday morning, leaving her partner, Kerry Ann Partridge, without “the backbone of our family” and “my life for the last 11 years”.

Together the couple shared 13 children. One, Meera Jo, 16, saw her mother in hospital before she died and said “there’s never going to be enough words” to pay tribute to her.

Now the family have started a fundraiser to pay for Sonia’s funeral and also help them find a new home after they were served with an eviction notice.

Kerry Ann, 40, who is studying to be a midwife at university, said Sonia Partridge “loved everyone with a passion” and that looking after the youngest 11 of their children without her would be “so hard”.

Speaking from their family home in Stockton-on-Tees, County Durham, Kerry Ann said: “I just walk into a room and expect to see her and she’s not there.

“I’m watching the younger children running around like nothing has changed, and it’s very hard to accept she’s never going to see them grow up.”

She added: “It’s left a massive hole in all our lives. It’s hard telling the little ones she’s gone away with the angels and she’s not coming home.

“No matter how hard things were for her, she always put everyone else first, and now she’s gone. We just feel numb, and other times we are just crying and can’t stop crying. And when we laugh now, it feels wrong because she’s not here to laugh with us.”

Kerry Ann said she, Meera and the other children, the youngest of whom is two years old, were coping with their loss by “doing the things that would make Sonia feel better”.

She said: “We’re doing the housework and getting the Christmas decorations out. Sonia loved Christmas, it was her favourite time of year. She put so much magic into everything she did.

“She was the homemaker, the foundation of our home. She did all the running around looking after the young ones, making sure the laundry was done, and being here for the kids when they wanted to hug her. We just want people to know how amazing she was.”

England witnessed its highest death rate in over a decade in the year to end October as a result of the Covid pandemic, according to data released by the Office for National Statistics.

The monthly bulletin on deaths, which are adjusted to account for changes in age and population over time, show that there were 1,026.7 deaths per 100,000 people, significantly higher than in all years between 2009 and 2019.

The equivalent figure for Wales was 1,076.1 deaths per 100,000 people which, while higher than the first 10 months of 2019, was not significantly different from in 2018.

The data shows that, in the vast majority of cases where coronavirus was mentioned on a person’s death certificate, Covid-19 was also the primary cause of death: 91.8% in England and 88.9% in Wales.

Covid-19 was the underlying cause of death in 11.1% of all deaths that occurred in England (50,012 deaths) and 9.1% of in Wales (2,629 deaths) – the third most common cause of death in both countries after dementia and Alzheimer’s (which are grouped together) and heart disease.





No.13 article:
Dr Hans Kluge fears for national health systems but says stricter rules are showing promise

One person is dying from coronavirus every 17 seconds in Europe, the regional head of the World Health Organization has said, as the pandemic continues to threaten to overwhelm national health systems around the continent.

Dr Hans Kluge said on Thursday the 53 countries that make up the WHO’s European region had recorded more than 15.7m Covid-19 cases – including 4m this month alone – and nearly 355,000 deaths.

More than 80% of countries were reporting high 14-day incidence rates greater than 100 per 100,000 people, Kluge said, with nearly a third recording very high rates of greater than 700 per 100,000.

“As a result, we are seeing increasing signals related to overwhelmed health systems,” he said, noting that intensive care wards in France have been at 95%-plus capacity for 10 days and those in Switzerland are at full capacity.

Kluge said stricter measures introduced by governments were starting to show promise, with new weekly cases decreasing from over 2m the week before last to roughly 1.8m last week. “It’s a small signal, but it’s a signal nevertheless,” he said.

Recent news on the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines also represented “a great hope in the war against this virus”, Kluge said, as did recent developments in rapid diagnostic or antigen tests.

He said the WHO still believed strict lockdowns should be a last resort because of their “significant collateral damage”, including mental health problems, substance abuse and domestic violence, and said that if mask use reached 95% lockdowns should not be needed.

Generalised lockdowns also had a negative impact when they were lifted too fast, he said, often requiring the reimposition of strict measures. They would be better replaced with tier systems based on local levels of community transmission.

It was particularly vital to keep schools open, Kluge said. “Children are not considered primary drivers of transmission and, as such, school closures are not considered to be an effective measure for the control of Covid-19.”

He asked countries considering closing schools to consider the adverse effects in terms of educational outcomes and mental and social wellbeing, and at least ensure children in vulnerable situations and with special needs received full support.

Looking ahead to the end of the year, Kluge said Christmas would certainly be different, “but that does not mean it cannot be merry”. He noted the success of the recent distanced and online Ramadan and Diwali and said similar solutions could and should be found for Christmas.





No.14 article:
US hospitals face influx of patients and staffing shortages amid worsening pandemic

More than 76,000 Americans are hospitalized, the highest number of the entire coronavirus pandemic, as healthcare workers battle severe burnout

A new ad campaign from more than 100 of the nation’s health systems beseeches the American public to wear masks. The campaign includes both print advertising and a black and white video showing photographs of exhausted healthcare workers.

The ad ends with a simple message – “Wear. A. Mask.” – one that captures the frustration and anxiety of health workers who feel the public is ignoring their pleas to work together to slow the spread of Covid-19. Together, the signatories represent thousands of individual hospitals.

More than 11.5 million Americans have been diagnosed with Covid-19 and more than 250,000 have died, according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Resource Center. More than 76,000 people are hospitalized, the highest number of the entire pandemic, according to the Covid Tracking Project.

“As the top nationally-ranked hospitals, we know it’s tough that we all need to do our part and keep wearing masks. But, here’s what we also know: The science has not changed. Masks slow the spread of Covid-19,” the PSA reads.

“So, please join us as we all embrace this simple ask: Wear. Care. Share with #MaskUp. Together, wearing is caring. And together, we are saving lives.”

The ad comes just before the Thanksgiving holiday, when families traditionally gather indoors, and when many health experts worry will lead to an explosion of new Covid-19 cases. It also comes nearly a year into the pandemic, with healthcare workers facing severe burnout.

“We are depressed, disheartened and tired to the bone,” said Alison Johnson, director of critical care at Johnson City Medical Center in Tennessee, adding that she drives to and from work some days in tears.

Even before holiday gatherings, the pandemic is the worst it has ever been in many parts of the country. A hospital in Reno, Nevada moved some coronavirus patients into its parking garage. Hospitals in Kansas have converted cafeterias and chapels into patient care units.

“We are pushing ourselves to the limit and still not having time to provide the level of care our patients deserve and need,” said nurse Zo Schmidt, at a protest in Overland Park, Kansas this week.

Schmidt’s hospital, part of the for-profit hospital group HCA Healthcare, cut staffing in June to what the union National Nurses United described as “unsafe” levels. “During a historical pandemic, we need more nurses, not fewer. I’ve seen a mass exodus of nurses, and more are planning to leave,” said Schmidt.

Nursing shortages are gripping regions of the country with the most out of control spread – such as in North Dakota where 91% of intensive care unit beds are occupied, and 35% of facilities are reporting a “critical nursing shortage”, according to the Covid Exit Strategy project.

Texas health authorities are paying prisoners $2 per hour to help transport deceased victims of Covid-19.

Another Kansas nurse, Cheyanne Seematter, said: “It kind of feels like we’re just, you know, yelling into the abyss,” as healthcare workers beg Americans to keep the virus under control. “We keep telling everybody to stay home, wear a mask, that it is actually bad here.”

The worsening pandemic comes during a transition of power in Washington DC. The Trump administration has refused to concede and begin a transition with President-elect Joe Biden, a delay which could hurt virus control measures.

At the same time, two pharmaceutical companies have raised hopes that safe and effective vaccines are on the horizon, though they will come too late to aid health workers and patients suffering in hospitals at capacity.

In Idaho, chief medical officer of St Luke’s Health System Dr Jim Souza said his hospital is considering “rationing” care, because there are not enough staff and beds for all patients. He said it was a first in his time as a doctor.

“Never in my career did I think we would even contemplate the idea of rationing care in the United States of America,” said Souza.





No.15 article:
France, Germany and Spain remain watchful, while Italy has cleared Babbo Natale to travel

Europe’s governments are putting off painful decisions about Christmas and new year celebrations, with few yet keen to say exactly what will be allowed and many already warning there could be much that will not.

“It’s a massive headache,” a French government minister told Le Monde, noting the “impossible choice” between a “socially untenable” ban on family get-togethers and the medical imperative of not further fuelling the spread of coronavirus.

In a speech in late October announcing France’s second lockdown, President Emmanuel Macron said that if the pandemic was brought under control, the government would “see nearer the time whether we can hope to celebrate the festive season en famille”. As with most countries, that time has plainly not yet come.

France’s prime minister, Jean Castex, said last week that non-essential shops would probably reopen on 1 December, and lockdown rules should be relaxed to allow some form of family Christmas, although “certainly not like usual”. Parties “with dozens of people” would not be allowed, he said, and the government would not decide until the end of November to what extent holiday travel within France over the period would be possible.

Christmas trees, at least, can go on sale from 20 November, the government has announced, but restaurants look unlikely to reopen before mid-January and there is no certainty yet that churches will be able to hold Christmas mass.

France’s lockdown rules do not currently permit people to invite guests into their homes. A recent French poll found 53% of respondents were willing to forgo a family Christmas to prevent infection, 75% were planning to see fewer people and 70% were even willing to stay in full lockdown.

When Germany headed back into a “lockdown light” at the start of this month, Angela Merkel expressed the hope that “we’d be able to afford more freedoms at Christmas” if citizens were to stick to the tightened rules throughout November.

But when the chancellor meets the leaders of the country’s 16 states next week, they are expected to agree on new regulations that will ban seasonal jollies right until Heiligabend, the evening of 24 December when Germans traditionally gather for Christmas celebrations.

“If I am being honest, I don’t see big weddings, big birthdays or even big Christmas parties happening in December or any point this winter,” the health minister, Jens Spahn, said recently.

Some Christmas markets including Nuremberg’s Christkindlesmarkt have already been cancelled, while others such as Dresden’s Striezelmarkt are working on plans to allow their traditional mulled wine and gingerbread extravaganza to go ahead in a stripped-back form.

Fearful of overburdening hospitals, authorities in several cities and municipalities are considering whether to follow the Netherlands in banning firework displays on New Year’s Eve, prompting Die Welt newspaper to complain that those demanding a moratorium on firecrackers “are ignoring Germany’s beleaguered soul”.

Spain remains in a state of emergency, with overnight curfews still in force. The health minister, Salvador Illa, has convened a meeting of regional health experts to come up with plans to make Christmas as safe as possible, but warned people not to get their hopes up.

“I think all Spaniards know that this Christmas isn’t going to be like the last one,” he said on Wednesday. “We can’t carry on as if nothing’s happened.”

The government of the Madrid region is looking into the idea of using pharmacies to carry out huge numbers of Covid tests before and after Christmas to allow people to gather safely. Any such move would need to be approved by Illa’s ministry.

On Thursday, the Catalan government announced that the region’s bars and restaurants, which have been closed for a month, would partially reopen from Monday, and it set out a four-phase plan for the coming weeks.

Catalonia’s 10pm-6am curfew will remain in place over Christmas and the new year. However, families may be able to meet in groups of up to 10 people from 21 December. Meetings are currently capped at groups of six.

In Italy, where Christmas markets have also been banned and travel between regions is tightly restricted, a decree is being prepared for the festive season, with possible measures including shops and restaurants reopening from 3 December, the national nightly curfew being extended by one hour, and Christmas dinners permitted but only with very close family.

The prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, reassured children last week that their presents would be delivered because Babbo Natale, or Father Christmas, was not under any travel restrictions.

But Christmas was “not only about shopping, presents and giving a boost to the economy,” he said. Whatever people’s religious faith, it was “certainly also a moment of private spiritual worship” – just not “private spiritual reflection with a lot of other people”.





No.16 article:
Further trials required but ‘delight’ after early data reveals strong immune response in over-70s

Oxford University’s scientists have said they will not rush to publish efficacy results from their Covid vaccine trial, playing down expectations that some of the 100m doses the UK has ordered may be available by Christmas.

Prof Andrew Pollard, chair of the Oxford vaccine group, said they were not in competition with Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, which have both published results showing their innovative vaccines successfully protected more than 90% of people from falling ill with Covid-19.

“We’re still waiting to get to the point where we can do the analysis to see whether we can protect people,” said Pollard. “We’re optimistic we will be able to do that before Christmas.”

However, publication of the interim results will need to be followed by the full-trial results and the two months’ safety data for half the participants required by the regulators, who will then take weeks or longer to review the application for an emergency licence. Only when that approval has been given could a vaccination campaign begin.

Pfizer/BioNTech is currently the furthest ahead, having published interim data last week and final data this week showing its mRNA vaccine protects nearly 95% of people from falling ill. Moderna in the US has published interim data showing similar protection.

“We are not in a rush,” said Pollard. “It’s not a competition with the other developers. We’re trying to make sure we have very high quality data, working with other partners in other countries.

“When it’s ready is when we will publish the interim results.”

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

Pollard and colleagues were speaking at a briefing on the formal publication of early results from their trials in the Lancet medical journal. The results – which first emerged last month – show the vaccine stimulates an immune response in older adults as good as that in younger people.

That finding is very positive for a vaccine against a disease that takes its biggest toll on the elderly. Many vaccines are less effective in older people, whose immune systems weaken with age. The scientists are also pleased that there were fewer side-effects reported in older people than in younger age groups.

“We were really delighted with these results,” said Pollard. “These first data are really encouraging by showing we are getting very good immune responses even in the over-70s, which look very similar to younger adults.”

The analysis involved 560 adults given the vaccine and tested to see whether their immune system reacted. They mounted a good antibody response by 28 days and a good T-cell response by 14 days. Because the work was done in the first lockdown, none was among the people advised to shield because of frailty or underlying health conditions, but the scientists hope their response will be the same. Among the participants were 160 people aged 56 to 69 and 240 aged over 70.

No one yet knows how long the effects of any of the vaccines will last. Prof Sarah Gilbert, lead researcher of the vaccine development programme at Oxford, said it was possible it might wane faster in older people, which could be overcome by more frequent booster injections. “In the future we may need to do it more often with older people than younger people, but not more than once a year, as with the flu vaccine,” she said.

The UK has ordered 100m doses of the Oxford vaccine and will be hoping, if it is effective, that it will be the mainstay of a vaccination campaign. It pre-ordered 40 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, which may be licensed sooner, and clinched a deal for 5m doses of the Moderna vaccine – but those will not be delivered until next spring.

Oxford’s vaccine is likely to be considerably cheaper, probably costing under £3 a dose, compared with potentially nearly £40 for Moderna’s and half that for Pfizer’s. It can be stored in ordinary fridges rather than freezers, which is a big advantage, especially for worldwide use.





No.17 article:
Letting Covid-19 circulate in hope of herd immunity &#x27;could make it more lethal&#x27;

Study says efforts to prevent spread of disease, such as social distancing, reduce virulence 

A deeply entrenched idea, that newly emerged agents of disease inevitably evolve to become more benign over time, is scientifically unfounded, according to new research.

They can, in fact, become more virulent depending on the conditions, and the easier it is for a virus to spread, the more likely it is to do so.

The findings suggest that failing to control outbreaks of Covid-19 – or even deliberately encouraging the circulation of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes it, as some lockdown sceptics have proposed – could increase the the chance of more harmful forms of the virus emerging in the short term.

Public health experts have been warning for months that trying to achieve herd immunity by letting the virus circulate more-or-less freely is dangerous because it could lead to unnecessary deaths and health services being overwhelmed. However, they have not generally taken into account the possibility that it could make the disease more lethal – at least until sufficient immunity has built up in the human population.

Since the 1980s, evolutionary biologists have predicted an association between the virulence and transmissibility of a novel pathogen, based on theoretical models.

Testing those models experimentally has proved difficult, though, because infectious disease – the interaction of a pathogen and its host – is a system with many moving parts.

In nature, the host and pathogen populations show great genetic diversity, and both are constantly evolving in response to each other, meaning that creating a controlled experiment in which one parameter is tweaked to see how the system responds is almost impossible.

In the new study, published in the journal Evolution Letters, a team led by the evolutionary ecologist Camille Bonneaud, of the University of Exeter, took advantage of a natural experiment. This was in the form of a serious eye disease that spread through house finches in the eastern US after a bacterium called Mycoplasma gallisepticum jumped the species barrier from poultry in 1994.

The researchers took around 50 of the bacterial variants that had been isolated from finches over 20 years of the ensuing epidemic.

They then studied the disease the variants caused in other finches that had never been exposed to M. gallisepticum – creating an accelerated simulation of the real-world epidemic.

They found that the most virulent variants transmitted the fastest, but that those of intermediate virulence were the most successful in evolutionary terms – eventually coming to dominate the bacterial population.

Pathogens have a single evolutionary goal – to produce more of themselves. “Virulence will evolve towards a level that optimises their ability to transmit,” Dr Bonneaud said.

If the pathogen meets resistance to transmission – in the form of a recovered and immune or vaccinated host, or social distancing – then highly virulent forms perform less well because they die out with their host, and natural selection favours less virulent forms.

If there is no such resistance, the pathogen can kill its existing host at no evolutionary cost and remains highly virulent.

A pathogen that is not very transmissible when it emerges, on the other hand, could potentially increase its virulence over time in order to be able to transmit better.

Olivier Restif, an infectious disease modeller at the University of Cambridge who was not involved in the research, said it illustrated the bias with which we tend to think about infectious diseases.

“We notice the ones that are highly virulent when they emerge, and that reduce their virulence over time, more than the ones that start mild and become more dangerous,” he said. “Superbugs”, which are resistant to antibiotics and other medications, are an example of the latter.

Paul Ewald, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Louisville in Kentucky, said humanity had drawn a short straw with Sars-CoV-2 because it was both highly virulent and highly transmissible when it emerged.

Over time it is likely to reduce its virulence – in fact, that may already be happening, as reflected in falling mortality rates.

“I would expect it to evolve to a virulence that is very much like [seasonal] influenza,” Prof Ewald said.

And containment measures, properly implemented, should accelerate that process.

However, future emerging pathogens could be both nastier and more transmissible than Sars-CoV-2 to start with, and take longer to adapt to their human host. “This is not the worst-case scenario,” he said.

• This article was amended on 20 November 2020 to correct a reference to M. gallisepticum as a virus. 





No.18 article:
Vatican asks Instagram how pope&#x27;s account liked photo of Brazilian model

Natalia Garibotto joked she was going to heaven after picture was liked by official account of Pope Francis 

The Vatican said it was seeking explanations from Instagram after Pope Francis’s official account liked a photo of a scantily dressed Brazilian model.

It is unclear when the photo of Natalia Garibotto was given an endorsement by the pope’s verified account, but the “like” was still visible on 13 November before being unliked the next day, according to the Catholic News Agency (CNA).

COY Co, Garibotto’s management company, made the most of the publicity and reposted the image on its own Instagram account last Friday saying the company had “received the POPE’S OFFICIAL BLESSING”.

Garibotto, who has 2.4 million Instagram followers, is also reported to have joked: “At least I’m going to heaven.”

Citing sources close to the Vatican’s press office, CNA said an investigation was under way to determine how the photo came to be liked.

A team of people manage the pope’s various social media accounts.

A Vatican spokesperson told the Guardian: “We can exclude that the ‘like’ came from the Holy See, and it has turned to Instagram for explanations.”

Pope Francis is hugely popular across social media, with his official Instagram account, which operates under the username franciscus, attracting 7.4 million followers. The account does not follow any other accounts.

Over on Twitter, the pope is followed by 18.8 million accounts. In 2017, he was the most popular world leader on the social media platform.

But he very rarely composes social media content himself.

“The pope is not like Donald Trump, he’s not sitting around using his phone or computer to tweet all day long,” said Robert Mickens, the Rome-based editor of the English-language edition of the Catholic daily newspaper La Croix.

“He does, for example, approve the tweets – but not the likes – and on very rare occasions he has said he would like to tweet something because of a developing situation or emergency. So he would have nothing to do with this – it’s the communications department, and how this happens … who knows.”





No.19 article:
Request will be made at WTO meeting in order to allow mass production of treatments

The UK will be asked to reconsider its opposition to waiving intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines and treatments at a World Trade Organization meeting on Friday, a move that would allow mass production of treatments and inoculations against the disease and could significantly shorten the length of the pandemic, campaigners say.

India and South Africa have proposed that WTO member states be allowed to waive patents and other intellectual property (IP) rights on any treatments and tools related to Covid-19 until the end of the pandemic, including for the Moderna and Pfizer/BionNTech vaccines that are expected to be approved for use in the coming weeks.

Talks on the proposal will be held again in Geneva on 20 November. Those opposing the move include the UK, US, Canada, Australia and the EU – all of which have reserved billions of doses of potential vaccines through bilateral deals.

If the waiver were adopted, it would allow manufacturers to begin producing Covid-19 vaccines, treatments, diagnostics and any others tools used to fight the disease without fear of being sued or prosecuted.

“You would open your knowledge, data and patents to all the manufacturers around the world who could possibly do this,” said Roz Scourse, a policy adviser with Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF).

Advocacy groups say pharmaceutical companies have received unprecedented taxpayer funding – including $2.5bn (£1.88bn) to Pfizer/BioNTech, $2.48bn to Moderna and $1.7bn to the AstraZeneca/Oxford University candidate, according to MSF – yet retain control over who receives the vaccine, when, and over the price and quantities.

In its statement opposing the waiver at a WTO meeting in October, the UK government said the existing IP system allowed for pharmaceutical companies to voluntarily share data and technology, and some had already done so.

“Beyond hypotheticals, we have not identified clear ways in which IP has acted as a barrier to accessing vaccines, treatments, or technologies in the global response to Covid-19,” the UK’s mission to the trade group said.

“A waiver to the IP rights set out in the Trips [trade-related intellectual property rights] agreement is an extreme measure to address an unproven problem. The UK is of the view that pursuing the proposed path would be counterproductive and would undermine a regime that offers solutions to the issues at hand.”

Companies such as AstraZeneca and Novavax have struck agreements with Gavi, an alliance that aims to increase immunisation in poor countries, and others to share their technology with the Serum Institute of India and the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, a deal that will provide at least 200m of either or both candidates to lower-income countries at a ceiling price of $3 per dose.

Moderna has said it will not enforce its patents for the course of the pandemic, while companies such as Johnson &amp; Johnson and AstraZeneca have said they will sell their vaccines at cost price for at least a temporary period.

But campaigners say companies need to waive all IP rights – not just on patents – and disclose the costs behind developing and distributing their vaccines so their not-for-profit pricing claims can be scrutinised.

The global supply of Covid-19 vaccines is likely to be far short of what is required until at least 2024, constrained by limited manufacturing capacity and countries hoarding doses, a study by Duke University in the US said this month. Governments in mostly wealthy states have already reserved more than 3.7bn doses, with negotiations under way for at least another 5bn.

More than 180 countries have signed on to the Covax Facility, a scheme that aims to equitably distribute 2bn vaccine doses by the end of 2021. But the platform will be competing for supplies with countries that have signed direct deals with pharmaceutical companies, and may have to wait until at least some of those are honoured before it starts receiving its first supplies.

“Our assumption right now is that we can get to the 2bn doses [by the end of 2021],” said Seth Berkley, the chief executive of Gavi, one of the groups leading Covax, in a call last week.

“In terms of overall numbers and in terms of timing, that will depend on which vaccines are ultimately successful and whether they are in the pipeline. Our hope, and our attempt, is going to be try to have vaccines available more or less at the same time in developed and developing countries.”





No.20 article:
&#x27;Night of the beating&#x27;: details emerge of Riyadh Ritz-Carlton purge

Exclusive: three years on, some of the Saudi detainees reveal what they say took place

In early November 2017, nearly 400 of Saudi Arabia’s most powerful people, among them princes, tycoons and ministers, were rounded up and detained in the Ritz-Carlton hotel, in what became the biggest and most contentious purge in the modern kingdom’s history.

The arrests shook the foundations of Saudi society, in an instant turning untouchable establishment figures into targets for arrest. Statuses were discarded, assets seized and business empires upended. A conventional pact between the state and its influential elite was shredded overnight.

Now, leading figures caught up in the detentions have revealed details of what they say took place. The former detainees, many of whom were stripped of fortunes, portray a scene of torture and coercion, and of royal court advisers leading chaotic attempts to understand the investments behind the wealth of the kingdom’s most influential families, then seizing what they could find.

The accounts of what occurred in the Ritz, provided through an intermediary, are from some of the most senior Saudi business figures, who claim to have been beaten and intimidated by security officers, under the supervision of two ministers, both close confidantes of the man who ordered the purge, the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.

The disclosures come on the third anniversary of the purge and ahead of the G20 summit in Riyadh this weekend, which the Covid-19 pandemic has turned from a global showpiece into a giant webinar. Prince Mohammed, the de facto ruler, will also from January face a new US president who is likely to eschew the wholesale cover provided by the Trump administration in favour of a more conventional approach that pays some heed to human rights issues.

Advocates of the right for women to drive in Saudi Arabia among them Loujain al-Hathloul, remain in prison in Riyadh, despite campaigns for their release. The summit, a theme of which is women’s empowerment, has been flagged as a moment to offer clemency, but officials have remained unmoved.

The Ritz-Carlton detentions often started with a phone call, summoning targets for meetings with Prince Mohammed, or King Salman himself. In another case, two prominent businessmen said they were told to meet in a home and wait for a royal court adviser to join them. Instead, state security officials showed up, ushering them to a five-star prison, where guards and senior aides were waiting.

“On the first night, everyone was blindfolded and nearly everyone was subjected to what Egyptian intelligence calls the ‘night of the beating’”, said a source with intimate knowledge of what took place. “People were asked if they knew why they were there. No one did. Most were beaten, some of them badly. There were people tied to the walls, in stress positions. It went on for hours, and all of those doing the torturing were Saudis.

“It was designed to soften them up. And then the next day, the interrogators arrived.”

The detainees had by then been separated into rooms in the hotel that a year earlier had been the venue for the launch of Prince Mohammed’s ambitious “Vision 2030” plan – an overhaul of Saudi society that was meant to open a rigid country to a world at that point intrigued by the breadth of his promised reforms.

“There is a misconception that they turned up all-knowing with pages of data and information,” a source said, of the interrogators. “They didn’t. They in fact knew very little and were winging it. They were OK on Saudi assets, but they were hopeless on the offshore stuff.”

Some detainees spoke of being threatened with the release of private information, such as extramarital affairs, or business dealings that would not have won approval even under the old system. Next to nothing leaked, but the few details that did emerge gave relevance to the calls Ibrahim Warde, an adjunct professor of international finance at the Fletcher School of Tufts University in the US, had started receiving in mid-2017 from former students asking about prominent Saudis whose careers he had explored in course work. He sensed something big was looming in Riyadh, and he was right.

“Many of those who came out of my classes ended up in the world of financial intelligence,” he said. “I kept getting strange requests from some of them about who was involved in various financial shenanigans. It became clear that they were preparing reports for companies that were acting for Saudis back home.”

The lack of understanding of investment structures surprised some of the men being questioned. “They were guessing peoples’ net worth,” said the source familiar with events inside the Ritz. “It was a shakedown. At one point, they gave people access to their emails and phones and told them to contact their [banking] relationship managers in Geneva and ask for large sums of money. The callers were told there was no equity in the accounts. [The interrogators] thought all the assets were in cash.”

A senior banking source, who refused to be named, said executives across the Swiss banking sector had launched an investigation in the wake of irregular transactions at the time of the crackdowns. “A lot of these transfers appear to have been made under duress. Some were stopped, because the requests were not routine. But some got through.”

Many of those detained told aides they remained puzzled about why they were there. Some had been confidantes of the Saudi monarchy over generations, benefiting from their access to monarchs and princes who had not been shy in cultivating business leaders through access and largesse. All Saudi royals had enjoyed relationships with industrialist dynasties and political patronage had been central to the trade-off. “This is an absolute monarchy, which means that leaders can do what they want,” the source said. “People won favours through long-held customs.

“Often they had no idea what they were looking for. It became straight up blackmail in some cases, because some of the detainees were refusing to sign anything. There was no due process. There is no such thing in the Saudi justice system as a plea bargain, but that was what they were trying to enforce.”

Three years on, Prince Mohammed remains insistent that all those stripped of wealth had been guilty of corruption. Saudi officials say up to $107bn (£80bn) was recovered from 87 people and returned to the Saudi treasury. The detentions garnered broad support across parts of Saudi society, where the crown prince remains popular despite three years of damaging headlines, including the killing of the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi, carried out in Istanbul by a hit squad linked to Prince Mohammed’s former aide.

The sources who spoke to the Guardian said the figure seized was closer to $28bn and claimed the purge came at the price of breaking trust between the monarchy and the Saudi business community.

“This was about consolidating his rule, plain and simple. It came before the Khashoggi atrocity, and the fact that he got away with it allowed him to do the latter. The same guards involved in the Ritz were involved in the killing. History won’t be kind to MBS on either,” one of the sources said.

Warde said: “Anti-corruption initiatives are usually politically motivated. They are often tools for singling out those who were enriched. They provide selective lists of those who were enriched. This was a clear case of the intersection of money and politics in the Islamic world.”





No.21 article:
BLM protests and fresh historical evidence are raising questions over the legacy of the founder of modern Switzerland, Alfred Escher

Alfred Escher wielded so much power and influence during his lifetime that he was nicknamed King Alfred I. An immense bronze statue of modern Switzerland’s founding father stands, fittingly, in front of Zurich’s main train station. Escher was a politician, but he was also an entrepreneur who founded the country’s railway network along with its leading university and the banking giant Credit Suisse.

The statue in Zurich has memorialised Escher for more than 100 years, but it may not be there much longer. A recently published study on Zurich’s involvement in slavery details problematic connections to Escher. The Escher dynasty owned a coffee plantation in Cuba with more than 80 slaves and Escher himself was involved in its sale.

The research was commissioned by the city of Zurich and joins a growing effort, accelerated by the death of George Floyd in the US and the Black Lives Matter protests in July, to re-examine the past and recognise the role that slavery and colonialism played in making Switzerland one of the world’s richest countries.

Switzerland – or the city states that acted as its predecessor – never had any colonies, but it has a colonial past.

It was involved in the slave trade through financial investments in ships that carried more than 170,000 Africans to the Americas. At one point, the city of Berne was the largest shareholder of the British slave trading firm the South Sea Company. Zurich also had shares in the South Sea Company and was financially involved in the deportation of more than 35,000 people, the study says.

Through its textile industry, which was key to the country’s industrialisation, Switzerland was closely tied to the triangular slave trade. “Through the production of printed cotton fabrics, known as indiennes, Switzerland acted as a supplier for the transatlantic slave trade,” said Marcel Brengard, one of the historians who conducted the study. “The indiennes were sold in west Africa, and the money made from the sale was then used to purchase slaves.” 

Hans Fässler, who has been central in the country’s effort to uncover the past, said: “Even historians would say, ‘What? Switzerland? Slavery? No!’” The historian and activist said that over the last decade there had been a growing understanding of the neutral country’s colonial history. “This has to do with a new generation of researchers and key publications that have put the subject on the agenda in universities,” he said. But Fässler also points to the impact the demonstrations following Floyd’s death had in drawing awareness to Switzerland’s colonial past. “Black Lives Matter gave everything more impetus,” he said.

For Brengard, the variety of ways in which Swiss citizens were connected to the transatlantic trade is particularly surprising. “People came into contact with slavery in a number of different constellations,” he said. “We found soldiers who were active on slave boats, plantation owners, civil servants, priests and even a captain in the American civil war.”

There are also known cases where slaves were brought to live in Switzerland, Brengard said. “Some individuals who became wealthy in the Atlantics took their slaves with them when they returned,” he said. It is difficult to determine how widespread this practice was. “We only know of the cases that were documented because a slave landed in an administrative process such as a legal case or a baptism.” 

Thousands took to the streets across Switzerland this summer in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement in the US, and to protest against racism in today’s Switzerland. Yuvviki Dioh gave a speech at the demonstration in Zurich, attended by more than 10,000 people. “Switzerland has a lot of covert, institutional racism,” the PhD student said. She added that people of colour faced many forms of discrimination in Swiss society, from negative stereotyping in their everyday lives to being subjected to racial profiling.

Dioh is a member of BIPOC.WOC, a collective fighting racism in Switzerland, and through the group she has been part of conversations with Zurich’s city council about how the city should best deal with remnants of its colonial past. Buildings named using a derogatory term for black people still exist, as does a mural with a racist depiction of a person of colour. Dioh said it was important these displays were removed. “Public life has to be an inclusive space, but for a lot of people of colour, this is a constant reminder of how our position in society is valued,” she said.

Things are beginning to change. Zurich’s mayor, Corine Mauch, said it was important that Zurich’s connections to slavery were openly addressed. “The city now wants to examine how the topic can be made visible in public spaces in an appropriate manner,” she said. Mauch added she was glad there was now more knowledge about this chapter of history. “Colonialism without owning any colonies is our shared past. We must not close our eyes to this.”

Fässler has also been campaigning for change. In 2019 the historian and activist founded Scores, the Swiss Committee on Reparations for Slavery, and he has been working to have Switzerland included in the Caricom reparation commission’s list of countries targeted for slavery reparations. “Switzerland was part of the transatlantic slavery system and we owe the descendants of the victims reparations,” he said.

He has also attempted to make Swiss banks subject to US slavery-era disclosure legislation, but said the involvement of banks in Switzerland was not comparable to that in the US, where enslaved people were counted as assets or accepted as collateral for loans. Switzerland’s involvement in slavery was mainly financed through private individuals and merchant bankers, as the nation’s modern financial system was only in the making, he said.

As for Escher, the fate of his statue is being considered by a working group, along with 25 other monuments in Zurich. The question remains as to what extent Escher’s wealth and ability to contribute to the founding of so many institutions was acquired by profiting from the transatlantic trade. The amount for which the plantation in Cuba was sold remains unknown.

For Dioh, it is clear the statue should be taken down. “I don’t think that a person who was complicit in slavery should be part of our urban spaces,” she said. She recommends that the monument, along with other colonial remnants, be put in a museum where they can be properly contextualised. “It is not about forgetting the historic figure, but to be absolutely transparent that the development of Zurich and Switzerland came with a very high price.”





No.22 article:
‘This was worse than Eta’: Hurricane Iota brings repeat destruction to Honduras

Second devastating hurricane in two weeks lashes fragile nation and leaves villages submerged

Nery Benitez was working shifts as a baggage handler at San Pedro Sula’s airport when it got flooded by Hurricane Eta. This week it was inundated again as Hurricane Iota struck.

“I had gone seven months without work and three days after I got called back this flooding happened,” the 50-year-old said. “We have family and children. How are we going to feed them?”

Just two weeks after Hurricane Eta brought widespread flooding and forced hundreds of thousands of people from their homes, Honduras was battered by a second hurricane, leaving a level of destruction in its wake that rivals the worst natural disasters in the region’s history.

The unprecedented double blow comes on top of the Covid-19 pandemic, which had already depleted government resources and left many people unemployed in one of the poorest countries in Latin America.

About 2.9 million people in Honduras were affected by Eta, according to the country’s emergency response unit, including many like Benitez whose homes were flooded to the rooftops. That number is expected to increase substantially following Iota, which made landfall on the north coast of Nicaragua on Monday as a category four hurricane before pushing through Honduras the following day as a tropical storm with torrential rain and heavy winds.

The second, much larger storm has destroyed many areas largely spared by Eta and increased the flood damage in already stricken areas.

“This time was worse than Eta,” said 54-year-old Norma Amador. Along with Benitez and many other residents of San Pedro Sula’s La Lima suburb, she had gathered along the highway that cuts through the city, with nowhere else to go. “The water got higher and had more strength.”

At least 90% of La Lima, home to 40,000 people, was under water on Wednesday. Thousands were still recovering from being trapped on their rooftops by Eta, causing nearby levees to fail and flooding neighbourhoods so fast there was no time to escape. Many had waited for days to be rescued.

Others died or disappeared in the rushing floodwaters. According to official tolls fewer than 100 people have died as a result of the hurricanes, but the water from Eta was yet to fully recede in many areas when Iota hit, and hundreds are still reported as missing. The government has been too overwhelmed to make an accurate count.

Heavily criticised for not ordering evacuations of at-risk areas before Eta, the government broadcast an order days in advance this time. Most residents in already flooded areas needed little persuasion to evacuate before Iota hit. However, in areas where the water hadn’t risen as high, some decided to risk it and stay behind.

“The water was rising to the rooftop,” said 25-year-old Ingrid Sanchez, who was rescued along with her two young children from on top of their house by firefighters, who reached them by boat. Thieves had ransacked many abandoned homes in the city since Eta, making Sanchez, who sold fruit outside her home, afraid of losing what little she had. “It’s really hard to get ahead in this country,” she added, holding her pyjama-clad children tight.

Getting ahead in Honduras will probably be much harder for years to come. The pandemic had already plunged the economy deep into recession. Preliminary estimates of the economic loss from Eta ranged from 10 to 20% of GDP, or roughly $2.5 to $5bn (£2-£4bn), and the Iota impact could double those numbers.

The valley surrounding San Pedro Sula – the country’s economic motor and home to about 2 million people – is the hardest hit area in the nation. Much of the valley, just like La Lima, is under water.

The last time Honduras suffered a natural disaster of this scale was in 1998, when Hurricane Mitch – the worst natural disaster in Central American history and one of the deadliest Atlantic storms ever – devastated much of the country’s infrastructure.

Back then the international community rushed in with billions in aid. This time around global attention – and depleted finances – are focused on the coronavirus pandemic, and there is an absence of US leadership to mobilise support. It is unlikely Honduras will receive anywhere close to what it needs to rebuild.

In the years after Mitch, Hondurans migrated to the US for the first time in significant numbers, leading to a substantial rise in, and dependence on, remittances. Many of those migrants who arrived in the US during the immediate aftermath of the hurricane were later granted Temporary Protected Status (TPS), which has allowed them to live and work in the country legally, but has been under attack by the Trump administration.

Guatemala, which was affected to a much lesser extent by the hurricanes, has already requested TPS for its citizens in the US. Honduras is expected to make a similar request for those not covered.

Since 1998, migration from Honduras has continued to grow. Last year more than 250,000 Hondurans were apprehended at the south-west US border, more than double any previous year.

Many whose lives have been upended by the recent hurricanes are already considering migrating, including some who’ve begun organising caravans via social media.

“We lost everything in our homes,” said 22-year-old Carlos Pineda. “How are we going to get it back? There’s no work. The best way is to migrate.”





No.23 article:
&#x27;The fight doesn&#x27;t stop here&#x27;: what LGBTQ+ advocates want from a Biden presidency

The new administration has promised to undo Trump’s discriminatory policies, but activists want to see bold support for queer and trans rights

Joe Biden has promised to undo years of anti-LGBTQ+ policies by Donald Trump’s administration, but advocates and civil rights leaders are urging the president-elect to go further in expanding protections and opportunities for queer and transgender people.

In its four years in office, the Trump administration systematically attacked the fundamental rights of LGBTQ+ people, stripping away safeguards enacted in the previous administration in education, immigration, healthcare, housing and criminal justice.

The administration in particular targeted trans rights, boosting Republican efforts to exploit trans people with fear-mongering campaign messages, and rewriting regulations with outdated and inaccurate definitions of gender that erase trans identity.

Some efforts were more successful than others, but the cumulative impact was severe. “I’ve been afraid to be growing up in this world where I’m not wanted and not accepted,” said Aryn Bucci-Mooney, a 16-year-old trans student and youth activist in Albany, New York.

“The climate that Trump has perpetuated is astonishing. My mental health has declined because of it … It’s just been a big sigh of relief with Biden’s win,” he said.

One of Trump’s earliest efforts to strip away trans rights came in July 2017, when he announced by tweet that “the United States government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the US military”. The ban, which has survived repeated court challenges, impacted an estimated 15,000 trans personnel along with countless others forced to hide their identities or change career paths.

It was the start of a broader offensive that included repeated efforts to deny trans people access to basic accommodations, with regulations that encouraged discrimination in schools, sports, medical care, prisons, homeless shelters, employment and beyond.

Trump rolled back protections for trans people in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, which had prohibited employment discrimination based on gender identity by government contractors. He also reversed health protections for trans people.

The administration pushed to allow federally funded homeless shelters to reject trans people and no longer mandated the bureau of prisons to consider gender identity when making decisions over where to house prisoners.

Trump’s education secretary, Betsy DeVos rescinded anti-discrimination protections for trans children and threatened to take funding from schools that allowed trans athletes to participate on teams that matched their gender. The policies, said Eliza Byard, executive director of Glsen, a group that works with LGBTQ+ youth, forced trans students across the country to return to using incorrect facilities, a practice that has been linked to increased rates of assault and other serious harms. The damage will be lasting, she said: “What has been taken from them can’t be undone.”

Many of Trump’s policies were challenged in court. In a major victory for LGBTQ+ rights groups, the supreme court ruled in June that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act does protect gay and trans workers. But Trump’s term coincided with reports of increased bullying and harassment in schools, a surge in hate crimes and record levels of violence.

Bucci-Mooney, the trans student, came out when he was 12 at the start of Trump’s presidency. He said he was taunted and bullied when he played on the boy’s soccer team, and that he eventually quit. Now on the wrestling team, the high school junior said it would be a relief to have federal policy that supports his basic right to exist.

Trump’s rules “validate the idea that we are not human beings, that it’s OK to discriminate against us simply because we were born in the wrong body, that it’s OK to take away a student’s right to feel safe”, Bucci-Mooney said. “These are children we are talking about.”

Nic Talbott, a 27-year-old Ohio resident, was working with an Air Force National Guard recruiter when Trump announced the ban on trans people in the military, forcing him to abandon his plans. A plaintiff in the legal case challenging the ban, Talbott was denied student loan forgiveness, scholarships, access to health care and other opportunities when he wasn’t able to enlist. He plans enroll in the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps after Biden removes the ban.

“It’s been difficult to watch my friends starting their careers and their families, and I’m just sitting here waiting to begin my adult life.” Serving in the closet was not an option: “I should be able to live in my private and public life as the best version of myself.”

On LGTBQ+ rights, Biden’s team has promised “the most comprehensive plan to advance equality” in history. That starts by dismantling Trump’s agenda, including a repeal of the military’s trans ban.

Biden also plans to reinstate the Obama-era guidance guaranteeing that trans students can access appropriate sports activities, bathrooms, locker rooms and other facilities on his first day in office.

He promised to restore protections for trans people in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and will reinstate protections for trans people in federally funded homeless shelters. Under Biden, the US bureau of prisons will reestablish rules that allow trans people to be housed based on their gender.

But activists on the left are hoping Biden does more than return to the policies of 2016. “The fight doesn’t stop here after election day,” said Bucci-Mooney.

Biden has pledged to pass the Equality Act, which would strengthen LGBTQ+ protections under the law, though its passage likely hinges on whether Democrats take control of the Senate.

With federal protections secured, advocates argue, the justice department under Biden should aggressively and proactively target anti-trans laws on the state level. Several states are currently pushing bills to target healthcare and athletic opportunities for trans children and force schools to out trans students to their families.

The bills could have fatal consequences, said Chase Strangio, deputy director for trans justice at the ACLU, who helped win the Title VII case. “We’re putting young people at incredible risk, either compromising their care when they have supportive families, or outing them when they don’t. We’re absolutely going to cause people to die, and it will be catastrophic.”

Strangio said he also hoped the new administration would use the supreme court decision as an opportunity to expand anti-discrimination protections across federal agencies, with an expansive interpretation of the law.

On immigration, Biden has promised to rebuild the asylum system that Trump destroyed. Biden has pledged to “end prolonged detention”, noting that LGBTQ+ migrants face higher rates of sexual violence in jail. But activists are pushing the new administration to release all trans and queer people currently detained and to give them support when they arrive at the border, instead of jail.

“This is the opportunity to ensure that trans immigrants are not detained, and that we provide them with the legal services they need,” said Jorge Gutierrez, founder of Familia: Trans Queer Liberation Movement (TQLM), a national LGBTQ+ Latinx group. 

LGBTQ+ undocumented groups said they were concerned that Biden’s transition team now includes Cecilia Muñoz, an official from the Obama-Biden administration, who oversaw the record 3m deportations that took place in the Obama years. “It’s not good news for us that she’s back. How do we prevent these deportations and push president-elect Biden to do better?” said Emilio Vicente, another TQLM activist.

Strangio said he also wanted to see Biden’s DoJ use its authorities to investigate civil rights abuses against incarcerated trans people, and do more to release LGBTQ+ people and others in federal prisons who have suffered during Covid.

Although the Biden win was a relief, he added, “This change in administration changes the terms on which we’re operating in many ways, but it doesn’t change the need for people to continue to organize and demand more from these systems.”





No.24 article:
Brigade launches humorous video series in response to rising abuse of emergency service

For Parisians who find themselves locked out without their keys, stuck in a lift or confronted with a large spider, a wasps’ nest or a water leak, there is a common reflex: call 18.

Cue the arrival of the heroic pompiers and the city’s first responders who, if necessary, will abseil down from the roof, kick in a window and let you back into your home.

Now, however, the Brigade de sapeurs-pompiers de Paris – a branch of the military whose main job is dealing with fires and medical emergencies – is asking the city’s residents to call a locksmith, pest control or a plumber unless it really is a matter of life or death.

In a series of short, humorous videos, the pompiers make clear that patience is running out with the increasing number of people abusing the emergency service.

The first of the CommentQuonFait (How It’s Done) videos posted on Twitter this week covers what to do if you’ve lost or forgotten the house keys, and can be summed up in a few words: find a specialist locksmith. Other videos covering similarly non-lethal situations will be released in the coming weeks.

According to the Paris brigade, its 8,500 pompiers were called out 507,258 times last year and saved 30,801 lives. In a typical year about a million people ring 18, which is the equivalent of 999 in the UK. Half of all calls result in a turnout, and of these only 60% are said to require life-saving action.

In July the pompiers highlighted some of the abusive calls they had received, including requests for help with a stuck sofa, a phone left in a taxi, a spider “the size of a man’s thumb in the living room”, and a twisted ankle.

“Two out of every five interventions do not require any emergency action. Often it’s a question of callouts because of social distress linked to loneliness and lack of contact,” said Commander Patricia Maunier, who is heading the video information project. “The phenomenon is especially acute in Paris where so many people live alone and their reflex is to call 18. This kind of call is steadily growing at around 3% a year.”

The brigade is working with the Paris city hall to encourage residents to call on neighbours, friends or relatives instead of ringing 18.





No.25 article:
As we progress through the pandemic, tens of thousands of people are being made redundant. The Guardian will track these job losses as they are announced

Tens of thousands of people are being made redundant in the UK as the coronavirus pandemic stalls the economy.

After a nationwide lockdown was imposed on 23 March to try to halt the spread of the virus, all non-essential retail and hospitality had to stop, putting intense pressure on companies to stay afloat.

Britain’s economy plunged into the deepest recession since modern records began. Gross domestic product fell by 20.4% in the three months to the end of June, the biggest decline of any major nation, following the later imposition of lockdown than in other countries and slower relaxation of restrictions. Almost three-quarters of a million jobs have been lost from company payrolls since the start of the crisis.

Even now, with the economy slowly reopening, many businesses fear that they are no longer viable with social distancing measures limiting customer numbers and behaviour.

As a result, companies have announced tens of thousands of redundancies, and with millions more people on furlough, experts say this number will get higher. The government’s economics forecaster, the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR), has said unemployment could more than double by the end of this year to the highest levels since the 1980s. Aviation, retail, hospitality and leisure are among the hardest-hit sectors.

In the coming months, the Guardian will track these redundancy numbers as they are announced.

While the UK’s number of redundancies is high, the number who have been furloughed is far higher. More than 9m jobs at more than 1m companies in Britain have been furloughed since the launch of the government’s wage subsidy scheme in March.

The coronavirus job retention scheme is being scaled back from August and will close entirely at the end of October, at which point experts warn that furloughs could become permanent redundancies.

This is particularly the case in at-risk sectors such as hospitality which, without a vaccine or treatment that limits the need for social distancing, will face low labour demand and significant revenue hits for the foreseeable future.

When the furlough scheme ends, some think that the redundancy count will get higher. The OBR estimates that at least 10% of furloughed workers will become unemployed.

Steve Turner, the assistant general secretary of the Unite union, told the Commons business select committee: “I am fearful of a tsunami of job losses. Firms are now starting to cut their cloth to meet their needs, which will be devastating for jobs, skills and long-term resistance.”

The number of redundancies shown in the visualisation are, where possible, for UK employees. In the few instances where it is not possible to break down a company’s announcement of global redundancies, we have included this number but have marked it out.

The Guardian has sourced information on company redundancies from their own announcements and media reports. While every effort has been made to include every redundancy we are aware of, the numbers listed will be an underestimate and will miss announcements from smaller companies.

If you are aware of any redundancies that are not included on our tracker, please fill in the form below and we will look into it.





No.26 article:
Hong Kong breached bill of rights over police scrutiny, court rules

Amid ongoing unrest, judge calls for establishment of independent complaints system 

The Hong Kong government breached its bill of rights on protection from torture and cruel treatments by failing to provide an independent mechanism for complaints about police, the region’s high court has ruled.

The finding comes as a report by international experts who quit a Hong Kong police brutality inquiry last year said officers’ crowd-control tactics had radicalised protesters and worsened perceptions of the force’s legitimacy.

Hong Kong’s police force was once one of the most respected in Asia, but its reputation was vastly diminished as the rolling protests last year descended into violence, including numerous instances and allegations of police brutality that went unpunished.

Thursday’s case was brought by the Hong Kong Journalists Association after the city’s leader, Carrie Lam, said there was no need for any complaints system outside the existing one overseen by the Independent Police Complaints Council (IPCC).

The high court court ruled that system was inadequate to discharge the government’s obligations under the bill of rights, and the government was duty-bound to establish one that was independent.

The judge Anderson Chow said the police complaints department (Capo) was an unsegregated part of the police force, and could not be regarded as practically independent. The IPCC was practically independent but lacked the powers to investigate and could not overturn Capo’s decisions, he said.

Chow’s ruling also found that the failure of some officers to display their ID badges also violated the bill of rights by preventing investigation into allegations that they had breached its “absolute and non-derogable” protections against torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. 

While he appreciated the concerns of officers being targeted, Chow said: “As a matter of principle, such concern cannot of itself override the duty to maintain an adequate system to investigate suspected cases of breach.”

The chair of the IPCC, Anthony Neoh, disputed the ruling, saying Capo was independent. But he would not be drawn on whether the IPCC should be given greater powers, RTHK reported. “In an ideal world, of course it’s good to have independent investigations for everything, but we’re not in an ideal world,” Neoh said.

A report by the IPCC watchdog in May was criticised as a whitewash as its inquiry largely cleared officers of any wrongdoing. International experts drafted on to the IPCC’s panel, including the British academic Prof Clifford Stott, had quit months earlier, saying it lacked the powers necessary to meet the standard of investigation needed and their attempts to seek improvements from the IPCC had failed. Stott was critical of the report’s independence and said the final report had gaps and was missing key stakeholders.

A research study published on Wednesday led by Stott on the dynamics of last year’s protests found that the actions of Hong Kong police amplified perceptions of their illegitimacy and radicalised pro-democracy protesters.

Hong Kong’s protests began in opposition to a proposed extradition bill but quickly became a broader pro-democracy movement. By the time the Hong Kong government withdrew the bill, protesters had developed four additional core demands, which the government refused to address.

Stott’s report found that the protests’ diverse participants united as a result of “illegitimate and undifferentiated” police action over time, and that “police inaction at other critical moments helped amplify perceptions of police illegitimacy that further radicalised protesters”.

It found “ample evidence” of indiscriminate dispersals by police, with people subjected to high levels of force and exposed to munitions.

The court ruling and report come amid a worsening crackdown on dissent in Hong Kong, including pressure on the judiciary. On Tuesday a senior Chinese official said “reforms” were under way. Since the introduction of the national security law, dozens of activists and political figures have been arrested and pro-democracy legislators disqualified.





No.27 article:
Oxford Covid vaccine could build immunity in older people – study

Phase 2 trial data shows strong immune response in over-70s and better tolerance in older adults

The University of Oxford is expected to release data on the efficacy of its coronavirus vaccine candidate in the coming weeks, with the latest trial results suggesting it produces a strong immune response in older adults.

The ChAdOx1 nCov-2019 vaccine has been shown to trigger a robust immune response in healthy adults aged 56-69 and over 70.

Phase 2 data published in the Lancet suggests one of the groups most vulnerable to serious illness and death from Covid-19 could build immunity, researchers say.

According to the researchers, the trial demonstrated similar immune responses across all three age groups – 18-55, 56-69, and 70 and over.

The study of 560 healthy adults, including 240 over the age of 70, found that the vaccine is better tolerated in older people than in younger adults.

Volunteers received two doses of the vaccine candidate or a placebo meningitis vaccine. No serious adverse health events related to the vaccine were seen in the participants.

The results are consistent with phase 1 data reported for healthy adults aged 18-55 earlier this year.

Dr Maheshi Ramasamy, an investigator in the Oxford Vaccine Group and a consultant physician, said: “Older adults are a priority group for Covid-19 vaccination, because they are at increased risk of severe disease, but we know that they tend to have poorer vaccine responses.

“We were pleased to see that our vaccine was not only well tolerated in older adults, but also stimulated similar immune responses to those seen in younger volunteers. The next step will be to see if this translates into protection from the disease itself.”

The study’s lead author, Prof Andrew Pollard, from the University of Oxford, said: “Immune responses from vaccines are often lessened in older adults because the immune system gradually deteriorates with age, which also leaves older adults more susceptible to infections. As a result, it is crucial that Covid-19 vaccines are tested in this group who are also a priority group for immunisation.”

Researchers say their findings are promising as they show that older people are having a similar immune response to younger adults.

Ramasamy added: “The robust antibody and T-cell responses seen in older people in our study are encouraging. The populations at greatest risk of serious Covid-19 disease include people with existing health conditions and older adults. We hope that this means our vaccine will help to protect some of the most vulnerable people in society, but further research will be needed before we can be sure.”

The study also found that the vaccine, being developed with AstraZeneca, was less likely to cause local reactions at the injection site and symptoms on the day of vaccination in older adults than in the younger group.

Adverse reactions were mild – injection-site pain and tenderness, fatigue, headache, feverishness and muscle pain – but more common than seen with the control vaccine.

Thirteen serious adverse events occurred in the six months after the first dose was given, none of which were related to either study vaccine.

The authors note some limitations to their study, including that the participants in the oldest age group had an average age of 73-74 and few underlying health conditions, so they may not be representative of the general older population, including those living in residential care settings or aged over 80.

Phase 3 trials of the vaccine are ongoing, with early efficacy readings possible in the coming weeks.

UK authorities have placed orders for 100m doses of the vaccine – enough to vaccinate most of the population – should it receive regulatory approval.

Pfizer and BioNTech have announced that their vaccine candidate has shown 95% efficacy, and 94% in those aged 65 and over.

Forty million doses of that vaccine have been bought by the UK, with rollout potentially starting in early December if the jab is given the green light by regulators.

This week the US biotech firm Moderna released data suggesting its vaccine has almost 95% efficacy.





No.28 article:
Comments prompt concern that this could include the use of lese-majesty that bans criticism of the monarchy

The Thai prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, has threatened to use “all laws, all articles” to take action against pro-democracy protesters, prompting fears that the kingdom’s harsh lese-majesty law could be used against individuals.

The law shields Thailand’s powerful royal family from criticism with one of the world’s strictest defamation criteria, under which anyone who “defames, insults or threatens the king, queen, heir-apparent or regent” can face up to 15 years on each charge.

Prayuth said earlier this year that it was not being used for the moment, at the request of the king.

Over recent months, however, the authorities have struggled to control a new student-led movement that has held rallies across the country calling for democratic reforms.

Protest leaders have shocked many by demanding that the power of the monarchy should be curbed, and that the institution should be accountable and transparent. They are also calling for the resignation of Prayuth, a former army general who first came to power in the 2014 coup.The announcement came in a statement a day after at least 10,000 protesters gathered at a major intersection in Bangkok, to condemn the police for using chemical-laced water cannon and teargas against them at a protest this week.

Demonstrators chanted “slaves of tyranny” and “our taxes” and threw paint at the Thai police headquarters. Graffiti fiercely critical the king, and in some cases mocking his personal life, was sprayed in the surrounding area.“The situation is not improving at there is a risk of escalation to more violence. If not addressed, it could damage the country and the beloved monarchy,” Prayuth said in a statement.“The government will intensify its actions and use all laws, all articles, to take action against protesters who broke the law.”The announcement did not specify whether this included Article 112 of the penal code, which forbids insulting the monarchy.

At least 84 people have faced various other charges for taking part in the protests. Last month, Amnesty International accused the authorities of using “vague, overly restrictive laws to harass and silence people”.

Though the lese-majesty law has not been used against those who have taken part in the recent demonstrations, people have been charged with sedition, which carries a seven-year sentence.

Two people have also been accused of attempted violence against the queen after her motorcade was heckled. The charge carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment, or, a possible death sentence if her life is thought to have been threatened.





No.29 article:
Long Covid: overlap emerges with ME – including debate over treatment

As more people suffer lasting symptoms from Covid including fatigue, ME patient advocates fear they will get bad advice

Six weeks after contracting Covid-19 in April, Dr Amy Small felt well enough to attempt a walk around Holyrood park in Edinburgh with her young family. Her kids wanted to climb Arthur’s Seat – the craggy hill at its centre. Thinking it would be OK if she walked slowly, Small agreed. “It put me in bed for several days afterwards,” she said.

In June, she returned to work as a GP, for a single half day: “It floored me completely for 10 days and took two months to get back to where I was prior to that,” she said. “I couldn’t speak one day due to the fatigue and struggled to stay hydrated as I didn’t have the energy to eat or drink.”

Before Covid, Small ran 5km at least three times a week. Now, even opening her eyes is a strain some days.

Based on current estimates, about 10% of Covid-19 patients develop lasting symptoms, one of the most common being fatigue. The underlying mechanism is still unclear, but possible explanations include reduced oxygen supply to tissues caused by heart or lung damage, or muscle weakness from prolonged bed rest.

However, some doctors are increasingly concerned about the overlap between long Covid and another largely virus-triggered illness: “It’s extraordinary how many people have a postviral syndrome that’s very strikingly similar to myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome,” said the US’s top public health official, Dr Anthony Fauci, in July. “They just don’t get back to normal energy or normal feeling of good health.”

Like people with ME/CFS, many long-Covid patients report headaches, brain fog, sleep problems, a racing heart, joint and muscle pain and fatigue. Some also experience a relapse of fever, muscle pain and exhaustion, known as “post-exertional malaise”, if they exercise beyond their capabilities.

“There are so many similarities between long Covid and ME/CFS it leads me to believe the underlying pathology is probably the same – except that long Covid is presenting as an epidemic, whereas ME/CFS has presented in a very sporadic way, and by no means in such large numbers in such a short space of time,” said Dr William Weir, a consultant in infectious diseases with a special interest in ME.

Another thing the conditions have in common is medical disagreement over how best to treat the fatigue they cause. Last week, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) dropped a longstanding recommendation that patients with ME/CFS be prescribed graded exercise therapy (GET), which involves incremental increases in physical activity to gradually build up tolerance. Patient advocates have long argued that GET can cause lasting damage to people’s health.

The new draft guidelines don’t cover Covid-related fatigue. This may be covered by separate “long Covid” guidelines that are expected next month. Yet patient advocates are concerned that GET might result in similar harm for people with long Covid.

“Although NICE has already issued a statement that GET may not be appropriate for people with post Covid illness, we are concerned that several of the new NHS England clinics for Covid rehabilitation are recommending graded exercise or its equivalent to patients,” said Sian Leary of the patient advocacy group #MEAction.

“I have certainly seen plenty of posts from patients in long-Covid forums where doctors have told them to ‘just push yourself a bit more’,” said Small. This doesn’t surprise her. “During GP training we were told that GET was what one would suggest to someone who was recovering from a postviral illness like ME – so I suppose when GPs see someone who is experiencing ongoing symptoms of Covid this is what many of them would turn to. It is going to take time for those new CFS/ME guidelines to filter down.”

Olivia Hoare is an occupational therapist who fell ill with suspected Covid-19 in May, and still has severe fatigue. On a “crash” day, she struggles to sit up in bed for long enough to drink a cup of tea. “I have spoken to several GPs who were sympathetic and listened,” she said. “However, they asked me to ‘up my aerobic exercise’. I was told by one GP to try a 15-minute walk and then a 10-minute run the following week.” Having a close family member with ME, she ignored these suggestions: “My worry is that people will take on board this medical advice and cause [themselves] more harm,” she said.

The NHS website Your Covid Recovery instructs people suffering with Covid-related fatigue to keep active because it “helps to maintain energy levels”. A spokesperson said the website would be updated to reflect upcoming NICE long-Covid guidance if necessary. For now, the website suggests people start by walking for five minutes without stopping, gradually building this up by one or two minutes each day. “You may notice your tiredness increase and some breathlessness at first but these should improve the stronger you get; this is a normal response to doing more exercise for all of us,” it says.

“Although this sounds mild, by telling people to carry on even if their tiredness increases is dangerous to those suffering post-exertional malaise,” said Helen McDade, a volunteer at #MEAction.

Even so, many medical professionals insist gentle, graded exercise is a crucial part of Covid-19 recovery.

Fatigue isn’t only associated with ME/CFS, but with many inflammatory illnesses. “Time will tell if the fatigue of long Covid is akin to the fatigue of CFS, or more akin to the fatigue of multiple sclerosis or rheumatoid arthritis,” said Elizabeth Murray, a professor of e-health and primary care at University College London. “People with long Covid also have other problems, and there’s no doubt that gentle exercise does help with breathlessness and depression. If you haven’t used your muscles for two weeks because you’ve been too unwell, they will have deconditioned.”

By graded exercise, she means starting very gently and gradually building up. She is behind a Covid rehabilitation app being used by patients discharged from Barts hospital in London who are still experiencing symptoms. Graded exercises that gradually build in intensity are part of the treatment.

The British Society of Rehabilitation Medicine also lists exercise as a key component of Covid-rehabilitation: “Exercise is likely to be needed by all patients, to overcome deconditioning, improve [lung] function and any neuromuscular complications,” a recent report said.

“It is crucial to acknowledge that not all long-Covid patients will behave like CFS,” said Dr Manoj Sivan, an associate clinical professor and consultant in rehabilitation medicine at the University of Leeds, who runs a long-Covid clinic in the city. He also sits on the BSRM’s executive committee. “Fatigue is multifactorial, and there are some patients with deconditioning and weakness who might benefit from GET,” he said.

However, he added that GET could be counterproductive in those patients presenting with a “boom and bust” pattern of symptoms consistent with postviral fatigue. Individualised patient assessment is therefore essential. “We know long Covid has different patterns of presentation and future research will look into targeting specific rehabilitation approaches to specific subgroups,” he said.

Until this happens, ME/CFS patient advocates are urging people with long Covid to learn from their experiences of dealing with postviral fatigue, stressing the importance of “pacing”. This means listening to your body and balancing physical and mental activity with rest, rather than pushing yourself to boost stamina. “It doesn’t mean you don’t do anything, but if you feel you need to rest, you should stop what you are doing and rest,” said Small, who credits the approach with her ongoing recovery. Earlier this month, she returned to work and managed a half day of patient consultations. “It did take me twice as long as it used to, but I made sure I stopped for a cup of tea,” she said. “It felt great.”





No.30 article:
Thursday briefing: Standoff as Starmer doesn't return the whip to Corbyn

Situation under review, says Labour leader … Australian special forces accused of ‘blooding’ murders in Afghanistan … Bill Bailey on his Strictly turn

Hello, Warren Murray with a briefing that is 95% effective in peer-reviewed clinical trials …

Labour has been plunged into fresh turmoil after Keir Starmer refused to restore the parliamentary whip to Jeremy Corbyn, despite what Corbyn’s allies claim was a private deal to do so. Starmer issued a strongly worded statement saying he would not welcome back his predecessor after at least one senior Jewish MP – Margaret Hodge – threatened to quit.

Corbyn was reinstated to party membership this week after his suspension for dismissive comments about a damning official report on Labour antisemitism. Starmer said yesterday: “Jeremy Corbyn’s actions in response to the EHRC report undermined and set back our work in restoring trust and confidence in the Labour party’s ability to tackle antisemitism. In those circumstances, I have taken the decision not to restore the whip to Jeremy Corbyn. I will keep this situation under review.”

Coronavirus latest – Overnight the US death toll has passed 250,000. Ed Pilkington writes that Donald Trump remains in denial but there is hope: two vaccines are edging closer to release and some Republicans are at least showing signs of working with Joe Biden. The NHS is marshalling retired doctors, health visitors and physiotherapists for the country’s biggest ever mass vaccination programme, according to documents the Guardian has seen. In England 22 million vulnerable adults would be given jabs first, followed by the rest of the population. The two most promising vaccines have been codenamed: the Pfizer/BioNTech version is “Courageous” and the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine is known as “Talent”. A Birmingham hospital consultant has given birth to twins while in a coronavirus coma. Perpetual Uke awoke to find her babies had been delivered by caesarean at 26 weeks. They are a girl named Sochika Palmer and a boy called Osinachi Pascal. Further coronavirus developments at our global live blog.

‘Profound betrayal’ – Australian special forces were allegedly involved in murdering 39 civilians during the Afghanistan occupation, in some cases executing prisoners to “blood” junior soldiers before inventing cover stories and planting weapons on corpses, a major report has found. A small group within Australia’s SAS and commando regiments allegedly slit victims’ throats, gloated about their actions and kept kill counts. The inquiry head described the actions as “disgraceful and a profound betrayal” of the Australian military. In all cases, the report finds, it “was or should have been plain that the person killed was a non-combatant”. The majority had been captured and were under control, giving them protection under international law. The inquiry has recommended referring 36 matters involving 19 individuals for criminal investigation.

Fewer refugees find safety – The number of refugees officially resettled in safe countries will hit a record low in 2020, the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) has warned, as it urged the UK government to restart its flagship programme. British ministers have said they will soon restart resettlement flights under a scheme known as VPRS that was suspended in March due to Covid. But even then, VPRS is due to end soon, and a new programme to replace it has not been finalised. By the end of September only 15,425 refugees had been resettled globally, compared with more than 60,000 in 2019, and 126,000 in 2016. The Home Office said a new scheme would be rolled out “as soon as coronavirus circumstances allow”.

‘Clear breach’ – The Five Eyes alliance that includes Britain has called on China to reinstate Hong Kong legislators banned from the territory’s parliament for being pro-democracy. “China’s action is a clear breach of its international obligations under the legally binding, UN-registered Sino-British Joint Declaration,” the five countries said, referring to the “one country, two systems” obligation that Beijing accepted in return for getting all of Hong Kong back. Britain now considers China has broken the joint declaration three times, including with national security legislation for Hong Kong introduced this year.

Upcycling made light work – A material made of crop waste that turns sunlight into renewable energy has landed its designer the first sustainability prize in the James Dyson awards. The award was given to 27-year-old Carvey Ehren Maigue, from Mapúa University in the Philippines, for his invention, Aureus, which can be attached in panels to windows and walls. It allows energy to be absorbed by luminescent particles which then emit energy as visible light. Unlike conventional solar panels it does not have to face the sun directly, picking up UV rays through clouds and bouncing off surroundings. The overall award went to 23-year-old postgraduate student Judit Giró Benet for her Blue Box, which can be used at home to detect breast cancer by urine analysis. Each winner receives a cash prize of £30,000.

Joe Biden will enter the White House in 2021 facing numerous domestic crises. But as Patrick Wintour explains, he cannot ignore the rest of the world.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/18-62714-20201119_TIF_Bidenworld.mp3 

The comic has dazzled viewers with his dancing skills. He explains how he has used lockdown to learn exotic musical instruments, how the arts are being devastated by the pandemic, and why we’re all sick of “jackanape” politicians.

Gareth Southgate claimed Phil Foden gave a glimpse of the young talent that “will be fabulous for England for years to come” with two goals and a display that delivered international redemption against Iceland. Manor Solomon scored Israel’s winner as a 1-0 defeat cost Scotland top place in Nations League group B2, while Wales secured promotion to the top tier with a 3-1 win over 10-man Finland. Johanna Konta shares the anxiety of everyone in tennis as desperate administrators and nervous politicians argue over the viability of holding the Australian Open in January, as the country continues to wrestle with coronavirus.

Alexander Zverev’s chances of a second ATP Finals title are still alive after a ragged three-set struggle to get past Diego Schwartzman. Sir Geoff Hurst has said he supports a ban on children heading footballs in the wake of sweeping dementia diagnoses and deaths among his 1966 World Cup-winning teammates. George Ford believes England will showcase their full array of attacking threats in Saturday’s Autumn Nations Cup fixture against Ireland, having declared himself fit and ready to return. Anthony Edwards was taken by the Minnesota Timberwolves with the No 1 pick in an NBA draft delayed multiple times because of the coronavirus pandemic. And the government is set to announce a bailout for sport on Thursday, with rugby union expected to be the prime beneficiary.

The labour market in London has been hit harder by the pandemic than other parts of the UK, a new study claims. Researchers at the Centre for London thinktank and King’s College London found there had been a 170% increase in the number of people in London claiming unemployment-related benefits, compared with the same period in 2019, equal to about 300,000 new claims. The average for the country was 120%. The FTSE 100 is on course to shed nearly 1% this morning because of concerns about the economic recovery. The pound is down 0.25% at $1.323 and €1.117.

Our Guardian print edition leads with “PM finds £16.5bn for defence as foreign aid budget faces huge cut”. Experts say it represents the largest real-terms increase in the defence budget since Thatcher and will be partly spent on a “hacker HQ” to bolster Britain’s cybersecurity and a Space Command designed to protect orbiting satellites and launch rockets. Also on the front, the black official who has quit the “racist” Windrush compensation scheme and the tougher regional coronavirus restrictions touted as England’s best hope of saving Christmas.

A very Covid Christmas stories have been rattling around for a while now and these sorts of headlines seem a bit old: in the Telegraph, “Rules to be relaxed for families at Christmas”; the Mail, “Xmas is back on!” and the i, “Hopes grow for family Christmas”. The Mirror, like the Guardian, manages to move the story on with “The cost of Christmas” as it calculates “five days of extreme lockdown for every day of fun with family”.

The Times has “Johnson pledges £16bn military spending spree”. Metro reports on “My Covid miracles” – the doctor who gave birth to twins while in an induced coma with coronavirus. The Express has more two-jabs coverage: “Vaccine – double dose of good news”. The FT reminds us how much this is all costing ahead of next week’s spending review: “Sunak faces worst hit to public finances since second world war”. And the Sun has “Wills: I want Bashir truth” about the BBC’s inquiry into his mother’s Panorama interview.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.31 article:
China&#x27;s Xi Jinping warns against protectionism in apparent swipe at US

President tells Apec the major regional trade pact signed on Sunday, which excludes the US, will drive global growth

President Xi Jinping has pegged China as the pivot point for global free trade, vowing to keep his “super-sized” economy open and warning against protectionism in a global economy eviscerated by the Covid-19 pandemic.

Buoyed by the signing of the world’s largest trade pact over the weekend, Xi said the Asia-Pacific is the “forerunner driving global growth” in a world hit by “multiple challenges”, including coronavirus.

He vowed “openness” to trade and rejected any possibility of the “decoupling” of China’s economy – in his only comments nodding to the hostile trade policy of Donald Trump’s US administration, which has battered China with tariffs and tech restrictions.

The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (Apec) forum, at which Xi delivered his comments, was held online this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. It brings together 21 Pacific rim countries including the world’s two biggest economies of China and the US, accounting for about 60% of global GDP.

It was not immediately clear if Trump, wounded by his election loss to Joe Biden, would take part in the summit or send a high level delegate in his place.

In a speech that veered into triumphalism about China’s economic “resilience and vitality” in coming back from the virus, Xi warned countries who insist on trade barriers will suffer self-inflicted wounds.

“Openness enables a country to move forward while seclusion holds it back,” he said.

“China will actively cooperate with all countries, regions and enterprises that want to do so. We will continue to hold high the banner of openness and co-operation,” Xi said.

Xi’s words may raise eyebrows in capitals where China has either restricted trade, imposed sudden blocks or used its giant economy as a bargaining chip in wider geopolitical plays.

In the Apec region, Australian exports, including beef, wine and barley, have been disrupted to their largest market in China, amid diplomatic rumblings over investigations into the origins of the pandemic and allegations over spying.

The Apec gathering takes place a week after China and 14 other Asia-Pacific countries signed the world’s largest free-trade deal.

The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), which excludes the US, is viewed as a major coup for China and further evidence that Beijing is setting the agenda for global commerce as Washington retreats.

RCEP’s rival was the Trans-Pacific Partnership – championed by former Barack Obama – but Trump pulled out of it and the pact has been replaced by a watered-down alternative that the United States has not joined.





No.32 article:
The ‘false positives’ scandal that felled Colombia’s military hero

When the Colombian army defeated the Farc guerrillas, ending decades of conflict, General Mario Montoya was hailed a national hero. But then it was revealed that thousands of ‘insurgents’ executed by the army were in fact innocent men

by  Mariana Palau

On a chilly October afternoon in 2008, Jacqueline Castillo found herself staring down into a mass grave in Colombia’s northern region of Santander. Five bodies, naked and dirty, were squeezed together like sacks of potatoes. Forensic doctors, wearing white suits, masks and rubber gloves, were pulling them out, one by one. They placed them beside her, and asked her to examine their faces.

Castillo was looking for her brother, Jaime, who had disappeared a few months earlier in Bogotá, more than 600km away. His was the last body they pulled out. When he was placed on the ground next to her, Castillo fell to her knees, screaming. The doctors told her he was a criminal, a member of one of the many guerrilla armies that had been fighting the Colombian state since the mid-1960s, and that he had been killed in combat. But Castillo knew that was impossible. Her brother had been a homeless beggar, not a guerrilla insurgent.

Support for this article was provided by a grant from the Pulitzer Center

Castillo did not know it then, but she was standing next to the site of a mass grave for what would become known as falsos positivos, or “false positives” – innocent people extrajudicially killed by members of the Colombian army, and then falsely labelled as enemy combatants. Nobody knows exactly how many young men became false positives. The most recent report released by Colombia’s attorney general’s office says that between 1988 and 2014, around 2,248 people were killed. Previous reports by human rights organisations have estimated that the number may be 5,000 or even higher. The victims tended to be poor young men; some had learning disabilities. They had been lured to faraway places, on the promise of a job, by “recruiters” – people paid by soldiers to find possible targets. Then they were murdered.

Initially, only a small number of soldiers took part in such killings, experts believe, and they were careful to cover up their crimes. But by the mid-to-late 2000s, soldiers who murdered civilians had become so numerous and blatant that it was inevitable that their atrocities would be discovered.

What lay behind the killings was a government policy that sought to defeat, at all costs, the Farc guerrilla movement against which it had been fighting for decades. Since the early 2000s, the ministry of defence and the army had put out directives that prioritised body counts above all other results. They offered a series of rewards, such as money, medals and additional holiday leave, to military units that achieved high body counts, according to Human Rights Watch. Soldiers who killed six “enemies” or more were eligible for bonuses of up to 30m pesos (then worth $15,000). The result was a system of perverse incentives that led soldiers to kill vulnerable civilians. What makes the false positives scandal so shocking is not just the scale of the crimes, but the sheer banality of the motive: thousands of civilians were murdered so that the soldiers who did the killing could get more holiday, or a large bonus.

When confirmation of the scandal hit the press in 2008, in the weeks after Jacqueline Castillo identified the body of her brother, it shook Colombia’s image of itself as a nation overcoming the brutalities of its past to become a more prosperous, modern state. “The false positives tarnished the government’s record on successfully fighting off the insurgencies,” said Kyle Johnson, a researcher at the Conflict Responses foundation. “The country took a huge step backwards on human rights.”

Today, more than a decade after the scale of the false positives killings was discovered, the scandal is still roiling Colombia. At the centre of the tumult is the most celebrated, and controversial, military officer in recent Colombian history, General Mario Montoya. For many years, Montoya was one of the nation’s most cherished heroes. Under his leadership, the army dealt the military blows to the Farc guerrillas that eventually drove them to the negotiating table in 2016, ending five decades of armed conflict. But it was also on Montoya’s watch, between 2006 and 2008, that the practice of killing innocent civilians peaked.

Montoya’s high rank has made prosecuting him a symbol of justice for human rights activists and the families of the false positives, and 12 years after the scandal broke, he is finally being investigated by Colombia’s war crimes tribunal. If he is found to have had a role in the extrajudicial killings, he could be sentenced to up to 20 years in prison. But within the army, many believe the general has become a scapegoat for the sins of government officials, some of higher rank than him, who also had a role to play in the scandal.

Montoya’s trial – which, because of the coronavirus pandemic, has been postponed until next year – will have huge political implications. He embodies uribismo, the hawkish conservative movement led by the former president Álvaro Uribe, which sought to destroy the guerrillas outright. In recent years Uribe and his followers have mounted an aggressive opposition to the 2016 peace deal, which Uribistas believe is too lenient towards the guerrillas.

These political divisions will be further inflamed by the trial of Montoya. Uribe has hailed Montoya as a hero, and said he hopes the general won’t suffer an injustice at the hands of the war crimes tribunal. If he goes free, Uribistas will see it as a moment of triumph – and vindication for the aggressive military policies Uribe pursued as president. But a conviction would mean that the state, under Uribe, was the perpetrator of crimes against humanity. It would delegitimise a government that many Colombians believe saved their country.

Members of the armed forces in Colombia often say there are two types of soldier. The first is the soldado intelectual, or the intellectual soldier, who is concerned with politics and the law. He engages in battle because it is his duty, but feels most comfortable sitting at a desk. The second, known as the soldado tropero, is bored by deskwork and craves combat. At first glance, with his grey hair, bushy eyebrows and reading glasses, Mario Montoya looks like the intellectual type. But those close to him say he is by nature a warrior, in a country whose modern history was defined, until recently, by armed conflict.

Montoya was born in 1949, at the start of a decade-long civil war, known as la violencia, in which more than 200,000 people were killed. In the late 1950s, Colombia’s dominant Liberal and Conservative parties ended the war by agreeing to share power in a coalition called the National Front. All other parties and ideologies were shunted aside, and soon a new conflict began to brew, this time between the National Front government and leftwing groups seeking to overthrow it. What later emerged as the most powerful of these groups was founded in 1964 as the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or Farc.

The Farc’s founding members were a group of farmers who hoped to establish an independent republic in south central Colombia. Inspired by Marx and Lenin, they wanted to liberate their country from the influence of American capitalism. By the 1980s, the Farc had become the largest guerrilla group in Latin America, as well as one of the largest drug-trafficking organisations in the world, using the proceeds to fund a sophisticated war against the government. By the 1990s, the Farc was operating a parallel state within Colombia, extending its influence across a third of the country’s territory.

The Farc was popular in some parts of Colombia, particularly the south, where it had the support of many poor farmers. But as the Farc grew stronger, it also became more vicious. The group swelled its ranks by recruiting minors, and planted improvised explosive devices throughout rural Colombia to defend its coca crops. Farc members extorted business owners, massacred civilians who did not share their beliefs and kidnapped thousands of people, holding them for ransom for years.

By the 1980s, many Colombians feared that the Farc might win the war. The Colombian army, which Montoya had joined in 1971, was a scrappy, poorly equipped force. Throughout the second half of the 20th century, it seemed incapable of defeating, or even containing, the Farc. “They lacked the discipline, cohesion and morale to confront the guerrillas,” said Juan Esteban Ugarriza, a researcher of conflict and peace at Universidad del Rosario, one of Colombia’s top universities.

That began to change in 1999, when the then president Andrés Pastrana more than doubled Colombia’s defence budget, from 2% of GDP to 4.5%. He also signed the Plan Colombia, a multibillion-dollar aid package from the US designed to target drug cartels and leftwing insurgencies. With the new influx of money, the armed forces acquired state-of-the-art weapons and military intelligence technologies, discharged many of its volunteers, and recruited, educated and trained 89,000 more of its own professional soldiers. Today the army stands at around 200,000. The police force, which also fought against the insurgents, was expanded and militarised.

For decades, the Colombian government had primarily tried to end the violence by negotiating with the guerrillas. In 2002, when Álvaro Uribe was elected, he became the first president in decades who believed that Colombia’s conflict could only be solved with what he called “an iron fist”. That belief became the basis for his signature policy, called “democratic security”, which sought to make Colombia safer by aggressively extending the state’s presence and by going after guerrilla and drug-trafficking groups. Uribe had at his disposal something that no president had before him: revamped armed forces that were finally capable of fighting off the Farc. Montoya, who had led the army’s anti-narcotics battalion in the 1980s and served as chief of intelligence and counterintelligence in the late 90s, became the most important executor of Uribe’s approach.

In October 2002, in one of the first major instances of this new strategy, Uribe ordered Montoya to liberate a shanty town within Colombia’s second-largest city, Medellín, which had been taken over by the Farc and was being used as a hub for the group’s drug-trafficking business. The resulting operation, called Orion, was the largest urban military operation in Colombia’s history. Its symbolic and strategic importance was clear. One of the Farc’s long-term goals had been to expand its power into Colombia’s cities, where 80% of the country’s population lived. Beating back such an incursion would be seen as an important victory for the government.

Orion was immediately hailed as a success. The armed forces arrested 355 guerrilla members, raided around 150 properties and liberated 17 hostages. But allegations of extrajudicial killings swiftly followed. In 2003, an NGO that specialises in human rights law, Corporación Jurídica Libertad, published a report that said 17 civilians were killed and at least 80 more were injured in the operation. Several people were also disappeared, though the exact number is unknown. The government and the army have always denied have always denied that these things happened during Orion.

There were also worrying claims that the army had relied on illegal paramilitary groups to gather intelligence in the run-up to Orion. Paramilitarism has blighted Colombia since the 1960s, when the National Front government passed a law allowing civilians to take up arms to protect themselves against the newly formed guerrillas. These non-state militias were eventually absorbed by Colombia’s drug cartels, and became just as murderous as the guerrillas themselves. If Montoya collaborated with them during Orion, it suggested the army was happy to operate beyond the law. Montoya has always denied allegations that he collaborated with the paramilitaries.

I asked an army official who worked under Montoya in Medellín about the use of paramilitary informants during Orion. “You won’t find information in a nun’s convent,” he told me. “You’ll only get it from the same criminals.” Hatred towards the Farc trumped everything else, said a lawyer involved in Montoya’s case. “In the war against the Farc, everything was valid,” he told me. “We were a country with a paramilitarised soul.”

The operation, which remains controversial to this day, set the terms of debate around Uribe’s democratic security policy. “In terms of results, the policy was a success,” said a military expert who worked for the president, because it gave the government the upper hand in the war. “In terms of human rights,” he said, “there are many black holes.”

Wherever the army went, accusations of human-rights abuses followed. By the mid-2000s, NGOs were filing complaints about alleged atrocities by soldiers during operations that Montoya had commanded. A government watchdog agency launched an investigation, but found that Montoya did not order the killings or know they were happening.

In 2005, about a year before Montoya became head of the army, in an atrocity unrelated to the later false positives scandal, soldiers in his brigade allowed paramilitaries to massacre eight civilians in San José de Apartadó, a small rural region thought to be inhabited by Farc supporters. The victims were dismembered and their body parts thrown into a river. Three of the victims were children. The government initially blamed the Farc for this massacre. But in May 2019, Colombia’s supreme court debunked that statement, and convicted six soldiers for their “participation” in these killings. Last year, an army general publicly apologised for the massacre. It is unclear whether Montoya played a role in this massacre: Montoya has always denied any involvement in or knowledge of what happened in San José de Apartadó. For now, the war crimes tribunal will not evaluate his role in that massacre.

In 2006, Uribe named Montoya commander of the army. That year, at least two NGOs started publishing reports that claimed the army had used the false positives practice for years. They accused the brigade that Montoya commanded during Orion of engaging in such killings during that operation and others in eastern Antioquia. The report and findings did not garner much attention outside of NGO circles or within the government. “We were dismissed as leftwing extremists,” said Juan Diego Restrepo, who co-authored one of the reports. The government denied all allegations made in the reports.

The following year, a mass grave was found in Putumayo in southern Colombia. Investigators revealed that the grave held more than 100 victims of paramilitary violence. All were killed during the time when Montoya was the commander in the region. The general has never publicly discussed the discovery of the mass grave.

None of these reports damaged Montoya’s career. His success on the battlefield meant he enjoyed widespread support from Colombians, and from Uribe, with whom he became close friends. During Montoya’s tenure as commander, there were at least 100 military engagements a day throughout the country, more than at any other point in Colombia’s recent history. The general became an almost mythical figure, famous for his charisma and stamina. One of his former aides told me that, during Montoya’s two years as head of the army, he never took a single day off, and it was common to see him in his office late into the night, often until dawn. He demanded extraordinary results from the men under his command. Every week, he would rank the military’s units based on the number of insurgents arrested, voluntarily demobilised and killed.

Kills of insurgents were what mattered most. In July 2006, three months after Montoya was made commander of the army, the various divisions of the army were ranked for their performance. The division that ranked top had reported 379 kills, 285 enemies captured and 32 who voluntarily surrendered. The division ranked lowest had reported more than double the number of captured and surrendered guerrillas, but only 67 kills. Those who served under Montoya’s command say that he would not hesitate to ask for the retirement of colonels who did not deliver high enough numbers. During visits to battalions and brigades, he would grill other generals and colonels, demanding better results.

Montoya’s fame peaked in July 2008, when he helped orchestrate one of the most dramatic military gambits in recent history. The operation, known as Jaque (“Check”, as in chess), was conceived six months earlier, when a soldier in the army’s intelligence unit accidentally discovered the radio frequencies through which the Farc’s then commander communicated with one of his subordinates, a guerrilla nicknamed Gafas (“eyeglasses”). Gafas was responsible for guarding the Farc’s most high-profile hostages, a group of 15 that included three US army contractors and Ingrid Betancourt, a French-Colombian politician who had once been a presidential candidate. Some of them had been held hostage for more than nine years. Uribe was under intense international pressure to secure these hostages’ release, so they had become an invaluable bargaining chip for the Farc in its disarmament negotiations with the government.

After ascertaining the exact location of the hostages, in the middle of the Colombian Amazon, Montoya then sent 15 of his best men to acting classes in Bogotá to prepare for the rescue operation. Over the course of a few days, instructors taught them how to play foreign aid workers on a supposed humanitarian mission. The Farc trusted several humanitarian organisations because of their strict neutrality. For example, it had previously allowed the Red Cross to transport the bodies of hostages who had died in captivity. Some of the soldiers learned how to speak Spanish with fake Australian, Italian and Iranian accents. Two of them posed as journalists – a reporter and a cameraman – from Telesur, the Venezuelan government-sponsored news channel that often had exclusive access to the Farc, thanks to Venezuela’s leftwing president, Hugo Chávez, who openly supported the guerrillas.

Next, army officers posing as Farc radio operators relayed an order to Gafas to transfer the hostages to a location where a humanitarian mission would pick them up and supposedly take them to Alfonso Cano, the Farc’s supreme commander. Two days before the fake mission, Montoya took his group of soldiers-turned-actors to Tolemaida, the armed forces’ most important base. There, like a theatre director running through a final dress rehearsal, Montoya had the team play their parts over and over again, making sure they had worked through every plausible scenario.

On 2 July 2008, Montoya’s troop of soldier-actors boarded two helicopters, which had been painted white to look like they belonged to a neutral humanitarian organisation, and headed into the jungle to meet Gafas and his men. The team was scared. Was the Farc playing along, pretending it knew nothing about the fake radio operators, just to set them a trap? What if their acting failed? “Everyone, even Montoya’s boss” – the head of the armed forces – “had doubts about the operation,” a colonel who was part of the Jaque team told me last year. “But Montoya always knew it was going to be a success.”

In fact, Gafas was so charmed by the soldier-actors that he insisted they stay for lunch. Some of the hostages weren’t so gullible. The American hostages, hearing the “Australian” humanitarian worker’s hispanic accent, knew something was wrong. When the time came to board the “mission” helicopter, they initially refused, until a Jaque soldier managed to squeeze in a few words without raising suspicion. “Trust me,” he said. “We’re going home.” The hostages boarded the helicopter, along with Gafas and another Farc fighter.

Minutes after take-off, the Jaque team jumped on the Farc members. The confused hostages watched as the guerrillas were tied up. “We’re from the Colombian army,” a member of the Jaque team yelled. “You have been liberated.” Not a single bullet had been fired.

The operation was not only a turning point in the decades-long conflict with the guerrillas, but also a turning point in how many Colombians saw their own nation. I was 22 years old when news broke of the success of Operation Jaque, and it was the first time I had ever sensed patriotism among my fellow Colombians. People drove around the streets of Bogotá honking their horns and waving Colombian flags. To many, the country was shedding its image as a violent, backward state, overrun by cartels, guerrillas and paramilitaries. The government was finally prevailing over the insurgency. Montoya had given Colombians something they could be proud of.

A photograph of Montoya, his fist held in the air, a smile of triumph on his face as he led the rescued hostages off an airplane in Bogotá, was printed in every newspaper in the country. International media aired footage of Montoya explaining the operation, with Uribe and Juan Manuel Santos, the current and future presidents, standing next to him. To this day, Colombian media and many public officials celebrate Jaque every July. The lower chamber of congress is discussing a law that would commemorate Jaque every year, and even build a monument in its honour.

But Jaque’s glory – and Montoya’s – did not last long. Two months later, in August 2008, the false positives scandal broke.

The scandal had been brewing for months. In July 2008, just months before Jacqueline Castillo identified the body of her brother in the mass grave in Santander, a Colombian soldier contacted the UN with a terrible story. He alleged that a unit he had belonged to until recently had killed civilians since 2005, if not before. He himself had participated in the killing of at least one civilian. The soldier had deserted the army and become a whistleblower after discovering that this unit had killed his own father and labelled him as a guerrilla fighter. The UN had immediately alerted the Colombian presidency. Santos, then the defence minister, and Freddy Padilla de León, the commander of the armed forces, met with the soldier and commissioned an internal investigation to determine if the allegations were true. When the investigation delivered its findings a few weeks later, it found no evidence of what the whistleblower was saying.

Then, on 25 September 2008, a senior official in the Bogotá city government called a press conference. The official, Clara Lopez, said that she had found the names of 11 young men who had been reported missing from a Bogotá suburb in a database of guerrillas killed in combat. Lopez thought it was odd that they had all been reported dead just 48 hours after they were last seen. It seemed impossible that these men were recruited by the guerrillas, trained and sent to combat in such a short period of time. Journalists raised the question of whether the disappeared had been killed by the army. It was around this time the killings began to be described as “false positives”.

Lopez’s findings appeared to corroborate the whistleblower’s story. Later that week, the bodies of all 11 men were exhumed from mass graves very near to the site where Castillo found her brother’s body. Santos and Padilla commissioned a more thorough investigation, led by the inspector general of the armed forces. In October, the investigators published a report confirming that Castillo’s brother, the 11 young men from Bogotá, and possibly hundreds of others, had been murdered by the army. The murders were not perpetrated by just a few rogue soldiers: cases of false positives had been uncovered in every army division. The report does not mention Montoya. It just investigated whether the extrajudicial killings had occurred.

Among the armed forces, and in the ministry of defence, the scandal was received with shame. “This was their Kafka moment,” said Armando Borrero, a military expert who once instructed Montoya in a course for colonels being promoted to generals. “They woke up one day to discover they were a monster.”

Twenty-seven army officers, most of them high-ranking, who had belonged to or commanded units incriminated in the report, were dismissed immediately. In early November 2008, just five months after the success of Operation Jaque, Montoya himself resigned. He did not mention the false positives in his resignation letter, but it was clear that, after a scandal of this scale, he could not keep his job. By the time the peace deal was signed, at least 21 low- and mid-ranking military officials had been convicted for the extrajudicial killings.

On the international stage, the scandal tarnished the reputation of Colombia’s ministry of defence, and jeopardised the billions of dollars in military aid that the US, its main ally, gave to Colombia every year. But within Colombia, most people seemed to turn a blind eye. The major newspapers and magazines of the country ran stories about the false positives, but there were no mass protests or widespread demands that any government official resign. Support for the army remained strong. In May 2009, one poll found that 79% of Colombians had a favourable opinion of the army. “We had unwavering faith towards Uribe, and the hatred of the Farc was so strong,” said Juan Diego Restrepo, who had co-authored one of the reports on false positives. “And as long as that hate exists, a big part of Colombia will think that whatever was done against the Farc was legitimate, and that other thing [the false positives] was collateral damage.”

The conflict with Farc ended in 2016, when it signed a peace deal with the government. In exchange for giving up its weapons, the government agreed to let the Farc form its own political party, and reserved 10 congressional seats for which only the Farc could run. The terms of the peace deal polarised the country. Older, more conservative voters, who rallied round former president Uribe, thought the deal was too generous to the Farc. Younger, more liberal voters tended to argue that the only way to end violence in Colombia was through a negotiated deal, even if that meant granting major concessions.

One particularly controversial element of the peace deal was the creation of a war crimes tribunal that would investigate crimes against humanity allegedly committed during the conflict. The Farc, Colombia’s armed forces, paramilitaries and even third-party members who were involved in perpetrating the crimes will be tried. In total, 2,744 military officials, who could have had a role in the false positives or other war crimes and crimes against humanity, will be tried by the tribunal. It will be the biggest military trial in Colombia’s history. Montoya is the highest-ranking army official to be tried for the false positives scandal.

His case has become a flashpoint in the broader political conflict over the peace deal and Uribe’s legacy. If Montoya is acquitted, the right will take it as a vindication of Uribe. The left is hoping that Montoya is found guilty, for the opposite reason.

According to Juan Esteban Ugarriza, the researcher in conflict and peace, the false positives prosecutions have stoked resentment within the armed forces. Military figures argue that during its battle with the Farc, the army was constrained – at least in theory – by strict international law, while fighting non-state actors who cared little about such statutes. Many within the military claim to fear the prospect of a judicial war against them, orchestrated by the country’s left and the Farc.

Some who oppose the prosecution of army officials have tried to take matters into their own hands. On the evening of 11 January 2019, Alfamir Castillo (no relation of Jacqueline Castillo), the most vocal activist for justice in the case, was sitting in the back of a car, near the Colombian city of Cali, when two men on a motorbike pulled up alongside her and fired several rounds into her vehicle. Castillo only survived because her car was bulletproof – in 2018, the Colombian government’s national protection unit had assigned the car to her, along with two bodyguards, after a series of death threats she had received. The authorities have not found the people behind the threats or the attack, but Castillo has a pretty good idea of who would want to kill her. “Those who don’t want me testifying against Mario Montoya,” she says.

Alfamir Castillo’s son, Darbey Mosquera, was a false positive. He was one of a small group executed by soldiers in early 2008. Another man in the group survived the attack: when a soldier tried to shoot him in the back, the gun jammed, and he was able to escape and hide in the darkness. He lived to tell Castillo how her son was murdered.

For years Castillo has sought justice for her son, and the other false positives. To her, they are victims of a crime committed by the Colombian state against poor and marginalised people. Her leadership and perseverance has won support from human rights lawyers and activists. They have created a movement that has sought to pressure the government to prosecute senior military officials for the killings, not just rank-and-file footsoldiers. At the top of that list is Montoya.

When Montoya does eventually go on trial, Alfamir Castillo will be a key witness against him. That, says Germán Romero, her lawyer, is why his supporters may have tried to silence her.

Montoya declined to speak to me for this article. But I spoke to people close to him. A personal friend of his, who lamented his “loss of strength”, told me that, as he awaits his trial, he has grown tired and melancholic. In a preliminary hearing of his role in the false positives killings at the war crimes tribunal in June 2019, Montoya pleaded not guilty. He says that he did not order the killings of any civilians, and that the false positives were killed by lazy soldiers who wanted to cheat the army’s rewards systems. But prosecutors and victims’ lawyers do not claim that Montoya ordered the extrajudicial killings. They argue that Montoya is responsible for the deaths because they were the result of the way he ran the army – placing disproportionate pressure on unit commanders to produce results. In a policy document signed by Montoya in 2006, it was made clear that “kills are not the most important thing, they are the only thing”. Montoya denies his leadership style could have led to the killings, and he denies any knowledge about the extrajudicial killings.

Along with Alfamir Castillo’s testimony, the case against Montoya will rely on the testimonies of soldiers who were convicted of murdering false positives by the ordinary justice system, and whose cases are now being re-evaluated as part of the war crimes tribunal. In a June 2019 hearing, a colonel said that Montoya had suggested he “grab some guys from the morgue, put a uniform on them and present them as results”. The colonel also said that his unit was expected to engage in combat every day, and that the general demanded “litres of blood”, only caring about the number of deaths and never about arrests.

Montoya’s supporters say the colonel and other soldiers are lying. They point out that these are convicted killers, already sentenced to decades in prison for false positives murders, who are trying to secure reduced sentences by shifting the blame for their crimes on to more senior figures. But others have pointed out that those soldiers have already been proven to have told the truth on other significant matters. In a series of testimonies during early December 2019, soldiers told judges about an undiscovered false positives mass grave site, in which the tribunal’s investigators found more than 70 bodies.

Whatever the outcome of the trial, it remains to be seen if Colombia will learn the lessons of the false positives scandal. Although the Farc has disarmed, there are still smaller illegal armed groups wreaking havoc around the country. The government is prioritising an aggressive offensive to fight them off. Leaked army reports say soldiers are not required to “demand perfection” when executing lethal attacks against an enemy, even if there are doubts about their targets. Radical measures to prevent a scandal like the false positives from ever happening again are yet to be taken. 

• Follow the Long Read on Twitter at @gdnlongread, and sign up to the long read weekly email here.





No.33 article:
19 November 1932: If ‘carriers’ can be detected with any certainty, it is obvious that they should be prevented from doing further damage

The recent epidemic outbreaks of typhoid in Yorkshire have roused a good deal of public interest, and naturally some measure of public alarm. We live in days in which these things have ceased to be so common that they form a customary part of the national picture. Yet within the lifetime of many of us the state of things was very different. I myself am living in a village where thirty years ago we did not have “epidemics” of typhoid only because typhoid was always present. The contrast is so manifest that it is worth looking into. The advance is almost entirely the fruit of scientific application of preventive medicine, and the problem of a typhoid epidemic affords an excellent illustration of the work of this science.

Typhoid fever is a disease due to the invasion of the sufferer by definite and easily identifiable bacillus. If the patient survives, there is left an immunity to future attacks which, if not absolute, is very nearly so. Such person is as a rule safe himself and incapable, therefore, of taking part in the further spread of the disease. Unfortunately, there is a proportion of past cases to which this rule does not apply: they recover, but they remain infected for indefinite periods. Such people, if suitably placed (in the kitchen of a restaurant, for example), are the main source of the occasional cases which occur in all large towns without creating an epidemic. For an epidemic to occur, the infection must be conveyed widely in some article of diet, usually either milk or water, and in the case of typhoid almost always water. That is to say, there must be a source of distribution of infection such as defective drainage or grossly bad sanitation. The problem is at first that of identifying the “carrier,” an almost impossible task until a series of cases has furnished convergent evidence as to the source. Meanwhile, if the rest of the conditions are present, our epidemic has started. How is it to be controlled?

Isolation and nursingThe first step is the identification and isolation of all actual cases. Only in this way is it possible to arrest the continuation of the direct spread of infection. Under suitable conditions of isolation and nursing this part of the task is a comparatively easy one. The disease when suspected as a likely form of illness is almost certain to be identified. All that is then needed is adequate modern hospital organisation. If “carriers” can be detected with any certainty, it is obvious that they should be prevented from doing further damage.

In the presence of an epidemic, however, the carrier problem is of minor relative importance. One active case is a greater danger than any “carrier,” so long as the case is not under control. The immediate difficulty in large districts is the provision of water which shall be free from danger. As a rule, the source of infection can be discovered, but it does not follow that it can immediately be cut off. Even if it is cut off the danger will persist for some time, though fortunately the typhoid bacillus cannot survive for long in a free state in water. If alternative supplies are not available, the water can be made safe by the method so largely used during the war, and though chlorinated water is not a perfect beverage, it is harmless and free from risk even when it has been heavily polluted.

It is curious to think that without modern preventive medicine it is doubtful if the Great War could ever have been conducted on either side. Huge as the mortality was, it was almost entirely the work of the enemy and not of disease. In no previous war in history has this been the case. Disease has always been the chief of the captains of death, and, as in the South African War, “disease” has meant typhoid in all wars in temperate climates. Yet among British troops its incidence during the Great War was almost infinitesimal. Instead of tens of thousands of cases they occurred as units; as cause of death typhoid scarcely existed. Chlorination of water was rigorously enforced. Yet by itself this would probably have proved inadequate, for times come when men are both thirsty and heedless. So every man before he went to the field of hostilities was given preventive inoculation against the typhoid group of organisms. It was mentioned earlier that an attack of typhoid confers a lasting immunity if recovered from, and this is true of most of the “acute specific diseases.” It results from the formation in the blood of substances which resist the invasion of the bacillus and these substances remain as blood-constituents for long periods. To give a man typhoid to protect him from typhoid would be a poor economy, but the same result can be reached by milder methods. It is not always necessary that the subject should encounter living organisms in order to excite the formation of protective substances and in the case of typhoid a very satisfactory immunity can be conferred by the injection of short series of graduated doses of killed bacilli. So we had the totally new war-phenomenon of a virtually immune army working under virtually typhoid free conditions of water supply. Between them, typhoid vaccine and chlorination furnished the greater triumph in the history of preventive medicine. And while it is unlikely that conditions will ever arise in civil life which would justify the inoculation of a whole population against typhoid here in England, yet such conditions do arise when great floods, or other disasters have disorganised the mechanisms of civilisation.

Diphteria and the common coldThe problem of the “carrier” does not exist in typhoid alone. It is the cause of the persistence of diphteria, of cerebro-spinal fever, and of this scourge of England, the common cold. All of these diseases may be harboured by individuals who are not themselves sufferers, and these cases present the greatest difficulties in their identification. In diphtheria we have the peculiar position that the “carrier” may never have had the disease and may, in fact, be unable to have it. There exists a considerable group in any population who are naturally immune to diphtheria; unfortunately they may carry the infection without having the disease.

Continue reading

Before you post, we’d like to thank you for joining the debate - we’re glad you’ve chosen to participate and we value your opinions and experiences.

Please choose your username under which you would like all your comments to show up. You can only set your username once.

Please keep your posts respectful and abide by the community guidelines - and if you spot a comment you think doesn’t adhere to the guidelines, please use the ‘Report’ link next to it to let us know.

Please preview your comment below and click ‘post’ when you’re happy with it.





No.34 article:
Refugees on the move as federal troops confront TPLF in Tigray and ethnic tensions escalate

International aid workers who have left Ethiopia’s Tigray region in recent days have described a chaotic and dynamic situation with large numbers on the move to avoid fighting, choking roads already full of military vehicles.

Federal troops are involved in a massive offensive aimed at removing the Tigray People’s Liberation Front from power in the northern region, and intensifying rhetoric from both sides has reinforced fears of a long and bloody conflict.

One aid worker, who spoke to the Guardian on condition of anonymity, said: “There are thousands of people trying to get away from the fighting, and the local administration is trying to house them in schools and public buildings, or disperse them into villages or wherever they might have relatives.”

Others described a recruitment drive in Tigray, with veterans re-enlisting and “widespread mobilisation”.

“There is a strong nationalistic fervour among the Tigrayans so I don’t think the Tigrayans are just going to yield. There is a big ethnic element here that is clearly escalating,” said a second aid worker.

One flashpoint is between Tigrayans and Amharans from the neighbouring province. Amharan security forces and militia are fighting alongside government troops as they advance into Tigray.

In a statement issued on Wednesday headlined “Distinguishing [the] TPLF from the People of Tigray”, the Ethiopian government denounced “mischaracterisations” suggesting that the military operation had any ethnic bias, and was simply aimed at maintaining the unity of Africa’s second most populous country.

“Our vision of Ethiopia is of a multinational society … Our common heritage and destiny is strong enough to overcome the threat posed by the divisive, sinister and toxic machinations of the TPLF clique,” it said.

However, Reuters reported that Ethiopian peacekeepers stationed in Somalia have disarmed between 200 and 300 of their Tigrayan colleagues.

Tigray’s leadership said on Wednesday it would never surrender to federal troops. “Tigray is now a hell to its enemies,” said Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the TPLF. “Let us mobilise our entire capacity … As long as the army of the invaders is in our land, the fight will continue.”

A statement from the office of the prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, promised to put an end to the “deadly crime spree” of Tigray’s “disgruntled, reactionary and rogue” leaders.

Officials said federal forces controlled multiple towns in southern Tigray and had advanced to within roughly 80 miles of Mekelle, but with communications cut to the region and no media allowed access it is impossible to confirm the claims.

Eyewitnesses described government air raids around Mekelle and elsewhere in Tigray, though were unable to say which targets had been hit. There have been reports of civilian casualties from the air strikes and artillery bombardments, with hundreds feared dead.

Abiy launched military operations two weeks ago after he accused the TPLF of attacking a military camp and attempting to seize military hardware. The TPLF denies the charge and has accused the prime minister of concocting the story to justify the offensive.

The open hostilities are the culmination of months, even years, of rising tensions between the TPLF’s leadership and the ruling coalition in Addis Ababa, the national capital.

Analysts say that many Tigrayans appear to support their leaders for the moment.

“The TPLF appears more popular among Tigrayans than it has been for a long time … Tigrayans are rallying around the flag,” said Will Davison, an Ethiopia expert with the International Crisis Group, which is based in Addis Ababa.

The UN, the African Union and others have called for talks, but Abiy has resisted despite fears of a humanitarian catastrophe.

The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has visited healthcare facilities in Tigray and Amhara and found them in need of medical supplies to care for an influx of wounded. One hospital in Gondar, the capital of Amhara, had treated more than 400 critically injured patients, the organisation said.

The Ethiopia Red Cross Society has transported hundreds of injured people and more than 1,000 people have contacted the ICRC’s hotline and visited its office in Mekelle and Addis Ababa looking for help to reach their families, said Katia Sorin, ICRC’s head of delegation in Addis Ababa.

“The telecommunications blackout in Tigray has made it practically impossible for people to contact their family members, causing fear and anguish on the whereabouts and safety of their loved ones,” Sorin said.

The UN and the African Union have called for a ceasefire. So too has the US, and the pope.

An open letter signed by 33 former British members of parliament and the European parliament, including four former ministers, called on the UK government to end its “woeful inertia” and threaten sanctions unless Ethiopia, Eritrea and other state actors pull back from the conflict.

“This is a unique moment in the history of a deeply conflicted part of the world…. We urge the government to give a stronger voice … to the need for peace,” the letter reads.

Abiy was appointed leader of the ruling coalition of Ethiopia and so prime minister in 2018. Though his sweeping reforms won widespread praise, they have allowed old ethnic and other grievances to surface.

The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s governing coalition for decades before Abiy came to power, and Tigrayan leaders complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions.

The postponement of national elections owing to the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated tensions, and when parliamentarians in Addis Ababa voted to extend officials’ mandates Tigrayan leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal, an act which some analysts say made a confrontation inevitable.





No.35 article:
UN urges UK to restart programme of resettlement suspended during pandemic

The number of refugees resettled in safe countries will hit a record low in 2020, the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) has warned, as it urged the UK government to restart its flagship programme.

According to the latest data from the UNHCR, as at the end September, only 15,425 refugees have been resettled globally, compared with 63,726 in 2019, 55,680 in 2018, 65,108 in 2017 and 126,291 in 2016.

In the UK, ministers recently said they would soon restart resettlement flights, which were suspended in March due to Covid.

However, the cases will fall under the almost-completed vulnerable persons resettlement scheme (VPRS), which is supposed to have been replaced by the new global resettlement programme, initially announced in June 2019.

“It’s really heartening that the UK has restarted resettlement,” said Rossella Pagliuchi-Lor, UNHCR’s representative in the UK. 

“The VPRS scheme was a real success but is almost complete. The needs are huge and growing due to the pandemic. We urge the government to provide clarity and confirm when its new, global programme will start.”

The UNHCR has urged states to resettle as many refugees as possible in 2020 in order not to lose those resettlement opportunities for refugees, and to maintain resettlement quotas for 2021.

The agency estimates that, primarily due to the impact of Covid-19 on resettlement processing and travel, as many as 15,000 resettlement places will be lost in 2020.

Despite the impact of the pandemic, UNHCR resettlement operations have been working to identify and process cases throughout the year, submitting resettlement files for more than 31,000 refugees.

Of the refugees that were resettled this year, Syrians comprised the bulk – 41% – followed by Congolese, 16%. Others were from 47 countries of origin, including Afghanistan, Iraq and Myanmar.

UNHCR’s assistant high commissioner for protection, Gillian Triggs, said: “We are dealing with a disappointingly low resettlement ceiling to begin with – a quota of less than 50,000 for the entire year – and this was further impacted by Covid-19 delaying departures and pausing some states’ resettlement programmes.

“Current rates point to one of the lowest levels of resettlement witnessed in almost two decades. This is a blow for refugee protection and for the ability to save lives and protect those most at risk.

“Expanding safe and legal pathways to protection, including through resettlement, saves refugees’ lives and it can also mitigate their resort to dangerous journeys by land or sea.”

A Home Office spokesperson said: “The UK’s world-leading resettlement programme is resuming following a temporary pause as a result of the pandemic.

“Resuming will mean we are able to deliver our commitment to bring 20,000 refugees who have fled the conflict in Syria to rebuild their lives safely in the UK, and we will roll out a new global resettlement scheme as soon as coronavirus circumstances allow.

“We have to help more people directly from the affected regions and that is exactly what we are planning with the new firm and fair asylum system, which will welcome people through safe and legal routes.”





No.36 article:
Are backpackers really less valuable to New Zealand than those with more money?

‘Value over volume’ doesn’t take into account the benefits of young tourists, which includes working while they’re here

 Kiwis have a long history of welcoming guests and sharing what we love about our country. So it was perhaps no surprise that recent comments from New Zealand’s new minister of tourism, Stuart Nash, have elicited such passionate debate amongst locals and the industry.

Speaking at a summit hosted by the Tourism Industry Aotearoa, Nash said the future of the New Zealand tourism industry is high-net-worth visitors who spend more while they are here. To show his intent in this area Nash also said he would like to ban the hire of non-self-contained vans to tourists to stop “Freedom Campers” – a specific subset of backpackers who sleep in their vehicle wherever the fancy takes them, as opposed to paying a few dollars for a campsite with amenities such as bathrooms.

Many of these vans do not have toilets onboard which leads to an issue of human waste in pristine locations, an issue which has locals riled, and which Nash has singled out: “They pull over to the side of the road and they shit in our waterways,” Nash told RNZ on Wednesday.

The ministerial directive that the industry should be focusing on “value over volume” should come as no surprise having been stated as one of the goals in the government’s 2019 tourism strategy.

Who doesn’t want to extract more value? But this is where we encounter our first problem: What is “value” and which kind of tourists offer the best return?

The rich traveller in the fancy lodge spends more money per day than the backpacker with their instant noodles, but stays for a far shorter time, and where does the money they spend go?

A large number of luxury lodges in New Zealand are foreign-owned, so that money is not providing much value to New Zealand. The backpacker will frequent smaller shops, in more dispersed locations, over a much longer period of time.

Backpackers will also contribute to the economy by working their way around the country, picking fruit, working on farms, or even filling professional roles. In an average year prior to Covid, 70,000 visitors to New Zealand would visit on 12–24 month working holiday visas (plus another 75,000 on student visas) which allow for half the trip to be spent working. It is this group which makes up the majority of backpackers. Staying long-term means many have parents or friends that come to visit them whilst they are here, and spend more money.

Both groups will provide free marketing services via their social media and face-to-face when they return home. Individuals from both groups fall in love with the country (or one of the people) and end up making the move permanently, contributing to economic output and paying taxes for decades to come.

Backpackers are also likely to return as high spending visitors in the future, having spent years yearning to recapture their amazing experiences as a youth in New Zealand.

The above considerations are purely financial. When looking at the long-term sustainability of a business, or indeed an entire industry, the “three-P” framework is often used: people, planet, profits. What is the environmental impact of the rich visitor with their helicopter trips versus the 20-year-old in their van? There is very little data on this and more work needs to be done.

Similarly with the impacts on communities. Intuitively you would say the backpacker is providing more community engagement down at the pub, volunteering, joining in sports, but that might not be true. We just don’t have the data regarding the cultural exchanges enabled by different tourist segments.

Work needs to be done to determine exactly which tourist segments represent the most value, and over what time scale we measure that value. This needs to be balanced with New Zealand’s welcoming attitude toward all people – it is not an elitist destination. 

The rise of cheap international travel over the last two decades has brought a large increase in tourist numbers to New Zealand with almost four million international visitors in 2019 contributing 20.4% of all New Zealand’s export earnings and employing up to 14% of the workforce.

It has also brought significant problems, as identified in the commissioner for the environment’s report Pristine Popular, Imperilled? which detailed the environmental impact tourism was having on New Zealand’s most iconic scenery.

How fast the global tourism industry recovers after the Covid-19 remains to be seen. Will travellers be too nervous to return to the air, or will pent-up demand have more influence on passenger numbers?

Will we see new budget airlines as a result of so many aircraft sitting idle potentially being sold off cheaply, or will the surviving carriers increase costs to pay down debt accumulated during the pandemic?

Whatever happens next, can the New Zealand tourism industry afford to be picky after a year of business closures and redundancies and at a time when global competition will be fierce?

Anthony Gardiner is a marketing strategist who recently completed an MBA with Otago University focused on sustainable tourism recovery from Covid-19.





No.37 article:
Five Eyes allies call on China to reverse ban on Hong Kong pro-democracy legislators

Foreign ministers from the UK, US, Australia, Canada and New Zealand say new rules in city are attempt to silence critics

The Five Eyes intelligence sharing group has said China’s imposition of new rules to disqualify elected legislators in Hong Kong appeared to be part of a campaign to silence critics and called on Beijing to reverse course.

“We urge the Chinese central authorities to re-consider their actions against Hong Kong’s elected legislature and immediately reinstate the Legislative Council members,” foreign ministers from Australia, Britain, Canada, New Zealand and the United States said in a joint statement.

Hong Kong expelled four opposition members from its legislature last week after Beijing gave city authorities new powers to curb dissent. The move triggered mass resignations by Hong Kong’s pro-democracy opposition lawmakers.

It also raised further alarm about the level of Hong Kong’s autonomy, promised under a “one country, two systems” formula when Britain ended its colonial rule and handed Hong Kong back to China in 1997.

“China’s action is a clear breach of its international obligations under the legally binding, UN-registered Sino-British Joint Declaration,” the five countries said.

China’s ministry of foreign affairs in Hong Kong said any attempt by foreign states to threaten or pressure Beijing to make concessions is “doomed to fail”.

“China’s determination to defend its national sovereignty, security and development interests is unwavering,” it said in a statement.

Britain now considers China has broken the joint declaration three times, including with national security legislation for Hong Kong introduced this year.

Washington has already imposed sanctions on Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, and other Chinese officials over the crackdown, and has warned of further steps.

Police in Hong Kong said they had arrested three former lawmakers on Wednesday morning over May and June incidents in which foul-smelling liquid was thrown in the city’s legislature, an act police said was intended to cause harm.

China denies curbing rights and freedoms in the global financial hub but authorities in Hong Kong and Beijing have moved swiftly to stifle dissent after anti-government protests flared in June last year and plunged the city into crisis.





No.38 article:
Pike river mine disaster: 10 years on, families mark painful anniversary

New Zealand and loved ones of the 29 miners killed mourn as efforts continue to recover their bodies 

It has been a decade since an explosion at New Zealand’s Pike River mine killed 29 miners, and for the family left behind the wounds remain raw and open.

“Sometimes it feels like lifetimes and other times it feels like it was yesterday,” Sonya Rockhouse, who lost her son in the explosion, told RNZ. “The only thing I have noticed since time has gone on is that I am starting to forget what my son’s voice sounded like – which is disconcerting.”

On Thursday afternoon relatives gathered at the memorial site down the road from the mine for a minute’s silence at 3.44pm. The gathering will be small – for many families the mouth of the mine is a traumatising place.

Leading the tributes, the prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said in a statement: “The tragedy of Pike river mine has been the loss of these men to their loved ones and generations to come. They were never able to lead full lives and their families have suffered because of that. They have also suffered because no one was held accountable at the time.

“These men died at work and that just should not happen.”

The name Pike River provokes a communal shudder in New Zealand – striking at the heart of the west coast where jobs are scarce, homes are buffeted by the meeting of coastal and alpine climates, and population numbers have long been in steady decline.

For four terrible days after an explosion on 19 November 2010 families clung to hope that 29 miners who were working the pit that day had survived. But a buildup of poisonous gases prevented rescuers entering.

Public pressure to launch an underground rescue mission was intense, spurred by the astonishing rescue of 33 Chilean miners a few months before. But from that very first afternoon many families said they felt “railroaded” by misinformation and stalling tactics by the government, then the owner Pike River Coal, which sold the mine to the state-owned Solid Energy in 2012.

An inquest concluded there never was any hope of rescuing the men because they would have died immediately or soon after the first explosion, which was caused by excess methane gas.

A 2012 royal commission found Pike River Coal guilty of operating an unsafe mine and failing to heed numerous warnings from employees. It detailed a litany of oversights and malfunctions including inadequate ventilation, faulty mine design and issues at management level – it was a new mine with old-fashioned problems, waiting for disaster to strike.

The commission also charged the government with poor oversight: in 2010 there were only two mine inspectors for the whole country.

In the years since the disaster many of the families of the 29 have see-sawed between stages of grief. But one thing has kept them almost entirely united is their commitment to bringing their husbands, fathers and sons home.

In 2017 the Labour-led government under Ardern announced a specialist team would re-enter the mine to look for evidence and bodies.

Although setbacks have been frequent, miners in the recovery effort have reached the main access tunnel 2,146 metres inside.

The next stage is for miners to break the foam seal blocking the shaft. Lingering gases mean they will be wearing breathing apparatus. They hope by Christmas to reach an area of the tunnel where the roof has collapsed.

The engineering effort is complex with a constant flow of nitrogen into the mine to safeguard against further explosion. Dinghy Pattinson, the chief operating officer for the recovery mission, told AAP: “We’ve had the plant running since October 2018 and pumped 10m cubic metres of nitrogen in there.”

Pattinson said he believed the operation should be seen as a success regardless of what happens. “There were a lot of people out there who said this job should not be done, it’s not safe to do. We’ve proven them wrong.”

For the families, bringing the miners home remains paramount. Most have yet to hold funerals for their loved ones, or choose a final resting place.

“There’s evidence to be gathered from there, hopefully, some body remains and they’re doing it slow, slowly, slowly because they have to – it has to be done correctly,” Rockhouse told morning television. “We want this investigation to be the best that it can be – we want to make sure they get significant finds and they get a lot of evidence.

“We want to make sure that people are held to account for the death of our loved men … we need this, we need justice, accountability and most of all truth. We want the truth of what happened that day, because we haven’t been told that yet.”

Erika Ufer calls her dad the “man in the mountain”. The nine-year-old never got to meet her father, Josh Ufer, who was one of two Australian victims.

“I have no memories of my dad,” Erika told Kea Kids News. “I call him the man in the mountain because he died in the mountain and now his spirits haunt the mountain.

“I think he would be a funny, energetic and thoughtful dad. But enough of that or it’s going to make me cry.”





No.39 article:
More than 1,000 were forced to evacuate in Reno and hundreds more in California after strong winds whipped up the blazes

Fresh wildfires in Nevada and California have killed at least one person, injured several firefighters and destroyed dozens of structures.

More than 1,000 people in Reno, Nevada, were forced to evacuate on Tuesday when a wind-whipped wildfire roared through a neighborhood.

Another fire about 100 miles (160 km) south and across the border in California also exploded in strong winds Tuesday, killing one person, driving hundreds from their homes and destroying 80 structures in and around a small community, including some houses.

Evacuees in both states began to return home on Wednesday. And while rains overnight helped tamp down the flames in both places, crews in Reno feared a forecast that called for another lashing of strong winds that could revive the fire, which damaged 15 other structures on the edge of the Sierra Nevada foothills.

“We’re looking at 40 mph (64 km/h) winds in the valleys again today, 70 mph (112 km/h) over the ridgetops, so that will be a concern for us,” said Mark Winkelman, fire department incident commander.

Two firefighters were injured while battling the blaze over 2 sq miles (5 sq km) but have been treated and released. One suffered an allergic reaction, and the other injured a leg while helping evacuate 1,300 residents.

Extremely dry conditions helped fuel the blaze in rugged, hard-to-reach canyons that run between homes in the densely populated neighborhood, said David Cochran, Reno fire chief.

“Even though there was literally snow on the ground in some areas, a wind-driven fire like that is almost impossible to stop,” Cochran said.

Nevada is experiencing drought, with much of the state in extreme drought, and it’s moved in and out of such dry conditions for years. Numerous studies have linked bigger wildfires in America to climate change from the burning of coal, oil and gas, which has made parts of the US west much drier and more flammable.

Investigators from the state and Reno fire marshal’s office, as well as the utility NV Energy, were trying to find the cause of the fire.

Winkelman said it started about 200 yards (183 meters) from the origin point of a November 2011 fire that destroyed 27 homes. That blaze was ignited by arcing power lines at a substation in strong winds, he said.

The so-called Caughlin Fire in 2011 was one of the first in the area to make it clear that dangerous wildfires no longer were confined to hot, dry summer months, said Cochran, the fire chief. “That was sort of a watershed mark nine years ago where we realized there is no fire season. Fire season is year-round,” he said.

On Tuesday, the wind made it impossible to send up aircraft to help fight the flames, with support from local and federal agencies in northern Nevada and neighboring California critical before wet weather moved in later, authorities said.

Reno Mayor Hillary Schieve, who said her own evacuation was complicated because she’s under a Covid-19 quarantine, said the fierce firefighting effort helped avert a much bigger disaster.

“These fires are a huge reminder how things can change so quickly on a moment’s notice,” Schieve said. “We did have a lot of hands on deck.”

She was isolating because she was in contact with Nevada governor Steve Sisolak, who recently announced he had tested positive for the virus and on Tuesday declared a state of emergency over the fire. The other blaze, across the border in California’s remote Mono county, exploded to more than 45 sq miles (117 sq km) Tuesday, burning into the tiny community of Walker. Rain and snow slowed its growth Wednesday, according to the US Bureau of Land Management.

One person died, but authorities offered no details. While about 800 residents remained under evacuation orders, a highway reopened. The cause of the fire wasn’t yet known, and the land agency said officials were still assessing the damage.

Mono county sheriff’s spokeswoman Sarah Roberts said an unknown number of homes were among the losses from the wind-driven fire.

“The winds were horrific yesterday,” Roberts said.





No.40 article:
Taiwan grounds all F16 fighter jets for checks after plane goes missing

Decision removes 150 planes from service, leaving the island with a limited fleet amid increased flyovers by Chinese forces

Taiwan has grounded all its F16 fighter jets for safety checks as rescuers continue to search for one that went missing during a training exercise, authorities said Wednesday.

The decision removes around 150 planes from Taiwan’s skies, leaving the democratic island relying on a more limited fleet to warn off Chinese jets that have been performing flyovers at an unprecedented rate in recent months.

The air force said a single-seat F16 flown by a 44-year-old pilot disappeared from radar at an altitude of 6,000ft (1,800 metres) two minutes after taking off from Hualien air base in eastern Taiwan on Tuesday night.

The disappearance comes less than three weeks after a pilot was killed when his F-5E fighter jet crashed into the sea during training, prompting a similar grounding.

“The rescue mission is our top priority now. The air force has grounded all F16s for checks and I’ve instructed an investigation into the cause of the incident,” President Tsai Ing-wen told reporters.

Taiwan lives under the constant threat of invasion by China, which views the island as its own territory and has vowed to seize it one day, by force if necessary.

Its fleet of fighters is old and outgunned by China’s. Without the F16s, it consists of the locally built Indigenous Defence Fighter, French-built Mirages from the late 1990s and F5-E fighters that date back to the 1970s.

There have been seven crashes involving F16s since Taiwan took delivery of the fighters purchased from the United States in 1997.

Taiwan has scrambled its planes at double the rate of last year to protect against China’s increased incursions into its defensive zone.

Analysts say Beijing’s fly-bys are designed to test the island’s defence responses but also to wear out its fighters, which come closer to expiry with each sortie.

Taiwan’s military has been battered by a string of air crashes this year.

In January, eight senior officials including the chief of the general staff were killed in a helicopter crash.

Beijing has piled military, economic and diplomatic pressure on Taiwan since President Tsai’s election in 2016, in part due to her refusal to acknowledge its stance that the island is part of “one China”.

Under US President Donald Trump, Washington authorised some $18bn worth of arms sales to Taiwan, including 66 new generation F16s and advanced missile platforms – sales that have angered Beijing.






