No.1 article:
The Winds Have Shifted in Pandemic Aid Negotiations

Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, spoke on Thursday as Joe Biden’s victory and vaccine breakthroughs added momentum to a push for a stimulus deal.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory and faster-than-expected breakthroughs on a coronavirus vaccine have shifted the dynamics of stimulus talks in Congress, leading to the first serious bipartisan negotiations in months and empowering rank-and-file lawmakers who have long agitated for a compromise.

With many cities and states reinstating lockdowns and the pace of job creation slowing, congressional lawmakers and Mr. Biden are facing pressure to provide a financial lifeline to the economy until a widespread vaccine forces the virus into submission.

Mr. Biden has used public appearances in recent days to encourage lawmakers to compromise on a quick aid package that he said would only be a “down payment” on what the incoming administration believes is necessary to mitigate the nation’s economic pain in the months ahead. His team has pushed for Democrats to move off their hard-line negotiating stance for a trillion-dollar-plus bill, a stance that had made discussions with Republicans a nonstarter, and to embrace a smaller, bipartisan proposal.

“I think it should be passed,” Mr. Biden said of the $908 billion proposal in a CNN interview broadcast Thursday evening, though he added, “I’m going to have to ask for more help when we get there to get things done.”

Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, announced such a shift on Wednesday, throwing their support behind a bipartisan $908 billion outline as a baseline for restarting negotiations. The plan, which rank-and-file lawmakers are still finalizing, would provide aid through March, offering a new wave of aid to small businesses and the unemployed, helping state and local governments and temporarily shielding businesses from some lawsuits amid the pandemic.

In a sign of momentum, more Republicans also began coalescing around the $908 billion framework as a baseline for restarting negotiations, which had collapsed over disagreements about size and scope.

On Thursday, Ms. Pelosi and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, spoke for the first time since the November election about another relief package, along with the spending bills needed to avert a government shutdown on Dec. 11. Mr. McConnell later told reporters that he and Ms. Pelosi are “both interested in getting an outcome” on the two issues.

“I’ve never been more hopeful that we’ll get a bill,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. He told reporters that he supported the bipartisan framework and that he had discussed coronavirus relief with President Trump at the White House on Thursday. But he added a dose of skepticism, given Mr. McConnell’s decision to circulate a blueprint for a smaller relief package.

“I will support what Senator McConnell wants to propose,” Mr. Graham said, “but it doesn’t have any Democratic support. I’m tired of doing show votes here.”

Mr. Biden’s aides, along with Democrats on Capitol Hill, have become alarmed at the possibility that the economy could slip back into recession in the new year, as small businesses shutter and government benefits expire for millions of workers, handing him an even bigger economic challenge.

But Mr. Biden is walking a delicate path in moving toward a possible compromise. He has called publicly for an immediate deal to provide more economic aid, even before he becomes president, and spoken favorably about the bipartisan framework. But he has not directly injected himself into talks between Ms. Pelosi and Mr. McConnell, as some lawmakers and aides stressed that any immediate deal would need Mr. Trump’s signature — not Mr. Biden’s.

“The president-elect has been very clear in stating that something needs to happen, that the American people need relief,” said Representative Abigail Spanberger, Democrat of Virginia and one of several House lawmakers who have worked on compromise legislation in an effort to break through the impasse. When asked if Mr. Biden should be more involved, she said she believed it better for Mr. Biden to play a supporting role while Mr. Trump remained president.

“He will not be president until Jan. 20 — we can’t wait until Jan. 20,” Ms. Spanberger said in an interview. “I don’t think it’s appropriate. He’s not yet the president.”

The question of whether Mr. Trump would support a final compromise remains a wild card. Asked Thursday whether he agreed with Mr. McConnell that pandemic relief was “in sight” and whether he would support “this bill,” Mr. Trump answered affirmatively. “I will, and I think we are getting very close,” Mr. Trump told reporters.

While it was initially unclear which bill Mr. Trump was willing to sign, the White House later clarified that it was the outline of the smaller Republican bill, which Mr. McConnell is backing.

Unlike in the fall, when both Republicans and Democrats had political incentives not to cut a deal, statements by Mr. Biden and his congressional allies in recent days show that lawmakers now see compromise as in their best interests. Depending on the outcome, stimulus plans could become a key issue in the Georgia runoff elections that will decide Senate control in January.

Even with the renewed movement, a deal is far from assured.

Mr. McConnell, who has continuously criticized the Democrats as wanting too expensive a package, acknowledged that it had been “heartening to see a few hopeful signs” this week in negotiations. But Mr. McConnell stopped short of endorsing the compromise plan in remarks on Thursday, admonishing lawmakers to focus on policy provisions where there was substantial agreement and signaling that he would not be quick to move off his targeted proposal.

Even as he declared “compromise is within reach,” he did not explicitly comment on the bipartisan framework. It also remains unclear what top Democrats would insist on in any final bill.

But lawmakers and aides on Capitol Hill acknowledged that a devastating spike in coronavirus cases across the country helped fuel momentum behind the discussions. Even a smaller, more immediate deal would fund an imminent distribution of a vaccine — a prospect that emerged after the election — and leave open the possibility for another relief package under a Biden administration.

“It’s the combination of the logistical costs and difficulties of vaccine distribution and the dramatic spike in cases, hospitalizations and deaths every day,” said Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, a longtime close ally of Mr. Biden’s who is involved in the discussions. “It is clear, to everyone I think, that we are in for a very hard winter before the vaccine is broadly available.”

Discussions toward a possible deal began among a loose bipartisan group of senators in mid-November, according to four officials familiar with the behind-the-scenes talks who requested anonymity to describe them. The participants agreed to meet over dinner at the Capitol Hill home of Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, on Nov. 17, two weeks after Election Day, to see if they could cobble together a plan. Senator Mark Warner, a moderate Democrat from Virginia, picked up the tab for food and drinks from San Lorenzo, a favorite of Washington’s political class for Tuscan food. Fresh off a come-from-behind victory in Maine, Senator Susan Collins, a Republican, agreed to co-host.

They were joined by three more Senate Democrats — Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the party’s No. 2 — as well as two more Senate Republicans, Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and Mitt Romney of Utah.

The conversation was productive enough that it quickly spilled into a nearly daily series of Zoom sessions that continued — sometimes for hours at a time — through the Thanksgiving holiday. Pleased at their progress, senators involved dryly dubbed themselves “the dinner group.”

Party leadership was kept informed, but senators did most of the negotiating themselves. Despite his more junior Senate status, Mr. Romney, his party’s 2012 presidential nominee, emerged early on as a driver of the talks with Mr. Warner. He insisted that Republicans could go no higher than roughly $900 billion in new spending — a number that Ms. Collins floated as a possible compromise figure — and that liability protections for employers would have to be included in some form.

The proposal was made final Monday night over a pizza dinner hosted by Mr. Romney in an oversize hearing room. It would provide $300 a week in additional benefits to the unemployed for 18 weeks, after a $600-per-week unemployment benefit lapsed in July. It includes $288 billion for struggling small businesses, restaurants and theaters and $160 billion for strapped cities and states, and most likely will include some liability protections for businesses.

The framework, unveiled Tuesday, quickly received a boost from Mr. Biden. And speaking Thursday on CNN, he noted that he had faith in Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Schumer and Mr. Coons to resolve the impasse, adding that he was “relying on their judgment” in determining “the most basic things that are needed now.”





No.2 article:
In Blue States and Red, Pandemic Upends Public Services and Jobs

As a standoff over federal aid persists, state and local governments are making deep budget cuts. “Everything’s going to slow down,” one official said.

The coronavirus pandemic has inflicted an economic battering on state and local governments, shrinking tax receipts by hundreds of billions of dollars. Now devastating budget cuts loom, threatening to cripple public services and pare work forces far beyond the 1.3 million jobs lost in eight months.

Governors, mayors and county executives have pleaded for federal aid before the end of the year. Congressional Republicans have scorned such assistance, with the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, calling it a “blue-state bailout.”

But it turns out this budget crisis is colorblind. Six of the seven states that are expected to suffer the biggest revenue declines over the next two years are red — states led by Republican governors and won by President Trump this year, according to a report from Moody’s Analytics.

Those on the front lines agree. “I don’t think it’s a red-state, blue-state issue,” said Brian Sigritz, director of state fiscal studies at the National Association of State Budget Officers. The National Governors Association’s top officials — Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, a Democrat, and Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, a Republican — issued a statement this fall saying, “This is a national problem, and it demands a bipartisan and national solution.”

Efforts to forge a new stimulus bill gained momentum this week with a $900 billion proposal — offered by a bipartisan group of legislators and endorsed by Democratic leaders — that includes $160 billion for state, local and tribal governments. While short of plugging the widening fiscal gaps, such a sum would provide welcome relief. But the Republican leadership shows no sign of coming around on state and local aid.

In reality, the degree of financial distress turns less on which party controls a statehouse or a city hall than on the number of Covid-19 cases, the kinds of businesses undergirding a state’s economy, and its tax structure.

Wyoming, Alaska and North Dakota, Republican-led states that depend on energy-related taxes, have been walloped by the sharp decline in oil prices. Places where tourism provides a large infusion of revenues, like Florida and Nevada, face revenue declines of 10 percent or more, as does Louisiana, which relies on both tourism and energy.

Elsewhere, the steep falloff in sales and personal income taxes — which on average account for roughly two-thirds of a state’s tax revenue, according to the Pew Charitable Trusts — is forcing Republican and Democratic officials to consider laying off police officers, reducing childhood vaccinations and closing libraries, parks and drug treatment centers.

Even the most optimistic assumptions about the course of the pandemic point to fiscal consequences for states and local governments that “would be the worst since the Great Depression” and take years to dig out of, Dan White, director of fiscal policy research at Moody’s Analytics, concluded.

The squeeze at the state level reverberates in urban, suburban and rural counties in nearly every corner of the United States, and officials are making piercing choices.

In Casper, Wyo., someone from the district attorney’s office walks around the block to the Circuit Court building each week and fetches a large plastic garbage bag full of discarded paper clips to reuse.

The brief journey is just one way that the prosecutor, Dan Itzen, is cutting costs. He has also stopped prosecuting 17 types of misdemeanors — including assault and battery, first-time drunken driving, shoplifting, check fraud and property damage.

“Something had to give,” said Mr. Itzen, who handles about one-third of Wyoming’s criminal caseload and gets his funding from the state. “If I’m losing personnel, I cannot continue to prosecute as many cases.”

In Kansas City, Mo., with a municipal budget of $1.7 billion, the city manager has asked each department to draft a plan for cuts of more than 11 percent. That could mean laying off 200 police officers from the 1,300-member force and 180 firefighters and emergency medical technicians, said Dan Fowler, a City Council member.

“This is one of the things that keeps me up at night,” Mr. Fowler said, thinking about the impact on the city’s half a million residents. Such cuts could end up closing one or two police stations, even though crime is rising, he said.

Emergency response times are already slow, Mr. Fowler said, so even though he lives near a hospital, “if I have a heart attack, I’ll just crawl over there.”

From collecting garbage to issuing building permits, maintaining parks to fixing potholes, “everything’s going to slow down because we’re not going to have the people to do it,” he explained. A traffic study of a street in his district with a heavy accident toll has been delayed.

In New Orleans, Democratic city leaders are going through a similarly painful process, shrinking next fiscal year’s general fund by $92 million, down to $634 million.

To avoid layoffs, the city is cutting the pay of higher-level employees by 10 percent and requiring most other employees, including police officers, firefighters and emergency responders, to take 26 unpaid furlough days — one every two weeks — next year. The move amounts to a 10 percent pay cut, and comes on top of six furlough days imposed on the city’s roughly 4,000 employees through the end of this year.

On any given day, that will mean fewer people available to drive buses, respond to emergency calls or pick up trash.

“We are at the marrow,” said Gilbert Montaño, the city’s chief administrative officer. Every agency on average took a 21 percent cut on top of what they were already facing.

New Orleans, like most cities and localities, spends the bulk of its budget on its employees, which makes it nearly impossible to reduce spending without reducing the hours that people work.

State and local employees make up roughly 13 percent of the nation’s work force. For women and Black workers, in particular, the public sector has historically offered more opportunities than the private sector for a stable income and reliable benefits.

“These are folks that are providing essential public services every single day, risking their lives,” said Lee Saunders, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, “and now there’s a good possibility that many are going to be faced with a pink slip.”

So far, an overwhelming majority of state and local job losses have been in education. Though many of the layoffs have been characterized as temporary, educators and parents worry that they could become permanent. In a new survey of mayors, 45 percent said they expected “dramatic” cuts for their school budgets.

Public schools overwhelmingly rely on property taxes. States often provide additional funding, but many have cut their education budgets.

Most states managed to hobble along until the summer, a typical endpoint to the fiscal year. There had been strong growth before the pandemic struck in March, and the $2.2 trillion CARES Act, which Congress passed in early spring, kept many households afloat. In spots, the extra federal money could be used to cover some state and local pandemic-related expenses in health care and education.

Both of those cushions are fading. In most places, the 2020-21 fiscal year will play out in the shadow of the pandemic and a stumbling economy. And federal emergency money for extended unemployment benefits that has helped families meet housing and food expenses expires at the end of December, putting even greater demand on public services.

Jerome H. Powell, the chair of the Federal Reserve, and many economists have warned that reducing state and local spending will further drag down a weak recovery, as it did after the Great Recession. Spending by state and local governments accounted for about 15 percent of the nation’s economic activity, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, part of the Commerce Department.

While the federal government can run budget deficits to cover both regular and unexpected expenses, states generally cannot.

In Wyoming, Mark Gordon, the Republican governor, acknowledged the fallout on the economy after announcing a new round of cuts for the coming fiscal year. He said 160 private-sector jobs depended on every 100 state employees, who spend money on haircuts, children&#x27;s sports and restaurants.

Although Wyoming is facing one of the worst budget shocks, it also has one of the biggest rainy-day funds, which states built up after the last recession to help weather downturns. Several states — including Louisiana, Nevada, New York and Illinois — have little or nothing left in reserve.

Even so, Wyoming’s governor has said he doesn’t want to burn through the state’s safety net with years of hard times potentially lying ahead. The fund may also be needed to plug an additional $300 million deficit related to the state’s public schools. So Mr. Gordon has proposed cutting programs dealing with childhood vaccinations, substance abuse and mental health.

Meg Wiehe, deputy executive director of the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, said Wyoming at least was dealing with the painful reality.

“The bigger kind of cuts that will resonate with people are all going to come to a head in the early part of next year,” Ms. Wiehe said. “We’re staring down some deep and very devastating cuts.”





No.3 article:
Cyberattacks Discovered on Vaccine Distribution Operations

IBM has found that companies and governments have been targeted by unknown attackers, prompting a warning from the Homeland Security Department.

A series of cyberattacks is underway aimed at the companies and government organizations that will be distributing coronavirus vaccines around the world, IBM’s cybersecurity division has found, though it is unclear whether the goal is to steal the technology for keeping the vaccines refrigerated in transit or to sabotage the movements.

The findings were alarming enough that the Department of Homeland Security issued its own warning on Thursday about the threat.

Both the IBM researchers and the department’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency said the attacks appear intended to steal the network log-in credentials of corporate executives and officials at global organizations involved in the refrigeration process necessary to protect vaccine doses.

Josh Corman, a coronavirus strategist at the cybersecurity agency, said in a statement that the IBM report was a reminder of the need for “cybersecurity diligence at each step in the vaccine supply chain.” He urged organizations “involved in vaccine storage and transport to harden attack surfaces, particularly in cold storage operation.”

Researchers for IBM Security X-Force, the company’s cybersecurity arm, said they believed that the attacks were sophisticated enough that they pointed to a government-sponsored initiative, not a rogue criminal operation aimed purely at monetary gain. But they could not identify which country might be behind them.

No matter who conducted the attacks, they underscore how everything about coronavirus vaccines — how to make them, test them and move them — has become vital information around the globe. A year ago, nations including Russia and China were focusing their covert efforts on stealing secrets about hypersonic missiles and artificial intelligence advances; six months ago, intelligence agencies shifted their focus to obtaining, or defending, proprietary vaccine research.

With several vaccines on the verge of moving from clinical trials into wider use, the IBM discovery suggests that the main target of state-employed hackers is now the infrastructure of delivering the vaccines to billions of people around the globe.

The cyberattackers “were working to get access to how the vaccine is shipped, stored, kept cold and delivered,” said Nick Rossmann, who leads IBM’s global threat intelligence team. “We think whoever is behind this wanted to be able to understand the entire cold chain process.”

There is no indication so far that the attackers were aiming at Pfizer or Moderna, whose vaccines are expected to be the first ones approved for emergency use in the United States. A spokeswoman for Pfizer said Wednesday that the company’s cold storage equipment was designed by security-conscious experts and custom-built to match the specific requirements of Pfizer’s vaccine, which must be stored at extremely cold temperatures.

Many of the approaches came in the form of “spear phishing” emails that impersonated an executive at a major Chinese company, Haier Biomedical, which is a legitimate participant in the distribution chain. The email says “we want to place an order with your company,” and includes a draft contract containing malware that would give the attackers access to the network.

Outside experts said they doubted the attacks came from China, which has been accused of trying to steal vaccine information from universities, hospitals and medical researchers, because it would be unlike Chinese hackers to impersonate executives at a major Chinese firm.

If they are correct, the lead suspects would be hackers in Russia and North Korea, both of which have also been accused by the United States of conducting attacks to steal information about the process of manufacturing and distributing vaccines. Sometimes it is hard to tell the difference between official hacking operations for the Russian or North Korean governments and those run for private gain.

The motive is also unclear. The attackers may simply be looking to steal technology to move large amounts of vaccine across long distances at extraordinarily low temperatures, which would constitute a classic form of intellectual property theft.

But some cybersecurity experts say they suspect something more nefarious: efforts to interfere with the distribution, or ransomware, in which the vaccines would be essentially held hostage by hackers who have gotten into the system that runs the distribution network and locked it up — and who demand a large payment to unlock it.

“There is no intelligence advantage in spying on a refrigerator,” said James Lewis, who runs the cybersecurity programs at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “My suspicion is that they are setting up for a ransomware play. But we won’t know how these stolen credentials will be used until after the vaccine distribution begins.”

The IBM researchers provided an account of their efforts in an interview before the company posted its findings. They said the attackers sent out various requests for price and product information, some purportedly on behalf of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, a public-private partnership that helps provide vaccines to developing countries.

Many of the targets were in Asia, but some were European, including the European Commission’s Directorate General for Taxation and Customs Union. IBM noted that the organization has “direct ties to multiple national government networks,” showing that the attackers had a sophisticated understanding of how to identify targets that could get them into many nations.

But other organizations were also targeted, like Taiwan, South Korea, Germany and Italy. Some were involved in the solar panel-driven cooling systems for the vaccine.

The attackers’ emails were addressed to companies that provide key components of the cold chain process. Those include ice-lined boxes for vaccines and the solar panels that can power refrigerated vaccine containers — an important feature in poor countries where electricity can be scarce.

The researchers said the effort seemed aimed at stealing credentials that could have ultimately led the attackers to a trove of information, including timetables for vaccine distribution, lists of vaccine recipients and where doses are being shipped.

IBM could not determine whether the attacks were successful, the company said. The researchers said the attackers targeted one Gavi program started in 2015, before the advent of the coronavirus, to upgrade cold chain equipment for vaccines in dozen of nations.

UNICEF, which is planning vaccine delivery for poorer countries, appears to have been another target. Najwa Mekki, a spokeswoman for the organization, said the IBM researchers alerted officials to the threat to the cold chain system, and “we notified our supply networks and alerted relevant teams to the need to increase vigilance.”

Advertisement





No.4 article:
California Will Impose Its Strongest Virus Measures Since the Spring

Millions of people across Southern and Central California are likely to see outdoor dining shuttered, playgrounds roped off and hair salons closed within days.

LOS ANGELES — California, the first state to impose far-reaching lockdowns because of the coronavirus, announced on Thursday its strictest new measures since the earliest days of the pandemic in an effort to keep a surge in cases from overwhelming hospitals.

Gov. Gavin Newsom said the new round of regional stay-at-home orders would take effect as intensive-care beds filled up. Millions of people across Southern and Central California are likely to see outdoor dining shuttered, playgrounds roped off and hair salons closed within days if the available intensive-care capacity in their areas dips below a 15 percent threshold.

The new restrictions will last for at least three weeks, strictly limit store capacity and allow restaurants to serve only takeout or delivery. The governor also said people should temporarily call off all nonessential travel.

“If we don’t act now our hospital system will be overwhelmed,” Mr. Newsom said. “If we don’t act now we’ll continue to see our death rate climb.”

The state’s new orders feel eerily like the spring, when spiraling deaths compelled leaders in California, New York and elsewhere to start telling people to stay home. Only now things are even worse. More than 2,750 Americans died of the coronavirus on Thursday, and another 100,000 were in hospitals. Case counts continue to skyrocket.

In anticipation of a deadly holiday season, Gov. John Carney of Delaware on Thursday issued a stay-at-home advisory asking people not to gather indoors with anyone outside their household. In Michigan, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer recently ordered a three-week shutdown that closed casinos and movie theaters and suspended in-person high school and college classes. Oregon, Washington State, Minnesota and cities from Los Angeles to Philadelphia have also reimposed restrictions.

In an interview with CNN on Thursday, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. said that on his first day as president, he would ask Americans to wear masks for 100 days. “Just 100 days to mask, not forever. One hundred days. And I think we’ll see a significant reduction,” he said. He also said he had asked Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious-disease expert, to play a central role in his administration to help combat the virus.

But for now, the states are leading on enforcement, and many of their measures come with pages of exceptions and fine print, as well as uncertainties about how aggressively they will be enforced. Many people are weary after nine months of shifting rules about whether they can go to school, eat indoors or outdoors, take their children to the playground or step inside a big-box store.

As he did repeatedly earlier this year, Mr. Newsom emphasized that California would withhold funding from counties that refused to enforce the new stay-at-home order. “We didn’t want to be punitive but we wanted to be firm,” he said. That approach, however, has drawn criticism in the past, as it resulted in piecemeal compliance with restrictions.

[Sign up for California Today, our daily newsletter from the Golden State.]

By many measures, the situation across California is even bleaker than in March, when Mr. Newsom and other state leaders appeared, unmasked, inside the state’s emergency operations center in Sacramento to order residents to stay home. California has now recorded 1.2 million virus cases and 19,468 deaths, and on Thursday, Mr. Newsom delivered a grim tally via remote video.

California is seeing its sharpest increase in cases since the pandemic took hold even as its coronavirus prevention measures have become more stringent; some early measures, such as mask wearing, were voluntary.

If hospitalization rates keep soaring, California’s 40 million residents could all be under new stay-at-home orders by Christmas.

State leaders have called their new orders “dial-backs” or “freezes,” and set time limits on the new restrictions in the hopes of flattening yet another steep curve until a vaccine is widely available.

But there have been new waves of pushback.

Restaurants and some cities within Los Angeles County revolted against new prohibitions on outdoor dining, saying the rules would choke off business and were not grounded in scientific data. Pasadena decided to continue to allow limited outdoor dining and the Beverly Hills City Council unanimously passed a resolution demanding that the county repeal the restrictions.

In Michigan, a Republican lawmaker called for the impeachment of Governor Whitmer, a Democrat, after she announced the latest round of restrictions there. Four Republican legislators in Ohio filed articles of impeachment this week against their Republican governor, Mike DeWine, over limits he put into place.

Harmeet K. Dhillon, a civil rights lawyer and a member of the Republican National Committee, said many Californians were no longer inclined to listen to state directives because with each wave of the virus the government has prematurely warned that hospitals would be overwhelmed.

“What I’m concerned about is a boy-who-cried-wolf situation,” Ms. Dhillon said. “People are going to say, ‘He said the hospitals would fill up in March and they didn’t.’”

Californians, she said, have also become cynical about directives when numerous leaders have been spotted at restaurants even as they implore residents not to go.

The question of whether governments should actually enforce social distancing rules and mask orders poses a vexing, divisive challenge across the country. Some police departments have declined to enforce mask mandates or social distancing rules, and mayors and governors have tried to use the rules as a stick to get businesses and residents to cooperate.

Faced with a cluster of cases in a suburb of New York City in early March, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo established a “containment area” and moved in the National Guard. The approach, shocking at the time, jolted many into paying attention to the virus, which had at that point appeared in very few places.

But the strategy primarily focused on closing large gathering spaces, such as schools and houses of worship, and the Guard was not there to enforce boundaries but rather to distribute food to quarantined residents. The virus continued to spread elsewhere in the state.

In Colorado, a battle over enforcing the rules has erupted between Democratic leaders and Weld County, a staunchly conservative area on the state’s northern border.

Surging cases recently tipped Weld County into the red zone on Colorado’s coronavirus alert system, triggering new restrictions on indoor dining and other businesses. As state lawmakers threatened to cut off relief money, Weld County commissioners have remained defiant, saying they would rely on people’s “individual responsibility” and not impose any restrictions.

Brandon Bird said his pizza place in the county, the Bulldog Pub and Grub, got caught in the middle. He said he continued to allow indoor dining under the county guidelines until state investigators suspended his liquor license the day before Thanksgiving. Mr. Bird has since shifted to takeout only, and said he was frustrated by the whipsawing rules.

“Where’s the consistency?” he said. “Tell me what to do correctly and don’t have a bunch of conflicting information.”

As California’s reopening led to a summer surge of the virus, some counties openly resisted putting into place prevention measures, prompting the governor to establish an enforcement task force just before the Fourth of July.

Through November the task force levied more than $2 million in fines to businesses and carried out 4,366 enforcement actions, including 179 citations and three revocations of business licenses. The other actions were mainly warnings.

In addition, counties have sued churches and schools for violating coronavirus orders. Fresno County obtained a preliminary injunction against a Christian school, Immanuel, for returning to in-person classes in August in violation of state orders. Both Los Angeles and Santa Clara Counties obtained court orders against churches for defying health orders.

The state restrictions limiting attendance at religious services had been upheld by a federal judge, but on Thursday the U.S. Supreme Court vacated his ruling and asked him to reconsider in light of its recent decision to end restrictions on houses of worship in New York.

In Las Cruces, N.M., the rhythms of daily life revealed how America’s lockdowns often look punitive on paper but are looser in practice.

In the middle of a two-week shutdown ordered by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, Las Cruces was not so much on pause as it was on mute. The highways were jammed. Restaurants were banned from serving meals on-site, but a line of cars idled through the drive-through of a Whataburger.

“It’s a challenge,” Mayor Ken Miyagishima said. “If you look at the history of America, they left England because they didn’t really want to be told what to do. I think that’s in the fiber of Americans.”

Even government officials are under fire for failing to self-enforce their own rules.

Mr. Newsom and the mayor of San Francisco faced widespread criticism after they were spotted at the upscale French Laundry restaurant for separate events. The mayor of Denver had to apologize for flying to Mississippi to spend Thanksgiving with family.

In Texas, the top elected official in Williamson County, Judge Bill Gravell Jr., had issued a series of orders that put the county under a “Stay Home Stay Safe” lockdown throughout April. Community gatherings of 10 people or more were prohibited.

But Mr. Gravell was spotted during the shutdown at his grandson’s birthday party, dressed as a firefighter. He was charged with violating the local emergency management plan, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor last month and was convicted and sentenced, according to court documents. His punishment was a $1,000 fine.





No.5 article:
‘Field of Broken Dreams’: London’s Growing Taxi Graveyards

Confronted with deserted streets during the pandemic, drivers are turning in their rented black cabs by the hundreds.

EPPING, England — Drive through a leaf-strewn forest and past a charming street market in this town about 20 miles northeast of London, and a jarring sight appears: black London taxis, parked bumper-to-bumper by the hundreds in a muddy field, surrounded by beehives and a barn for raising squab pigeons.

It’s a camera-ready monument to the economic devastation wrought by the pandemic. The cabs were returned by their drivers to a rental company because of the collapse in business after Britain went into lockdown last March. As the number of idled taxis piled up, the company ran out of room in its garage and cut a deal with a local farmer to store about 200 of them alongside his bees and pigeons.

“I call it the field of broken dreams,” said Steve McNamara, general secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers’ Association, which represents about half of the British capital’s more than 21,500 licensed cabbies. “It’s awful, and it’s getting worse.”

On Wednesday, England emerged from its second lockdown, but severe restrictions remain in effect, and it’s anyone’s guess when central London’s deserted streets will once again fill with office workers, theatergoers and tourists.

As of now, barely a fifth of London’s taxis are currently operating, Mr. McNamara said, and the drivers still on the road are averaging just a quarter of their pre-pandemic fares. The city estimates that 3,500 taxis have left the streets since June. They are stashed in parking lots, warehouses, garages and fields all around the capital.

To Mr. McNamara, who earned his scars battling for taxi drivers against the competition from Uber and other ride-hailing services, the pandemic is an even greater existential threat. Unless the government offers more financial aid, he said, London could lose one of its most recognizable symbols — one that ranks, in the tourist lexicon, with red double-decker buses, phone boxes and police officers in their dome-like helmets.

“The buses aren’t red anymore, the telephone boxes are gone, and policemen now sit in BMWs with submachine guns,” Mr. McNamara said, unfurling a colorful line he has doubtless used before. “We’re the only London icon left, and I genuinely fear that we’re not going to be around in three years.”

To some who watched the war between black taxis and Uber, the cabbies were not always the most sympathetic figures. For one thing, their services were, and still are, more expensive. Predominantly white, male and English, the cabbies present a superannuated vision of Britain, next to the ethnically diverse immigrants and other strivers who get behind the wheel and slap an Uber decal on their window.

With Uber’s customer service and image problems, however, the battle lines are no longer so clear. Also, Mr. McNamara said, the taxis have smartened up their service with phone-pay software, Uber-like apps that allow people to call a cab, and environmentally clean electric vehicles. Had the pandemic not struck, he said, 85 percent to 90 percent of the fleet would have been electric by the end of 2024.

There is no dispute that Britain’s lockdowns have devastated the trade. Ryan Spedding, who has driven a cab for nearly nine years, vividly recalls when Prime Minister Boris Johnson went on television in March to declare, “From this evening I must give the British people a very simple instruction: You must stay at home.”

The next day, Mr. Spedding, 44, drove his Mercedes taxi into London to discover a ghost town of darkened pubs and shops, deserted office towers and empty railway stations. Normally teeming spaces like Piccadilly Circus and Leicester Square needed only blowing tumbleweed to complete the portrait of urban desolation.

“You could drive around for two or three hours and not see a person on the street,” he said. “You go from your day ticking along nicely to something out of ‘28 Days Later,’” he said, referring to the Danny Boyle movie about a deadly virus that transforms London into an eerie post-apocalyptic landscape.

Mr. Spedding pays 280 pounds, about $375, a week to rent his taxi. At that rate, he saw no option but to return the car to his rental company, GB Taxi Services. As a self-employed person, Mr. Spedding was eligible for state aid that has compensated him for about two-thirds of his average income.

He and his wife, whose dog-walking business was hurt by canceled vacations and clients who now work at home and can walk their own pets, have also gotten a break on their mortgage payments. But Mr. Spedding said he had dipped into his savings and run up credit card debt to stay afloat.

Mostly, he said, he is “bored as hell.” Like all licensed drivers, he passed a fearsomely rigorous test of London’s streets, known as the Knowledge, a process that took him three and a half years. Having invested so much of his life in becoming a driver, Mr. Spedding said, “I can’t even think about doing something else.”

This week, Mr. Spedding said he planned to take his taxi out for a post-lockdown spin to see if customers would return. “There is a big part of me that thinks maybe not,” he said.

To make up for lost business, some drivers, like Dale Forwood, have taken to offering tours of the Christmas lights on Regent Street. There are few tourists to sign up, but locals, cooped up after weeks of lockdown, seem eager to get out. Ms. Forwood, 54, also drives a delivery van for a supermarket chain.

As she navigated the lightly trafficked streets one recent night, she spoke wistfully about how London was normally jammed with shoppers from all over the world at Christmas. With the return of those visitors still dependent on a vaccine-secured future, local residents remain the lifeline for taxi drivers.

“As long as people use us,” she said, “they won’t lose us.”

For drivers like Jim Ward, who own their cars, the drought is more bearable. He said he is picking up about four fares a day, earning an average of £60, about $80, compared with about £150 during good times. But he bought his cab, the familiar boxy model made by the London Taxi Company — since renamed the London Electric Vehicle Company — secondhand years ago, and his costs are modest.

Since January 2018, all newly licensed cabs in London must be electric. A new electric model goes for about £65,000, about $87,000; many drivers finance the purchase, which saddles them with heavy monthly payments.

“The young guys, who are doing this with financing, can’t afford it,” Mr. Ward said of the repayments during the pandemic.

Mr. Ward, who is 67 and has been driving for 46 years, notes that the taxi profession has plied the streets of London since Oliver Cromwell licensed hackney carriage drivers in the 17th century to cut down on robberies (an example of the charming historical nuggets that seem to flow fluently from the mouths of black-cab drivers).

As they idle at somnolent train stations or in front of empty hotels, cabbies swap horror stories (one waited 22 and a half hours for a fare at Heathrow Airport). And they play a doleful game of what-might-have-been. Howard Taylor, who is 60 and has been driving for 33 years, considered selling his three-year-old cab before the pandemic hit. Now, he figures, he’d lose at least a third of its value.

“You’d have to be a fool to buy it,” he said, “because right now, driving a cab is not a viable proposition.”





No.6 article:
Quotation of the Day: Cyberattacks Are Discovered on Vaccine Supply Network

“There is no intelligence advantage in spying on a refrigerator. My suspicion is that they are setting up for a ransomware play.”

JAMES LEWIS, who runs the cybersecurity programs at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, on why cyberattacks are targeting the companies and government organizations that will be distributing coronavirus vaccines around the world.





No.7 article:
After Bar Manager’s Arrest, Covid Culture Wars Escalate on Staten Island

Mac’s Public House was shut down after the owner and manager refused to follow virus restrictions. Supporters rallied outside the bar Wednesday night.

When Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo mandated a 10 p.m. curfew at bars, Mac’s Public House, a tavern on Staten Island, stayed open after hours.

When indoor dining was banned in the area because of high coronavirus infection rates, the bar continued to serve local customers inside.

When the state suspended the pub’s liquor license, the general manager announced a way to skirt the law: by serving food and alcohol for free — still indoors — in exchange for a contribution.

Keith McAlarney, the bar owner, ignored cease-and-desist notices and rapidly accruing fines, he said. Mr. McAlarney painted an orange rectangle out front and declared the bar an “autonomous zone.” He publicly taunted Mr. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio, whom he called “de Bozo,” to come down in person and take the license off the wall.

But this week, the city and the state struck back, making this tavern a flash point in the Covid culture wars that have turned some business owners and party hosts into rebels against pandemic restrictions.

In New York City, Staten Island has been one of the centers of rebellion, even as authorities began constructing an emergency field hospital because of a soaring coronavirus infection rate in the borough. The ZIP code in the area where the bar is located has a 8.62 test positivity rate, the fourth highest among New York City ZIP codes in the last seven days.

Staten Island diverges from the city’s four other boroughs in its Republican political leanings and its support for President Trump, and indeed in the desire of some of its residents over the years to secede from the city.

On Tuesday, deputies from the city’s sheriff’s office arrested Danny Presti, the bar manager, for obstructing governmental administration. They led him away in handcuffs as protesters and loyal customers heckled them.State Senator Andrew Lanza, a Republican who represents the area, showed up Tuesday night to support the bar and told The New York Post that he was surrounded and physically restrained by deputies when he tried to force his way in to assist Mr. Presti. Mr. Lanza did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday.

On Wednesday night, protesters gathered outside the bar, many holding American flags and shouting chants against Mr. Cuomo.

In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. McAlarney said he felt he had to take a stand against a whiplash of restrictions that is hurting businesses like his. “I was trying to get their attention so that they would work with the industry instead of being lazy with their decisions and just closing things down,” he said from inside his bar as a phalanx of deputy sheriffs outside kept customers from entering.

Because patrons crowd together and talk loudly, health experts have said that bars have often been major spreaders of the virus, which has killed more than 24,000 people in New York City.

Still, Mr. McAlarney said he was not persuaded that restrictions on bars were effective in stopping the spread of the virus and questioned the government’s role in regulating gatherings. “If you feel that it’s not safe to go out, then choose to stay home,” he said.

Although many bar owners have bridled at the pandemic restrictions inhibiting their businesses, most have abided by them, often by accommodating drinkers legally outside, on sidewalks, parking lots and street spaces — and serving them food, at the state’s insistence.

But Mr. McAlarney, who said he sunk his life savings to open the bar a year ago, said he felt compelled to resist the city’s “bully tactics.”

The free drinks strategy was announced by Mr. Presti on a YouTube video in which he explained from behind the bar that those customer donations would help pay the bar’s bills.

“It was never mandatory, only requested,” Mr. McAlarney said.

State officials said that even free service of alcohol without a state license is illegal.

The governor’s office criticized Mr. McAlarney for putting politics over pandemic safety.

“This owner is learning that actions have consequences,” said Jack Sterne, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo. “Breaking the law and putting your neighbors’ lives at risk during a global pandemic to make a political statement is simply unacceptable.”

Regarding the bar declaring itself an autonomous zone, Mitch Schwartz, a mayoral spokesman, said, “COVID-19 doesn’t respect autonomous zones, and neither does the sheriff — there are consequences for endangering your neighbors in a pandemic.”

Mr. Presti’s arrest came shortly after several plainclothes deputies sat down inside Mac’s and ordered food and alcohol in exchange for a mandatory “donation” of $40. They observed other patrons were doing the same, said the city’s sheriff, Joseph Fucito.

Deputies then issued appearance tickets for multiple violations of city and state laws and ordered Mr. Presti to leave. When he refused, he was arrested, said Mark J. Fonte, a lawyer for the bar’s owners.

Mr. Fonte claimed that the city was making an example of the bar for its vocal resistance to “onerous restrictions that would put them out of business.”

He said that Mac’s was already struggling this fall because restrictions only allowed the owners to seat customers at 25 percent normal capacity. Those limits apply to all indoor dining and drinking in New York City.

When the area was designated an orange zone because of its surge in virus cases, with indoor service banned, “it just crushed them, so they’re doing anything possible to try to survive,” Mr. Fonte said.

 





No.8 article:
Sale of Arctic Refuge Oil and Gas Leases Is Set for Early January

The Trump administration’s announcement sets the stage for leases to be in the hands of oil companies before president-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is sworn in.

The Trump administration said Thursday that it would sell oil and gas leases in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska in early January, further accelerating its last-ditch effort to allow drilling there.

The Bureau of Land Management said the sale would take place on Jan. 6, following the publication next Monday of a notice of sale in the Federal Register. That notice requires a 30-day comment period before a sale can occur.

The announcement of a sale date came just 16 days after the bureau released a “call for nominations,” which allowed oil companies and others to detail which tracts of land in the refuge were of interest for drilling.

Normally, a call for nominations allows at least 30 days for such responses, followed by weeks of analysis by the bureau to ultimately decide which tracts will be offered. That time frame would have pushed a sale to just a few days before, or beyond, the Jan. 20 inauguration of Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has opposed drilling in the refuge.

The announcement, which came from the bureau’s Alaska offices, did not mention why the timetable had been accelerated. But the Trump administration has made no secret of its desire to sell drilling rights in the refuge before leaving office.

Environmental groups denounced the last-minute push.

“This is a shameful attempt by Donald Trump to give one last handout to the fossil fuel industry on his way out the door, at the expense of our public lands and our climate,” Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said in a statement.

Once the sale is held, the bureau has to review and approve the leases, a process that typically takes months. But holding the sale on Jan. 6 potentially gives the bureau opportunity to finalize the leases before Inauguration Day. That would make it more difficult for the Biden administration to undo them.

Environmental groups said they expected Mr. Biden to do just that.

“President Biden ran on, and was elected on, the most aggressive pro-climate platform of any successful candidate in history and he made protecting the Arctic refuge a day one priority,” Adam Kolton, executive director of the Alaska Wilderness League, said in a statement. “We will need him to use all the tools at his disposal to stop the industrialization of this iconic national treasure.&quot;

The plan to sell leases is also the subject of four lawsuits filed by environmental organizations, some Alaska Native groups and, in one case, a coalition of 15 states. The lawsuits contend that the Trump administration took shortcuts in the leasing process and that an environmental review was deeply flawed.

The Arctic refuge is a vast expanse of virtually pristine wilderness, almost untouched by people and home to migrating caribou, polar bears and other wildlife. Of the refuge’s 19 million acres, the lease sales would involve up to 1.5 million acres of the coastal plain of northeast Alaska. The environmental review, which was finalized earlier this year, recommended that almost all of the 1.5 million acres be offered for sale

The refuge has long been protected by environmentalists and Congressional Democrats. But in 2017, with Republicans holding the White House and both houses of Congress, the plan to sell oil and gas leases in the coastal plain was approved as part of tax legislation.

President Trump has said that opening part of the refuge to oil development was among the most significant of his efforts to expand domestic fossil fuel production.

The coastal plain is believed to overlie one of the last remaining significant petroleum reserves in the United States, and could potentially yield billions of barrels of oil. But that assessment is decades old and relies largely on studies that used now-outdated technology to detect petroleum deposits underground.

One exploratory well was drilled in the refuge in the 1980s, and a New York Times investigation found that the results were disappointing.

The American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, has praised the Trump administration’s efforts to open the refuge to drilling, saying it would provide jobs and add to Alaska’s revenue, which has been suffering as oil production on the North Slope has declined over the years. More recently, oil prices have sharply declined during the pandemic. Most of the state’s political leaders support drilling in the refuge as well.

Yet it is not clear how much interest the sale will attract from oil companies. Drilling in the Arctic is costly, making it harder to achieve a good return on investment, especially compared with drilling in places in the Lower 48 states, like Texas, which have less onerous conditions.

Moreover, purchasing the leases would be only the beginning of the process. Most experts say it would be at least a decade or longer before any oil or gas was extracted from the refuge. By then, the drive to reduce worldwide fossil fuel use may mean there is little or no market for the oil.

Companies may also decide that pursuing oil in such a pristine area, one that is prized by environmentalists around the country and by some Alaska Native groups, is not worth the potential effect on their reputations. Many major banks have said they will not lend money to companies for drilling in the refuge.

In the 2017 legislation, the lease sale plan was billed as a means for raising revenue for the federal treasury. The Trump administration originally estimated a $1.8 billion windfall for the government over a decade. The Congressional Budget Office later offered a lower estimate of $1.1 billion.

But independent analyses, including one by The New York Times, found that even that revised amount was likely overly optimistic. Based on similar sales in Alaska over the past several decades, the analyses found potential revenue over the next decade would likely be in the range of tens of millions of dollars





No.9 article:
Georgia Was a Big Win for Democrats. Black Women Did the Groundwork.

Before the Democratic Party invested in Georgia, or President Trump and Joe Biden saw it as a battleground, Black political organizers devoted years of hard work to turning out voters.

RIVERDALE, Ga. — Decades before Joseph R. Biden Jr. flipped Georgia for the Democrats, Felicia Davis was a one-stop political organizing dynamo in Clayton County, canvassing for issues rather than candidates, for her community rather than a political party.

The boom of her voice and the clarity of her convictions command respect. In her operation, even the teenagers are paid $15 an hour to knock on doors and distribute literature. Almost everyone is diligent: She is not someone to disappoint.

“I am unapologetically Black,” Ms. Davis said. “My agenda is Black. My community is Black. My county is Black. So what I do is Black. And for 20 years, we’ve been trying to tell people what was possible.”

When Georgia turned blue for Mr. Biden this year after record voter turnout, it validated the political vision and advocacy of a group of Black women who have led a decades-long organizing effort to transform the state’s electorate. Democrats celebrated their work registering new voters, canvassing and engaging in long-term political outreach. The achievement seemed to confirm mantras that have become commonplace in liberal politics, like “trust Black women” and “Black women are the backbone of the Democratic Party.”

But the same women tell a more complicated story about their relationship with elected Democrats, national campaign officials and prominent political groups. For years, they said, their political vision was demeaned and distrusted. Donors and campaigns balked at the idea that Georgia was a battleground state worth investing in and that the organizers had picked up on demographic and political changes in their home state that others had missed.

Now, with Georgia at the center of the political universe ahead of two pivotal Senate runoff elections in January, the organizers are asking Democrats: Will you embrace our approach now?

“We weren’t surprised that Georgia turned blue, because we’ve been working on it for over 15 years,” said Deborah Scott, the founder of Georgia Stand Up. When she started the group in 2004, she said, it was hard to persuade philanthropy groups and political foundations that focus on grass-roots organizing to consider Georgia.

“It’s been an uphill battle,” Ms. Davis said. “Because here, we’re not just women, we’re Southern women. And we’re not just Southern women, we’re Southern Black women.”

The most famous member of the club is Stacey Abrams, the former state lawmaker and candidate for governor who founded a voter registration group called the New Georgia Project. But there are many others — like Ms. Davis and Helen Butler, who was mentored by the Rev. Joseph E. Lowery, the late civil rights leader — who have spent years working to turn out voters in Georgia.

No single group delivered the state to Mr. Biden or can take credit for turnout there. In a presidential race decided by a razor-thin margin in Georgia, every piece mattered: increased turnout among young voters; outreach to Black, Latino and Asian-American communities; and a rejection of President Trump by some college-educated white voters who typically vote Republican.

In the organizers’ telling, the story of how Georgia voted does not start with Mr. Trump’s election in 2016 or Mr. Biden’s campaign investment this year. It begins a decade earlier, when a new generation of Black female leaders decided to create their own structures, fed up with a state party dominated by conservative “Dixiecrats” and a moderate establishment that presumed the electorate could not change.

They would identify, engage and turn out communities that had been traditionally overlooked — just as they had been themselves. It was a slow build that included close losses in the 2016 presidential election, the 2017 House special election in Georgia and Ms. Abrams’s run in 2018.

Ms. Butler, the executive director of the Georgia Coalition for the People’s Agenda, said her group’s political work showed how “Black women take care of the entire community, not just themselves.”

Nse Ufot, who leads the New Georgia Project, said the same national leaders now praising voter registration efforts in Georgia should reflect on how long it had taken them and groups like the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee to invest in the Black women leading the push.

“National campaign committees and presidential campaigns, like the D.N.C. and the D.C.C.C., would have their favorite pastor or their favorite community activists just run programs,” she said. “No accountability. No data.”

Ms. Ufot added: “It was just their favorite pastor dude saying, ‘Turn your people out.’ When people like Helen Butler could actually run a proper program.”

“Foundations were not supporting social justice and community building work here,” she said. “No one was looking at what’s happening in our rural areas, and no one’s looking at the small ways that people were being cheated out of their own democracy by having these voter suppression laws. People weren’t even paying attention, because they thought that’s just the way it was here.”

For years, national Democratic campaigns have wrestled with whether Georgia and other Southern states were worthy investments, including during former President Barack Obama’s race in 2012 and Hillary Clinton’s campaign in 2016. However, in the zero-sum environment of presidential politics, Democrats prioritized other states, including in the Upper Midwest and traditional battlegrounds like Ohio and Florida. 

Asked about the criticism from Ms. Ufot and others, representatives for the D.N.C. and the D.C.C.C. declined to respond directly. A spokeswoman for the D.C.C.C. praised the organizing in Georgia and said that in recent years, the party had invested in local groups and campaign organizers with success.

“Georgia doesn’t turn blue without the determined organizing of activists and leaders in communities of color, particularly the Black community,” said Robyn Patterson, the national press secretary for the D.C.C.C. “House Democrats flipped two Trump-lean districts by investing early, hiring talented organizers with deep ties to their communities, and engaging the people of color who have spent years working to move Georgia forward.”

The arc of Georgia’s transformation has become a road map for other states that are experiencing rapid demographic change and a catalyst for a new strategy in liberal politics. Versions of the New Georgia Project have popped up in Virginia, Texas and North Carolina as organizers try to create new, consistent voting blocs.

This year, the progressive donor Susan Sandler gave $200 million to fund such efforts in the South and Southwest. An accompanying note said she had become convinced that investing in these groups — and not in campaigns — was the path to building long-term power among minority communities.

Democratic groups and candidates have changed as well, with organizations like the D.C.C.C. garnering praise from Georgia Democrats this cycle for investing earlier in the state. Black Democrats running statewide campaigns in the South have reflected the message of Ms. Abrams, who embraced the racial and gender diversity of the party’s base.

The fact that the winning presidential ticket included a Black woman was another sign that the Democratic Party had come to recognize the most consistent part of its voting and organizing base, said Melanie Campbell, who convenes a group called the Black Women’s Roundtable and is president of the National Coalition on Black Civic Participation.

Vice President-elect Kamala Harris’s nomination “was that moment — for so many sisters — it was about more than just a ticket,” Ms. Campbell said. “It was about having arrived to a place of being fully seen and fully respected as Black women.”

In a recent phone interview, Ms. Abrams, who is expected to run again for governor, recalled how she had driven to 150 of Georgia’s 159 counties before her 2018 bid, learning about places where local leaders said the party could be more viable.

“But when I got into those places, there was always someone there to meet me — who had been waiting for someone to come to help connect and help them build this network,” she said. “So whether it was finding Black voters in South Georgia, and working with Black immigrants in Gwinnett, or working with the A.A.P.I. community, or going to North Georgia and meeting with more and more Latino voters.” (A.A.P.I. refers to Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders.)

Ms. Abrams also said she disliked “trust Black women” as a motto because it didn’t reflect the diverse coalition that had brought change to the state.

A New York Times analysis of Georgia voters found that turnout had increased among minority communities and in the diverse suburbs but that the biggest shift to Democrats was among white college graduates and wealthier residents.

“I appreciate the necessity of that battle cry,” Ms. Abrams said. “And in my approach, in Georgia in particular, Black women have been instrumental. But I chafe at this idea that we then objectify one group as both savior and as responsible party.”

Still, it was Black women who laid the organizing framework in Georgia, and who are doing so again ahead of the Senate runoffs. Ms. Ufot’s group held a small celebration on the Saturday after Election Day, after Mr. Biden crossed the threshold of 270 electoral votes, but was back to organizing by that Monday.

In Clayton County, south of Atlanta, Ms. Davis’s small army of canvassers is encouraging residents to participate in the runoffs but is also focusing on a down-ballot race for the state’s public service commission.

Many voter registration efforts in Georgia are run by nonprofit, apolitical organizations, including the People’s Agenda, Georgia Stand Up and the New Georgia Project, that target historically disadvantaged communities and nonwhite voters.

Because those demographic groups tend to break for Democrats, and given that leaders like Ms. Butler and Ms. Ufot have professional and personal histories with people like Ms. Abrams, Republicans have sometimes cast the groups as unofficial wings of the Democratic Party — which has placed them under intense legal and journalistic scrutiny.

The women who lead these groups say they take pride in their legal and operational independence and denounce the transactional nature of political campaigns and candidates. Their message, they say, is about turning passive constituents of a democratic society into active participants. It is an enduring effort that begins before the flood of candidate ads and party literature and continues long after.

Ms. Butler, the head of the People’s Agenda, said what had given her the most pride this year was not the Democratic success in Georgia, but the high turnout and continued ascendance of nonwhite voters.

“The more people that get engaged in this, the more diverse opinions we have, I think we come out with better elected officials,” she said.

But those who are explicit about their partisan leanings said a blue Georgia was vindication after years of what-ifs and close calls.

The next time they ask for investment and trust, it will be easier, they said. And for Black women everywhere, there is now a model for expanding their political power.

“We are the home of Scarlett O’Hara and ‘Gone With the Wind,’” Ms. Davis said, referring to the 1936 plantation epic that was set in Clayton County. “So you have to think about it like that. What we’re doing here is putting to rest some of the worst aspects of old Southern culture. And that’s a powerful thing.”





No.10 article:
How Much Watching Time Do You Have This Weekend?

There’s plenty to suit your mood, including art, apes and an earnest family drama.

Every Monday and Friday, Margaret offers hyper-specific viewing recommendations in our Watching newsletter. Read her latest picks below, and sign up for the Watching newsletter here.

‘American Masters: Keith Haring: Street Art Boy’When to watch: Friday at 9 p.m., on PBS. (Check local listings.)

This brief biography almost feels like a table of contents for what could be a dozen other episodes. It covers not only the artist Keith Haring but also street art of the 1970s and ’80s, rad parties, the evolution of one intersection as a microcosm for gentrification in New York City, recreational drug use and the role of public art. In one archival clip, a woman with short gray hair asks Haring about a chalk drawing on a subway platform. “Who are you doing it for?” she says. “Um, for everybody, I guess,” Haring replies, and a little smile spreads across the woman’s face.

‘Baby Chimp Rescue’When to watch: Saturday at 8 p.m., on BBC America.

Every show about nonhuman primates includes a lot of impish snuggling, but this three-part series about a sanctuary facility in Liberia is on another plane thanks to 21 affectionate baby apes who all want to be held, groomed and in on the action. Cuteness abounds, and depending on how many toddlers are in your orbit, so does familiarity: Why, what better to hang on and then fling myself from than this here doorknob? If you’re more of a rescue dog person than a rescue chimp person, fear not, there are dogs on this show, too.

‘The Hardy Boys’When to watch: Arrives Friday, on Hulu.

Don’t be fooled by the hazy visuals, retro aesthetic and moody lighting — this isn’t really part of the “Riverdale” darkly horny teen soap genre. It’s a lot more wholesome, in a good way. Think “Everwood” crossed with “Stranger Things”: It’s the 1980s, some spooky stuff is afoot, and the Hardy boys (Alexander Elliot and Rohan Campbell) have moved back to the small town where their recently deceased mother grew up. While 13 episodes is a few too many, the show has a fun, confident energy. If you liked “Locke &amp; Key,” watch this.





No.11 article:
In a Dark Season, We Went Looking for Poetry

The New York Times National Desk asked state poets laureate for some words of gratitude. We got a blizzard of lovely poetry in response.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

Many years ago, after covering a dreary meeting of the New Hampshire House Ways and Means Committee, I found myself struggling to craft a compelling story about state taxes and revenue forecasts. With deadline looming, an editor in my small newsroom offered this dispiriting advice: “We’re not looking for poetry here. Just bang it out.”

A few weeks back, Marc Lacey, The New York Times’s national editor, had a contrary and more uplifting idea: What if we actually went looking for some poetry?

As an assistant editor on the desk, I wrote to the nation’s many state poets laureate — nearly every state has one — and asked them to provide us with some words of gratitude in a relentlessly difficult year. What did the residents of their particular states have to be thankful for?

I harbored some skepticism. Would poets turn up their noses at a tight newspaper deadline and a 100-word limit? No, as it turns out. Most were happy to help bring a little positivity to Times readers.

The nation’s poets laureate have a real sense of mission. They aim to encourage an appreciation for poetry, to challenge us, to generate some buzz for the art form. That has required more effort and ingenuity during the coronavirus pandemic. And so, like firefighters waiting in a quiet station for the call to duty, they embraced the Times assignment quickly and wholeheartedly.

“Poetry is spirit and can’t be stopped by calamity,” noted Grace Cavalieri, the poet laureate of Maryland. She reported that poetry is actually thriving online during the pandemic, at least in her corner of the world: “I was asked to do a remote poetry workshop for horse therapy participants. A first for poetry.”

Many poets laureate serve two- or three-year terms and are eager to make the most of their short tenures, traveling their states (in ordinary times), giving readings, teaching classes, composing poems for special events. A rare few are appointed for life. Larry Woiwode, for example, has been the poet laureate of North Dakota for a quarter century. In North Carolina, the poet laureate Jaki Shelton Green told me, the state switched from lifetime appointments to short terms in an effort to diversify the voices on the public stage.

In their Times pieces, the writers gave thanks for some phenomena specific to their states — “proximity to water, August at Narragansett Beach, / and lobster,” in Rhode Island, for instance. But there were also many common threads: gratitude for natural wonders, for neighbors, family and health care workers, for health itself.

Pulling the project together was not without drama, though.

Illinois, for instance, had been without a poet laureate since 2017. We received quite a good submission from the former laureate, but then came an urgent call from Chicago. Gov. J.B. Pritzker would be naming a new poet laureate on Monday, Nov. 23, an aide assured me — ample time to include her in our story on Thanksgiving Day. But Monday came and went with no announcement. Tuesday, too. Finally Wednesday arrived and with it a new bard for Illinois: Angela Jackson, just in the nick of time.

Some poets were tricky to track down. The writer from Vermont has no email address. But her friend, the poet laureate of Rhode Island, knew her phone number and sent her a text message to make sure she had received our query.

The poet from Oregon, much like every never-satisfied reporter in the world, kept finessing his poem, even as our deadline crept closer. One poet worried she might have contracted the coronavirus, but she still managed to send a submission.

Jeanetta Calhoun Mish submitted a poem in plenty of time, but something about her ode to Oklahoma set off the suspicion of the Times email system and it landed in my spam folder, hidden from view. “This message seems dangerous,” my computer warned, when I finally tracked it down. We quickly added her piece — not scary at all — to our collection after its initial publication.

Shawn Hubler, a national correspondent based in California, artfully wove together a story about the three dozen submissions we collected, highlighting some of the most evocative language and ideas, like the one from Beth Ann Fennelly of Mississippi, who was “grateful to be counted on: One Mississippi, Two. Grateful for the word y’all. Grateful for the emphatic all y’all.”

Clinton Cargill, another assistant editor on the National desk, commissioned several lovely illustrations to accompany the story. And Carrie Mifsud, a designer, created a graceful two-page spread for the Thanksgiving Day newspaper.

The result: On a day that also included alarming news about the pandemic, shrunken holiday plans and ceaseless squabbling about an election already weeks in the past, Times readers also got a large helping of poetry to make it all go down a bit more easily. Even in a post-pandemic world, this might be a terrific tradition to continue.





No.12 article:
Google Researcher Says She Was Fired Over Paper Highlighting Bias in A.I.

Timnit Gebru, one of the few Black women in her field, had voiced exasperation over the company’s response to efforts to increase minority hiring.

A well-respected Google researcher said she was fired by the company after criticizing its approach to minority hiring and the biases built into today’s artificial intelligence systems.

Timnit Gebru, who was a co-leader of Google’s Ethical A.I. team, said in a tweet on Wednesday evening that she was fired because of an email she had sent a day earlier to a group that included company employees.

In the email, reviewed by The New York Times, she expressed exasperation over Google’s response to efforts by her and other employees to increase minority hiring and draw attention to bias in artificial intelligence.

“Your life starts getting worse when you start advocating for underrepresented people. You start making the other leaders upset,” the email read. “There is no way more documents or more conversations will achieve anything.”

Her departure from Google highlights growing tension between Google’s outspoken work force and its buttoned-up senior management, while raising concerns over the company’s efforts to build fair and reliable technology. It may also have a chilling effect on both Black tech workers and researchers who have left academia in recent years for high-paying jobs in Silicon Valley.

“Her firing only indicates that scientists, activists and scholars who want to work in this field — and are Black women — are not welcome in Silicon Valley,” said Mutale Nkonde, a fellow with the Stanford Digital Civil Society Lab. “It is very disappointing.”

A Google spokesman declined to comment. In an email sent to Google employees, Jeff Dean, who oversees Google’s A.I. work, including that of Dr. Gebru and her team, called her departure “a difficult moment, especially given the important research topics she was involved in, and how deeply we care about responsible A.I. research as an org and as a company.”

After years of an anything-goes environment where employees engaged in freewheeling discussions in companywide meetings and online message boards, Google has started to crack down on workplace discourse. Many Google employees have bristled at the new restrictions and have argued that the company has broken from a tradition of transparency and free debate.

On Wednesday, the National Labor Relations Board said Google had most likely violated labor law when it fired two employees who were involved in labor organizing. The federal agency said Google illegally surveilled the employees before firing them.

Google’s battles with its workers, who have spoken out in recent years about the company’s handling of sexual harassment and its work with the Defense Department and federal border agencies, have diminished its reputation as a utopia for tech workers with generous salaries, perks and workplace freedom.

Like other technology companies, Google has also faced criticism for not doing enough to resolve the lack of women and racial minorities among its ranks.

The problems of racial inequality, especially the mistreatment of Black employees at technology companies, has plagued Silicon Valley for years. Coinbase, the most valuable cryptocurrency start-up, has experienced an exodus of Black employees in the last two years over what the workers said was racist and discriminatory treatment.

Researchers worry that the people who are building artificial intelligence systems may be building their own biases into the technology. Over the past several years, several public experiments have shown that the systems often interact differently with people of color — perhaps because they are underrepresented among the developers who create those systems.

Dr. Gebru, 37, was born and raised in Ethiopia. In 2018, while a researcher at Stanford University, she helped write a paper that is widely seen as a turning point in efforts to pinpoint and remove bias in artificial intelligence. She joined Google later that year, and helped build the Ethical A.I. team.

After hiring researchers like Dr. Gebru, Google has painted itself as a company dedicated to “ethical” A.I. But it is often reluctant to publicly acknowledge flaws in its own systems.

In an interview with The Times, Dr. Gebru said her exasperation stemmed from the company’s treatment of a research paper she had written with six other researchers, four of them at Google. The paper, also reviewed by The Times, pinpointed flaws in a new breed of language technology, including a system built by Google that underpins the company’s search engine.

These systems learn the vagaries of language by analyzing enormous amounts of text, including thousands of books, Wikipedia entries and other online documents. Because this text includes biased and sometimes hateful language, the technology may end up generating biased and hateful language.

After she and the other researchers submitted the paper to an academic conference, Dr. Gebru said, a Google manager demanded that she either retract the paper from the conference or remove her name and the names of the other Google employees. She refused to do so without further discussion and, in the email sent Tuesday evening, said she would resign after an appropriate amount of time if the company could not explain why it wanted her to retract the paper and answer other concerns.

The company responded to her email, she said, by saying it could not meet her demands and that her resignation was accepted immediately. Her access to company email and other services was immediately revoked.

In his note to employees, Mr. Dean said Google respected “her decision to resign.” Mr. Dean also said that the paper did not acknowledge recent research showing ways of mitigating bias in such systems.

“It was dehumanizing,” Dr. Gebru said. “They may have reasons for shutting down our research. But what is most upsetting is that they refuse to have a discussion about why.”

Dr. Gebru’s departure from Google comes at a time when A.I. technology is playing a bigger role in nearly every facet of Google’s business. The company has hitched its future to artificial intelligence — whether with its voice-enabled digital assistant or its automated placement of advertising for marketers — as the breakthrough technology to make the next generation of services and devices smarter and more capable.

Sundar Pichai, chief executive of Alphabet, Google’s parent company, has compared the advent of artificial intelligence to that of electricity or fire, and has said that it is essential to the future of the company and computing. Earlier this year, Mr. Pichai called for greater regulation and responsible handling of artificial intelligence, arguing that society needs to balance potential harms with new opportunities.

Google has repeatedly committed to eliminating bias in its systems. The trouble, Dr. Gebru said, is that most of the people making the ultimate decisions are men. “They are not only failing to prioritize hiring more people from minority communities, they are quashing their voices,” she said.

Julien Cornebise, an honorary associate professor at University College London and a former researcher with DeepMind, a prominent A.I. lab owned by the same parent company as Google’s, was among many artificial intelligence researchers who said Dr. Gebru’s departure reflected a larger problem in the industry.

“This shows how some large tech companies only support ethics and fairness and other A.I.-for-social-good causes as long as their positive P.R. impact outweighs the extra scrutiny they bring,” he said. “Timnit is a brilliant researcher. We need more like her in our field.”





No.13 article:
Trump Associates Said to Have Been Scrutinized in Suspected Pardon Scheme

A billionaire from the San Francisco area sought clemency for a psychologist convicted of monetary crimes. The Republican donor Elliott Broidy and a lawyer who later represented Jared Kushner were enlisted.

The Justice Department investigated as recently as this summer the roles of a top fund-raiser for President Trump and a lawyer for his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, in a suspected scheme to offer a bribe in exchange for clemency for a tax crimes convict, according to two people familiar with the inquiry.

A federal judge in Washington unsealed heavily redacted court documents on Tuesday that disclosed the existence of the investigation into possible unregistered lobbying and bribery. The people said it concerned efforts by the lawyer for Mr. Kushner, Abbe Lowell, and the fund-raiser, Elliott Broidy, who pleaded guilty in October to a charge related to a different scheme to lobby the Trump administration.

A billionaire real estate developer from the San Francisco area, Sanford Diller, enlisted their help in securing clemency for a Berkeley psychologist, Hugh L. Baras, who had received a 30-month prison sentence on a conviction of tax evasion and improperly claiming Social Security benefits, according to the filing and the people familiar with the case. Under the suspected scheme, Mr. Diller would make “a substantial political contribution” to an unspecified recipient in exchange for the pardon. He died in February 2018, and there is no evidence that the effort continued after his death.

As part of the effort, someone approached the White House Counsel’s Office to “ensure” that the “clemency petition reached the targeted officials,” according to the court documents. They did not say who made the contact or how the White House responded.

Mr. Baras did not receive clemency.

No bribe was paid, said Reid H. Weingarten, a friend of and lawyer for Mr. Lowell who confirmed his client had represented Mr. Baras in his unsuccessful efforts to avoid incarceration. Mr. Baras went to prison in June 2017 and was released in August 2019.

No one has been charged in the inquiry. No government officials are “currently a subject or target of the investigation disclosed in this filing,” a Justice Department official said. This summer, investigators sought communications related to the scheme to “confront” the people they were scrutinizing, the court documents showed.

A lawyer for Mr. Broidy said that his client had played only a small role in the matter and said that his client did nothing wrong.

“Mr. Broidy was asked by Mr. Diller to refer him to a D.C. lawyer who could assist on a clemency petition,” said the lawyer, William A. Burck. “Mr. Broidy sent him to Abbe Lowell. That’s not lobbying, and Mr. Broidy is not under investigation and has not been accused by anyone of any wrongdoing whatsoever.”

A White House spokesman did not return an email seeking comment, and a Justice Department spokesman declined to comment. Mr. Trump tweeted earlier that the investigation was “fake news.”

Mr. Weingarten said he spoke to department officials who left him “with the impression they had absolutely no concerns with Mr. Lowell’s conduct.”

“This is much ado about precious little,” Mr. Weingarten said. “They investigated and concluded that nothing was amiss. In addition, prosecutors did not have the slightest issue with Abbe.”

Mr. Weingarten said that Mr. Lowell had never asked Mr. Kushner to help with Mr. Baras’s case or any other matter related to clemency, and added that Mr. Lowell’s work for Mr. Baras ended before he started representing Mr. Kushner.

Marc J. Zilversmit, a lawyer who represented Mr. Baras at trial and in appeals, said he was not Mr. Baras’s lawyer “for the purposes of a pardon” but otherwise declined to comment.

The people familiar with the case spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss it.

The scheme outlined by prosecutors underscores the transactional nature of Mr. Trump’s term, where people leveraged connections to him or framed their causes in terms of his personal or political benefit to influence his decisions.

Mr. Trump has wielded his clemency powers to aid people with personal or political connections to him. He commuted the sentence of Roger J. Stone Jr., his longtime friend and adviser convicted of charges brought by the special counsel, and he pardoned the pro-Trump conservative commentator Dinesh D’Souza and the former Wall Street executive Michael Milken.

And last week, Mr. Trump pardoned his former national security adviser Michael T. Flynn, kicking off what is expected to be a wave of pardons as Mr. Trump’s presidency ends.

Presidents have unchecked authority over clemency, and there is a history of donors or their family members getting pardons. No law bars people from lobbying for pardons, nor is it necessarily illegal to give a donation to a president after receiving a pardon. But bribery laws could prohibit explicitly predicating donations or other gifts of value to the granting of a pardon.

Prosecutors contended in the court papers that because the participants in the effort did not register as lobbyists, it could violate both lobbying laws and bribery laws.

The filings unsealed this week by Chief Judge Beryl A. Howell of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, set off a flurry of intense speculation in Washington and theories involving high-profile convicts.

But the case relates to the conviction of Mr. Baras, 77, who was sentenced in 2014 and ordered to pay restitution of about $594,000 for tax evasion and illegally claiming disability insurance benefits to which he was not entitled from the Social Security Administration.

Mr. Baras fought the conviction for years, suing to vacate, set aside or reduce his sentence. His lawyer sought to appeal up to the Supreme Court, arguing Mr. Baras was deprived of a fair trial partly because the court declined to allow him to present evidence that he made an effort to pay his back taxes and to pay back the improperly received disability benefits. The Supreme Court declined to take the case and Mr. Baras reported to prison in June 2017.

At some point during his fight, Mr. Diller took up his cause. He spoke of Mr. Baras having helped him in some way and he felt obliged to return the favor, according to one of Mr. Diller’s sons, Bradley Diller.

“This was his thing,” Bradley Diller said. “I don’t know what the history of his relationship with Hugh Baras was, why he felt this kind of personal obligation, but he was making a kind of huge effort to help out this person.”

While Sanford Diller had trained as a lawyer, he was not practicing and did not appear in court filings as working on Mr. Baras’s behalf.

Bradley Diller said that he did not know about his father’s relationship with Mr. Broidy or Mr. Lowell, and that his father never discussed enlisting their help — or anyone’s — in trying to obtain a pardon for Mr. Baras.

“I doubt my father would do something like that,” he said, adding that, based on their discussions, he believed his father “was just trying to help him on the up and up through legal means.”

Sanford Diller knew Mr. Broidy through Republican Jewish donor circles, according to a person familiar with their relationship. Both donated to conservative and hawkish foreign policy groups, including the Foundation for Defense of Democracies.

While Mr. Diller gave $434,000 to Republican Party committees in 2016, most of which went to the Republican National Committee’s convention, legal and building headquarters accounts, there is no record of a direct donation from him to Mr. Trump’s campaign. With the exception of $23,400 in donations to Republican congressional candidates in 2014, Mr. Diller did not have a lengthy track record of Republican giving before that.

Mr. Broidy, a California businessman who owns a defense contracting firm based in Virginia, had helped raise money for Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign, and after the election, he became a top fund-raising official for Mr. Trump’s inauguration and the Republican National Committee, as well as a member of Mr. Trump’s private South Florida club, Mar-a-Lago.

Mr. Broidy marketed his access to Mr. Trump to potential business partners and others seeking favor from the administration, including foreign governments and interests in Africa, Asia, the Middle East and Europe.

It is not clear how Mr. Lowell became involved. He was later well-known for his ties to Mr. Kushner.

Mr. Weingarten said the events took place in 2017. He played down the potential bribery scheme, saying that Mr. Lowell’s role “was simply as a routine lawyer who advocated on behalf of his client unsuccessfully.”

Mr. Weingarten said that he believed the allegations came to light after federal investigators examined an array of Mr. Broidy’s communications.

Judge Howell said in her order that emails “indicating additional criminal activity” among the people involved in the pardon issue were discovered while investigators examined over 50 devices — including iPhones, iPads, laptops, thumb drives and hard drives — that were seized in a separate investigation.

Mr. Broidy’s efforts to influence the administration had become the subject of federal investigations by the summer of 2018.

He had resigned that April as deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee after the revelation that he had agreed to pay $1.6 million to a former Playboy model who became pregnant during an affair.

Mr. Broidy pleaded guilty in October to conspiring to violate the Foreign Agents Registration Act as part of a covert campaign to influence the Trump administration on behalf of Chinese and Malaysian interests.

Mr. Broidy, 63, agreed to forfeit $6.6 million to the federal government and to cooperate with prosecutors on a range of potential investigations related to his fellow conspirators and others.

Mr. Lowell, one of the most high-profile defense lawyers in Washington, had represented one of Mr. Broidy’s co-conspirators in the case. He was also the counsel for House Democrats during the Clinton impeachment and in 2018, he helped Senator Bob Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, beat federal corruption charges.

Shortly after Mr. Trump became president, Mr. Lowell began representing Mr. Kushner, a senior White House adviser to his father-in-law who faced legal issues related to his security clearance and the Russia investigation.

The court filings were made public as a result of a decision by Judge Howell to grant prosecutors access to emails to investigate the scheme. She ruled that based on a small selection she had seen, she did not believe the emails were covered by attorney-client privilege.





No.14 article:
Visa Is Doing What Big American Companies Do to ‘Protect This Business’

The Justice Department is opposing Visa’s acquisition of a nascent rival in a step forward for antitrust enforcement.

Visa dominates the lucrative business of processing debit card transactions. Merchants must choose between paying the financial services company’s fees or forgoing sales to the millions of Americans who carry cards emblazoned with Visa’s logo.

A San Francisco technology start-up named Plaid threatened that dominance. The company planned to debut a rival service next year that would charge half as much as Visa.

So Visa did what big American companies have learned to do: It agreed to buy the smaller company, pledging a king’s ransom to eliminate the threat of competition.

Last month, the Justice Department sued to block the deal as a violation of antitrust law. The intervention is necessary to protect the interests of merchants and consumers, and the health of the broader economy. The federal government has been far too permissive in allowing large companies to swallow potential rivals, particularly in the rapidly evolving technology sector.

The Justice Department has destroyed its credibility over the past four years by prioritizing President Trump’s interests over the national interest. Antitrust enforcement is no exception. The department has pursued cases against the president’s enemies, notably investigating an agreement among four auto companies to voluntarily reduce emissions, and it has declined to pursue cases against the president’s friends, allowing T-Mobile to acquire Sprint. But in pursuing the case against Visa, the department is ending the Trump era on a relatively high note, setting an example the Biden administration ought to emulate.

Debit cards, which have soared in popularity in recent decades, allow customers to make purchases by authorizing withdrawals from their bank accounts. Visa operates a system that connects the buyer’s bank and the merchant’s bank. For this service, the merchant pays a fee to Visa and to the bank that issued the card. Other companies offer a similar service, but Visa is the dominant player. It processed about 70 percent of the online debit transactions in the United States last year, a business that produced about $2 billion in profits.

Plaid is not one of Visa’s competitors — yet. The start-up provides the plumbing that lets apps like Venmo, a cash transfer service, or Robinhood, a stock trading platform, access users’ bank accounts. Visa’s dominance rests on its exclusive relationships with the banks that issue debit cards, but Plaid now has relationships with most of the same banks.

Last year, Visa made a small, exploratory investment in Plaid. A few months later, according to the government’s complaint, one of Plaid’s co-founders called Visa to say that the company was for sale, and the price was about $5 billion. Why would Visa pay so much for a company with revenues of $100 million last year? According to the government’s complaint, Plaid made clear that it was planning to get into Visa’s business. The smaller company told Visa that it was preparing to launch a new system for processing online debit payments, with fees of about 50 percent of Visa’s.

One Visa executive described Plaid’s potential as a “volcano” with “just the tip showing above the water,” according to the complaint. Visa estimated it could lose a quarter of its online debit business by 2024. The company’s chief executive said buying Plaid was an “insurance policy.” He told investors, “we must always do what it takes to protect this business.”

Visa says that it’s paying for Plaid’s current business, which is growing fast, that the government’s complaint takes quotes and facts out of context and that it’s ridiculous to portray Plaid as a dangerous rival when it hasn’t even introduced a rival product. “Visa’s business faces intense competition from a variety of players — but Plaid is not one of them,” the company said in a statement.

Both Plaid’s investors and Visa’s investors stand to benefit from the proposed deal. Visa is willing to pay $5.3 billion because it stands to lose even more money if Plaid emerges as a viable competitor. Plaid, in turn, might eventually be able to earn more than $5.3 billion, but that would take time and effort. Its investors have decided they’d rather get paid upfront.

The problem is that everyone else loses. Visa’s profits come directly from merchants who accept its debit cards, and indirectly from the customers who use debit cards. The Justice Department estimates merchants must pay 39 cents to accept a $60 payment from a Visa debit card. Some portion of that fee is passed on to customers in the form of higher prices.

Visa, of course, could embrace the new technology and cut its prices. But research shows that corporate concentration generally slows the pace of innovation, for the obvious reason that companies don’t try as hard when they aren’t living in fear of competition. As the economist John Hicks observed in 1935, “The best of all monopoly profits is a quiet life.”

The International Monetary Fund estimated last year that increased corporate concentration since 2000 had dampened investment sufficiently to reduce economic output by 1 percent in the average advanced economy. It said more concentration could increase the damage.

Concentration can even be bad for the workers at dominant companies: It holds down wages by limiting the number of rivals that might pay for the worker’s expertise.

Big companies exert big political power, rewriting laws to serve their own purposes.

Over the past four decades, the federal government has maintained a permissive attitude toward corporate concentration. There are now four big airlines, three big mobile telephone companies, two big beer companies. Four firms dominate sales of farm seeds. Three make most of the light bulbs. Two make the vast majority of disposable diapers.

A handful of technology companies have emerged as the Goliaths of the online economy.

The big companies, and their defenders in Washington, argue that they still operate under the discipline of market forces. Google, for example, is fond of declaring that if someone should succeed in making a better search engine, customers are free to use it. But the technology companies, in particular, have learned to prevent competition by snapping up nascent rivals. In addition to the name-brand mergers, like Google’s acquisition of YouTube or Facebook’s purchases of Instagram and WhatsApp, the big tech companies have purchased dozens of small companies that might have grown into viable competitors. In October, an investigation by the House Judiciary Committee concluded that Facebook, in particular, had pursued an “acquire, copy, or kill” strategy for dealing with potential competitors.

In the Visa case, the government is drawing an important line in the sand by arguing that Visa should not be allowed to acquire a potential rival. Before the evisceration of antitrust enforcement in the 1980s, this was widely accepted as a valid reason for blocking a merger.

It is time to restore that principle as part a broader reinvigoration of antitrust enforcement.





No.15 article:
Humans Can Help Clean Up Facebook and Twitter

Computers are good at spreading lies. People can help stop them and mitigate the damage they cause.

Social media companies this election cycle did more to try to prevent the spread of misinformation than in any previous American election. It wasn’t nearly enough.

Half-truths and lies spread widely and quickly. On Facebook and Twitter, the most inflammatory, unreliable and divisive posts are shared and too often believed more readily than those with verifiable facts. Now that we’ve had time to survey the fallout from the election, it’s apparent that much more needs to be done to rapidly and more consistently stop the proliferation of bad info, year round and globally.

Leading up to last month’s election, Twitter and Facebook appended warning labels to numerous tweets and posts from Donald Trump and his supporters, and the sites have sporadically continued to do so as the president broadcasts unsubstantiated claims of voting fraud and ballot counting inconsistencies. It’s a start, but the evidence suggests the labels themselves didn’t stop the spread of the posts. Facebook, which allows politicians to post lies on its website, indicated in an internal discussion that the labels lowered the spread of the president’s objectionable posts by only about 8 percent. Twitter said its labels helped to decrease the spread of offending tweets by 29 percent, by one measure.

Worse, the labels contained squishy language, like calling the president’s assertions that he won the election or that it was stolen “disputed,” rather than simply false. Because the companies have not revealed how often users clicked through the labels to more reliable information, it seems safe to assume the those click-throughs were minimal.

Cleaning up social media won’t be easy, particularly since banning or significantly throttling more prominent accounts even after repeated violations of policy or common decency would be bad for business. Top accounts appear to be treated more leniently than the general public, forcing Facebook, in one recent episode, to explain why it wasn’t giving Steve Bannon the boot after he suggested that Dr. Anthony Fauci and Christopher Wray, the director of the F.B.I., should be beheaded. Facebook said Mr. Bannon hadn’t committed enough violations.It’s really about money. Divisiveness brings more engagement, which brings in more advertising revenue.

Users should worry that Facebook and Twitter won’t maintain the same level of vigilance now that the election has passed. (Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said as much, according to BuzzFeed.) And the incentives for posting misleading content didn’t disappear after Nov. 3.If the companies truly care about the integrity of their platforms, they’ll form teams of people to monitor the accounts of users with the most followers, retweets and engagement. That includes those of Mr. Trump, both today and later as a private citizen, but also of President-elect Joe Biden and President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, and other influential accounts, like those of Elon Musk, Bill Gates and Taylor Swift. Facebook says it has software tools to identify when high-reach accounts may violate rules, but they clearly are not catching enough quickly enough.Think of these frontline moderators as hall monitors whose job is to ensure that students have a pass, but not necessarily to issue penalties if they don’t. The monotony of refreshing Justin Trudeau’s social media feed is worth it for the preservation of democracy and promotion of basic facts.

“For the platforms to treat all the bad info as having the same weight is disingenuous,” said Sarah Roberts, an information studies professor at the University of California, Los Angeles. “The more prominent the profile, the higher the accountability should be.”

With such a system, the companies could ensure the swiftest possible response so that posts are vetted by actual people, including outside fact checkers, familiar with company policy, nuance and local customs. When they rely too much on software to decide what to examine, it can happen slowly or not at all. Particularly in the heat of an election, minutes count and dangerously false information can be seen by millions immediately. If enough people believe an unfettered lie, it gains legitimacy, particularly if our leaders and cultural icons are the ones endorsing it.

Posts, tweets and screenshots that lack a warning label are more likely to be believed because users assume they have passed Facebook’s and Twitter’s smell tests, said Sinan Aral, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor who studies social media.

Staffing shouldn’t be an issue: Between Facebook and Twitter, tens of thousands of people work monitoring for commonplace violative content. Such a system could bolster Facebook’s specialized teams that work in conjunction with artificial intelligence software that the company says can detect when a post has or is likely to go viral.

“Human-in-the-loop moderation is the right solution,” said Mr. Aral, whose book, “The Hype Machine,” addresses some of social media’s foibles. “It’s not a simple silver bullet, but it would give accountability where these companies have in the past blamed software.”

Ideally, social media companies would ban public officials, media personalities and celebrities who consistently lie or violate policies. But that’s sure to upset the finance folks, and the companies have demonstrated little willingness to do so as a result. Adding simple modifications like stronger language in warning labels, moving the labels to above from below the content and halting the ability of users to spread patently false information from prominent accounts could go a long way toward reforming the sites.

In two recent hearings, Republican lawmakers raked tech executives over the coals for supposedly impinging on free speech by removing or suppressing content or adding warning labels. But it’s worth noting that Facebook and Twitter are actually exercising their own free-speech rights by policing their sites. Private companies monitoring specific accounts and acting against objectionable content may seem unpalatable to some, but it is not against any law. The alternatives are worse.

Facts take time to verify. Until social media companies care more about fact than fiction, their sites will be nothing more than an accelerant for the lies our leaders can and do tell every day.





No.16 article:
U.K. and U.S. Officials Spar Over ‘Vaccine Nationalism’

Scientists warned that a debate over which country’s regulatory system is better could undermine public faith in vaccines. Meanwhile, Britons waited to learn how soon they can get coronavirus shots.

LONDON — British and American officials sparred on Thursday over how Britain had beaten the United States to authorizing a coronavirus vaccine, a debate touching on politics and regulatory styles that has heated up as wealthy countries vie to receive the first shipments of vaccines.

In Britain, the euphoria of winning the global race to authorizing the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was quickly giving way to a more sober realization of the choices facing the country’s National Health Service as it tries to deliver the first doses into people’s arms by Monday.

Nursing home residents, who had been named the government’s top priority, have fallen down the list. Doctors and nurses were expecting to be vaccinated first, but those plans appeared to be in flux. Meanwhile, the government pleaded with people not to call hospitals, asking for a shot.

The question of whether Britain had authorized a vaccine in haste on Wednesday, or the United States was wasting valuable time as the virus was killing about 1,500 Americans a day, has divided scientists and has also drawn in politicians. Facing criticism from American and European regulators, British officials boasted of the decision on Thursday, with one lawmaker suggesting the Europeans were “a bit sniffy” and others misleadingly crediting Brexit.

“We’ve obviously got the best medical regulators,” Gavin Williamson, the education secretary, said in a radio interview, by way of explaining why Britain had become the first Western country to authorize a vaccine. “Much better than the French have, much better than the Belgians have, much better than the Americans have. That doesn’t surprise me at all because we’re a much better country than every single one of them, aren’t we.”

Those remarks drew eye rolls from British scientists, but also provoked more serious concerns that any chest-beating by government ministers risked undermining the public’s faith in a vaccine.

Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said that British regulators had not scrutinized data from clinical trials as carefully as their American counterparts in the Food and Drug Administration.

“We have the gold standard of a regulatory approach with the F.D.A.,” Dr. Fauci said in an interview on Fox News. “The U.K. did not do it as carefully and they got a couple of days ahead.”

Approval could come as early as next week from the F.D.A., and at the end of the month from European Union regulators.

Pro-Brexit lawmakers in Britain have incorrectly cast Britain’s split with the European Union as the reason it authorized a vaccine first. In fact, Britain remains under the bloc’s regulatory umbrella until Dec. 31 when it comes to drug and vaccine approvals, but was able to move more quickly because of European regulations enabling countries to act independently in public health emergencies.

While as a political matter, Brexit may have made it easier for Britain to authorize the vaccine early, analysts said, the divorce has made the job of its medical regulators more difficult in other ways.

And the flag-waving of pro-Brexit lawmakers was doing little to engender public trust in vaccines, scientists said.

“Vaccine nationalism has no place in Covid or other public health matters of global significance,” said Jeremy Farrar, the director of the Wellcome Trust and a scientific adviser to the British government. “Science has always been the exit strategy from this horrendous pandemic — that science has been global.”

With the first inoculations just a few days away, Britons were parsing the government’s shifting and sometimes vague statements about who would get the vaccine and when. 

A government advisory committee had recommended that nursing home residents and workers be first in line for the vaccine, to prevent suffering and deaths among the most vulnerable and to protect the country’s overburdened hospitals as they deal with a second wave of infections. More than a quarter of coronavirus deaths in England and Wales have happened in nursing homes.

But Prime Minister Boris Johnson said this week that the Pfizer vaccine, owing to its ultracold storage needs, would only be administered in hospitals for the time being, ruling out nursing home residents as the first recipients.

“We’re all sat in this sort of limbo of, ‘Are we getting it? Aren’t we getting it?’” said Adam Purnell, an administrator at Kepplegate, a small nursing home in northwestern England. 

“It just breaks my heart the stories I am hearing of not being able to see their loved ones,” he added. “To have another promise crumble underneath them is quite insensitive to those people that live in care homes and their relatives.”

Roughly 800,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, developed with BioNTech, a German company, were being packaged at the company’s Belgian manufacturing plant this week for shipment to Britain. How and when they will arrive was being kept secret for security reasons, the company said, though the BBC reported on Thursday that some of the doses were being transported through the Eurotunnel between France and Britain

Pfizer sought to shut down questions this week about whether people in Britain would be able to pay to cut the line for inoculation, which requires two doses, given a month apart.

“I can say clearly and confidently that there are no plans to supply the private sector for the foreseeable future — no chance at all,” Ben Osborn, Pfizer’s Britain country manager, said on Wednesday, adding that for the sake of equity, the public National Health Service would decide whom to vaccinate.

And despite the predictions of some analysts that a black market in vaccines was inevitable, Mr. Osborn insisted that people trying to sell the shot without authorization would not be able to divert doses from its supply chain.

As for the National Health Service’s plans, hospitals had been sending internal emails in recent days outlining plans for scheduling shots for doctors and nurses. A government advisory committee has suggested that older or more vulnerable health workers, and doctors and nurses who work with fragile patients, would be among the first in line.

The logistics of moving, defrosting and preparing the vaccine were so complicated, the government said, that it would only be given at 50 British hospitals to begin with.

But by Thursday, there were indications that before health workers were vaccinated, the government wanted to offer shots to nursing home workers and people age 80 and over who were already coming to hospitals for other reasons. It still appeared likely that doctors and nurses would be among those receiving vaccines in the coming weeks.

Sally Gilbert, an anesthetic technician who has been working on the coronavirus ward at a hospital in Hull, in northeast England, said she was relieved to hear of a vaccine being authorized.

“I hope this helps us get back to some kind of normality,” she said, “whatever that is.”

Though details were scarce about how vaccinations would work at her hospital, she said she had received an email suggesting that staff members could begin getting shots on Monday. 

“I’m sure they have a plan,” she said. “They just haven’t told us yet.”





No.17 article:
Hamish MacInnes, Scotland’s Man of the Mountains, Dies at 90

He scaled dangerous peaks all over the world. He also modernized rescue techniques that helped save countless lives.

Hamish MacInnes, a lanky Scotsman of considerable derring-do who scaled dangerous mountain peaks all over the world, invented lifesaving equipment for climbers and wrote the definitive book on how to conduct mountain rescues, died on Nov. 22 at his home in Glencoe, in the Scottish Highlands. He was 90. 

British news reports said the cause was cancer.

Mr. MacInnes led or took part in 20 major expeditions, including four to Mount Everest. He almost lost his life there in an avalanche in 1975, when he was deputy leader of one of the most arduous and spectacular ascents in the history of climbing: a trek up Everest’s southwest face led by the British mountaineer Chris Bonington.

In his many decades on mountains, Mr. MacInnes was believed to be lost or dead on at least six occasions, sometimes during attempts to rescue other people. This is not counting the time he pressed on up the Bonatti pillar of the Dru in the French Alps with a fractured skull from a rockfall.

Mr. MacInnes’s Spider-Man-like ability to scale sheer cliffs and his goatlike skill in negotiating rocky terrain led Clint Eastwood, as well as the Monty Python troupe, to enlist him as a consultant on their films. He worked as a stunt coordinator on “The Eiger Sanction,” a 1975 spy thriller directed by Mr. Eastwood, enabling Mr. Eastwood to film while on the terrifying north face of the Eiger, in Switzerland, and perform his stunts himself. In “Monty Python and the Holy Grail” (1975), Mr. MacInnes helped set up a rope bridge in Glencoe, his hometown, that became the Bridge of Death in the movie.

He also worked with Robert De Niro and Jeremy Irons on “The Mission” (1986), about a missionary in South America, and with Sean Connery on “Five Days One Summer” (1982), the story of a love triangle in the Alps in which a climbing guide dies under suspicious circumstances. (During the shoot, the body of a real guide who had been missing for more than 30 years emerged from the ice.)

But for all of his sure-footedness in perilous circumstances, Mr. MacInnes was thrown by an internal challenge.

When he was 84, he was found unconscious in front of his house. He was sent to a psychiatric hospital, where he was deemed demented and held against his will for 15 months. During that time, he was sedated and put in a straitjacket, his weight plummeted, and his memory vanished. He made several attempts to escape; at one point he scaled the outside wall of the hospital, only to end up on the roof with nowhere to go.

Doctors eventually discovered that he had been suffering from a chronic urinary tract infection that produced dementia-like symptoms.

They told him he was lucky to have written several books and appeared in scores of documentaries, because they could help jog his memory. Immersing himself in his library and film archives, he was able to reconstruct his past and eventually restore most of his memory. The episode is recounted in a 2018 documentary, “Final Ascent: The Legend of Hamish MacInnes.”

Mr. MacInnes often said that experience was more traumatizing than anything he had faced on a mountain.

He was born Hamish McInnes on July 7, 1930, in Gatehouse of Fleet, a town in southwestern Scotland, to Duncan and Katie (MacDonald) McInnes. (He later adopted the more distinctive Scottish spelling of his surname.) His father, who had served with the Chinese police in Shanghai and later in the British Army during World War I, owned a general store.

The family soon moved to Greenock, on the River Clyde in Scotland’s west central Lowlands. There Hamish was introduced to climbing by a neighbor, Bill Hargreaves, who was not only a skilled climber but also rigorous about safety, which made a deep impression on Hamish.

Hamish was the first to make several of Scotland’s most treacherous winter climbs, and at 16 he successfully assaulted the Matterhorn.

In 1953, when he was 23, he and a climbing buddy, John Cunningham, decided more or less on a lark to try to become the first to summit Everest. They had little money, few provisions and no permission from the government of Nepal to venture up the world’s highest peak. Their plan was to live off rations that had been abandoned by a Swiss climbing team the year before.

After dodging police checkpoints, they arrived at the base camp, where they learned that Edmund Hillary and his Sherpa guide, Tenzing Norgay, had already reached the summit. The young men turned their attention instead to a nearby peak, Pumori, which no one had yet conquered. But when they were nearly at the top, they decided the danger of avalanches was too great, and they turned back.

As inventive as he was adventurous, Mr. MacInnes built a car from scratch when he was 17. He later used radar to search for bodies in the snow and, in 1961, founded the Glencoe Mountain Rescue Team. He also trained dogs to help search for avalanche victims. His friends called him “the fox of Glencoe” for his cunning in finding lost climbers.

Perhaps his most famous invention was the first all-steel ice ax. It was a significant improvement on the wooden-handled ax, which snapped under pressure.

He also developed a foldable lightweight mountain rescue stretcher that is still in use today and an avalanche information service. His “International Mountain Rescue Handbook” (1972) became the go-to manual for rescue teams all over the world.

All told, his inventions and services saved countless lives.

“No one man has done more to help put in place the network of emergency response efforts designed to keep climbers from harm’s way,” The Scotsman newspaper wrote after Mr. MacInnes’s death.

He lived alone in Glencoe, in a house he had built by hand, and leaves no immediate survivors. He had been married in 1960 to a woman he had met climbing in the Alps, but the marriage dissolved a decade later.

In addition to his many other pursuits, Mr. MacInnes was an accomplished photographer (he prized a shot that he took of Mr. Eastwood in action during the filming of “The Eiger Sanction”) and the author of roughly 40 books. Most were about climbing and rescuing, but he also wrote murder mysteries. He could cram so much into his day, he said, because he slept only four hours a night.

One of his enduring pleasures was the friendship he developed with Michael Palin of Monty Python during the filming of “Monty Python and the Holy Grail.” His task at one point was to toss dummy bodies into what the movie called the Gorge of Eternal Peril.

As onlookers stared at the bizarre scene of a man throwing what appeared to be bodies into the gorge, Mr. Palin recalled to the BBC, he told them, “Don’t worry, he’s the head of mountain rescue.”





No.18 article:
LeBron James and Anthony Davis Sign Up for Lakers’ Bright Future

The N.B.A. champions signed their two most important players to new or longer contracts on successive days, after upgrading other areas of their roster.

The Los Angeles Lakers have secured a long-term future with their two most important players by agreeing to new contracts on successive days this week with Anthony Davis and LeBron James.

The Lakers and Davis agreed on a five-year, $190 million maximum contract, Rich Paul of Klutch Sports, the agent for both Davis and James, said on Thursday. On Wednesday, James and the Lakers agreed to a two-year maximum contract extension worth nearly $86 million, Paul said.

Davis, 27, became an unrestricted free agent after helping the Lakers win the franchise’s 17th championship in October, but he did not negotiate with any other team. After taking some time to consider a variety of contract lengths, Davis accepted the longest deal he could with Los Angeles. It includes a player option that grants him the right to return to free agency after the 2023-24 season.

James, who turns 36 later this month, also took the longest deal he could without invoking the N.B.A.’s over-38 rule, which restricts older players from signing multiyear deals. He previously had a player option for the 2021-22 season, but is now under contract with the Lakers through the 2022-23 season — via the first contract extension he has signed with his incumbent team since he signed an extension with the Cleveland Cavaliers, who drafted him, in 2006.

Davis waited until after much of the league’s off-season business had been completed — and after James’s extension — to commit to the deal. Persuading him to sign a maximum-length contract, rather than a shorter-team deal that would have allowed him to return to free agency faster, caps a triumphant few weeks for the Lakers in the wake of their championship season in the N.B.A. bubble at Walt Disney World near Orlando, Fla.

The Lakers appear to have demonstrably upgraded their roster by acquiring the high-scoring guard Dennis Schroder via trade, signing the defensive specialist Wesley Matthews and adding the accomplished frontcourt duo of Montrezl Harrell and the veteran center Marc Gasol in free agency. They also managed to re-sign a few key contributors — Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, Markieff Morris and Jared Dudley — to mitigate the departures of Rajon Rondo, Danny Green, Avery Bradley and Dwight Howard.

Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ owner, and Rob Pelinka, the general manager, faced considerable criticism after James’s first season in Los Angeles, in 2018-19. That year, the Lakers extended their playoff drought to a franchise-record six consecutive seasons. Magic Johnson abruptly stepped down as team president in April 2019, and the Lakers’ attempts to hire Tyronn Lue as the head coach collapsed. But Buss and Pelinka rebounded in grand fashion, starting with the hiring of Frank Vogel as coach and the June 2019 trade with New Orleans to land Davis.

The Lakers, who are scheduled to hold their first group practice of the new season on Sunday, will open as the league’s consensus favorites to win it all. The Lakers were not even the consensus favorites in their own city last season after the Los Angeles Clippers’ splashy acquisitions of Kawhi Leonard and Paul George.

Davis averaged 27.7 points, 9.7 rebounds, 3.5 assists, 1.4 blocks and 1.2 steals in last season’s playoffs, raising his performance from a strong regular season in which he finished second to Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo in the league’s defensive player of the year voting.

James this year became the first player to be the N.B.A. finals M.V.P. with three different franchises, and he led the league in assists for the first time with 10.2 a game. The contract extension will take James’s career to an even 20 N.B.A. seasons if he plays it out through 2022-23 — which is the same year his oldest son, Bronny, is expected to graduate from high school.





No.19 article:
‘Mank’ Review: A Rosebud by Any Other Name

Gary Oldman plays a Hollywood hack with an ax to grind in David Fincher’s reinterpretation of the legend of “Citizen Kane.”

For as long as anyone can remember, Hollywood has reverently burnished and energetically debunked its own mythology. This isn’t hypocrisy; it’s show business. Cynicism about the low motives and compromised ideals of the movie industry is an industry article of faith. The movies don’t so much reflect public ambivalence about their power as actively promote it. We enjoy being fooled, and we also take pleasure in studying the machinery of our bamboozlement. As long as we keep watching, everybody wins.

David Fincher’s “Mank” is a worthy, eminently watchable entry in the annals of Hollywood self-obsession. That it is unreliable as history should go without saying. Most of its characters are verifiably real figures — including famous and half-forgotten directors, screenwriters, stars and studio bosses — but they are embedded in a spectacle that shimmers with knowing artificiality.

Presented in silvery, sharp-shadowed black and white (the cinematographer is Erik Messerschmidt), these specters of Old Hollywood speak in salty epigrams against a satiny, sinister score (by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross) and act out a looping, cautionary fable of ruin and at least partial redemption. Each scene is introduced with a typed-out note — EXT. — MGM STUDIOS — DAY — 1934 (FLASHBACK) — to remind us where we are. At the movies. (Or almost: “Mank” starts streaming Friday on Netflix.)

Fincher’s subject, more or less, is the genesis of “Citizen Kane,” or at least the writing of the first draft of the screenplay (called “American”) that will serve as the basis for Orson Welles’s debut feature. The author is Herman Mankiewicz (Gary Oldman), a veteran studio hack with a broken leg and a drinking problem. Laid up in a remote desert guesthouse, attended to by a German physical therapist (Monika Gossmann) and a British amanuensis (Lily Collins), pestered by the producer John Houseman (Sam Troughton), Mankiewicz smokes, snarks and scribbles, a bedridden Ahab in pursuit of the great white whale named William Randolph Hearst.

Hearst, the newspaper titan and political power broker who was the model for Charles Foster Kane, was hardly a stranger to Mankiewicz. The flashback sections of the film chronicle their association — Hearst is played with regal nonchalance by Charles Dance — in the early and mid-1930s. (The writing of the “Kane” script takes place in 1940.) In those days, Mankiewicz, originally under contract to Paramount, floats into the MGM orbit, crossing paths and rhetorical swords with the studio chief Louis B. Mayer (Arliss Howard) and his head of production, Irving Thalberg (Ferdinand Kingsley).

Those names are as encrusted with legend as any in American movies, and Fincher trusts that some luster and intrigue still clings to them. Film buffs and literary nerds of a certain antiquarian temperament will delight in the busy parade of walk-ons and shout-outs. Josef von Sternberg! Ben Hecht! George S. Kaufman! Joseph Mankiewicz! (That’s Herman’s kid brother, played by Tom Pelphrey.) All present and (briefly) accounted for.

Mank himself is an indulged and indulgent fixture of the backlots and banquets. A usually charming drunk and a seriously bad gambler, he is prized for his sharp tongue and his soft heart. Oldman’s performance can stand as a companion piece to his impersonation of Winston Churchill a few years ago in “Darkest Hour.” Both men are portly bons vivants, fond of liquor and tobacco, flanked by long-suffering wives (the wonderfully sly Tuppence Middleton is “Poor Sara” Mankiewicz) and English secretaries played by actresses named Lily. And both find themselves, in the fateful year of 1940, struggling to complete a singularly consequential piece of writing. An odd coincidence.

What does not seem to be a coincidence is that both Mank and Sir Winston, as Oldman understands them, are creatures of language, odd ducks who take flight in, through and for the sake of words. What’s marvelous about Mankiewicz is how the physicality of Oldman’s performance emphasizes his identity as a writer and a talker. He is pear-shaped and swaybacked, rumpled and shambling, his body as indifferently maintained as an old jalopy.

Accordingly, many of the delights of “Mank” are verbal — the deliciously literate script is by Jack Fincher, the director’s father. Mank flings bons mots and brickbats with mischievous relish, and there are a handful of smart people around who can return his volleys with proper screwball topspin. Mayer, who has no sense of humor, is an easy target. Hearst appreciates Mank’s way with words, until he doesn’t.

Mankiewicz’s most devoted interlocutor — a fellow transplant from New York and a first-class wit in her own right — is Marion Davies, the actress who is also Hearst’s longtime romantic partner. As Davies, Amanda Seyfried, her face ringed in blond curls and seemingly illuminated by a private spotlight, adds glamour to the movie, and realism too. Davies has gotten a raw deal from history, in part because of the cruelty of the way she’s portrayed in “Citizen Kane,” but Seyfried understands her as a pragmatist, a woman who has learned to live with the choices she has made, aware of the compromises and contradictions of her position.

Mank isn’t as reconciled, and his uneasy conscience is the dramatic engine of the story. The crucial event is the California gubernatorial election of 1934. The Democratic nominee is Upton Sinclair (Bill Nye), a writer (most famously of “The Jungle”) and anti-poverty crusader whose embrace of socialism rattled many of the state’s wealthy citizens, including Mayer, Thalberg and Hearst.

Mank’s complicity with their efforts to use the influence of motion pictures to derail Sinclair’s candidacy — in spite of his own leftist sympathies — is the source of the writer’s vendetta against Hearst. The “Citizen Kane” script is his revenge. As an account of the movie’s origin this may be arguable, but would-be defenders of Welles’s reputation risk missing the argument that the Finchers, père and fils, are advancing. Welles, who barrels into the picture every now and then (in the person of Tom Burke) is less Mank’s nemesis than a kind of deus ex machina, pushing the narrative forward without entirely belonging to it.

And that is because Welles’s charisma — his independence, his genius, his blithe disregard for social or business conventions — is alien to Hollywood as Mankiewicz (and perhaps Fincher) knows it. Mank refers to Welles, not entirely derisively, as “the boy genius,” an interesting echo of Thalberg’s sobriquet, which was “the boy wonder.” Thalberg, while not as vain as Hearst or as volatile as Mayer, is Welles’s true antithesis: a company man, as passionately committed to the workings of the system he helped design as Welles is to his own creative integrity. They are both, in their different ways, heroic (and also tragic) figures in the mythology of movies.

Not Mankiewicz. He is, almost as a matter of principle, a minor player in the Hollywood pageant. The paradoxes of his position are the film’s real subject. He is a bleeding-heart liberal comfortably ensconced in a fundamentally conservative milieu, a court jester whose proximity to power underscores his impotence, a critical intellect whose aloofness renders him ineffectual. Like a lot of East Coast scribes (then and still) he thinks the movies are beneath him, even though he doesn’t mind the money or the company. He finds it easier to crack a joke than to take a stand.

Neither a maverick nor a visionary, he’s an alienated insider, a participant observer, a kibitzer at the table where the big guys make the big bets. Which may just be a verbose way of saying that he’s a writer. I’ll drink to that.





No.20 article:
2 Hurricanes Devastated Central America. Will the Ruin Spur a Migration Wave?

QUEJÁ, Guatemala — By the time they heard the slab of earth cracking off the mountain, it was already burying their neighbors. So the people of Quejá — the lucky ones — ran out of their homes with nothing, trudging barefoot through mud as tall as their children until they reached dry land.

All that’s left of this village in Guatemala is their memories.

“This is where I live,” said Jorge Suc Ical, standing atop the sea of rocks and muddy debris that entombed his town. “It’s a cemetery now.”

Already crippled by the coronavirus pandemic and the resulting economic crisis, Central America is now confronting another catastrophe: The mass destruction caused by two ferocious hurricanes that hit in quick succession last month, pummeling the same fragile countries, twice.

The storms, two of the most powerful in a record-breaking season, demolished tens of thousands of homes, wiped out infrastructure and swallowed vast swaths of cropland.

The magnitude of the ruin is only beginning to be understood, but its repercussions are likely to spread far beyond the region for years to come. The hurricanes affected more than five million people — at least 1.5 million of them children — creating a new class of refugees with more reason than ever to migrate.

Officials conducting rescue missions say the level of damage brings to mind Hurricane Mitch, which spurred a mass exodus from Central America to the United States more than two decades ago.

“The devastation is beyond compare,” said Adm. Craig S. Faller, the head of the U.S. Southern Command, which has been delivering aid to survivors of the storm. “When you think about Covid, plus the double punch of these two massive, major hurricanes back to back — there are some estimates of up to a decade just to recover.”

The relentless rain and winds of Hurricanes Eta and Iota downed dozens of bridges and damaged more than 1,400 roads in the region, submerging a Honduran airport and making lagoons out of entire cities in both countries. From the sky, Guatemala’s northern highlands look as though they’ve been clawed apart, with giant gashes marking the sites of landslides.

If the devastation does set off a new wave of immigration, it would test an incoming Biden administration that has promised to be more open to asylum seekers, but may find it politically difficult to welcome a surge of claimants at the border.

In Guatemala and Honduras, the authorities readily admit they cannot begin to address the misery wrought by the storms.

Leaders of both countries last month called on the United Nations to declare Central America the region most affected by climate change, with warming ocean waters making many storms stronger and the warmer atmosphere making rainfall from hurricanes more ruinous.

“Hunger, poverty and destruction do not have years to wait,” said President Alejandro Giammattei of Guatemala, pleading for more foreign aid. “If we don’t want to see hordes of Central Americans looking to go to countries with a better quality of life, we have to create walls of prosperity in Central America.”

Mr. Giammattei also requested that the United States grant so-called temporary protection status to Guatemalans currently in the country, so they won’t be deported amid the natural disaster.

With hundreds of thousands of people still crowded into shelters in Guatemala, the risk of coronavirus spread is high. Aid workers have found widespread disease in remote communities hammered by the twin storms, including fungal infections, gastritis and flulike sicknesses.

“We are facing an imminent health crisis,” said Sofía Letona, the director of Antigua to the Rescue, an aid group, “Not just because of Eta and Iota, but also because these communities are completely unprotected from a second wave of Covid.”

Just as pressing are the illnesses brought on by a lack of food, potable water and shelter from continuing rain.

“What I’m seeing is that the smallest children are the most affected by nutritional disorders,” said Francisco Muss, a retired general helping lead Guatemala’s recovery.

With little government support, Guatemalans have had to come up with creative solutions. Near the border with Mexico, people crowd into handmade rafts to cross immense lakes created by the storms. To traverse one river in the east, commuters hop into a wire basket, attached to a zip line where a bridge used to be.

Francisco García swims back and forth across a muddy waterway to pick up food for his neighbors.

“I did this during Mitch,” he said, gesturing toward the crowd of young boys who have gathered to watch him take his fourth trip of the day. “They have to learn.”

No one knows exactly how many people in Quejá died in the mudslide, though local officials put the toll at about 100. The Guatemalan government called off the search for the dead in early November.

Just a few weeks earlier, the town was celebrating: The monthslong coronavirus curfew had been lifted and the local soccer league’s championship tournament could begin. The first round was held in Quejá, known for its pristine, natural-grass soccer field. Hundreds streamed in to watch their favorite teams, while local fans now in the United States followed the game live on Facebook.

“People went there because of the field,” said Álvaro Pop Gue, who plays midfield for one of Quejá’s teams. “It was beautiful.”

Now their season is on hold, with their beloved field sinking in water.

Reyna Cal Sis, the principal of the town’s primary school, believes 19 of her students died that day, including two kindergartners and a 14-year-old named Martín, who liked to help her clean up after class.

“He had just started sprouting hairs on his upper lip,” she said. “He lived with his mother and his siblings, right near where the land came down.”

The boulders blanketing Quejá today are almost as tall as the electricity wires. The only road into the village is encased in mud so thick and wet that its residents leave holes in it the shape of legs. Still, they walk it, carrying tattered wardrobes and bags of coffee beans on their backs, extracting what they can from the wreckage of their homes.

People started leaving here for the United States only a few years ago, but Ms. Cal Sis is certain more will follow. “They are determined, now that they’ve lost almost everything,” she said. 

Mr. Suc, 35, was eating lunch with his family when the sound shook his home. “It was like two bombs exploding,” he said. He ran out to find a gusher of mud crushing everything in sight, sending roofs and walls careening through the town.

“There are houses right in front, and they are coming at us all of a sudden,” Mr. Suc said. “A lot of people were trapped in there.”

One of them was his niece, Adriana Calel Suc, a 13-year-old with a knack for customer service honed by selling soda and snacks in her mother’s store. Mr. Suc never saw her again.

After the disaster, Mr. Suc walked for four hours to reach Santa Elena, the nearest dry village, pulling along his grandfather and distributing two of his children to stronger, taller family members who hoisted them above waist-deep water on the journey. But after he and other survivors spent weeks in makeshift shelters there, the town’s hospitality ran out.

On Saturday, a group of Santa Elena residents looted the stock of provisions in town that had been donated to Quejá’s residents. Mr. Suc is now looking for anywhere else to go. He has no idea how he could make it to the United States, but he’s ready to try.

“Yes, we’re thinking about migrating,” he said, eyeing the dwindling bag of corn he has left to feed his family. “Because, to give our children bread? We have nothing.”





No.21 article:
Learn to Stop Worrying and Love Debt

Why you should ignore the coming Republican deficit rants.

Amid all the wild swings in U.S. politics over the past decade, one thing has remained constant: the G.O.P. position on government debt. The party considers high levels of debt an existential threat — if a Democrat is sitting in the White House. If a Republican president presides over big deficits, well, as Donald Trump’s budget director reportedly told supporters last year, “nobody cares.”

So it’s a completely safe prediction that once Joe Biden is sworn in, we will once again hear lots of righteous Republican ranting about the evils of borrowing. What’s less clear is whether we’ll see a repeat of what happened during the Obama years, when many centrists — and much of the news media — both took obvious fiscal phonies seriously and joined in the chorus of fearmongering.

Let’s hope not. For the fact is that we’ve learned a lot about the economics of government debt over the past few years — enough so that Olivier Blanchard, the eminent former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is talking about a “shift in fiscal paradigm.” And the new paradigm suggests both that public debt isn’t a major problem and that government borrowing for the right purposes is actually the responsible thing to do.

Why are economists thinking differently about debt? Part of the answer is that we’ve discovered some things about how the world works; the rest of the answer is that the world has changed.

It made some sense, nine or 10 years ago, to worry that the financial crisis in Greece was a harbinger of potential debt crises in other countries (although I never bought it). As it turned out, however, the full list of countries that ended up looking like Greece is … Greece. What briefly seemed like a spread of Greek-style problems across southern Europe turned out to be a temporary investor panic, quickly ended by a promise from the European Central Bank that it would lend money to cash-short governments if necessary.

In other words, those dire warnings we used to hear (and will soon be hearing again) that America faces imminent disaster once government debt crosses some red line were always misguided. We weren’t and aren’t anywhere close to that kind of crisis, and probably never will be.

But what about the longer term? Doesn’t debt impose a burden on future generations, who will have to spend money paying interest that could have been put to better uses?

Here’s where it becomes crucial to realize that the world has changed: Interest rates are much lower than they were in the past, and all indications are that they’ll stay low for years to come.

One key indicator is the real interest rate on long-term government bonds — the interest rate minus inflation, which is a better measure of true borrowing costs than the headline rate. The real rate on 10-year bonds averaged around 4 percent in the 1990s; it has been generally less than 1 percent, and sometimes negative, for the past decade.

Why are interest rates so low? That’s a longish story, probably mainly involving demography and technology. Basically, the private sector doesn’t seem to see many opportunities for productive investment, and savers who have no place else to go are willing to buy government debt even though it doesn’t pay much interest. The important point for current discussion is that government borrowing costs are now very low and likely to stay low for a long time.

As a result, the burden of debt — which was always exaggerated and was misunderstood in any case — isn’t what it used to be. One measure of how much things have changed: On the eve of the pandemic, federal debt as a percentage of gross domestic product was twice its level in 2000. But federal interest payments as a percentage of G.D.P. were actually down.

The bottom line is that government debt just isn’t a major problem these days. Which brings us back to the politics.

Joe Biden has promised to “build back better,” a slogan that translates into proposals to spend big sums on infrastructure, climate policy, education and more, largely with borrowed money. And that’s very much the right thing to do; business may see only limited returns to investment, but we’re in desperate need of more public investment, broadly defined (for example, including spending on children).

Yet Republicans will surely oppose these proposals. Indeed, if they hold the Senate, they may well do what they did to Barack Obama, and try to force Biden to cut spending. And they’ll justify their intransigence by railing against the evils of debt.

So how should we push back against this predictable attempt to stonewall the Biden agenda? It will be tempting to emphasize Republican hypocrisy. But the biggest problem with the debt-scare politics we all know is coming isn’t the hypocrisy or the bad faith; it’s the fact that it’s wrong on the merits.

For given what we’ve learned and where we are, it’s clear that the U.S. government should be investing heavily in the nation’s future, and that it’s OK, indeed desirable, to borrow the money we need to make those investments. That is, to act responsibly, we must stop worrying and learn to love debt.





No.22 article:
A New Challenge for Professional Triathletes: Toppling Ironman Inc.

For decades, the Ironman and other races filled with weekend warriors have dominated triathlon. Now, the elites are trying to take control with a new series.

Ironman triathlon champions are often regarded as the superheroes of modern sports, freakishly fit specimens who swim, cycle and run a combined 140.6 miles in roughly eight hours.

Yet professional triathletes have long been poorly compensated afterthoughts in a sport that has prioritized the everyday amateur participants  who squeeze in training before and after work and pay nearly $1,000 to enter a race.

That may be on the verge of changing, beginning this weekend in Daytona Beach, Fla., where many of the sport’s top professionals will start a championship circuit they hope will become as lucrative as the golf and tennis championships are for their pros. In the process, they are trying to unseat Ironman, the company that has dominated triathlon for decades, as the premier competition for elite triathletes.

“It’s actually harder to make a living as a professional triathlete now than it was when I started in 2008,” said Tim O’Donnell, 40, who has won more than 20 major triathlon events. “Most athletes are just trying to pay their bills.”

The new series of events, backed by the Professional Triathletes Organization, a fledgling alliance among 350 top triathletes and numerous deep-pocketed investors, is the latest attempt by top athletes to become highly compensated partners with control of their careers and the sports they play rather than undervalued independent contractors. O’Donnell is a co-president of the organization.

Although the history of sports is filled with leagues and tours that theoretically looked perfect but foundered after failing to gain an audience, when successful the change can be dramatic. In the 1960s, Wimbledon semifinalists received two pairs of shorts from Lillywhites, the sports emporium in London. Then, Grand Slams started allowing professionals and, beginning in the 1970s, tennis players took control of their tours. Last year, a Wimbledon semifinalist earned $750,000 and the singles champions earned nearly $3 million each.

By comparison, in 2019, the total prize money at the Ironman World Championship in Kona, Hawaii, the Super Bowl of triathlon, was $650,000. The winners won $120,000. Earlier this year, Advance Publications, the media company, bought Ironman for $730 million.

“These athletes should be highly paid co-owners,” said Charles Adamo, executive chairman of the Professional Triathletes Organization.

A spokesman for Ironman declined to comment.

Adamo, the world’s top triathletes and investors like Michael Moritz, the billionaire venture capitalist, have planned a race series with four major individual competitions and an annual team event, similar to the championship schedules in tennis and golf.

Each event will feature 60 top professional men and 60 top professional women. The events will offer more than $1 million in prize money that the top 20 athletes will share — significantly more than at the typical triathlon competition.

Instead of the 140.6-mile Ironman distance, or the 70.3-mile half-Ironman, the new competitions will be 100 kilometers, about 62 miles, and include a 1.2-mile swim, a 48-mile bike ride and a half-marathon (13.1 miles). This weekend’s race will take place at Daytona International Speedway, with competitors swimming in the large lake in the infield.

The shorter distance ensures competitions can finish in a more television-friendly window of about three and half hours. It will also allow elite athletes to do more high-profile competitions than they otherwise might in a year. O’Donnell predicted top triathletes would participate in the new group’s five events, plus one regular Ironman event to qualify for Kona and, if they make it, the world championship.

Increased prize money should provide an incentive for triathletes to compete head-to-head more often.

Rachel Joyce, a retired champion and, like O’Donnell, a co-president of the triathletes organization, said she and other top triathletes regularly picked races in which they knew a weak field would give them the best chance at the winner’s paycheck and the sponsor bonuses for placing first.

“It makes it kind of boring when your closest competitor is 20 minutes behind you,” Joyce said in an interview last month.

That is only part of the downside of professional triathlon, a sport that began as a lark in the 1970s in California and Hawaii. The dirty secret about elite triathletes, with their chiseled physiques, $8,000 bikes and training schedules that allow for unlimited chocolate cream pie, is that for most of the pros, the pay is relatively lousy.

Kevin Durant of the Nets will approach $40 million this season, not counting the millions more he earns through sponsorships. In 2019, Jan Frodeno of Germany, the reigning Ironman world champion and something of a deity to triathletes, got paid like a decent accountant for his victories, taking home $158,000 in prize money. Katie Zaferes of the United States, who led the prize money list for both men and women in 2019, earned $347,500. Just $80,000 in winnings was good enough for a spot in the top 10 on the money list. For the best of the best, endorsement deals can boost income — to the range of a bad middle relief pitcher — but since triathlon is barely on television, those lucrative endorsement deals are increasingly hard to come by for all but the superstars.

“The best triathletes are doing pretty well, but the ones in the middle and the bottom are hurting,” said Rocky Harris, chief executive of U.S.A. Triathlon, the sport’s national governing body.

Alissa Doehla was a professional marathoner until 2016, when she decided to pursue the triathlon. She estimates the switch required about a $20,000 investment in equipment. She had five top-10 finishes in half-Ironman events in 2017. Then she got hit by a truck while training in 2018. She has returned to competitions and said that while it was possible she broke even that first year, she certainly had not since then.

“It’s so expensive upfront,” Doehla, 34, said last month from her home in Indiana, where she was training for this weekend’s race in Daytona Beach. “My husband has a good job. For people who are not lucky enough to have a spouse to support them in the lean years, it is a tough sport.”

The new series will only work if fans actually watch. That would drive up media rights fees and spur potential sponsors to try to reach a desirable audience.

U.S.A. Triathlon has found the average income for all triathletes is more than $125,000. The sport’s boosters like to portray triathlon as the 21st-century version of golf — a favored activity among white-collar executives who obsess about data from their Garmin watches with an intensity their predecessors gave to golf handicaps. But participatory endurance sports have always been about maximizing entry fees rather than creating the stars who compete for million-dollar purses and make compelling televised sports drama.

Some 100 media outlets worldwide, including NBC’s Peacock streaming service, will feature the Daytona Beach race this weekend. Moving forward, though, organizers need long-term rights and sponsorship deals.

The new endeavor plans to allow weekend warriors to participate in its competitions, but their entry fees will not be enough to sustain the organization and the prize money it wants to offer.

Chris Kermode, who ran tennis’s ATP Tour and is now vice chairman of the Professional Triathletes Organization, said if slick televised championships in snooker and darts could create celebrity champions, triathletes, who are usually more attractive physical specimens than dart throwers or billiards players, should be able to find their way.

“The principles of all sports are fundamentally the same,” Kermode said. “It is about making people care about one person winning over someone else. Everybody has a story, and if you tell that story, you can get people to care.”





No.23 article:
Alison Lurie, Tart-Voiced Novelist of Manners, Dies at 94

Ms. Lurie wrote about academics and intellectuals, straying spouses, snobs and artists, in novels of close observation and sharp prose.

Alison Lurie, a Pulitzer Prize-winning writer whose mordant novels punctured pretension, deflated dogma and illuminated the staggering talent of smart people for self-deception, died on Thursday at a hospice center in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 94.

The death was confirmed by her husband, Edward Hower.

Ms. Lurie, who was also a folklorist, a writer and scholar of children’s literature and a longtime Cornell University faculty member, was the author of 10 novels, as well as short-story and essay collections.

As a novelist, Ms. Lurie was an anthropologist of contemporary absurdity. Praised by critics for her crystalline prose, her dry, delicious wit, and her microscopic powers of observation, she dirtied, and then gleefully aired, her protagonists’ elegant linen in book after book. In novels that were small morality plays, characters (educated, often self-regarding men and women) couple, have buyer’s remorse and recouple with new partners, often with disastrous consequences, in a ceaseless recombinant two-step.

Ms. Lurie’s novels were often called comedies of manners, but perhaps it is more apt to call them comedies of mortification — “mortification”  in the sense of both social embarrassment and the inevitable slouch toward decay.

Reviewers often compared her fiction — with its eye for the domestic and its concern with the artifice of a certain social set — to that of Henry James and, in particular, Jane Austen. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Ms. Lurie, American born and bred, by all accounts enjoyed an even larger reputation in Britain than she did in the United States.

On both sides of the Atlantic, she was best known for two novels of intellectual and corporeal folly:  “The War Between the Tates” (1974), a best seller,  and “Foreign Affairs” (1984), which won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1985.

Set against the background of the war in Vietnam, “The War Between the Tates” centers on Brian Tate, a professor of political science, and his wife, Erica. Marooned in midlife, Brian, who had expected to become an éminence grise, has begun to fear he will end up merely grise.

He embarks on an affair with a psychology graduate student, who, Ms. Lurie writes, looks upon him with none of “the hard glaze of self-concealment as a prelude to self-advancement — the yellow signal ‘Caution’ which glowed so often in the eyes of his own graduate students.” Instead, “Her gaze was pure green light.”

In “Foreign Affairs,” Ms. Lurie follows two academics — Vinnie Miner, a dowdy middle-aged authority on nursery rhymes, and her younger colleague, the caddish Fred Turner, a scholar of 18th-century English literature — on a sabbatical leave in London.

Against her better judgment, Vinnie begins a passionate liaison with a man she has met on the flight over: Chuck Mumpson, an American boor as lumpish as his name. Fred, meanwhile, engages in a torrid and high-toned affair of his own.

Both novels, like much of Ms. Lurie’s work, are meticulous ethnographic reports on a particular tribe, the set of well-read, well-heeled intellectuals she knew firsthand. Both are organized around themes pivotal to much of her fiction: campus shenanigans (often of the bedroom kind); matrimonial betrayals; class and intellectual snobberies and the essential solipsism underpinning them; and the failure of utopian communities, however pre-emptively constructed, to keep disappointment and anomie at bay.

Both novels were made into television movies: “The War Between the Tates” in 1977, with Richard Crenna and Elizabeth Ashley, and “Foreign Affairs” in 1993, with Joanne Woodward, Brian Dennehy and Eric Stoltz.

The scholars in these books teach at Corinth University in Corinth, N.Y., an upstate institution to which Ms. Lurie’s fiction returned again and again. Corinth was a figment of her imagination, though only just: One can easily call to mind a similar-sounding university in upstate New York, likewise in a town with a classical name.

Characters, too, recur throughout her novels, disappearing and reappearing like strands of bright thread, and Ms. Lurie maintained dossiers to keep track of them all. She was occupied in particular with the Zimmern family, an artistic, neurotic clan whose members can be glimpsed — sometimes fleetingly, sometimes head-on — throughout her books.

Leonard Zimmern, an astringent literary critic, appears in many novels, including “The War Between the Tates”; “Real People” (1969), about goings-on in an artists’ colony; and “The Last Resort” (1998), about a despondent naturalist in Key West, Fla.

In “Foreign Affairs” we meet Leonard’s daughter Roo, the estranged wife of the philandering Fred Turner.

Leonard’s half sister Lolly is seen as a girl in “Only Children” (1979), about unraveling marriages in the 1930s. As an adult, Lolly, who became a distinguished painter known as Lorin Jones, is at the center of “The Truth About Lorin Jones” (1988), in which a biographer tries to make sense of Lorin’s enigmatic life.

Some critics found Ms. Lurie’s characters brittle and unlikable, little more than archetypes. But as Ms. Lurie made clear in interviews, she was quite fond of all her characters, despite the myriad flaws they insisted on displaying. After all, she said, she had known from a very early age that she wanted to spend her life conjuring worlds whole, and peopling them in whatever way she chose.

Alison Stewart Lurie was born in Chicago on Sept. 3, 1926, and reared in White Plains, N.Y. Her mother, Bernice (Stewart) Lurie, was a journalist and book critic, her father, Harry, was a sociologist who directed the Council of Jewish Federations and Welfare Funds, an umbrella organization for Jewish social-service agencies.

A forceps delivery left Alison “deaf in one badly damaged ear,” as she wrote in 1982  in an autobiographical essay for The New York Times Book Review, “and with a resulting atrophy of the facial muscles that pulled my mouth sideways whenever I opened it to speak and turned my smile into a sort of sneer.”

Her physical differences helped give her the sense of outsiderness that seems almost a precondition for the writing life. She fixed her sights on that life early, she wrote in the same essay, for she discovered in childhood that “with a pencil and paper I could revise the world.”

Ms. Lurie earned a bachelor’s degree in history and literature from Radcliffe in 1947 and the next year married Jonathan Peale Bishop, a literary scholar, with whom she had three sons. She embarked on the life of a faculty wife, following her husband from Harvard to Amherst College to the University of California, Los Angeles, to Cornell, writing in stolen moments.

Her first novel, “Love and Friendship,” about affection and disaffection in the lives of faculty couples, was published in 1962. The title is a deliberate homage  to that of an early Jane Austen novella.

Ms. Lurie’s other fiction includes “Women and Ghosts” (1994), a volume of stories whose specters are more psychological than supernatural but no less real for that, and “Imaginary Friends” (1967), a novel about sociologists behaving badly.

Her books for children include a collection of retold stories, “Clever Gretchen and Other Forgotten Folktales” (1980), illustrated by Margot Tomes.

A frequent contributor to The New York Review of Books, Ms. Lurie was also esteemed as a writer of nonfiction. In “The Language of Clothes” (1981), she examined the semiotics of dress. In two volumes of criticism, “Don’t Tell the Grown-Ups” (1990) and “Boys and Girls Forever” (2003), she explored the subversive qualities that, she argued, are inherent in the best literature for children. And in the memoir “Familiar Spirits” (2001), she recalled her friendship with the poet James Merrill and his lover, David Jackson.

Ms. Lurie’s marriage to Mr. Bishop ended in divorce in 1984. Along with Mr. Hower, a novelist, with whom she maintained homes in London, Key West and Ithaca, she is survived by a sister, Jennifer Cooke; her sons from her first marriage, John, Jeremy and Joshua Bishop; two stepchildren; and three grandchildren.

Because Ms. Lurie skewered zealotry of every stripe, readers attempting to divine her ideology from her books were sometimes misled. A string of modern “isms” incurred her tart scrutiny, and because an exclusionary brand of 1970s feminism was one of them, she was sometimes taxed as anti-feminist.

“I consider myself a feminist and not a separatist,” Ms. Lurie told The Plain Dealer of Cleveland in 1994, invoking “The Truth About Lorin Jones.” “There’s a character in the book who tries to stay as far away from men as possible. She regards men as being the enemy. I’m against that.”

“Even if you think there are things wrong with men,” Ms. Lurie added,  “you owe it to them to help them improve.”





No.24 article:
Mourning at the Places Where ‘El Dios’ Walked

Diego Maradona’s wake knew no borders. Fans held a vigil in his name in Naples. His image lit up the Burj Khalifa in Dubai. The New Zealand rugby team laid a jersey in his honor on a field in Newcastle, Australia. His face adorned the front pages of newspapers across the world.

In Buenos Aires, though, the mourning felt personal. The Argentine capital was not just the city where he was born — in Villa Fiorito, one of its most deprived districts — and where he lay in state, at the city’s presidential palace, after his death last week.

It was in Buenos Aires where he became the Maradona the world would know: at Argentinos Juniors, the club where he took his first steps in professional soccer, a teenager of almost impossibly rich promise; at Boca Juniors, the club where he became the brightest star of his generation.

And it was to Buenos Aires that he returned — as a player, as a coach and always, at Boca, as a fan — again and again once his playing career had faded, once his star had fallen. Buenos Aires can feel like a city built around soccer. After the death of the player who defined that culture more than any other, then, it should be no surprise that it was to soccer that porteños turned in their grief.

“We all wanted to be Maradona. We wanted to copy everything. We wanted to do like him.”

“I didn’t have the chance to see him play, but I watched all the videos, I am a fan of Boca Juniors, and he is the biggest thing there is, there is no comparison. We had him as an immortal.”

“The news hurt me a lot. It represents the rebel, the one who is not silent, the one who attacks the powerful. In Che’s line, for example, for those at the bottom and for me that is important.”

Carlos: “A boy who came out of poverty and was at the top surrounded by important people and the greats of this world.”

Maria: “They didn’t take care of him. Nobody took care of him, nobody saved him. And he was the most beautiful thing we had.”

“I heard about the death from my mom, and I couldn’t believe it, I thought it was fake news. I saw journalists who were broken by the news. He is a player who represents a lot to everyone. He made the name of Argentina known to everyone.”

“The closest I ever got to him was when I was a kid. I was in the stadium and he came to kick a corner, and I got him as close as I have you here. How can you not be excited about that? He gave joy to the country at a time when the country had no joy. Times when it was difficult to put a plate on the table, and he made you have an equal smile, to celebrate with your family. He is criticized for things, but as he said: ‘I wanted to be an example in soccer. If you want examples in life, look at your homes, not me.’”

“With the Maradonian Church, the best tributes to Diego, I did them in life. To speak well of him with the world, to take him to the top.”

“I played with and against Maradona, here in Fiorito. I met him when I was 5 or 6 years old. Luckily, when he was 15 years old, they took him out of the slum. When I found out, I locked myself in my room. I felt that I was not going to see him anymore. For the neighborhood he represents everything, the best.”

“I’ve known him since school because he was with my brother. I was a little older. He played with us when he was 15 years old. There were many good kids here and in many neighborhoods in the area. Many who could be worth millions at that time. I realize how proud I was to know him. I’m still a little bit on the moon. I can’t believe it yet. He represents Fiorito as a soccer player but he left when he was 15 years old and thanks to God and his efforts he never stepped on mud again.”





No.25 article:
5 Things to Do This Weekend

Our critics and writers have selected noteworthy cultural events to experience virtually.

Why did so many jazz greats die young? Asked this question, the singer Billie Holiday responded, “We try to live 100 days in one day.” In her 44 years, Holiday — whose restrained, emotive vocal style left an enduring mark on American popular music — lived a full but famously tumultuous life, one plagued by addiction.

“Billie,” a new documentary coming to iTunes, Apple TV and Amazon Prime Video on Friday, considers Holiday as a victim of more than personal demons. Drawing on hours of audio interviews with Holiday’s inner circle, conducted by the journalist Linda Lipnack Kuehl — who died in 1978, before she could complete a planned biography of Holiday — the film probes the singer’s experiences with racism, sexual assault, financial exploitation and persecution by law enforcement.

Along with this darkness, the director James Erskine captures Holiday’s vivacity and spunk. Her transcendent talent is on view, too, in newly colorized restorations of essential performance footage.OLIVIA HORN

Hanukkah, the Jewish Festival of Lights, is an eight-day holiday because of a miracle that is said to have happened in 164 B.C. When the Jewish Maccabees rededicated the temple in Jerusalem, an amount of oil that was sufficient for only one day amazingly burned for eight.

This year, the Jewish Museum’s Hanukkah Family Day, beginning at 10 a.m. on Sunday, will also have a long and unexpected life: Its five-video playlist on the museum’s YouTube channel will remain online indefinitely.

This virtual event, free with an R.S.V.P., invites participants to rock out to a Hanukkah concert presented by the musicians Daphna Mor and Saskia Lane in partnership with Beineinu, a Jewish initiative. Viewers can also travel around the world digitally by drawing Hanukkah objects from the museum’s global collection and embarking on an animated adventure with the illustrator Jeff Hopkins. Art projects include making pinhole pictures, shadow puppet theater and menorah collages. All should keep children 3 and older entertained, which itself is no small miracle.LAUREL GRAEBER

As the days get colder and darker, Abrons Arts Center is swooping in with a much-needed December pick-me-up. In partnership with the Henry Street Settlement’s health and wellness committee, the Lower East Side arts center will close out its season with a virtual soul line-dance party — part class, part end-of-year celebration — on Saturday at 7 p.m. (The arts center moved most of its programming online this fall.)

Hosted by Dolores Brunner, the founder of the New York group Empire Line Dancers, the free party will introduce participants to new and classic line dances set to hip-hop and R&amp;B music. While typically practiced in person, soul line dancing — which encompasses popular routines like the Electric Slide, the Wobble and the Cupid Shuffle — lends itself naturally to an era of social distancing, with no partners or physical contact required.

People of all ages and levels are welcome. Zoom registration is sold out, but the event will also be streamed live at vimeo.com/abronsartsctr.SIOBHAN BURKE

One of the year’s most surprising and consistently charming recording projects continues to gather steam. The second volume of the pianist Gottlieb Wallisch’s “20th Century Foxtrots” compendium — this time focused on works by German composers — follows up on the sprightly success of the initial set, which was devoted to works by Austrian and Czech musicians.

In Wallisch’s latest batch of performances, released by the Grand Piano label, there are once again some discoveries from lesser-known artists. (Multi-movement works by Leopold Mittmann and Walter Niemann are a delight to encounter.) Some bolder-faced names also get significant play. The new album kicks off with a spirited performance of a Paul Hindemith fox trot, written for a Christmas play with puppets. And this edition also includes the world premiere recording of a piano arrangement of a “Tango” by Kurt Weill. (Years after this first setting, the composer’s tune would gain lyrics and become the much-adored song “Youkali.”)SETH COLTER WALLS

Karen Jenkins-Johnson has spent nearly 25 years championing Black art — even when people wouldn’t so much as look twice at it. Since April, she continued this quest through online programming, leading a virtual discussion series with Black artists and cultural producers called “Conversations on Culture.”

On Friday at 3 p.m. via Zoom (you can register at the Jenkins Johnson Gallery website), Johnson will talk with the artists Enrico Riley, Blessing Ngobeni and Lisa Corinne Davis about how this past year has influenced their work and communities, along with the hope they have for the future of both. Despite past personal traumas, the South African painter Ngobeni — whose work references the country’s history of political oppression, assuming a violent, dreamlike quality that has invoked comparisons to the Surrealist Joan Miró — still aesthetically hints at his belief that things will someday get better. Riley’s newest paintings investigate the ability of African-American music, especially jazz, to empower. Taking a more abstract approach, Davis’s work speaks to our society’s belittling treatment of the complexities of race.MELISSA SMITH





No.26 article:
Corrections: Dec. 4, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Friday, Dec. 4, 2020.

An article on Thursday about Iran’s response to the assassination of its top nuclear scientist misspelled, in two instances, the surname of the Iranian nuclear scientist who was assassinated on Friday. He was Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, not Fakrizadeh or Fakhirizadeh.

An article on Wednesday about the impact of the coronavirus on criminal trials in New York City misstated the location of the first virtual criminal jury trial in Texas. It was held in Austin, not in McKinney.

An article on Thursday about the investigation of an instructor at France’s national soccer academy misstated the first name of the president of a French soccer club. He is Yves Jacquier, not Yann.

A picture caption with an obituary on Tuesday about the golf photographer Leonard Kamsler reversed the identities of two players at the 1968 United States Open. Arnold Palmer was on the right, and Jack Nicklaus on the left.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.27 article:
U.S. Tightens Visa Rules for Chinese Communist Party Members

New guidelines mean that China’s 92 million party members will be limited to one-month, single-entry U.S. permits — if the State Department can figure out who they are.

The Trump administration on Wednesday issued new rules to curtail travel to the United States by members of the Chinese Communist Party and their immediate families, a move certain to further exacerbate tensions between the two countries.

The new policy, which took immediate effect, limits the maximum duration of travel visas for party members and their families to one month, according to a State Department spokesman.  

That means the Chinese recipient must use the visa to enter the United States within one month of it being issued. Based on standard procedure, U.S. border officials would determine at the point of entry how long the visitor can stay. The officials could still permit a multi-month visit. 

A visa also does not guarantee entry into the United States; it only allows for consideration of entry by U.S. border officials.

Previously, party members, like other Chinese citizens, could obtain visitor visas for the United States that were valid for up to 10 years.

Travel visas for party members will also be limited to a single entry rather than multiple entries as was possible before, according to two people familiar with the changes.

The new measures do not affect party members’ eligibility for other kinds of visas, such as immigration or employment. The State Department spokesman added that no current visas would be revoked as a result of the policy changes. The spokesman made his comments after The New York Times reported on the new limits.

The new visa rules add to the conflict, now years long, between the two countries on trade, technology and much else. Coming in the twilight of the Trump administration and aimed squarely at China’s ruling elite, the visa restrictions and the likely Chinese response will be yet another challenge to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., who is inheriting a U.S.-China relationship that is in its worst state since the normalization of diplomatic ties in 1979.

While some might hope for a reset of relations from Mr. Biden, his views on China have hardened since he was vice president under President Barack Obama. Mr. Biden appears to be committed to leaving in place many of the tough measures taken by the Trump administration, including tariffs and restrictions on Chinese technology. 

In a Tuesday interview, Mr. Biden said he would first consult with allies to craft a more comprehensive response to Chinese trade tactics. He has also said he would forcefully address China’s human rights violations, including mass detentions in the western region of Xinjiang. Chinese officials have worried that Mr. Biden will be more effective than President Trump at leading a broad global pushback against China.

In principle, the new visa policy could affect the travel of roughly 270 million people, according to U.S. government estimates based on a Communist Party membership of 92 million. In practice, it might be difficult to determine who, apart from high-level officials, belongs to the party. That could grant Mr. Biden flexibility in enforcing the new rules, though it would be hard to ignore travel to the United States by top Chinese officials and their family members.

According to the people familiar with the new rules for travel visas, American officials can make a determination about someone’s Communist Party status based on their visa application and interview, as well as officials’ local understanding of party membership. That could mean that the policy disproportionately hits China’s top government and business leaders rather than the millions of lower-level members who join the party to get a leg up in areas as varied as business and the arts. China’s top leader, Xi Jinping, has reasserted the primacy of the party in many aspects of daily life. 

The State Department spokesman called the move part of “ongoing policy, regulatory, and law-enforcement action across the U.S. government to protect our nation from the C.C.P.’s malign influence.”

“For decades we allowed the C.C.P. free and unfettered access to U.S. institutions and businesses while these same privileges were never extended freely to U.S. citizens in China,” he added.

The policy change is likely to prompt retaliation from Beijing, though travel between China and the United States has already been hugely limited by the coronavirus pandemic. In 2018, almost three million Chinese citizens traveled to the United States.

A spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry, Hua Chunying, condemned the new rules during a news conference on Thursday. “We hope people in the United States will adopt a common rational view toward China and give up their hatred and abnormal mind-set toward the Communist Party,” Ms. Hua said, according to Bloomberg News.

The new rules could prove to be a first step in attempting to systematically track lower-level party members who visit the United States. People who attempt to conceal their party membership while applying for a visa could be exposing themselves to charges of visa fraud if later discovered. 

Even so, the restrictions are more moderate than an outright ban on travel to the United States by party members, which Trump administration officials had discussed this summer.

The Trump administration has sought to push back against what it says are interference operations by the party in the United States. This year the Justice Department charged eight people with carrying out a harassment campaign on Beijing’s behalf aimed at Chinese political dissidents and fugitives. It also charged Chinese researchers studying in the United States with visa fraud, saying they misled the American government about their status as officers in China’s People’s Liberation Army.

Under Mr. Trump, the State Department has announced other visa restrictions on various categories of Chinese citizens. These include officials responsible for the mass internment and surveillance of Muslim ethnic minorities in the Xinjiang region, people working in the United States for state-controlled Chinese news organizations and officials deemed to be responsible for the political crackdown in Hong Kong.

In May, American officials said the government was canceling the visas of graduate- or higher-level students in the United States who had ties to certain Chinese military institutions. Chinese students make up the largest group of international students in the country.

The United States and China agreed in 2014 to increase the longest duration of tourist and business visas issued to each other’s citizens to 10 years from one year. The arrangement was reached during a visit to Beijing by Mr. Obama, in an era of warmer relations between the two nations. In announcing the new visa policy at the time, the White House touted the benefits to the American tourism industry and to trade and other commercial ties with China.





No.28 article:
Rafer Johnson, Winner of a Memorable Decathlon, Is Dead

His triumphant performance at the 1960 Olympics was his farewell to track and field. He went on to become a good-will ambassador for the United States and a close associate of the Kennedy family.

Rafer Johnson, who carried the American flag into Rome’s Olympic Stadium in August 1960 as the first Black captain of a United States Olympic team and went on to win gold in a memorable decathlon duel, bringing him acclaim as the world’s greatest all-around athlete, died on Wednesday at his home in the Sherman Oaks section of Los Angeles. He was 86.

Michael Roth, a family friend and spokesman, confirmed the death.

Johnson never competed after that decathlon triumph. He became a good-will ambassador for the United States and a close associate of the Kennedy family, taking a leadership role in the Special Olympics, which were championed by Eunice Kennedy Shriver, and joining Robert F. Kennedy’s entourage during Kennedy’s presidential campaign in 1968. He was remembered especially for helping to wrestle the senator’s assassin to the ground in Los Angeles in 1968.

Johnson’s national profile was largely molded at the 1960 Olympics, one of the most celebrated in the history of the Games, a moment when a host of African-American athletes burst triumphantly onto the world stage. Muhammad Ali, known then as Cassius Clay, captured boxing gold in the light-heavyweight division. Wilma Rudolph swept to victory in the women’s 100- and 200-meter dashes and combined with her Tennessee State teammates for gold in the 4 x 100 relay. Oscar Robertson helped take the United States basketball team to a gold medal.

Johnson had been chosen to speak on behalf of the American Olympians at a sendoff rally at City Hall in New York.

He “flawlessly called out the names of the dozens of teammates who stood at his side,” David Maraniss wrote in “Rome 1960: The Olympics That Changed the World” (2008). “He had a firm grasp of the occasion, and team officials took notice. His performance in New York, along with his stature as the gold medal favorite in the decathlon, convinced the officials that Johnson should be the U.S. captain in Rome and the first black athlete to carry the U.S. flag at an Olympic opening ceremonies.

“There could be no more valuable figure in the propaganda war with the Soviet Union, which wasted no opportunity to denounce the racial inequities of the United States.”

Johnson’s narrow decathlon victory over C.K. Yang of Taiwan and U.C.L.A., a good friend, provided a thrilling moment in its own right.

Johnson, a 25-year-old graduate of U.C.L.A. and a chiseled 6 feet 3 inches and 200 pounds, was the favorite going into the two-day decathlon, a 10-event test of versatility, strength, speed and endurance that included sprints, high hurdles, pole-vaulting, the high jump and broad jump, the javelin and discus throws, and the 1,500-meter run.

He had won silver in the decathlon at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics, finishing behind Milt Campbell of the U.S., who turned to pro football afterward. He had bested Vasily Kuznetsov of the Soviet Union at a meet at Lenin Stadium in Moscow in 1958, inspiring spectators to put aside Cold War issues and cheer his achievement. And he scored a world-record 8,683 points in the decathlon at the 1960 Olympic track and field trials in Oregon.

But he faced a stiff challenge in Rome from the 27-year-old Yang, who was representing Formosa, the Olympic designation at the time for Taiwanese athletes. Both were trained by Elvin Drake, known as Ducky, the U.C.L.A. track and field coach.

The decathlon duel was decided in its final event, the 1,500 meters, in which Yang was especially strong. Johnson, leading on points, didn’t have to win the event to capture the gold medal, but he did need to finish within 10 seconds of Yang.

“I planned to stick with him like a buddy in combat,” Johnson told The Los Angeles Times in 1990. “I had one other advantage, and I don’t think C.K. knew this at the time. This was my last decathlon. I was prepared to run as fast as I had to in this last race of my life.”

Yang, who died in 2007, recalled, “I knew he would never let go of me unless he collapsed.” Johnson finished 1.2 seconds behind Yang, good enough to capture gold, with Yang getting silver and Kuznetsov capturing bronze.

Johnson later received the 1960 Sullivan Award as America’s leading amateur athlete. After that, he embarked on new chapters in his life.

He met Robert Kennedy at an awards ceremony soon after the Rome Games and became part of the senator’s campaign for the 1968 Democratic presidential nomination.

He was escorting a pregnant Ethel Kennedy through a crowd of supporters at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles on June 5, 1968 — moments after her husband had claimed victory in the California Democratic primary — when Kennedy was fatally shot by Sirhan Sirhan, a Palestinian immigrant who had been angry at Kennedy for his support of Israel.

Johnson and his fellow Kennedy supporter Roosevelt Grier, the former star defensive tackle for the Giants and the Los Angeles Rams, joined with others, including the author George Plimpton, in subduing Sirhan.

“My hand clamped down on the weapon,” Johnson recalled in his memoir, “The Best That I Can Be” (1998, with Philip Goldberg). “Rosey’s hand came down on mine. With a dozen others pushing and shoving, we forced Sirhan onto a steam table, then to the floor. I twisted Sirhan’s fingers to free up the weapon.”

Rafer Lewis Johnson was born on Aug. 18, 1934, in Hillsboro, Texas, south of Dallas, to Lewis and Alma (Gibson) Johnson. When he was about 18 months old, his parents moved to an African-American neighborhood in Dallas, where they lived amid poverty and segregation.

The family went to California when Rafer was a youngster and eventually settled in Kingsburg, in the agricultural San Joaquin Valley. The town had many people of Swedish descent, and he would remember that they welcomed his family. But life was still hard.

His father worked in a cannery, among other jobs, and for a year the family lived in a nearby railroad boxcar. But as Johnson recalled it, things were far better than they had been in Texas.

“I don’t care if I never see Texas again,” he once told ESPN. “If my family had stayed in Texas, I not only wouldn’t have represented the United States in the Olympic Games, I wouldn’t have ever gone to college.”

Johnson excelled in football, basketball and baseball as well as track and field in high school, but he focused on the decathlon, inspired by seeing the Olympic gold-medalist Bob Mathias in action in nearby Tulare, Calif.

He entered U.C.L.A. in 1954 and played for the renowned coach John Wooden’s basketball team there while training for decathlons. He also became president of the student body.

His Olympic triumph behind him, Johnson visited many countries in the early 1960s as a good-will ambassador for the State Department. He acted on television shows and in Hollywood movies, including “Wild in the Country” (1961) with Elvis Presley and Tuesday Weld. He was also a sports broadcaster in Los Angeles.

In 1968, Eunice Kennedy Shriver, a driving force in the creation of the Special Olympics for people with intellectual and physical disabilities, drew Johnson into the organization. He became a founder of its Southern California chapter and was later named its chairman. He also did promotional work for Hershey, Reebok and other companies.

Johnson married Elizabeth Thorsen in 1971. She survives him, along with his brother Jimmy Johnson, a former cornerback for the San Francisco 49ers and a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame; two children, Josh Johnson and Jennifer Johnson Jordan, who was a member of the U.S. women’s beach volleyball team at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and is now a volleyball coach at U.C.L.A.; and four grandchildren.

Johnson’s final moment in the Olympic spotlight came when he climbed a precarious 99 steps at the Los Angeles Coliseum to light the caldron for the 1984 Games.

“I was, in a sense, an Olympian again, preparing to will my body to do something exceptional,” he wrote in his memoir. “Was I concerned about making it to the top of the stairs? Yes. Was I thinking about whether I might trip or fall? Yes. Did I have any doubt that I would come through? No.”





No.29 article:
From Shelled Ethiopian City, Doctors Tally Deaths and Plead for Help

Ethiopia’s prime minister promised a swift, surgical military campaign in the restive province of Tigray. But doctors in the regional capital reported civilian deaths, looting and a looming crisis.

ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia — After Ethiopian military forces captured the capital of the rebellious Tigray region last weekend, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed boasted that his forces had scored the victory without killing a single civilian.

But doctors at the city’s main hospital reached on Thursday painted a very different picture — indiscriminate artillery barrages on civilian areas, looting by armed men and the deaths of at least 27 civilians and injuries of more than 100.

Their testimony offered a rare glimpse of the increasingly dire conditions in a city that has been largely cut off from the outside world since Mr. Abiy launched a military operation against Tigray on Nov. 4.

On Saturday, Mr. Abiy — the winner of last year’s Nobel Peace Prize — declared victory after his forces seized the regional capital, Mekelle, a highland city of 500,000 people that until recently was the seat of the region’s ruling Tigray People’s Liberation Front.

Two days later, on Monday, Mr. Abiy proclaimed to Ethiopia’s Parliament that federal forces had not killed a single civilian during a month of fighting in Tigray.

But phone and internet connections to Tigray have been largely cut off, making it hard to verify competing claims by the belligerents. And it quickly became apparent that Mr. Abiy’s assertion of victory was premature.

Tigrayan forces said they had retreated from Mekelle to avoid destroying the city and would continue to fight from the surrounding rural areas — a first step of what could eventually become a drawn-out guerrilla campaign.

In separate interviews, two doctors at the region’s largest hospital, the Ayder Referral Hospital, insisted that Mr. Abiy’s gains had been far from bloodless.

A rain of shellfire on Saturday morning, in the hours before federal troops captured Mekelle, landed on civilian as well as military targets, the doctors said. Ambulances rushed through the streets carrying the dead and wounded. By evening, at least 27 civilians had been killed, including a 4-year-old, and over 100 wounded, they said.

The doctors, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid reprisals from the government, sent text messages and spoke using a rare connection to the internet in the city.

They provided copies of identity cards and other documents to prove their employment at the hospital, and denied any affiliation with the Tigray People’s Liberation Front.

One provided photos of wounded patients at the hospital who, he said, had been hit in the bombardment — infants with shrapnel-pocked bodies, a man with a bloodied head, a woman lying prone with her leg in plaster.

Now a tense calm reigns in the city, the doctors said. The electricity had been cut off, swaddling the city in darkness at night. Armed men had looted stores, forcing many to close.

At the Ayder Hospital, dire shortages of oxygen and basic medical supplies have made it impossible to perform lifesaving surgery on the wounded. The doctors pleaded for international help to relieve what they called a critical situation.

On Sunday, Red Cross officials visiting the hospital reported it was “running dangerously low” on gloves, antibiotics, painkillers — and body bags.

At least 80 percent of patients at the hospital suffered trauma injuries, the Red Cross said, but declined to specify the number of patients who had been admitted. On Thursday a Red Cross spokeswoman declined to provide further details.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Abiy did not respond to queries about the disparity between his claims of no civilian casualties and the accounts from the hospital.

Mr. Abiy’s decision to launch military operations in Tigray, a northern region of at least six million people, was the dramatic culmination of a simmering political row with Tigray’s ruling party. The T.P.L.F. dominated Ethiopia for 27 years until Mr. Abiy came to power in 2018, and its leaders openly defied his authority in September by holding regional elections, which had been postponed in the rest of Ethiopia because of the pandemic.

The communication blackout has made it hard to judge the scale of the fighting. But by most estimates by Western diplomats and aid workers, thousands of civilians and fighters have been killed, stoking fears that Africa’s second-most populous country is plunging headlong into a ruinous civil war.

The situation in Mekelle is just one element in a ballooning humanitarian crisis.

At least 45,000 Ethiopians have fled Tigray into eastern Sudan, where many live in squalid camps with limited food and water. Aid groups warn that another 100,000 refugees may follow in the next six months if fighting continues.

Even before hostilities erupted last month, 600,000 people in Tigray depended on food aid to survive. Aid workers say that supplies are running out for almost 100,000 refugees from Eritrea who live in camps in Tigray, having fled repression in their own country.

On Wednesday the United Nations said it had secured an agreement with the Ethiopian authorities to provide “unimpeded, sustained and secure access” for the delivery of emergency relief to government-controlled parts of Tigray.

Ethiopia’s state telecommunication company said Wednesday it had partly restored communications in several military-controlled towns in western Tigray. But the fragile security situation is likely to frustrate aid efforts.

On Thursday a United Nations spokesman in Nairobi expressed “extreme concern” about a report that four Ethiopians working for two international aid agencies had been killed in Tigray in unclear circumstances.

In Mekelle, the two doctors said the situation had become tense in recent days.

Bands of young men in civilian clothes roamed the streets. Many roads were blocked with large stones. There was a heavy presence of federal security forces.





No.30 article:
Times Critics’ Top Books of 2020

The Times’s staff critics give their choices of the best fiction and nonfiction works of the year.

While much of the cultural world stood still or shuttered in 2020, books kept arriving, even if some of them were released later than originally planned. They brought timely and timeless tidings. There was revelatory reporting about the opioid epidemic, accounts of the sometimes perilous and pernicious effects of social media, and a wide-lens view of life in Tibet. There were memoirs by a president, a painter and a poet. New fiction came from Elena Ferrante, Ayad Akhtar, Sigrid Nunez and others. Below, The New York Times’s three daily book critics — Dwight Garner, Parul Sehgal and Jennifer Szalai — share their thoughts about their favorites among the books they reviewed this year, each list alphabetical by author.

An annual note on methodology: The critics limit themselves in making these lists, each selecting only from those books they reviewed for The Times since last year at this time. For more of their thoughts about the year, you can read their related roundtable discussion. — John Williams, Daily Books Editor and Staff Writer

‘HOMELAND ELEGIES’ By Ayad Akhtar (Little, Brown and Company). This beautiful novel, about an American son and his immigrant father, has echoes of “The Great Gatsby” and circles, with pointed intellect, the possibilities and limitations of American life. Its author is best known as a playwright. In 2013, Akhtar won a Pulitzer Prize for “Disgraced,” a dinner-party-gone-wrong drama that deals with Muslim American life, 9/11, money and politics. This novel, too, confronts Muslim American experience. (The father is an elite heart specialist who treats Donald J. Trump in the 1990s and becomes enamored with him.) “Homeland Elegies” is a lover’s quarrel with this country, and it has candor and seriousness to burn. (Read the review.)

‘DIRT: Adventures in Lyon as a Chef in Training, Father, and Sleuth Looking for the Secret of French Cooking’ By Bill Buford (Alfred A. Knopf). Buford’s new book is a profound and intuitive work of immersive journalism. It’s about moving with his wife and young sons to Lyon, where he works in restaurant kitchens and divines the secrets of French cuisine. This is a more sober book than Buford’s last one, “Heat,” about Italian food and Mario Batali. It’s as if Johnny Cash followed up “Get Rhythm,” as a jukebox single, with “Hurt.” This book delivers, among other things, an excellent history of cooking in Lyon, with Fernand Point and Paul Bocuse at its molten center. Buford has a smart, literate, sly voice on the page. (Read the review.)

‘DEATH IN MUD LICK: A Coal Country Fight Against the Drug Companies That Delivered the Opioid Epidemic’ By Eric Eyre (Scribner). Eyre won a Pulitzer Prize for investigative reporting in 2017, for a revelatory series of articles on West Virginia’s opioid epidemic. His new book is a well-written account of that reporting. It’s a profoundly human document that also reads like a simmering John Grisham thriller. Eyre begins with the story of a single pharmacy in Kermit, W.Va., population 382. In just two years in the mid-aughts, it distributed nearly nine million opioid pain pills to customers. We meet some of those customers, and this story expands until it takes in corruption and greed on a gruesome scale. (Read the review.)

‘CLEANNESS’ By Garth Greenwell (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux). Greenwell’s incandescent second novel, about a gay middle-aged American teacher in Sofia, Bulgaria, is scorching in its sexual frankness. The book is about travel, self-exile, political protest and the demands of long-distance relationships. Yet sex scenes are the hinges here, as they are in Milan Kundera’s novels. (These writers also share a certain heavy-heartedness, in addition to gray Eastern European settings.) Carnal moments in “Cleanness” are accelerants; they’re where Greenwell’s existential and political themes are underlined and set ablaze. (Read the review.)

‘THE POWER OF ADRIENNE RICH: A Biography’ By Hilary Holladay (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday). This is the first proper biography of this important poet, essayist and feminist, and it’s a good story well told. Rich was a child prodigy, playing Mozart at 4. She published a major book of poems while still at Radcliffe and, when young, was anything but a rebel. She married and had children before her political awakening became, in the 1960s and ’70s, a feminist one. Holladay humanizes Rich without rendering her less thorny, and she’s an adept reader of the poems. (Read the review.)

‘DISTURBANCE: Surviving Charlie Hebdo’ By Philippe Lançon. Translated by Steven Rendall (Europa Editions). This powerful and deeply civilized memoir recounts the massacre in the offices of Charlie Hebdo, the French satirical magazine, on the morning of Jan. 7, 2015. Lançon, a gifted critic, was hit by at least three bullets, one of which tore off most of his jaw. “Disturbance” is a memoir that evokes overlapping worlds. We follow Lançon through his long and painful recuperation. He lives in a state of constant anxiety: Will the terrorists return to finish him off? But his book is also very much about the things that kept him alive — Bach’s music, Proust’s fiction, friends and acuteness of all variety. (Read the review.)

‘FIEBRE TROPICAL,’ By Juli Delgado Lopera (The Feminist Press). The prose in Lopera’s first novel is as ebullient and assertive as Rosie Perez’s shadowboxing in the opening credits of “Do the Right Thing.” It moves from English to Spanish and back again, to bold and farcical effect. This is a book about three generations of a Colombian-American family wedged into an ant-infested apartment outside of Miami, with sweeping views over a dumpster. The young narrator, Francisca, is a misfit coming to terms with her complicated sexuality. She may be quiet and a girl of slender means but, internally, she’s a kibitzer with a big and glorious voice. (Read the review.)

‘WHAT ARE YOU GOING THROUGH’ By Sigrid Nunez (Riverhead). Nunez’s shrewd new novel posits a primal question: If a terminally ill friend asked you to be with them, in another room, while they took the pills that would end their life, would you say yes? The sick friend in this novel resembles Susan Sontag, whom Nunez knew and wrote about in a memoir titled “Sempre Susan.” This novel has sorrow in it. It’s also quite funny. We bumble our way toward death as we bumble toward everything. Is it gauche to linger longer than you were supposed to? One observer in this novel refers to its predicament as “Lucy and Ethel Do Euthanasia.” (Read the review.)

‘MEMORIAL DRIVE: A Daughter’s Memoir’ By Natasha Trethewey (Ecco). Trethewey’s memoir is a controlled burn of chaos and intellection; it’s a memoir that will really lay you out. “Memorial Drive” is about the murder of the author’s mother, Gwendolyn, at the hands of her second husband, a troubled Vietnam veteran, after months of threats. The author was 19 at the time. Trethewey was born in Mississippi to a Black mother and a white father; this memoir catalogs that complicated experience. Thanks to a police officer who was the first on the scene of her mother’s murder, Trethewey gains access to powerful and moving documentation of her mother’s life and death. (Read the review.)

‘CASTE: The Origins of Our Discontents’ By Isabel Wilkerson (Random House). This important book reads like the slow passing of a long and demented cortege. Wilkerson avoids words like “white” and “race” and “racism” in favor of terms such as “dominant caste,” “favored caste,” “upper caste” and “lower caste”; she makes unsettling comparisons between India’s treatment of its untouchables, or Dalits, Nazi Germany’s treatment of Jews and America’s treatment of African-Americans. Many have taken issue with her conflation of race and caste. The reader does not have to follow her all the way on this point to find her book a fascinating thought experiment. “Caste” deepens our tragic sense of American history. (Read the review.)

‘EAT THE BUDDHA: Life and Death in a Tibetan Town’ By Barbara Demick (Random House). In her searing new book, Demick profiles a group of Tibetans with roots in China’s Ngaba County, which bears the gory distinction of being the “undisputed world capital of self-immolations.” The protesters have absorbed the Dalai Lama’s teachings of nonviolence; they can only bear to hurt themselves. The book covers an awe-inspiring breadth of Tibetan history but through unforgettable, deeply intimate oral testimonies and a narrative broken into rotating perspectives — a model inspired by John Hersey’s “Hiroshima,” and one that Demick has made her own. (Read the review.)

‘THE LYING LIFE OF ADULTS’ By Elena Ferrante. Translated by Ann Goldstein (Europa Editions). The very name Ferrante — the pseudonym of the Italian novelist — evokes the tangle of impulses that drive her heroines, her mothers and daughters torn between mutual dependence and contempt, between the desire to nourish each other and betray. Her new novel is suspenseful and propulsive; in style and theme, a sibling to her previous books. But it’s also a more vulnerable performance, less tightly woven and deliberately plotted. A young girl overhears her father calling her ugly, which sets off her rebellion. She sparks a friendship with an unconventional aunt and begins spying on her parents. It becomes her education in adult duplicity and double lives. (Read the review.)

‘TO THE FRIEND WHO DID NOT SAVE MY LIFE’ By Hervé Guibert. Translated by Linda Coverdale (semiotext(e)). Guibert was a pioneer of autofiction and the author of this truly great AIDS novel, newly translated this year. The book is a lightly fictionalized (and magnificently indiscreet) account of the final days of the philosopher Michel Foucault, Guibert’s neighbor and friend. Guibert possesses an aloof, silvery style — a cool envelope for scalding material: a homage to a friendship and its betrayal, and a document of the breakdown of his own body. It is an unforgettable, heartbreaking evocation of the early days of the epidemic, when gay men were forced to become their own scientists, lobbyists, archivists. (Read the review.)

[ Read the critics discussing more about the year in books. ]

‘WOW, NO THANK YOU: Essays’ By Samantha Irby (Vintage Books). Is there a genre that has fallen into more embarrassing disrepair than the “comic essay”? To me, Samantha Irby feels like one of its few, truly heroic contemporary practitioners — and there’s never been a better time to read her work. Her new book caps off her trilogy of collections of briny, splendidly misanthropic riffs on chronic illness and all the mutinies of the body, lust, aging, her two dead parents, her two white stepchildren. There’s never been a better moment to appreciate Irby: our bard of staying indoors, our specialist in laughter in the dark. (Read the review.)

‘THE POSTHUMOUS MEMOIRS OF BRÁS CUBAS’ By Machado de Assis. Translated by Margaret Jull Costa and Robin Patterson (Liveright). The most modern, most startlingly avant-garde novel I read this year was originally published in 1881. Jull Costa and Patterson offer a peerless translation of this comic masterpiece, narrated from beyond the grave by a feckless, pretentious, impossibly winning aristocrat. The Brazilian novelist Machado was besotted with the license afforded by fiction and the social critique permitted only by comedy. Read this witty, wildly inventive work and how conservative, how painfully corseted so much modern fiction will suddenly seem. (Read the review.)

‘A WOMAN LIKE HER: The Story Behind the Honor Killing of a Social Media Star’ By Sanam Maher (Melville House). In 2016, Qandeel Baloch — “Pakistan’s Kim Kardashian,” the country’s first social media star — was murdered by her brother Waseem Azeem, in a so-called honor killing. In this exemplary work of investigative journalism, Maher delves into the story of a woman as misunderstood in death as in life. Azeem and his associates killed Baloch, she argues, but they did not act alone. Her meticulously reported book also tells a larger story of the fractures opened up by social media, which encourages a freedom and daring in dangerous conflict with a conservative society. (Read the review.)

‘THE STORY OF A GOAT’ By Perumal Murugan. Translated by N. Kalyan Raman (Black Cat). Murugan’s latest novel folds the violent repressions of contemporary India — the casteism and communalism — into the biography of a deeply unlucky little goat. Murugan traces her entire life: her despair, her longing, her love affairs. Each sentence in Raman’s translation is modest and sculpted, but behind each you sense a fund of deep wisdom about the vagaries of the rains, politics, animal and human behavior. Chekhov once said that anyone could write a biography of Socrates, but it takes skill to tell the stories of smaller, anonymous lives. Murugan shows us that there are no small lives. (Read the review.)

‘THE DISCOMFORT OF EVENING’ By Marieke Lucas Rijneveld. Translated by Michele Hutchison (Graywolf Press). Novels disappoint not only by being clumsily written or conceived but by presenting versions of the world that are simpler and more sanitized than we know it to be. Fiction about childhood is especially prone to doing this. Rijneveld’s uninhibited imagination arrives as terror and solace in this first novel, in which a family comes apart after the sudden death of the oldest child. As the parents retreat into grief, the surviving children are left to invent their own rules. They find consolation in desperate, frightening rituals, blurring all easy notions of victim and perpetrator. Even now, my blood jumps to remember certain scenes. (Read the review.)

‘SERIOUS NOTICING: Selected Essays 1997-2019’ By James Wood (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux). No modern critic has exerted comparable influence in how we read than James Wood. So many popular notions of what constitutes a telling detail or plausible character flow from his work. His latest pulls from his previous collections — personal pieces as well as essays on his lodestars (Chekhov, Bellow, Woolf) — to offer a beautiful and moving sense of the stakes of criticism as Wood has practiced it, vigorously, without interruption, for 30 years: What does it mean to do this work well, and what does it add to the world? What has it added to his life? “To notice is to rescue, to redeem,” he writes. “To save life from itself.” (Read the review.)

‘AFRICAN AMERICAN POETRY: 250 Years of Struggle &amp; Song’ Edited by Kevin Young (Library of America). It is overwhelming to contemplate the variety contained in this monumental tribute to Black poetry from the colonial period to the present. The anthology is a history of form and also a form of history. Poets comment on their times, on the birth of jazz, the Scottsboro trial, the Vietnam War, police killings, racial terrorism — as well as food and music, birth pains and menopause, first love and friendship. The poems themselves have the force of events. They were written as acts of public mourning, and as secrets; they are love poems and bitter quarrels. They are prized company. (Read the review.)

‘PUTIN’S PEOPLE: How the KGB Took Back Russia and Then Took On the West’ By Catherine Belton (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux). As an investigative reporter, the dauntless Belton tracked down documents and followed the money to create this meticulously assembled portrait of Vladimir Putin’s circle. Belton recounts the emergence of what she calls “K.G.B. capitalism” — a form of ruthless wealth accumulation designed to serve the interests of a Russian state that is “relentless in its reach.” Putin presides over the country and its resources like a czar, Belton writes, bolstered by a cadre of friendly oligarchs and secret service agents, who have helped him turn Russia’s legal system into a weapon and a fig leaf. (Read the review.)

‘THE PRICE OF PEACE: Money, Democracy, and the Life of John Maynard Keynes’ By Zachary Carter (Random House). Carter’s outstanding intellectual biography of John Maynard Keynes offers a resonant guide to our current moment, even if he finished writing it in the time before Covid-19. The protagonist dies about two-thirds of the way through the book, but the narrative keeps going, tracing the splintering of Keynes’s intellectual legacy and the neoliberal backlash. Still, Keynesianism could never get stamped out for too long; its tools proved to be too useful. It’s rare to find a 600-page economic history that moves swiftly along currents of lucidity and wit, and this book happens to be one of them. (Read the review.)

‘FRANCHISE: The Golden Arches in Black America’ By Marcia Chatelain (Liveright). In this smart and capacious history, Chatelain recounts how early battles between McDonald’s and civil rights activists mainly revolved around who got served and who got hired. Later, activists began to petition for Black ownership of franchises located in Black neighborhoods — a demand that McDonald’s was initially slow to meet but eventually pursued out of shrewd self-interest. This isn’t just a story of exploitation or, conversely, empowerment; it’s a cautionary tale about relying on the private sector to provide what the public needs, and how promises of real economic development invariably come up short. (Read the review.)

‘TIME OF THE MAGICIANS: Wittgenstein, Benjamin, Cassirer, Heidegger, and the Decade That Reinvented Philosophy’ By Wolfram Eilenberger (Penguin Press). Eilenberger’s book begins in 1919 and ends in 1929, elegantly tracing the life and work of four figures who transformed philosophy in ways that were disparate and not infrequently at odds. A terrific storyteller, he unearths vivid details that show how the philosophies of these men weren’t the arid products of abstract speculation but vitally connected to their temperaments and experiences. All of them shared a sense that the old ways of philosophizing had failed to keep up with the reality of lived experience. Yet as much as they were wrestling with life-and-death philosophical questions, the bigger crisis was still to come. (Read the review.)

‘YOUNG HEROES OF THE SOVIET UNION: A Memoir and a Reckoning’ By Alex Halberstadt (Random House). Halberstadt has written a history of his family and the country where he was born — a loving and mournful account that’s also skeptical, surprising and often very funny. He recreates the lives of his parents and grandparents, tracing their experiences in order to better understand his own. There’s plenty of confident, precisely drawn imagery that will make you remember what Halberstadt describes in his own unforgettable terms. Leonid Brezhnev “appeared fully rectangular from every angle”; a childhood bully’s “thick prescription lenses shrank his eyes to furious raisins.” It’s the unexpected specificity of Halberstadt’s observations that ultimately makes this memoir as lush and moving as it is. (Read the review.)

‘MINOR FEELINGS: An Asian American Reckoning’ By Cathy Park Hong (One World). Hong’s book wanders a variegated terrain of memoir, criticism and polemic, oscillating between smooth proclamations of certainty and twitches of self-doubt. Citing the poet Claudia Rankine and the theorist Sianne Ngai, Hong distinguishes minor feelings from the major emotions that propel typical narrative arcs and moments of revelation. Minor feelings don’t lend themselves to catharsis or change; they’re ambient and chronic, “built from the sediments of everyday racial experience and the irritant of having one’s perception of reality constantly questioned or dismissed.” Her book, then, conveys her perception of reality, as she rescues it from the flattening forces of her own distortions and other people’s expectations. (Read the review.)

‘A PROMISED LAND’ By Barack Obama (Crown). Nearly every president since Theodore Roosevelt has written a memoir that covers his years in office; this one, which doesn’t even cover Obama’s entire first term, contains some inevitable moments of legacy-burnishing, though the narrative hews so closely to his own discursive habits of thought that any victories he depicts feel tenuous. At a time of grandiose mythologizing, he marshals his considerable storytelling skills to demythologize himself. Obama addresses the book to the “next generation,” to young people who seek to “remake the world,” but the story he tells is less about unbridled possibility and more about the forces that inhibit it. (Read the review.)

‘SELF-PORTRAIT’ By Celia Paul (New York Review Books). The painter Paul’s captivating memoir is an account of her life and her work — or, more precisely, of her attempts to realize the possibilities of each despite the constraints thrown up by the other. She recalls her decade-long relationship with Lucian Freud and the son they had together; she also describes yearning for a solitude that wasn’t always easy for her to obtain. (She lives separately from her current husband, who doesn’t have a key to her flat.) The arc of her story is not one of triumph, but endurance. (Read the review.)

‘UNWORTHY REPUBLIC: The Dispossession of Native Americans and the Road to Indian Territory’ By Claudio Saunt (W.W. Norton &amp; Company). Saunt’s book traces the expulsion of 80,000 Native Americans over the course of the 1830s, from their homes in the eastern United States to territories west of the Mississippi River. This was one episode in a long history of colonial conquest that included waging war and spreading disease, but Saunt argues that Indian Removal was truly “unprecedented”; it was a “formal, state-administered process” designed to eliminate every native person to the east of the Mississippi. The entwined history of slavery and the expulsion of Indigenous people is a central theme in this powerful and lucid account. (Read the review.)

‘UNCANNY VALLEY: A Memoir’ By Anna Wiener (MCD/Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux). Wiener recounts what made her abandon her job at a literary agency to work for tech start-ups, and what eventually — five years later — made her leave the industry. Wiener’s storytelling mode is keen and dry, her sentences spare — perfectly suited to let a steady thrum of dread emerge. She recalls being so fixated on trying to discern what motivated people she met that she lost sight of the vast, exceedingly powerful system she was participating in, and what the system was doing — not just to her, but to everybody. (Read the review.)





No.31 article:
Oil Refineries See Profit in Turning Kitchen Grease Into Diesel

Struggling energy companies are increasing the production of renewable diesel, which can reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

HOUSTON — Many businesses are betting that electric and hydrogen-powered cars and trucks will play a critical role in the fight against climate change. But some oil companies are hoping that so will smelly restaurant grease and slaughterhouse waste.

Companies that refine crude oil into fuel are increasingly using such putrid scraps to make a renewable version of diesel that can significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions from trucks, buses and industrial equipment without requiring families and businesses to invest in expensive new vehicles and factory gear. Phillips 66, Marathon, HollyFrontier and several other refiners are spending roughly $2 billion to retool refineries to produce the fuel over the next four years.

Renewable diesel has been around for years, and its production, while tiny compared with its fossil fuel counterpart, has grown steadily because the federal government and California offer incentives for companies to make and sell it. That support has made the fuel even more attractive to oil refiners during the pandemic because demand for regular diesel, gasoline and jet fuel has plunged as people drive and travel less.

Production of renewable diesel is up roughly 7 percent this year. If current trends continue, refineries could produce as much as 3.8 billion gallons of renewable diesel by 2025, or more than 5 percent of the total diesel production last year, according to S&amp;P Global Platts, an energy research firm.

“Renewable diesel is a golden nugget,” said Corey Lavinsky, director for global biofuels at S&amp;P Global Platts. “At a time when a lot of companies are struggling, we have this huge opportunity with companies announcing ambitious plans to build renewable diesel capacity.”

Some oil refining companies believe renewable diesel could help them stay profitable as governments move to significantly reduce the use of fossil fuels to address climate change — a process that is already well underway in Europe and could accelerate in the United States during the Biden administration.

Renewable diesel is appealing for several reasons. It can be used in existing diesel engines without having to be blended with regular diesel — its biggest advantage over biodiesel and ethanol, which are also made from organic material but generally cannot be used without being mixed with petroleum products. Renewable diesel, like biodiesel, is produced from waste agricultural products and animal fats, but it is processed differently to make it chemically identical to conventional petroleum diesel.

People who buy diesel may not even know they are using renewable diesel because pumps can handle it, oil-based diesel or a combination of the two and typically carry no special labels.

Burning renewable diesel produces between 50 and 80 percent less greenhouse gas emissions than conventional diesel, depending on which raw materials are used to make the fuel. And oil refineries can make renewable diesel with a few upgrades.

Governments have provided significant financial incentives for refiners to make the switch. In California, for example, refiners can earn as much as $4 a gallon to produce renewable diesel through federal and state programs. The incentives have a certain bipartisan appeal: Democrats see renewable diesel as a way to reduce emissions, and Republicans like it because it helps oil refineries and farmers and other agricultural interests.

Renewable diesel is emerging at a time of severe stress for the oil and gas industry, with refiners closing plants across Europe and North America. Royal Dutch Shell recently announced that it was closing its refinery in Convent, La., after failing to find a buyer, and Marathon Petroleum plans to close two plants in California and New Mexico.

Renewable diesel is already playing a big role for some businesses. Valero, the country’s largest independent refiner, reported that its operating income from renewable diesel had tripled over the past year, to $184 million in the third quarter. That is a big gain given that the company reported an overall loss of $464 million for the quarter.

Valero has committed 40 percent of its spending on growth projects over this year and next to renewable diesel, which it makes through a joint venture in Louisiana called Diamond Green Diesel. It expects to increase production of the fuel to 675 million gallons a year by 2022, up from 275 million now. The company is also considering adding a plant in Texas.

Despite that optimism, some oil executives worry that renewable diesel could hit a wall in the coming years.

CVR Energy, which operates two refineries in the Midwest, is investing in one and potentially two renewable diesel facilities to help meet federal regulations.

But its chief executive, David Lamp, said the government’s role in subsidizing renewable diesel made it an inherently unstable business. Federal and state incentives could encourage the industry to produce more fuel than is needed. On the flip side, he worries that Congress or California could abruptly pull the plug on incentives.

“Take one of those subsidies away and you are at break-even,” Mr. Lamp said. “With the deficit situation of the federal government, some of these things are going to have to be looked at pretty hard.”

Another concern is that as more refineries get into this business, it could become harder for them to find enough kitchen grease and animal fat.

“The real limit on renewable diesel is the availability of feedstock,” said Kurt Barrow, a vice president at the energy research and consulting firm IHS Markit.

But Jeremy Baines, president of Neste U.S., the American unit of a Finnish energy company, is more optimistic. He expects large companies like Amazon, Walmart and UPS to increase their use of the fuel as they look to reduce the carbon emissions of their truck fleets.

“Even if you want to go 100 percent electric, renewable diesel is the only thing deployable and scalable today,” he said.

Neste Oyj supplies its two biggest markets, Europe and North America, from refineries in Singapore, the Netherlands and Finland, and is looking to find or build another plant. The company collects grease from tens of thousands of restaurants worldwide, including in the United States, then mixes it with waste from around the world at its refineries. Once processed into renewable diesel, the fuel is sent around the world, including to California and Oregon. One of its customers is Oakland, which uses the fuel in city vehicles.

Companies like Neste send fleets of trucks to collect restaurant grease late at night when traffic is light and after diners have gone home so they are spared having to see what happens to kitchen waste. Drivers pull into back alleys and suck the grease with vacuum hoses or use mechanical arms to lift waste containers and empty them into their trucks.

Researchers, farmers and some environmentalists have long worked on making renewable fuels a bigger part of the nation’s energy mix, with mixed success. During the George W. Bush administration, when oil prices were rising fast, ethanol became central to federal energy policy. But that fuel became less popular as shale drilling produced more domestic oil and scientists found that clearing land and growing crops for biofuels was not always environmentally sound.

Proponents of renewable diesel say it has many advantages over ethanol, especially when it is made from waste that would otherwise be dumped into landfills.

The fortunes for renewable diesel brightened in 2011 when California enacted its Low Carbon Fuel Standard, requiring sharp cuts in carbon emissions from transportation. Under the system, producers of low-carbon fuels such as electricity for electric vehicles, hydrogen and renewable diesel can sell credits to producers of high-carbon fuels. A gallon of renewable diesel can currently earn around $1.50 under that program. (Federal programs provide as much as $2.50 per gallon to refineries that make renewable diesel.)

Oregon and British Columbia have adopted similar systems, and Canada is scheduled to begin a national clean fuel standard in 2022. Colorado, Iowa, New York, South Dakota and several other states are also considering low-carbon fuel measures.

That’s good news for refineries struggling to eke out profits during the pandemic and worried about their future in a low-carbon economy, said Mr. Barrow of IHS Markit. “Renewable diesel is a way the refining industry can get a good return with a fairly modest investment, and it’s a way for them to participate in decarbonization.”





No.32 article:
Meet Biden’s Energy and Climate Cabinet Contenders

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s environment and energy team — facing a narrowly divided Congress and a hostile Republican leadership — will need creativity and perseverance if Mr. Biden is to follow through on his ambitious promises to address climate change.

In November, Mr. Biden announced that former Secretary of State John Kerry, who made climate change a signature diplomatic issue during the Obama administration, will become an international “climate envoy.” Mr. Biden also intends to name a high level domestic policy adviser on climate change this month.

But the agency heads, whose names will be announced in the coming days, will be the ones tasked to find a path around Congress with regulations that can cut planet-warming emissions and survive judicial review.

Here are the leading candidates:

Mr. Biden’s top candidate to lead the agency is Ms. Nichols, California’s climate and clean air regulator, according to four people familiar with the matter. She said in an interview that she would accept the job.

Ms. Nichols is the architect of her state’s cap-and-trade climate change law, which capped greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, then allowed utilities to buy and sell emissions credits to keep polluting at lower levels. She also helped craft California’s tough regulations on climate-warming auto emissions, which served as a model for President Barack Obama’s federal climate policies, before they were rolled back by President Trump.

“It’s going to be important to quickly reverse and stop a very large number of actions that were done by the Trump administration, and then to restore the agency’s scientific basis for its work,” Ms. Nichols said in a recent interview.

Also in the running:

Currently president of the National Wildlife Federation, Mr. O’Mara is seen by many on the Biden transition team as a strong second choice to lead the E.P.A. if it appears that Ms. Nichols cannot win enough Republican Senate votes to be confirmed for the job.

If confirmed, Mr. O’Mara, 41, would be one of the youngest heads of a cabinet agency in recent history; he has long been described as a “whiz kid,” fluent in complex environmental policy issues.

Mr. O’Mara has deep ties to Mr. Biden’s home state of Delaware, and to the Biden family. As head of the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control from 2009 to 2014, he worked closely with Mr. Biden’s son Beau, then the state’s attorney general. He has also served as head of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a 10-state cap-and-trade program, and served on Mr. Obama’s Task Force on Climate Adaptation and Preparedness.

The former mayor of Greenville, Miss., and a regional E.P.A. administrator in the Obama administration, Ms. McTeer Toney currently serves as senior director of Moms Clean Air Force, an environmental group that fought President Trump’s efforts to scale back or eliminate air, water and climate change regulations. A top choice of liberal activists, she would be the second Black woman to lead the E.P.A.

The White House Council on Environmental Quality coordinates and helps shape environmental policy across an administration. If confirmed, Mr. Ali would focus attention on racial disparities in federal environmental policy. With more than 20 years of experience at the E.P.A., Mr. Ali currently serves as vice president of environmental justice, climate and community revitalization for the National Wildlife Federation. He founded the agency’s Office of Environmental Justice and under the Obama administration served as a senior adviser to the administrator Gina McCarthy on environmental justice issues.

Also in the running:

Ms. Mallory served as the general counsel to Mr. Obama’s Council on Environmental Quality, after more than 15 years at the E.P.A., where she ultimately served as the agency’s principal deputy general counsel. She currently is the director of regulatory policy at the Southern Environmental Law Center, a nonprofit group that has fought many of Mr. Trump’s deregulatory efforts in court.

Mr. Connor, a former deputy secretary of the Interior in the Obama administration, would be extremely qualified for the post. He worked in the department throughout the Clinton administration, including four years as director of the Secretary’s Indian Water Rights Office. He later worked for then-Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, on land, water, energy and Native American issues before returning to Interior during the Obama administration.

He is also a citizen of the Taos Pueblo, a sovereign nation near Taos, N.M., that is one of the country’s 574 federally recognized Native American tribes.

A coalition of Democrats, Native Americans and liberal activists have been urging Mr. Biden to nominate a Native American to head the agency, a move that would make history. A Native American has never been in a presidential cabinet, and the Interior Department has for much of the nation’s history governed huge swaths of federal land, especially in the West, and often dislodged and abused Native Americans.

Also in the running:

The campaign for a Native American Interior secretary was built around one candidate, Ms. Haaland, Democrat of New Mexico, who in 2018 became one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress. But many of Mr. Biden’s advisers fear that she lacks the experience to manage the sprawling complex agency.

Ms. Haaland nonetheless remains a contender, in part because of her political star power.

Among those campaigning for her are the Lakota People’s Law Action Center and the actor and environmentalist Mark Ruffalo, who posted a video on Twitter with tribal leaders speaking on her behalf. Representative Raúl Grijalva, the Arizona Democrat who chairs the committee that oversees the Interior Department, sent a letter to Mr. Biden signed by at least 50 colleagues urging the nomination of Ms. Haaland, who has served on Mr. Grijalva’s Natural Resources Committee since her arrival in Congress last year.

A New Mexico senator who will retire at the end of the year, Mr. Udall has fought to protect federal property from oil and gas drilling and has promoted the designation of wilderness areas in his home state. If Mr. Udall is picked, he will be keeping up a family tradition: His father, Stewart Udall, served as Interior secretary during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations.

A nuclear physicist who served as Mr. Obama’s second energy secretary remains in the running to return to his old post. Dr. Moniz, now president and chief executive officer of the Energy Futures Initiative, a research organization, served as an informal adviser to Mr. Biden during the campaign and several people who worked under him at the Energy Department said they would be thrilled to do so again.

But Dr. Moniz has detractors. Liberal groups have protested some of the positions he has taken since leaving government, including a post on the board of Southern Company, an electric and gas utility company. They also objected to his endorsements of nuclear energy and carbon capture and storage as ways to fight climate change because they believe climate policy should focus only on renewable sources like wind and solar.

Though his biggest legacy is helping to secure the Iran nuclear deal, Dr. Moniz played a key behind-the-scenes role in the Paris Agreement on climate change as well, working to make clean energy a core part of the accord. Under Mission Innovation, a parallel agreement to the Paris deal, 19 nations and the United States agreed to double research and development spending on carbon emissions-free energy. President Trump effectively backed out of the pact when he abandoned the Paris Agreement.

Also in the running:

Dr. Majumdar, who currently is heading Mr. Biden’s transition team for the Energy Department, could become its secretary. Dr. Majumdar moved to the United States from India to earn a doctorate in mechanical engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, and went on to become the first director of Energy Department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy program, where he tried to build strong relationships with Republicans as well as Democrats. Currently Dr. Majumdar leads the Precourt Institute for Energy at Stanford University.

One of the earliest female Rhodes scholars, Ms. Sherwood-Randall has a deep background in nuclear weapons, the largest part of the Energy Department’s work, as well as challenges to the country’s electric grid. A former adviser to Mr. Biden when he was in the Senate, Ms. Sherwood-Randall served in both the Clinton and Obama administrations working on foreign policy and national security issues. From 2014 to 2017 she was the deputy secretary of energy, leading the National Nuclear Security Administration. She also headed up an initiative to address challenges to the power grid.

Mr. Zaidi, New York State’s deputy secretary of energy and environment, is widely considered the front-runner for the role of domestic climate change coordinator. The new position would require someone who could work with cabinet secretaries and other high-level figures like Mr. Kerry. Mr. Zaidi served as associate director of the White House Office of Management and Budget under Mr. Obama where he helped design the White House Climate Action Plan, a blueprint for cutting emissions.

The former governor of Michigan and an adviser to Hillary Clinton on energy has been floated as a potential secretary of energy. But she’s also under serious consideration for the domestic climate policy coordinator position, according to two people who said her years of executive experience make her an attractive pick.





No.33 article:
Which New Yorkers Will Be First to Get the Virus Vaccine?

The first batch of the vaccine is expected to arrive in New York on Dec. 15.

Health care workers. Essential workers. Nursing home residents. New Yorkers who live in the hardest-hit neighborhoods.

These are among the different groups that the public health authorities in New York want to prioritize for coronavirus vaccination.

On Wednesday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said that the state would receive its first batch of the vaccine — 170,000 doses from the drug maker Pfizer — on Dec. 15, pending federal approval.

New York City anticipates receiving around 480,000 doses by the beginning of January, a spokesman for Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Wednesday. Bill Neidhardt, the spokesman, said about roughly half would be Pfizer’s vaccine and half would be from Moderna, another drug maker.

Mr. Cuomo said he was unsure when the vaccine would be widely available. The uncertainty surrounding availability will be just one element of what is shaping up to be the greatest mass vaccination campaign in the United States in at least the last half century.

Pfizer has said it expects to have produced about 25 million doses for the American market by the end of the year, while Moderna has said it expects to produce more than 20 million doses. A total of 45 million doses would be enough for 22.5 million people, since each person requires two doses, separated by a few weeks.

Mr. Cuomo said the first batch from Moderna should arrive later this month. Both companies still need F.D.A. approval.

The federal government has said the initial doses will be distributed to states based on the size of their adult population. 

While the C.D.C. will offer a broad framework for which groups to prioritize, there is considerable room for New York State and New York City to make their own decisions.

Hospitals are already preparing to receive their first shipments, even if they don’t know how many doses they will get. Northwell Health, the state’s largest hospital system, was told it would receive 48 hours’ notice before its first allotment of the Pfizer vaccine shipped from a distribution center in Michigan, according to Onisis Stefas, the hospital system’s chief pharmacy officer.

The vaccine would arrive in a suitcase-sized box, packed with dry ice. Inside, a smaller box would contain the frozen vaccine vials.

There was so much uncertainty that Dr. Stefas said he was unsure whether to use those doses quickly, or reserve half to use as the second dose.

An advisory committee to the C.D.C. on Tuesday recommended that the first people to receive the vaccine should be health care workers, along with nursing home residents and staff.

Mr. Neidhardt, the spokesman for the mayor, said the 480,000 expected doses would be given to health care personnel performing high-risk activities, like working on coronavirus floors at hospitals, and people living and working in nursing homes. 

“It’s important to protect health care workers so they can continue to go to work and take care of the sick,” said Jessica Justman, an epidemiology professor at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health.

Nursing home residents are being prioritized for a different reason: They are at high risk of dying from the coronavirus. Residents and staff of long-term care facilities account for about 40 percent of the deaths attributed to the virus in the United States.

On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo and his aides said the first shipments of the vaccine would go to nursing home residents and staff, as well as frontline health care workers. (A second dose of the Pfizer vaccine and initial shipments of the Moderna vaccine would arrive later in December, the governor’s office said.)

There are about 85,000 residents of nursing homes, according to the governor’s office, and the state has told the C.D.C. that there are more than “800,000 critical health care workers.” That includes home health care aides and staff members in hospitals, nursing homes and ambulance companies. In all, that is more than 4 percent of the state’s population.

There is likely some overlap between the 480,000 doses New York City expects to receive and the 170,000 doses Mr. Cuomo described Wednesday.

Getting through the high-priority groups could take some time, experts said. Hospitals are already deciding which employees are eligible to be vaccinated once the first shipments come in. 

Mount Sinai Health System, for example, will include some janitors and food delivery personnel who work in the emergency department and intensive care units among the health care workers slated to receive some of the earliest doses, said Susan Mashni, the chief pharmacy officer of the system.

New York State has told the C.D.C. that the next groups to be “targeted” for the vaccine will be “other frontline essential workers, medically high risk individuals and individuals over 65.”

In a draft plan that the state released publicly in October, more than a dozen categories of people were put in one of five priority groups. Grocery store workers were ahead of “individuals under 65 with high-risk comorbidities,” who were in turn ahead of certain groups of essential workers.

Mr. Cuomo has also been expressing concern that low-income and minority areas could be underserved by the vaccines, a point he reiterated on Wednesday, saying the federal vaccination plan “overlooks the Black, brown, and poor communities.”

A draft plan that New York City filed with the C.D.C. raised the possibility that race would factor into the city’s vaccination plans. Black and Hispanic New Yorkers have died of the virus at a disproportionate rate. The draft stated that “vaccine planning and allocation decisions must be made through an anti-racist and intersectional lens.”

What that means in practice remains unclear. On Thursday, Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city would prioritize vaccination for residents of some 27 neighborhoods that had been disproportionately hard hit in the spring. Many of those neighborhoods have predominately Black or Hispanic residents, one city official said.

But the official added that the plans largely depended on how much of the vaccine the city received in the coming months.

In the past, the city has released lists of neighborhoods it has deemed particularly hard-hit.

These priority categories encompass millions of people across the state. But it is unclear when the vaccine will be widely available for everyone.

By early next year, Pfizer and Moderna may be able to ship about 70 million doses a month, a top federal vaccine official told The Washington Post. Other vaccines may also be approved by then. It’s possible that Americans who don’t fit any specialized category may be receiving vaccines in the spring.

There is so much uncertainty, and some of that is unavoidable. But there is also a growing sense that the authorities could be providing a clearer picture of what to expect.

“Whatever the plan is, it hasn’t been shared really with the public,” said James Krellenstein, an H.I.V. activist and an organizer of a coalition of health care workers and advocates called the Covid-19 Working Group-New York.

He worried that the confusion and lack of information would contribute to “people not feeling they’re getting their fair place in the line.”

The city’s provisional plans call for relying in part on the existing vaccine distribution infrastructure, which includes doctor’s offices and pharmacies. That means many New Yorkers might be getting their Covid-19 vaccine at the nearest CVS.

That posed a potential problem: Asking people to wait at the pharmacy counter could lead to more transmission. “You don’t want people crowding indoors together,” Professor Justman said, noting that outdoor vaccination sites made a lot of sense in this pandemic.

The Pfizer vaccine needs to be kept at very low temperatures of around minus 70 degrees Celsius. Hospital systems have been buying new ultracold freezers in preparation and locating existing ones in their research labs. 

And they have started to prepare for what to do the minute their first shipments arrive.

“We’re told we have a minute to unload it from the special box to the freezer,” said Dr. Mashni.

Already, the city’s Health Department is asking hospitals to regularly report the temperatures in their ultracold freezers to make sure they can maintain temperatures at least as cold as minus 70 degrees indefinitely.

But the vaccination can be kept at more ordinary temperatures of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius during the five days leading up to its use, according to Pfizer.

The demanding cold-storage requirements for the Pfizer vaccine may lead it to be largely steered toward cities early on, further determining who ends up getting that vaccine in New York.

“I think it’s probably going to make sense that the Moderna vaccine goes to rural areas, and that the Pfizer vaccine is directed to large institutions,” said Dr. Bruce Farber, an infectious disease expert at Northwell Health and a member of a state task force that will review the vaccines.





No.34 article:
Brian Deese, Veteran of Auto Bailout, Will Lead National Economic Council

The appointment of the former Obama administration adviser signals a focus on climate issues amid efforts to recover from recession.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has officially selected Brian Deese, who played a leading role in bailing out the automotive industry and negotiating the Paris climate agreement under President Barack Obama, to head the National Economic Council, his transition team said Thursday.

The appointment, which does not require Senate confirmation, highlights Mr. Biden’s plans to use economic policy initiatives to drive climate policy. It also defies pre-emptive criticism from some environmental groups, which have targeted Mr. Deese for his work in recent years as the sustainability director for the asset-management giant BlackRock.

Mr. Deese joins a slate of Biden appointees to top economic positions, announced this week, that includes the nomination of Janet L. Yellen as Treasury secretary, Neera Tanden to be director of the Office of Management and Budget and Cecilia Rouse to head the White House Council of Economic Advisers.

In a statement, Mr. Biden hailed Mr. Deese as “a trusted voice I can count on to help us end the ongoing economic crisis, build a better economy that deals everybody in, and take on the existential threat of climate change in a way that creates good-paying American jobs.”

In a video announcing the pick, Mr. Biden said Mr. Deese would be one of the youngest directors of the council, which was established under President Bill Clinton to advise the president on economic policy matters domestically and globally. Mr. Biden said Mr. Deese would be the first council director “who is a true expert on climate policy.”

Mr. Deese said in written statement that his immediate focus “will be on stemming this crisis, getting people back to work and fighting to deliver the support American families desperately need — including rental and mortgage assistance, child care and paid leave, and small-business relief.”

He also said that as the economy recovered, Mr. Biden’s economic team would work to fulfill the president-elect’s broader agenda for rebuilding infrastructure and supporting job creation and wage growth, “from restoring American industrial and manufacturing strength to embedding climate solutions in an ambitious jobs strategy.”

Mr. Deese, 42, has worked in the policy side of Democratic politics for more than a decade and a half, impressing supervisors and colleagues along the way. He wrote policy memos for John Kerry’s 2004 presidential campaign, working for a young economic policy director named Jason Furman, including one on the role of the minimum wage in helping working women. He also worked for Hillary Clinton and then Mr. Obama on economic policy issues in the 2008 campaign.

He joined the Obama administration as a special assistant to the president based in the National Economic Council, where he was reunited with Mr. Furman, then a deputy. From a hallway desk outside the office of the council director, Mr. Deese helped devise the bailout of large American automakers. He roamed the West Wing shoeless, Mr. Furman recalled in an interview, absorbed conversations around him and took meticulous notes that turned into policy recommendations.

“Everything he sets his mind to gets done, gets done faster and better, than anyone else could have hoped for,” said Mr. Furman, now an economist at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. “He knows about policy, is deeply committed and incredibly savvy about strategy and politics.”

In 2015 Mr. Deese took on the role of senior adviser to Mr. Obama on climate change and energy, helping to drive sweeping regulations cutting emissions from the electricity sector and from vehicle tailpipes as the United States prepared to join the Paris agreement on global warming. President Trump has over the past four years repealed those regulations and dozens of others addressing climate change and withdrawn the United States from the Paris accords.

But Mr. Deese’s post-Obama administration role as global head of sustainable investing at BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, has drawn criticism from some environmental activists on the left.

BlackRock’s founder, Laurence D. Fink, announced this year that it would shift its investment policy to make climate and sustainability central to its goals. But green groups say the company has not gone far enough to abandon fossil fuels. One campaign led by progressive groups called Mr. Deese the “chief greenwasher” of BlackRock and questioned his commitment to fighting climate change.

Vasudha Desikan, political director at Action Center on Race and the Economy, an advocacy group, called Mr. Deese “not the greatest champion” on climate change, citing his defense of policies under the Obama administration to allow fracking on federal lands and his support for the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.

Others have come to his defense, notably Bill McKibben, the activist and co-founder of the environmental group 350.org. In a Twitter thread this week Mr. McKibben, a former Sunday school instructor, described having Mr. Deese’s future wife in his class when she was a child and years later officiating their wedding. Mr. McKibben praised Mr. Deese’s work in the Obama administration as well as for BlackRock, and pushed back against criticisms.

“I know he cares a lot, and works hard on the issue,” Mr. McKibben wrote. “Since — because of pure chance — I know Brian to be both able and decent, and because I know he in fact does care about climate, it felt like I had to say something.”

Laurence Tubiana, who served as France’s top climate negotiator during the Paris agreement, said Mr. Deese had helped bring countries together to sign the pact. Todd Stern, the State Department climate change envoy under Mr. Obama and a chief architect of the accords, called Mr. Deese “a dedicated proponent of ambitious climate action” who “gets the scale and speed of the net-zero transformation we need.”

Mr. Biden has pledged to deliver $2 trillion in government funds over the next four years to reduce planet-warming emissions and sharply increase the amount of renewable energy used for electricity generation and transportation. He has made climate change a central part of his economic plan, as well as his White House structure.

Last month he named Mr. Kerry, the former secretary of state, to be a cabinet-level climate envoy who will also have a seat on the National Security Council, and said the post would be “matched” by a “high level” White House climate policy director, to be named this month.

Along with climate issues and broader attempts to encourage the economic recovery, Mr. Furman said he expected Mr. Deese to focus on issues of competition in the economy, including questions of growing market power among large American firms.





No.35 article:
Warner Bros. Says All 2021 Films Will Be Streamed Right Away

Seventeen movies will each arrive in theaters and on HBO Max simultaneously, the biggest challenge yet to Hollywood’s traditional way of doing business.

LOS ANGELES — In a startling move that marked the biggest challenge yet to Hollywood’s traditional way of doing business, Warner Bros. announced on Thursday that 17 movies — its entire 2021 slate — would each arrive simultaneously in theaters and on its sibling streaming service, the underperforming HBO Max.

Rather than having to wait roughly 90 days, the period that studios have long given theaters to play films exclusively, HBO Max subscribers will receive instant access to big-budget extravaganzas like a “Suicide Squad” sequel, “Godzilla vs. Kong,” “Dune” and “The Matrix 4.” Other movies speeding to living rooms next year include Lin-Manuel Miranda’s “In the Heights,” Clint Eastwood’s “Cry Macho,” the next “Conjuring” horror film, “Space Jam: A New Legacy” and a “Sopranos” prequel called “The Many Saints of Newark.”

While the move amounted to 17 shots in the arm for HBO Max, which has struggled to attract subscribers since its introduction in May for $15 a month, it was also a strikingly grim comment on the future of movie theaters. Even with a widely deployed vaccine, which is expected in the coming months, WarnerMedia does not believe that moviegoing in the United States will recover until at least next fall, an assessment that stands in sharp contrast with what other major movie studios and multiplex chains have signaled.

“Like a lot of businesses, theaters are in a tough spot right now,” Jason Kilar, WarnerMedia’s chief executive, said by phone. “We are all in the middle of a pandemic, and we are all trying to figure our way through it. One of the things we can do to be helpful to them is to provide them with a steady stream of big-budget, well-told stories.” Mr. Kilar said the company had no plans to be flexible; even if the coronavirus threat receded dramatically in the summer, the new distribution model will stand for the year.

There is one wrinkle: Each movie will appear on HBO Max for only one month before leaving the service. At that point, films will cycle through the usual release “windows,” leaving theaters when interest has run out and heading to iTunes, DVD and points beyond, eventually cycling back to HBO Max.

Toby Emmerich, chairman of the Warner Bros. Pictures Group, also pointed to the pandemic as driving the “day and date” distribution model. “It’s not clear that full normal will return even well into the fourth quarter of next year,” Mr. Emmerich said in a separate interview. “The epidemiologists who have been consulting with the company have painted a cautious picture.”

When pressed on whether the plan was temporary or permanent, Mr. Emmerich added, “We have to see what happens. We’re not predicting much of anything beyond next year.” (In a statement, Ann Sarnoff, chief executive of the WarnerMedia Studio and Networks Group, called it a “unique, one-year plan.”)

Mr. Emmerich emphasized that Warner’s movies would continue to have traditional theatrical releases outside of the United States, where HBO Max does not currently exist. “These are global releases with normal theatrical marketing campaigns,” he said.

HBO Max will begin rolling out overseas next year.

Many people in Hollywood saw WarnerMedia’s positioning of its move as disingenuous: It will be almost impossible to go back, and it may force other studios to abandon the old model. Fans trained to expect immediate gratification will not be eager to return to the days of giving theaters an exclusive period to play movies. AT&amp;T, which owns WarnerMedia, also has made it clear that Mr. Kilar’s top priority is building HBO Max into a full-fledged competitor to Netflix, which has 73 million subscribers in the United States and almost 200 million worldwide. HBO subscribers hit a record 38 million at the end of September, but only about 8.6 million subscribers had activated HBO Max, according to AT&amp;T regulatory filings.

As it moves to bolster HBO Max, WarnerMedia is almost assuredly giving up hundreds of millions in box office revenue, which means that some of its big-budget movies ($200 million or more in production costs, plus tens of millions of dollars in marketing spending) will lose money, regardless of their reception by audiences. But AT&amp;T is mostly interested in the financial windfall that it stands to make in the longer term by turning HBO Max into a success.

The Walt Disney Company, for instance, has taken a beating from the pandemic, with its theme parks struggling in particular. But Disney shares are nonetheless trading at all-time highs because of the success of Disney+ over the last year. Next week, Disney will hold an investor day and outline its own plans for supercharging its streaming services, which include Hulu. Disney is also expected to shift release plans for coming films, making titles like “Cruella” instantly available online.

As soon as Warner’s plans became public on Thursday, WarnerMedia began marketing HBO Max subscriptions as a holiday gift. “I got you something nice this year,” the company said on Twitter, linking to a slick video of film clips and a message about how “the biggest premieres” next year will be coming to theaters and HBO Max on the “Exact. Same. Day.”

Mr. Emmerich downplayed the threat to theaters. “We really believe that in markets where HBO Max exists and theaters are also open that many consumers will chose the theatrical experience,” he said. “We hope that this will prove to be a win-win — for movie fans in the United States, for filmmakers because their movies won’t sit on a shelf and get stale, for theater owners who can rely on a stable supply of movies, for HBO Max subscribers.”

Wall Street disagreed with that assessment. Shares of AMC Entertainment, the world’s largest theater chain, fell 16 percent on Thursday, while Cinemark dropped 22 percent. Imax and the Marcus Corporation also lost significant value.

Last month, Warner Bros. tested the water on this strategy with the announcement that “Wonder Woman 1984,” which had already been delayed from its summer 2020 perch, would debut on Christmas Day in theaters and on HBO Max.

It was a framed as a singular event, and theater owners, desperate to fill screens with appealing content, happily agreed to it. “Given that atypical circumstances call for atypical economic relationships between studios and theaters, and atypical windows and releasing strategies, AMC is fully onboard for Warner Brothers’ announcement today,” Adam Aron, chief executive of AMC Entertainment, said at the time.

He was much less welcoming to an entire year of this practice, which provides no additional incentives to theaters.

“Clearly, WarnerMedia intends to sacrifice a considerable portion of the profitability of its movie studio division — and that of its production partners and filmmakers — to subsidize its HBO Max start-up,” Mr. Aron said in an email. “As for AMC, we will do all in our power to ensure that Warner does not do so at our expense. We have already commenced an immediate and urgent dialogue with the leadership of Warner on this subject.”

Another major theater chain, Cinemark, indicated that it had been caught by surprise. “In light of the current operating environment, we are making near-term booking decisions on a film-by-film basis,” a Cinemark spokesperson said. “At this time, Warner Bros. has not provided any details for the hybrid distribution model of their 2021 films.”

The Warner Bros. plan stands in stark contrast to one pursued by Universal Pictures, which has agreed to continue providing theaters with an exclusive play period of at least three weeks. Universal has signed deals with AMC, Cinemark and Canada’s top exhibitor, Cineplex, whereby films will bow exclusively in theaters for at least 17 days before moving to premium video-on-demand. The theater chains will each receive a cut of revenue from PVOD sales.

In her statement, Ms. Sarnoff said that Warner Bros. was “extremely grateful to our filmmaking partners for working with us on this innovative response to these circumstances.” That was news to many of the company’s partners, including Legendary Pictures, the production company behind “Godzilla vs. Kong.” Legendary and other producers were not consulted and only notified at the last minute (if at all), resulting in a day of furious phone calls behind the scenes.

Mr. Kilar said that filmmakers should be encouraged by this new way of releasing films.

“I have a lot of confidence in the theatrical model, and I have a lot of confidence in the subscription model,” Mr. Kilar said. “In many ways, you could see a future where budgets and ambitions continue to grow because that which you make more convenient tends to be used more often.”





No.36 article:
Police in India Make First Arrest Under New Interfaith Marriage Law

A Muslim man was held under a state law passed to address accusations by Hindu nationalists that women are being lured into marriage in order to convert them to Islam.

The police in northern India have made their first arrest under a new anti-conversion law intended to curb “love jihad” — a highly contentious term used by Hindu nationalists who accuse Muslim men of luring Hindu women to marry them in order to convert them to Islam.

The arrest in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh came days after state legislators there approved the law aimed at curbing interfaith marriage, which makes forced religious conversion by marriage an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison.

The law is the latest in a series of measures that have steadily marginalized the country’s Muslim minority, one of the world’s largest, since Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Hindu nationalist party came to power in 2014.

Muslims have faced a wave of violence at the hands of Hindu nationalists and last year, the Modi government enacted a blatantly anti-Muslim citizenship law that critics said was the most alarming indication yet that it was trying to turn India into a Hindu-centric state.

The man arrested on Wednesday, Owais Ahmad, was accused of pressuring a Hindu woman who was married to another man to leave her husband and convert to Islam so she could marry him. The police said the woman’s father had previously filed and later withdrawn a kidnapping case, after his daughter had eloped with Mr. Ahmad in 2019 but then returned.

The recent complaint was filed by the father a few days before Wednesday’s arrest, which the district police said was the first under the new law.

“I have no link with the woman,” Mr. Ahmad, who is in his early 20s, told reporters. “I am innocent.”

One of the main proponents of the anti-conversion law is a firebrand Hindu monk, Yogi Adityanath, who is the head of Uttar Pradesh state and a member of Mr. Modi’s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party.

Similar bills have been considered in other states controlled by the party, including Haryana, Karnataka, Assam and Madhya Pradesh.

In Madhya Pradesh, Netflix recently came under fire after Hindu nationalists demanded that the authorities investigate a scene in the television series “A Suitable Boy” depicting a Hindu girl and a Muslim boy kissing against the backdrop of a Hindu temple.

Mr. Adityanath has long been accused of rousing anti-Muslim sentiments. Electoral officials reprimanded him for hate speech and he once called Muslims “a crop of two-legged animals that has to be stopped.”

Since coming to power in his home state, a post often seen as a springboard for future prime ministers, Mr. Adityanath has made efforts to make the term “love jihad” mainstream and he has openly called for India to be enshrined as a Hindu nation, which has deeply worried many of the country’s 200 million Muslims.

He once created a volunteer vigilante organization, the Hindu Youth Brigade.

In 2007, following the death of a Hindu youth in clashes between Hindus and Muslims in Mr. Adityanath’s home state, he said, “If one Hindu is killed, we won’t go to the police. Instead we will make sure we will kill 10 Muslims.”

He was later arrested and held in custody for 15 days.

Intermarriage between Muslims and Hindus is relatively rare in India because of conservative norms.

While the country remains overwhelmingly Hindu, nearly 80 percent, the focus on interfaith relationships by anti-Muslim forces has been criticized as an attack on the country’s secular Constitution, which guarantees equal rights to all citizens regardless of religion. Issues involving marriage, divorce, alimony and inheritance are handled differently among religious populations.

To bolster secular ideals, India in 1954 overturned a British colonial-era law that required either the bride or groom in an interfaith marriage to renounce his or her faith.

Faizan Mustafa, an academic and a Muslim, said he was horrified at the speed with which many states with Hindu nationalist governments were racing to legislate against allegedly forced religious conversions.

He said this law was against the very idea of India and that the governing party was trying to divert the attention of people from rising unemployment, an ailing economy and its failure to stop the spread of coronavirus.

“They are taking away freedom of people to choose,” said Mr. Mustafa, “which has been given to us by the Constitution of this country.”





