No.1 article:
Along Russia’s ‘Road of Bones,’ Relics of Suffering and Despair

The prisoners, hacking their way through insect-infested summer swamps and winter ice fields, brought the road, and the road then brought yet more prisoners, delivering a torrent of slave labor to the gold mines and prison camps of Kolyma, the most frigid and deadly outpost of Stalin’s gulag.

Their path became known as the “road of bones,” a track of gravel, mud and, for much of the year, ice that stretches 1,260 miles west from the Russian port city of Magadan on the Pacific Ocean inland to Yakutsk, the capital of the Yakutia region in eastern Siberia. Snaking across the wilderness of the Russian Far East, it slithers through vistas of harsh, breathtaking beauty dotted with frozen, unmarked graves and the rapidly vanishing traces of labor camps.

There was little traffic when a photographer, Emile Ducke, and I drove last winter along what is now R504 Kolyma Highway, an upgraded version of the prisoner-built road. But a few long-distance trucks and cars still trundled through the barren landscape, oblivious to the remnants of past misery buried in the snow — wooden posts strung with rusty barbed wire, abandoned mine shafts and the broken bricks of former isolation cells.

More than a million prisoners traveled the road, both ordinary convicts and people convicted of political crimes. They included some of Russia’s finest minds — victims of Stalin’s Great Terror like Sergei Korolev, a rocket scientist who survived the ordeal and in 1961 helped put the first man in space. Or Varlam Shalamov, a poet who, after 15 years in the Kolyma camps, concluded, “There are dogs and bears that behave more intelligently and morally than human beings.” His experiences, recorded in his book “Kolyma Tales,” convinced him that “a man becomes a beast in three weeks, given heavy labor, cold, hunger and beatings.”

But for many Russians, including some former prisoners, the horrors of Stalin’s gulag are fading, blurred by the rosy mist of youthful memories and of Russia’s status as a feared superpower before the Soviet Union’s collapse.

Antonina Novosad, a 93-year-old who was arrested as a teenager in western Ukraine and sentenced to 10 years in Kolyma on trumped-up political charges, labored in a tin mine near the “road of bones.” She recalled vividly how a fellow prisoner was shot and killed by a guard for wandering off to pick berries just beyond the barbed wire. Prisoners buried her, Ms. Novosad said, but the corpse was then dragged away by a bear. “This was how we worked, how we lived. God forbid. A camp is a camp.”

Yet she bears Stalin no ill will, and also remembers how prisoners cried when, assembled outside in March 1953 to hear a special announcement, they learned that the tyrant was dead. “Stalin was God,” she said. “How to say it? Stalin wasn’t at fault at all. It was the party and all those people. Stalin just signed.”

A big factor obstructing the preservation of more than just snatches of memory is the steady disappearance of physical evidence of the Kolyma camps, said Rostislav Kuntsevich, a historian who curates an exhibit on the camps at the regional museum in Magadan. “Nature is doing its work, and soon nothing will be left,” he said.

When the snow melts or mining work disturbs the frozen earth, the buried past sometimes still surges to the surface along the road.

Vladimir Naiman, the owner of a gold mine off the Kolyma highway whose father, an ethnic German, and maternal grandfather, a Ukrainian, came to the area as prisoners, stumbled during a thaw into a morass of soggy coffins and bones while working as a geologist in the district of Yagodnoye in the 1970s. Trying to reach gold buried off the road, he had hit a cemetery for prisoners with his bulldozer and got stuck in the charnel for five days.

He later put up eight wooden crosses at the site “in memory of those sacrificed.” But as a firm believer that Russia cannot thrive without sacrifice, he today reveres Stalin. “That Stalin was a great man is obvious,” he said, citing the leader’s role in defeating Nazi Germany and in turning a nation of peasants into an industrial power.

Compared with the countless Native Americans killed in the United States, Mr. Naiman said, “nothing really terrible happened here.”

Under President Vladimir V. Putin, memories of Stalin-era persecution have not been erased, as evidenced by a large government-funded Gulag History Museum that opened in Moscow in 2018. But they have frequently been drowned out by celebrations of rival memories, notably of Russia’s triumph under Stalin’s leadership over Hitler in World War II. Rejoicing over that victory, sanctified as a touchstone of national pride, has obscured the gulag’s horrors and raised Stalin’s popularity to its highest level in decades.

At the other end of the country from Magadan, in Karelia next to Finland, the amateur historian Yuri Dmitriev challenged this narrative by digging up the graves of prisoners who were shot by Stalin’s secret police — not, as “patriotic” historians claim, by Finnish soldiers allied with Nazi Germany. In September, he was sentenced to 13 years in prison on the basis of flimsy and, he and his supporters say, fabricated evidence of sexual assault on his adopted daughter.

An opinion poll published in March indicated that 76 percent of Russians have a favorable view of the Soviet Union, with Stalin outpacing all other Soviet leaders in public esteem.

Disturbed by another survey, which found that nearly half of young Russians had never heard of Stalin-era repression, Yuri Dud, a Moscow blogger with a huge youth following, traveled the full length of the “road of bones” in 2018 to explore what he called the “Fatherland of Our Fear.”

After the online release of a video Mr. Dud made about the trip, his travel companion, Mr. Kuntsevich, the Kolyma historian, faced a barrage of abuse and physical threats from die-hard Stalinists and others who resented the past being dredged up.

Mr. Kuntsevich said he had initially tried arguing with his attackers, citing statistics about mass executions and more than 100,000 deaths in the Kolyma camps through starvation and disease. But he quickly gave up.

“It is best not to argue with people about Stalin. Nothing will change their minds,” he said, standing in his museum near a small statue of Shalamov, the writer whose accounts of life in the camps are routinely dismissed by Stalin’s fans as fiction.

Even some officials are appalled by reverence for a murderous dictator. Andrey Kolyadin, who as a Kremlin official was sent to the Far East to serve as deputy governor of the region that covers Kolyma, recalled being horrified when a local man erected a statue of Stalin on his property. Mr. Kolyadin ordered the police to get it taken down.

“Everything here is built on bones,” Mr. Kolyadin said.

The coastal city of Magadan, the start of the “road of bones,” commemorates past misery with a large concrete statue called the Mask of Sorrow, erected in the 1990s under President Boris N. Yeltsin. But local rights activists say that the authorities and many residents now mostly want to turn the page on Kolyma’s bleak past.

“Nobody really wants to recognize past sins,” said Sergei M. Raizman, the local representative of the rights group Memorial.

So tenacious is the grip of ever-present but often unspoken horror along the “road of bones” that many of those living in the settlements it spawned, outposts that are now shrinking rapidly and often crumbling into ruins, look back with fondness at what are remembered as better, or at least more secure, times.

About 125 miles out of Magadan, the road reached what would become the town of Atka in the early 1930s, a few years after geologists, engineers and then prisoners began arriving by sea at Magadan, the coastal headquarters of the Far North Construction Trust, an arm of the Soviet secret police and constructor of the Kolyma Highway.

“Our whole life is connected to this road,” Natalia Shevchuk, 66, said in her kitchen in Atka as her gravely ill husband, a former road engineer, lay coughing and groaning in the next room.

One of her four sons died in an accident on the road, and she worries constantly about her youngest son, who recently started work as a long-distance truck driver on the highway.

A side road off the main highway leads to Oymyakon, the coldest permanently inhabited settlement in the world. Known as the Pole of Cold, Oymyakon has an average January temperature of minus 58 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 50 degrees Celsius). The coldest recorded temperature there is minus 96 degrees Fahrenheit.

The weather is so forbidding that engine trouble or a flat tire can mean freezing to death, a fate that the authorities have tried to avoid by making it illegal for drivers to pass a stranded vehicle without asking whether its occupants need help.

With hundreds of miles separating the road’s few inhabited settlements, shipping containers fitted with heaters and communication equipment have now been placed in some of the most remote areas so that stricken motorists can warm up and call for help.

Although Atka never hosted a major labor camp, it thrived for years as a result of the gulag, serving as a transport hub and refueling stop for convoys of trucks carrying enslaved workers and supplies to the gold, tin and uranium mines, and to camps filled with the laborers used to repair roads and bridges washed away by avalanches and storms.

When the prison camps closed after Stalin’s death in 1953, Atka kept going, and growing, as forced labor gave way to volunteer workers lured to the area’s mines by the promise of salaries far higher than in the rest of the Soviet Union.

At its peak, the town had more than 5,000 residents, a large modern school, an auto-repair shop, a fuel depot, various stores and a big bakery. Today, it has just six residents, all of them pensioners.

The last school-age resident left with his mother last year. His grandmother stayed behind and runs the only store, a tiny room stacked with groceries on the ground floor of an otherwise empty concrete apartment block.

The natural forces that are wiping out physical traces of the gulag threaten to eliminate Atka, too. Its largely abandoned apartment buildings are rotting away as snow pours in through broken windows, cracked roofs and smashed doors.

Until this year, Atka’s only employer, aside from a truck stop cafe and gas station on the edge of town, was a heating plant. The plant shut down in late September after the district government, which has for years been pushing residents to move to more viable settlements, cut funding.

This left apartments without heat, forcing people to install their own devices to avoid freezing to death. Tap water has also been cut off, leaving residents dependent on deliveries of canisters filled from a well.

Ms. Shevchuk’s building has 30 apartments, but only three are occupied. She relies on a wood-burning stove that she installed in her bathroom to keep warm.

Valentina Zakora, who until recently was Atka’s mayor, said she had tried for years to persuade the few remaining residents to move away. As a relative newcomer — she came to Atka 25 years ago with her husband, a mechanic — she could not understand why people did not want to take up a government offer of money and free housing elsewhere.

“I cried every day for three years when I first saw this place,” she recalled. After raising a family there, she moved away this past spring to a well-maintained town closer to Magadan.

She would like to see Atka survive, but “it is already too late for places like this.”





No.2 article:
Politics, Science and the Remarkable Race for a Coronavirus Vaccine

WASHINGTON — The call was tense, the message discouraging. Moncef Slaoui, the head of the Trump administration’s effort to quickly produce a vaccine for the coronavirus, was on the phone at 6 p.m. on Aug. 25 to tell the upstart biotech firm Moderna that it had to slow the final stage of testing its vaccine in humans.

Moderna’s chief executive, Stéphane Bancel, a French biochemical engineer, recognized the implication. In the race to quell the pandemic, he said, “every day mattered.” Now his company, which had yet to bring a single product to market, faced a delay of up to three weeks. Pfizer, the global pharmaceutical giant that was busy testing a similar vaccine candidate and promising initial results by October, would take the obvious lead.

“It was the hardest decision I made this year,” Mr. Bancel said.

Moderna’s problem seemed fitting for late summer 2020, when the United States was reeling from not just a pandemic but unrest over racial injustice. Dr. Slaoui informed Mr. Bancel that Moderna had not recruited enough minority candidates into its vaccine trials. If it could not prove its vaccine worked well for Black and Hispanic Americans, who have been disproportionately affected by the pandemic, it would not make it over the finish line.

Both companies ultimately completed the crucial stages of their human trials this month and reported spectacular initial results, vaccines that appear to be about 95 percent effective against a virus that has killed 1.3 million people, a quarter million of them in the United States.

Few corporate competitions have unfolded with so much at stake and such a complex backdrop. At play were not just commercial rivalries and scientific challenges but an ambitious plan to put the federal government in the middle of the effort and, most vexingly, the often toxic political atmosphere created by President Trump. Betting that a vaccine would secure his re-election, he waged both public and private campaigns to speed the process.

Pfizer’s chief executive, Dr. Albert Bourla, had vowed to avoid the political minefield but was forced to maneuver through it nonetheless. After promising progress on a timetable that seemed to support Mr. Trump’s prediction of a breakthrough before Election Day, Dr. Bourla pushed back the schedule in late October, fearing his firm’s clinical trial results would otherwise not be convincing enough for federal regulators to grant emergency approval of its vaccine. News of Pfizer’s success was announced just after the election was called for Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Dr. Bourla had chosen from the start to keep Pfizer and its research partner, the German firm BioNTech, at arms length from the government, declining research and development money from the crash federal effort, called Operation Warp Speed.

Mr. Bancel, with a far smaller company, made the opposite bet, embracing the assistance of a government led by a science-denying president. Moderna got nearly $2.5 billion to develop, manufacture and sell its vaccine to the federal government and teamed up with the National Institutes of Health on the scientific work, a highly successful partnership that managed to sidestep the political meddling by Mr. Trump and his aides that had bedeviled other efforts to confront the virus.

Pfizer and Moderna alone would not meet domestic or global demand, but other companies in the United States and around the world are also rushing toward effective vaccines, some of them using more proven technologies, so other winners are likely to emerge.

Still, both companies, in their own very different ways, have pulled off a remarkable feat: developing a vaccine that appears safe and effective in a matter of months, rather than the years or decades that such developments usually take. They were aided by a confluence of three factors. A new method of developing vaccines was already waiting to be tested, with the coronavirus a perfect target. Sky-high infection rates accelerated the pace of clinical trials, the most time-consuming part of the process. And the government was willing to spend whatever it took, eliminating financial risks and bureaucratic roadblocks and allowing mass production to begin even before the trials were done.

Their apparent success showed that in an era of polarized politics, science was able to break down barriers between government, countries and industry to produce one of the few pieces of good news in a year of suffering and division.

Mr. Bancel was in Switzerland for a business conference in January when he heard of a deadly new viral outbreak in Wuhan, China. He immediately reached out to two N.I.H. vaccine experts with whom his company had been working for years to develop technology that could be used to design vaccines, a sort of plug-and-play system that would revolutionize how humanity confronts new pathogens.

If the systems worked, designing a vaccine would be done in days. The task remaining would include time-consuming trials to ensure the vaccine worked and was safe, a process that brooked no shortcuts.

Unlike older, slower ways of developing vaccines, which involve stimulating the body’s immune system by injecting inactivated or weakened viruses, Moderna and other companies created platforms that work like the operating system on a computer, allowing researchers to quickly insert new genetic code from a virus — like adding an app — and create a new vaccine.

The method employs a synthetic form of a genetic molecule called messenger RNA, or mRNA, to cause human cells to make a harmless viral protein called a spike, which then stimulates the immune system to make antibodies and immune cells that can recognize the spike quickly and counterattack when needed.

Earlier efforts to test new types of vaccines in outbreaks like SARS, MERS and Zika had fizzled when the threat from those viruses receded, before large clinical trials could be carried out. But the outbreak spreading in China had the hallmarks of a prolonged pandemic, a tragedy but also a perfect testing ground for the new biotechnology.

Mr. Bancel, 48, had what one former colleague described as a “warrior personality.” He had left a much bigger firm to become chief executive at Moderna in 2011, warning his wife that the firm’s mRNA bet had a 5 percent chance of success. But if that bet paid off, he told her, it would change the course of medicine.

In late 2019, he said, the Vaccine Research Center at N.I.H. agreed to stage a war game of sorts the following spring, a mock pandemic with a virus unknown to Moderna to see how quickly the company could come up with a vaccine.

Now, with an actual pandemic at hand, Mr. Bancel wanted to try out Moderna’s approach for real.

He described his team’s reaction as: “Here he goes again. He’s crazy.”

“Are you sure we should be doing this?” Dr. Stephen Hoge, the company’s president, asked him at a February executive committee meeting.

Moderna employed only 800 people, including a manufacturing team. Twenty vaccines and treatments were in development, but none were expected to come to market for at least two years. It had never run a Phase 3 clinical trial, the late-stage testing designed to determine whether a vaccine is safe and effective for humans.

Some Moderna executives suggested taking a stab at a vaccine for a few months, then reassessing. But Juan Andres, the company’s chief technical operations and quality officer, said he warned: “Sorry, guys, there is no exit on this highway. If we are in, we are in.”

N.I.H. got in with them. Dr. John R. Mascola, the head of the Vaccine Research Center, and Dr. Barney Graham, the center’s deputy director, proposed the partnership to Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

“Go for it,” Dr. Fauci said he told them. “Whatever it costs, don’t worry about it.”

Moderna’s goal was to get from a vaccine design to a human trial in three months. The design came quickly. “This is not a complicated virus,” Mr. Bancel said.

Dr. Graham said that after China released the genetic sequence of the new virus, the vaccine research center zeroed in on the gene for the virus’s spike protein and sent the data to Moderna in a Microsoft Word file. Moderna’s scientists had independently identified the same gene. Mr. Bancel said Moderna then plugged that data into its computers and came up with the design for an mRNA vaccine. The entire process took two days.

N.I.H. scientists were “really hot” on the mRNA approach, Dr. Fauci said. But it was not Moderna’s alone.

In Germany, husband-and-wife scientists Dr. Ugur Sahin and Dr. Özlem Türeci were on the same path. Their firm, BioNTech, had been working with Pfizer for several years to develop a new flu vaccine with the same mRNA technology that Moderna was using. Dr. Sahin said he asked a Pfizer executive on March 1 if the company wanted to chase a coronavirus vaccine.

Dr. Bourla, Pfizer’s top executive, conceded that when the virus first emerged, he “wasn’t under the impression at the time that this would become a major global issue that would require a major intervention from us.”

Born in Greece, a veterinarian by training, he had worked his way up over more than two decades from Pfizer’s animal health division to the chief executive’s office in 2019. Initially, the 59-year-old executive was mostly focused on protecting the company’s 90,000 employees in locations around the world.

But once he learned of the Germans’ proposal, he and his company moved quickly. Pfizer agreed to front BioNTech’s development costs and manage the clinical trials, manufacturing and distribution. BioNTech agreed to pay Pfizer back out of any profits, which would be split.

Some of Dr. Sahin’s colleagues cautioned him to wait for a formal contract before he gave Pfizer data about the vaccine. Dr. Sahin said he replied there was “no time to lose.” Pfizer dispatched its corporate jet to Germany to ferry samples of the BioNTech vaccine to the company’s research center in Pearl River, N.Y., to start testing it on animals.

“For Pfizer, this is as much public relations as it is a financial return — they very much want to be seen as part of the solution,” said Geoffrey Porges, an analyst for SVB Leerink, an investment bank in Boston.

“For Moderna,” he said, “this is actually a huge validation opportunity.”

As the economy shuddered to a halt last spring and deaths mounted in New York, Detroit and Chicago, administration officials proposed a coordinated effort to develop tests, treatments and vaccines for what was now clearly the gravest public health crisis in a century.

Operation Warp Speed was the brainchild of Dr. Peter Marks, the top vaccine regulator for the Food and Drug Administration. A collaboration between the Pentagon and the Department of Health and Human Services, it was devised to support pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with the full breadth of the government’s expertise from clinical trials to logistics. The goal for a vaccine was October, according to an early memo.

The president was especially enthusiastic about that aim. At a March 2 White House meeting, as Mr. Bancel and other pharmaceutical executives outlined their vaccine plans, Dr. Fauci cautioned that it would be a “year to a year and a half” before doses could reach the broader public.

Mr. Trump replied, “I like the sound of a couple of months better.”

Warp Speed had two leaders. In charge of science was Dr. Slaoui, who had led research and development at the drug maker GlaxoSmithKline for years and had served on Moderna’s board of directors. In charge of logistics was Gen. Gustave F. Perna, a four-star general who led the Army Matériel Command.

The operation, working out of a seventh-floor suite and a second-floor operations center at the Health and Human Services headquarters, had a military flavor. Its leaders discussed the book “Freedom’s Forge,” an account of how American industry armed the military in World War II, and imposed what they called a “battle rhythm” of meetings, including a daily 8 a.m. session on vaccines. Dozens of military officers reported to work in uniform.

The biggest decision, Dr. Slaoui said, was which vaccine candidates to back out of almost 50 possible contenders. His team decided on three types of vaccines, each to be pursued by two companies in case one firm failed. Federal officials referred to the finalists as “horses,” a nod to the race between them.

Moderna and Pfizer would pursue the mRNA vaccines, seen as the fastest to develop. The government was ready to foot much of the development bill, guide the clinical trials and even deliver supplies to factories.

Dr. Bourla was not interested. As one of the world’s top vaccine producers, Pfizer did not need federal help in developing a new product, he decided, and with nearly $52 billion in annual revenues, it did not need or want the subsidy.

“If we were unsuccessful, we would have to write off $2 billion” in vaccine development costs, Dr. Bourla said at The New York Times DealBook Online Summit this week. “This is painful for any corporation, but it was not going to break us.”

In an interview Friday, he said that he worried that government oversight would slow his firm’s work, not accelerate it. And he feared federal funding would come with strings attached.

“I didn’t feel that I wanted to end up getting into the political debate, which I’m not sure I was able to avoid by not taking money,” Dr. Bourla said. “But if I had taken money, it would have been much worse.”

Pfizer signed a $1.95 billion agreement in July to sell the federal government 100 million doses of its vaccine if it was successful, guaranteeing it a buyer, no small incentive. It also called on the Trump administration a few times to get access to manufacturing supplies. Otherwise it was on its own.

Moderna had no qualms about government help. “Guys, we don’t have a balance sheet like Pfizer,” Mr. Bancel said he told federal officials.

Nearly $2.5 billion in federal funds helped Moderna buy raw materials, expand its factory, and enlarge its work force by 50 percent. In return, it promised to deliver 100 million doses to the federal government.

It got expertise, too. Operation Warp Speed had created six teams of around 15 clinical trial specialists, epidemiologists and budget experts, each assigned to a different vaccine maker.

Senior leaders convened weekly check-ins with companies’ clinical trial heads, tracking recruitment of trial participants and covering whiteboards with potential distribution plans.

Moderna’s team was headed by a Defense Department official whom company executives described only as “the major,” saying they don’t know if his name is supposed to be a secret. One top Warp Speed official described an atmosphere of “utter terror” about a late fall and winter surge of infections. In one doomsday scenario officials envisioned, a Covid-19 factory outbreak could spoil three months of vaccine doses.

When Moderna discovered this summer that an air handling unit for its factory could not be delivered over a weekend because of Covid-19 limitations on interstate trucking, the major’s team stepped in. Warp Speed officials arranged a law enforcement escort to accompany the massive piece of equipment from the Midwest to its Massachusetts manufacturing plant.

The team again sprang into action when Moderna discovered that a specialized pump, needed to make the first batches of vaccine for the clinical trials, was marooned in a rail car and was not going to be delivered on time. Federal workers tracked down the train and rummaged through it until they found the pump.

“They put it on a plane, and it arrived on time,” Mr. Andres, the company’s operations chief, said.

The interventions, he said, were “absolutely instrumental.”

By early fall, political pressures that had been building all year burst into the open. Federal regulators were trying to issue guidelines to ensure enough follow-up of clinical trial participants to make sure the vaccines were safe, but White House officials were blocking them. The president was attacking F.D.A. officials as antagonists intent on thwarting his re-election.

Dr. Bourla had been dragged into the political thicket, in part because of his own promises that Pfizer expected clinical trial results by October. The president ballyhooed that deadline on the campaign trail, and tried to publicly link himself to Pfizer’s leader.

Dr. Sahin, of BioNTech and Pfizer’s partner, said Dr. Bourla was trying to manage “an uncomfortable situation.” But when the president went after the F.D.A., Dr. Bourla drew a line, deciding that public confidence in a vaccine was at stake. “We had statements against the F.D.A., the deep state, et cetera, that really were concerning for me,” he said. “We needed to speak up.”

He called Alex Gorsky, the chief executive of Johnson &amp; Johnson, another leading contender in the vaccine race, then recruited leaders from other companies. Together, they drafted a statement that said the industry would “stand with science” and follow F.D.A. guidelines. By Sept. 8, nine companies, including Moderna, had signed on.

At the same time, hitches in the design and execution of the clinical trials were emerging. Both Pfizer and Moderna were facing the problem of too few minority volunteers, but Pfizer had the deep pockets to solve it. The firm expanded its trial from 30,000 to 44,000, a decision that Dr. Eric Topol, a clinical trial expert with Scripps Research in La Jolla, Calif., estimated cost the firm hundreds of millions of dollars.

When Dr. Slaoui from Operation Warp Speed called Moderna’s chief executive to say Moderna had to recruit more minorities, it came as a body blow. Dr. Slaoui told a colleague afterward: “I just burned all our relationship” with Moderna.

Dr. Fauci met with Moderna’s trial investigators and enlisted N.I.H. experts to help the company reach more Black and Hispanic volunteers. While Moderna won plaudits for diversifying its pool, Pfizer, whose trial was already designed to reach a result quicker than Moderna’s, was now indisputably ahead.

But Pfizer faced its own crisis.

In a double-blind clinical trial, the gold standard for testing new medicines or vaccines, neither the company nor the participants know who receives vaccines and who gets placebos. Only an independent review board has access to that information.

The protocols for the trials lay out under what conditions the board can look at the results. Pfizer’s trial protocol was the most aggressive of all six vaccine candidates, allowing for a check of interim results once 32 participants developed Covid-19.

It was a lower benchmark than Moderna and the other companies had adopted and F.D.A. regulators warned Pfizer they were highly unlikely to issue an emergency use authorization for a coronavirus vaccine based on such a small data set. Outside experts criticized Pfizer for allowing itself to peek at the data too early and too often.

Pfizer decided it should drop that first benchmark and asked the F.D.A. to approve a new protocol on Oct. 29, effectively dashing Mr. Trump’s hopes of an announcement before Election Day.

The company also stopped processing test results from trial participants while it worked with the F.D.A. Protocol changes are discouraged once data is available, and Pfizer did not want to cross the benchmark before it got verbal approval to drop it. That approval came on Nov. 3, Election Day, or the day after.

The delay later enraged Mr. Trump, who claimed it was part of a conspiracy to damage his chance at re-election. Dr. Bourla said he turned a blind eye to the Election Day deadline.

“Before, people were saying it’s too soon,” he said. After the election, “people are saying, ‘Oh, it’s too late.’”

Once Pfizer resumed processing test swabs on Nov. 4, it quickly became apparent that the infection rate had skyrocketed, as it had nationwide and in other countries.

With 94 Covid-19 cases, the company asked the data monitoring board to reveal the results.

On Sunday morning, Nov. 8, Dr. Bourla headed to Pfizer’s office in Cos Cob, Conn., to hear the verdict with a few top aides. “I couldn’t sleep very much,” he said.

A Pfizer statistician, who was walled off from the rest of the company, was to deliver the news from the data monitoring board in a video conference.

“We had a very good result,” the man announced in the early afternoon. He said Pfizer should immediately ask the F.D.A. to grant it emergency use authorization — a step the firm took on Friday.

The room erupted in cheers. Executives hugged, ignoring social distancing rules.

Then everyone was ushered from the room except Dr. Bourla and Pfizer’s general counsel, Doug Lankler, so the two men could hear a breakdown of the data that showed the vaccine was more than 95 percent effective. Of 94 people who had gotten sick, they were told, 90 were in the placebo group and only four were in the vaccine group.

“Repeat it,” Dr. Bourla demanded. “Did you say 19 or 90?”

“We were shocked,” he said in the interview. “We couldn’t believe it.”

That evening, Pfizer officials informed a key F.D.A. official of its news, along with a short list of others. Biden’s team was alerted to the development that night. But in a sign of the suspicions that mark the Trump administration, the president’s top health officials did not learn of the news until the next morning, when it became public.

Mr. Trump’s anger about the timing has not abated. In a news conference on Friday, he suggested Pfizer and other drugmakers had taken revenge on him for pushing drug price controls.

“They were going to come out in October, but they decided to delay it because of what I’m doing,” he grumbled. “They waited and waited and waited.”

Moderna had to watch Pfizer cross the finish line first. But Pfizer’s results buoyed the company’s hopes.

On Sunday, expecting the results from Moderna’s trial, Mr. Bancel closeted himself in a home office in his Boston townhouse. “I’m going to be totally a wreck the whole day,” he told his wife.

Just after noon, a notice shot across Moderna’s secure chat system to join a virtual meeting. With about a dozen other members, Mr. Bancel listened to the flat, disembodied voice of a representative from the outside panel.

The results were remarkably like Pfizer’s: Out of 95 infections, 90 were in the placebo group and five in the vaccine group.

Then the outside panel broke down the cases by severity of illness, a critical measure of the vaccine’s potency. 

Eleven volunteers had developed severe illness, the voice said. Then came a pause that Mr. Bancel said “felt like forever,” before the final word: Every one of them had gotten the placebo.

He ducked out into the hallway to tell his wife. His 18-year old daughter raced down from the second floor. His 16-year-old flew up the basement stairs.

“The four of us were crying,” he said.





No.3 article:
Duty or Party? For Republicans, a Test of Whether to Enable Trump

In pushing his false claims to the limits and cowing Republicans into acquiescence or silence, President Trump has revealed the fragility of the electoral system — and shaken it.

For the next three weeks, the integrity of American democracy is in the hands of people like Norman D. Shinkle, a proud Michigander who has, until recently, served in relative obscurity on the state board that certifies vote results.

But now Mr. Shinkle faces a choice born from the national election turmoil created by President Trump, his preferred candidate, for whom he sang the national anthem at a campaign rally in Lansing last month.

Mr. Shinkle’s duty, as one of two Republicans on the four-member board, is to validate the will of Michigan voters and certify President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory ahead of the Electoral College vote on Dec. 14. Yet Mr. Shinkle is weighing whether to block certification at a board meeting scheduled for Monday, because of minor glitches that Mr. Trump and his allies have baselessly cast as evidence of widespread, election-invalidating fraud.

He said he had received hundreds of phone calls, emails and text messages from people for or against certifying. “You can’t make up your mind before you get all the facts,” he said.

That Mr. Shinkle is equivocating over a once-routine step in the process — despite all 83 state counties submitting certified results and Mr. Biden leading by 154,000 votes — shows the damage inflicted by Mr. Trump on the American voting process and the faith that people in both parties have historically shared in the outcome of elections.

But this is also a moment of truth for the Republican Party: The country is on a knife’s edge, with G.O.P. officials from state capitols to Congress choosing between the will of voters and the will of one man. In pushing his false claims to the limits, cowing Republicans into acquiescence or silence, and driving officials like Mr. Shinkle to nervous indecision, Mr. Trump has revealed the fragility of the electoral system — and shaken it.

At this point, the president’s impact is not so much about overturning the election — both parties agree he has no real chance of doing that — but infusing the democratic process with so much mistrust and confusion that it ceases to function as it should.

Under an unending barrage of fraud charges, voters might begin to question the legitimacy of elected officials from the rival party as a matter of course. And the G.O.P. risks being seen as standing for disenfranchisement and the undemocratic position that a high level of voting is somehow detrimental.

“What Trump is doing is creating a road map to destabilization and chaos in future years,” said Trevor Potter, a Republican who served as chairman of the Federal Election Commission in the 1990s. “What he’s saying, explicitly, is if a party doesn’t like the election result they have the right to change it by gaming the system.”

Indeed, on Saturday night, Mr. Trump made his most explicit call yet for state legislatures to intervene with the aim of reversing the result, once again relying on false claims of fraud. “Hopefully the Courts and/or Legislatures will have the COURAGE to do what has to be done to maintain the integrity of our Elections, and the United States of America itself,” he wrote on Twitter. 

Mr. Trump’s gambit, never realistic to begin with, appears to be growing more futile by the day: Georgia became the first contested state on Friday to certify its vote for Mr. Biden, and the president continues to draw losing rulings from judges who bluntly note his failure to present any evidence of significant fraud or irregularities. On Saturday, in perhaps the most stinging blow, a federal judge in Pennsylvania dismissed a lawsuit by the Trump campaign seeking to invalidate ballots, ending Mr. Trump’s last major effort to delay certification of the state’s results. 

Some fellow Republicans have started breaking with him, including Senator Mitt Romney, a Trump critic, who said the president was seeking to “subvert the will of the people,” and Senator Marco Rubio, who has acknowledged Mr. Biden is the president-elect.

On Friday, Republican lawmakers in Michigan also made clear, after meeting with Mr. Trump at the White House, that they would allow the normal certification process to play out without interfering, a potentially important signal ahead of the certification decision by the state elections board on Monday.

But on Saturday, the national and Michigan state party chairs issued a statement calling on the canvassing board to delay certification beyond its Monday deadline, to conduct an audit. 

If Mr. Shinkle and his fellow Republican on the state board, Aaron Van Langevelde, were to oppose certifying the results, the board would deadlock. 

Democrats and election lawyers say the courts would almost certainly force the board to complete the certification process, well in time for the Electoral College deadline next month. And  Gov. Gretchen Whitmer could replace the board members if they defy a court order. But they also agree a deadlocked vote would give Mr. Trump a new opportunity to cast doubt upon the legitimacy of the election system and Mr. Biden’s win, while also prolonging his own legally dubious and, so far, failing attempt to convince Republicans who control the Statehouse to send pro-Trump delegates to the Electoral College.

Mr. Biden’s advisers say they are confident he will be awarded Michigan’s 16 Electoral College votes. But they acknowledge that the resulting national spectacle of court fights and new charges of fraud could prove “very harmful to the democratic process,” as Mr. Biden’s senior adviser, Bob Bauer, put it on Friday.

Civil rights leaders are especially alarmed at Mr. Trump’s efforts, given that most of them have falsely portrayed cities with large Black populations, like Detroit and Philadelphia, as so corrupt that their votes shouldn’t count. The argument that Mr. Trump’s attempt is all for show and will not succeed has done little to allay their concern.

“How is it ‘show’ when you’re basically systematically delegitimizing Black voters by your rhetoric,” said Sherrilyn Ifill, president of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which filed suit against Mr. Trump in Michigan on Friday for trying to disenfranchise Black voters (it did so on behalf of the Michigan Welfare Rights Organization and three residents). “How can that be anything but incredibly dangerous,” she added.

Ms. Ifill marveled at the position of the Republican Party, which was the nation’s first true civil rights party from the time of slavery through the late 1950’s, but now, under Mr. Trump’s unchallenged leadership, is effectively taking a stance against voting in entire cities and states.

“Civil rights haven’t moved — one party has moved, and that move has not been toward an embrace of democracy, it’s been away from it,’’ she said.

If Mr. Trump has shown nothing else, it is that he has made the Republican Party — which initially sought to resist him — his own. Though a handful of prominent Republicans have rebuked his refusal to cede power, far more, across all levels of government, have either tacitly or explicitly embraced a new standard in presidential elections: No winner can be declared until the full Electoral College certification process is complete, no matter how clear the results after Election Day.

Senator John Cornyn of Texas has acknowledged that he hadn’t “seen anything that would change the outcome” but told reporters on Thursday that Mr. Biden “is not president-elect until the votes are certified.” Mr. Cornyn congratulated Mr. Trump as president-elect on the day the major news organizations projected him as the winner in 2016.

The president’s clout with his party  is reinforced by the widespread support he has from millions of Americans; almost 74 million voted for him this year. 

 Former Senator Jeff Flake, a staunch opponent of Mr. Trump, has urged Republicans to recognize Mr. Biden as president-elect. But he noted that Republicans worry about alienating Mr. Trump when they need his help for the upcoming Georgia runoffs, which will decide control of the Senate.

“If the Republicans abandon him, he may just abandon them,’’ he said. 

Mr. Trump’s baseless argument that this is still an election up for grabs was prevalent in interviews with Republicans across the country on Friday.

Ginger Howard, a Republican national committeewoman from Georgia, said she still believed there were other avenues for Mr. Trump to pursue, despite the state’s certification of Mr. Biden as the winner there.

“There’s still recourse for sure, we’ve got some other options,” she said Friday without elaborating.

Jason Thompson, who represents Georgia to the Republican National Committee, also echoed Mr. Trump’s unfounded skepticism.

“It’s not like I’m saying there’s no way he won,” he said. “All I’m saying is we’ll never know for sure.”

Some Republicans interviewed cited Mr. Trump’s legal challenges as grounds to believe the race was not over — even though judges have overwhelmingly rejected the president’s claims.

“There are questions regarding votes in several states, and until those matters have been fully litigated it would be premature for him to concede the election,” said Bruce Ash, a former Republican official in Arizona. Election officials across the country have said that there is no evidence of voter fraud or other irregularities that shaped the race’s outcome.

Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, a Republican, acknowledged in a statement to The Times that “I have not seen any proof of widespread election fraud in Philadelphia or anywhere else in Pennsylvania.”

Yet he affirmed Mr. Trump’s right “to pursue litigation,’’ and would only go so far as to say “all signs indicate” that Mr. Biden was “likely” the next president. (After the latest judicial loss for Mr. Trump on Saturday night, Mr. Toomey issued a statement congratulating Mr. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on their victory and urged Mr. Trump to “accept the outcome” for his own legacy and “to help unify our country.”)

Representative Seth Grove, a Republican in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, declined on Friday to say that Mr. Biden had won the state. “The president’s just exercising his legal rights,’’ he said. “At the end of the litigation, it’s going to be Biden or Trump.”

In Pennsylvania, Mr. Trump has less opportunity to try to block certification than he does in Michigan and Wisconsin, where he has requested recounts in two counties. After the state’s 67 counties certify their votes — the deadline is Monday — they go to Secretary of the Commonwealth Kathy Boockvar, a Democrat, who has sole power to certify state results.

In Michigan, the president’s opportunity is limited if not nonexistent. On Friday, the State Bureau of Elections submitted its formal report recommending that the canvassing board  affirm Mr. Biden’s win. Errors in some vote tabulations, which Mr. Trump has seized upon, were “attributable to human error,’&#x27; and “did not affect the actual tabulation of votes,” the elections bureau said.

That, said Christopher Thomas, an election adviser to the City of Detroit, means the canvassing board is obligated to affirm the vote. “The law doesn’t say you can decide or not — the law says if you get certified returns you go ahead and do what you’re supposed to do,” he said.

As Monday’s vote approaches, Mr. Shinkle, the Republican board member, finds himself in a tight spot. In contrast to past cases, he said, “I’ve got many more so-called conservatives saying bad things about me.” He said he had some unresolved concerns about the vote totals in Detroit, where there were discrepancies with roughly 350 votes out of more than 250,000 cast.

His wife, Mary Shinkle, provided an affidavit for Mr. Trump’s federal lawsuit to stop the certification of results in Wayne County, which the campaign dropped on Thursday. 

Mr. Shinkle said he is his own counsel, and that his primary goal is to be able to look in the mirror and feel good about his decisions. “I can’t let any other individual be involved in that decision,” he said. “I just have to do the best that I can based on what’s ethical and legal.”

Advertisement





No.4 article:
Trump Using Last Days to Lock In Policies and Make Biden’s Task More Difficult

At a wide range of departments and agencies, Mr. Trump’s political appointees are going to extraordinary lengths to try to prevent Mr. Biden from rolling back the president’s legacy.

WASHINGTON — Voters have decided that President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. should guide the country through the next four years. But on issues of war, the environment, criminal justice, trade, the economy and more, President Trump and top administration officials are doing what they can to make changing direction more difficult.

Mr. Trump has spent the last two weeks hunkered down in the White House, raging about a “stolen” election and refusing to accept the reality of his loss. But in other ways he is acting as if he knows he will be departing soon, and showing none of the deference that presidents traditionally give their successors in their final days in office.

During the past four years Mr. Trump has not spent much time thinking about policy, but he has shown a penchant for striking back at his adversaries. And with his encouragement, top officials are racing against the clock to withdraw troops from Afghanistan, secure oil drilling leases in Alaska, punish China, carry out executions and thwart any plans Mr. Biden might have to reestablish the Iran nuclear deal.

In some cases, like the executions and the oil leases, Mr. Trump’s government plans to act just days — or even hours — before Mr. Biden is inaugurated on Jan. 20.

At a wide range of departments and agencies, Mr. Trump’s political appointees are going to extraordinary lengths to try to prevent Mr. Biden from rolling back the president’s legacy. They are filling vacancies on scientific panels, pushing to complete rules that weaken environmental standards, nominating judges and rushing their confirmations through the Senate, and trying to eliminate health care regulations that have been in place for years.

In the latest instance, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin declined to extend key emergency lending programs that the Federal Reserve had been using to help keep credit flowing to businesses, state and local governments and other parts of the financial system. He also moved to claw back much of the money that supports them, hindering Mr. Biden’s ability to use the central bank’s vast powers to cushion the economic fallout from the virus.

Terry Sullivan, a professor of political science and the executive director of the White House Transition Project, a nonpartisan group which has studied presidential transitions for decades, said Mr. Trump was not behaving like past presidents who cared about how their final days in office shaped their legacy.

“They are upping tension in Iran, which could lead to a confrontation. The economy is tanking and they are not doing anything about unemployment benefits,” he said.

It is one final norm shattered by Mr. Trump — and a stark contrast to the last Republican president who handed over power to a Democrat.

Former president George W. Bush consciously left it to his successor, Barack Obama, to decide how to rescue the auto industry and whether to approve Afghan troop increases. And when Congress demanded negotiations over the bank bailouts, Mr. Bush stepped aside and let Mr. Obama cut a deal with lawmakers even before he was inaugurated.

Aides to Mr. Bush said the outgoing president wanted to leave Mr. Obama with a range of policy options as he began his presidency, a mind-set clearly reflected in a 2008 email about negotiations over the status of American forces in Iraq from Joshua Bolten, Mr. Bush’s chief of staff at the time, to John D. Podesta, who ran Mr. Obama’s transition, just a week after the election.

“We believe we have negotiated an agreement that provides President-Elect Obama the authorities and protections he needs to exercise the full prerogatives as commander in chief,” Mr. Bolten wrote to Mr. Podesta on November 11, 2008, in an email later made public by WikiLeaks. “We would like to offer, at your earliest convenience, a full briefing to you and your staff.”

That has not been Mr. Trump’s approach.

The president has continued to deny Mr. Biden briefings and access to agency officials — delays that the president-elect has said threatened to undermine the country’s response to the pandemic. And far from seeking to help Mr. Biden’s team, Mr. Trump has spent more than two weeks actively seeking to undermine the legitimacy of his victory.

Mr. Biden and his top aides have not publicly criticized the president’s policy actions at home or abroad, abiding by the tradition that there is only one president at a time. But the president-elect has vowed to move quickly to undo many of Mr. Trump’s domestic and foreign policies.

That will most likely start with a blitz of executive actions in his first days in office, as well as an aggressive legislative agenda during his first year.

Some of Mr. Trump’s advisers make no attempt to hide the fact that their actions are aimed at deliberately hamstringing Mr. Biden’s policy options even before he begins.

One administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of not being authorized to talk publicly, said that in the coming days there would be more announcements made related in particular to China, with whom Trump advisers believe that Mr. Biden would try to improve relations.

Judd Deere, a White House spokesman, defended the administration’s actions, saying the president was elected because voters were “tired of the same old, business-as-usual politicians who always pledged to change Washington but never did.” Mr. Trump, he said, had rolled back regulations and brought accountability to agencies and “remains focused on that important work.”

Some previous transitions have also been rancorous. Incoming Bush administration officials accused the exiting Clinton White House of minor mischief, last-minute pardons to friends and delays because of the disputed 2000 election.

Mr. Trump has long alleged that after his election, he faced a stealth effort to undermine his transition because of the investigations that were underway into his campaign’s possible connections to Russia. And there were documented instances of Obama officials making last-ditch efforts to put roadblocks in the way of what they expected would be Mr. Trump’s policy reversals on immigration and other issues.

Still, in his inauguration speech, Mr. Trump said Mr. Obama and his wife had been “magnificent” in carrying out an orderly transition and thanked them for their “gracious aid” throughout the period.

And rarely in modern times have a president and his allies been as deliberate in their desire to hobble the incoming administration as Mr. Trump has been toward Mr. Biden.

“It’s not consistent with anything we experienced,” said Denis McDonough, who served as Mr. Obama’s chief of staff and was part of Mr. Obama’s team during the transition from Mr. Bush’s administration. He said Mr. Trump’s actions in the final days of his administration were foreshadowed by his determination to sever agreements Mr. Obama had reached on climate change and Iran’s nuclear program — something presidents rarely do.

“It’s a breach of that norm,” Mr. McDonough said.

Some of Mr. Trump’s actions are all but permanent, like the nomination of judges with lifetime appointments or the naming of his supporters to government panels with terms that stretch beyond Mr. Biden’s likely time in office. Once done, there is little that the new president can do to reverse them.

But they are not the only nominees administration officials are trying to rush through.

Among the others are two nominees to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors who would serve until 2024 and 2030 respectively, a trio of possible members to the Federal Election Commission to serve six-year terms, as well as nominees to the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, who, if confirmed, would prevent Mr. Biden from installing majorities on those bodies until well into 2021.

Other actions may be possible to reverse, but are designed to exact a political price for doing so.

Since the election, Mr. Trump has ordered the withdrawal of thousands of troops from Afghanistan, where Mr. Trump aims to halve an already pared-down force of 4,500 by the time he leaves office, defying the advice of some top generals.

Mr. Biden’s vision for American troop deployments is not radically different: He has said that he supports only small numbers of combat forces, mainly tasked with fighting terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and the Islamic State. But Mr. Trump’s last-minute withdrawals could force Mr. Biden into an unwanted confrontation with Democrats in Congress if he decides he needs to return to the modest, pre-election status quo.

Analysts say that Mr. Trump’s withdrawal of troops also deprives the United States of any leverage in the ongoing peace process in Afghanistan between the Taliban and the Afghan government, potentially allowing the Taliban to make important military gains.

Trump officials are also working to impose new sanctions on Iran that may be difficult for Mr. Biden to reverse, out of a fear of opening himself up to charges that he is soft on one of the country’s most dangerous adversaries.

The sanctions could also undermine any move by Mr. Biden to return to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, a step that would require providing Iran with economic breathing room after years of Mr. Trump’s constrictions.

“I think you’re going to see a pretty rapid clip of new actions before January 20,” said Mark Dubowitz, the chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, who often consults with the Trump administration on Iran.

In an Oval Office meeting last week, Mr. Trump also asked his senior advisers what military options were available to him in response to Iran’s stockpiling of nuclear material, although he was dissuaded from pursuing the idea. Any military action would undermine attempts by Mr. Biden to reset American policy.

Similarly, Trump officials continue to take punitive actions against China that are likely to further strain the tense relationship with Beijing that Mr. Biden will inherit. Last week, Mr. Trump issued an executive order barring Americans from investing in Chinese companies with ties to China’s military. Administration officials say more steps are in the works.

Mr. Mnuchin’s shutdown of emergency lending programs this week could also have long-lasting implications for Mr. Biden as the new president struggles to contain the economic fallout of the pandemic. The pandemic-era programs are run by the Fed but use Treasury money to insure against losses.

Mr. Mnuchin defended his decision on Friday, insisting that he was following the intent of Congress in calling for the Fed to return unused money to the Treasury. But it will be Mr. Biden who will be left to deal with the consequences. And restoring the programs would require new negotiations with a Congress that is already deadlocked over Covid relief.

In the summer of 2008, officials in Mr. Bush’s White House sent a memo to agency officials warning them to wrap up new regulations — and not to try to rush new ones in right before the next president. Mr. Trump is doing the opposite.

The Environmental Protection Agency is rushing to try to complete work on a new rule that will change the way the federal government counts costs and benefits, an adjustment that could make it harder for Mr. Biden to expand certain air or water pollution regulations.

At Health and Human Services, the agency moved just after Election Day to adopt a rule that would automatically suspend thousands of agency regulations if they are not individually confirmed to be “still needed” and “having appropriate impacts.” The agency itself called the plan radical — realizing it would tie the hands of the next administration.

Brian Harrison, the agency’s chief of staff, called it “the boldest and most significant regulatory reform effort ever undertaken by H.H.S.”





No.5 article:
François Catroux, Decorator of Choice for Aristocrats, Dies at 83

Along with his wife, a muse of Yves Saint Laurent, he was at the center of Paris’s glittering 1970s-era social scene, where art, style and money collided.

François Catroux, a glamorous designer for the Rothschilds, Russian oligarchs, Greek and Arab princesses, fashion designers, media moguls and South American billionaires — what used to be known as the jet set — died on Nov. 8 in Paris. He was 83.

His death, in a hospital, was caused by a brain tumor, his wife, Betty Catroux, said.

Mr. Catroux was movie-star handsome with a perennial tan and a taste for expensive sports cars, the grandson of a noted French general and a Spanish heiress, and a high school friend of Yves Saint Laurent. Along with his wife, the lanky androgyne beauty who was Mr. Saint Laurent’s muse and playmate, he was at the center of Paris’s glittering 1970s-era social scene, a complicated fantasia at which art, fashion and money collided.

Algerian-born and self-taught, Mr. Catroux had a sophisticated eye, and his first design job, in 1967, when he was 30, was for Mila Schön, a stalwart of Italian fashion. She asked him to design her showroom in a Milanese palazzo.

He turned it into a white laminate spaceship, Stanley Kubrick by way of Eero Saarinen. It was “a futuristic, minimalistic theater in the round for fashion — exactly right for the times,” the interior designer and writer David Netto wrote in a 2016 monograph about Mr. Catroux, “delivered by an ingénue, and it caused a sensation in the design world.”

Eugenia Sheppard, the syndicated fashion and society columnist, wrote in 1970, “It looks like tomorrow, all space and no furniture.”

So did the apartment Mr. Catroux shared with Ms. Catroux on the Quai de Béthune, a neo-futuristic playground made from vinyl, leather, plexiglass and steel. It was photographed by Horst P. Horst for Vogue in 1970, with the couple dressed, rather terrifyingly, in matching Saint Laurent khaki and sprawled on a vinyl banquette.

“My apartment happened during the French revolutionary year of 1968,” Mr. Catroux told Mr. Netto, “when everyone was against everything — and without knowing it myself, I was against everything too. Against things, so for two years I thought only of volumes and levels, without any furniture … cushions instead of a sofa, a cube for a coffee table. … ”

“It was a boule de neige — it snowballed from there,” Mr. Catroux told James Reginato of Vanity Fair. “Voilà, my career started.”

François Philippe Frédéric Catroux was born on Dec. 5, 1936, in Mascara, in northern Algeria. His grandfather George Catroux was a French general and diplomat who joined Charles de Gaulle in the Free French movement during World War II and later served as a governor general of Algeria and minister for North Africa. Mr. Catroux’s father, André, managed the family’s properties in Mascara, which included a vineyard. His mother, Alphonsine Mallet, known as Sinette, was a homemaker.

Mr. Catroux described his family as “grand bourgeois”; their tastes, he said, ran to lots of fake Louis XVI furniture that had already irritated him by the time he was 5. François met Yves Saint Laurent at a Roman Catholic boarding school in Oran, Algeria, where Yves, a day student, was bullied by their classmates. When they met later in Paris, as Mr. Catroux told Mr. Netto, they never spoke of their days at school together.

After serving in the French Army, Mr. Catroux worked as a location scout for Elle magazine. In 1963, he spent six months in New York City, where he met the decorator Billy Baldwin, the composer Cole Porter (whom he did not like, though he approved of his Waldorf Towers apartment), the architect Philip Johnson (who invited him to spend weekends at his Glass House in New Canaan, Conn.), the socialite Babe Paley and other midcentury society figures.

A decade later, he would return to Manhattan to work on apartments in Olympic Tower on Fifth Avenue, then a brand-new glassy high-rise, for a Bolivian tin baron named Antenor Patiño and for Helene Rochas, the French couturier.

Back home in France, Mr. Catroux would design a lodge for Baroness Marie-Hélène de Rothschild, a friend, on the grounds of her chateau outside Paris, as well as portions of the family’s Hôtel Lambert, mixing the storied Rothschild collections — the Dutch master paintings, 17th-century tapestries and 18th-century furniture — with his own modernist tastes.

For a television room, he sliced up 17th-century Verdure tapestries and used them to upholster the floors and the room’s lozenge-shaped mod ’70s sectional sofas.

Mr. Catroux’s clients were generational. The children of billionaires who had grown up in his houses in Paris, Greece or South America tended to hire him when they had their own. Mr. Catroux was still working — on a hotel in Cartagena, Colombia, among other international projects — when he learned he had cancer a few years ago.

“He looked like this Riviera playboy,” said Madison Cox, the garden designer and widower of Pierre Bergé, Mr. Saint Laurent’s partner, in a phone interview, “but he was also extremely hard-working. He was able to project that kind of ease that comforted his clients. He had an innate sense of true luxury and well-made things, and he worked for people who strove for that, and he knew exactly how to produce it.”

For Diane von Furstenberg, a friend of five decades, and her husband, Barry Diller, he designed houses in Los Angeles and Connecticut, as well as their mega-yacht, Eos.

“He had that military side, so things were very precise and symmetrical; he liked things in pairs,” Ms. Von Furstenberg said in a phone interview. “But everything was very cozy, too — that very grand coziness, which was never pretentious, a luxury just for you, not to show off.”

In addition to his wife, Mr. Catroux is survived by their daughters, Maxime and Daphné, and two grandchildren.

Mr. Catroux met Ms. Catroux at a nightclub in Paris after she had the bartender send him a drink; she met Mr. Saint Laurent the same way, though in that case it was he who had sent her a drink. She often said that she was very clever in managing both men.

While Ms. Catroux and Mr. Saint Laurent careened in and out of trouble for decades — their shared benders and stints in rehab were renowned — Mr. Catroux was at work every day, bright and early.

“The truth is, it was a huge love affair,” Mr. Netto said. “She was this mysterious person who could not be captured, and he was perfect for her because he didn’t need that from her. I think he just adored her cat power. He was devoted to her, and she set the terms.”

Said Mr. Cox, “They were like Adam and Eve, the eternal couple.”

Mr. Catroux told Mr. Reginato of Vanity Fair in 2016: “I knew she was the one for me immediately. If I missed this one, there was nobody else. I couldn’t miss this one. We’ve been together for 50 years. No regrets. But she’s not something … normal. She’s a special case.”

Ms. Catroux would agree.

“I’m not interested in fashion, and I’m not interested in design, and I got the two geniuses on the subject,” she said in a phone interview. “I could live in an empty room as long as there was a bottle of wine and good music. But I know what’s beautiful. I was so lucky. It’s been a fairy-tale life.”





No.6 article:
England’s Greatest Novelist and Other Letters to the Editor

To the Editor:

Charles Dickens created the most original, entertaining and memorable characters in English literature, but he was not “England’s greatest novelist,” as Robert Gottlieb said in his review of A. N. Wilson’s “The Mystery of Charles Dickens” (Nov. 8).

His characters were not real, complex people. George Eliot’s novels are greater because, as noted by Fareed Zakaria’s By the Book interview in the same issue, she wrote with “insight into people’s inner lives.”

Malcolm Pittman Cambridge, Mass.

♦

To the Editor:

I respectfully disagree with Gottlieb’s assertion that Charles Dickens has emerged “ever more conclusively as England’s greatest novelist and literary figure.”

While this may be a matter of my own personal taste and subjective judgment, I was even more disappointed to see that he made no mention of George Eliot (pen name of Mary Ann Evans), the extraordinary 19th-century novelist who certainly ranks with Dickens, Hardy, Meredith et al.

Eliot wrote the seminal psychological novel “Middlemarch,” a matchless magnum opus Virginia Woolf famously considered “one of the few English novels written for grown-up people.”

It strikes me as sadly ironic that in the Book Review’s lead, lavish review — published the day after Kamala Harris was elected vice president of the United States — this barrier-breaking woman novelist was not so much as cited. I was, however, gratified to see in Fareed Zakaria’s By the Book interview that he would have invited Eliot to his imaginary literary dinner party because of “her insight into people’s inner lives.”

Sarah Chace Williamsburg, Va.

♦

To the Editor:

The only thing missing from Robert Gottlieb’s superb review of “The Mysteries of Charles Dickens” is a reference to the third (and similar) English literary genius, Geoffrey Chaucer.

Paul Dolan New York

♦

To the Editor:

How gratified I am by Robert Gottlieb’s election week endorsement of Charles Dickens’s works, albeit in his less than enthusiastic review of A. N. Wilson’s book. I am just completing my seventh Dickens novel in a row, the surprisingly perfect antidote to these last months of political vitriol.

In a tactile enhancement of my reading, I met Dickens in the 100-year-old books of the New Century Library edition published by Thomas Nelson and Sons. The wine-colored leather novels, about 4 by 6 inches each, belonged to my wife’s four maiden aunts who exchanged them as Christmas and birthday presents starting in 1920. They sat on our shelf more decor than library for decades — an irony itself given that the books’ spines, of course, were worn to a dull mud color.

A real pleasure of these books was the struggle to turn their onionskin pages, with even the 900-page “Bleak House” coming in at less than an inch thick. The pause between each page as I fumbled a corner created a reflective moment, savoring and anticipating the stories.

All the strengths of Dickens’s fiction that Gottlieb notes I now appreciate much more than when I taught “A Tale of Two Cities” and “Hard Times” to high school students.

Lee J. WoolmanMinneapolis

Your Tired, Your PoorTo the Editor:

Reading Adina Hoffman’s review of “The Last Million: Europe’s Displaced Persons From World War to Cold War,” by David Nasaw (Nov. 8), brings back memories of seeing Gian Carlo Menotti’s opera “The Consul.”

I vividly remember the scene in which Magda Sorel sings, “To this we’ve come: that men withhold the world from men. No ship nor shore for him who drowns at sea. No home nor grave for him who dies on land. To this we’ve come.”

History repeats itself.

Ernest G. D’Amato Maplewood, N.J.

Advertisement





No.7 article:
Dear Jets: There’s Hope to Be Found in a Winless Season. Take It From Someone Who Knows.

For one thing, you are leading the race for the top draft pick. But seriously, even finishing at 0-16 can yield valuable resilience. So says Hue Jackson, who coached the winless 2017 Cleveland Browns.

Only two N.F.L. teams in history have gone 0-16 since the regular season expanded to 16 games in 1978: the Detroit Lions in 2008 and the Cleveland Browns in 2017.

It appears the 2020 Jets (0-10) are making a run at joining them.

Yet here are some reassurances that fans should keep in mind: No team gives up, even in the face of injuries, smack talk or other adversity on and off the field. And no coach guides a team toward losing in order to gain a top draft spot, though some people have suggested that is the case with the Jets’ Adam Gase.

At least that is the view from someone who has been there, Hue Jackson, who was the head coach of the Browns during their 0-16 season. 

“That was the best coaching job I’ve ever done,” he insisted in a telephone interview on Thursday.

Jackson had to keep his team focused, ready and excited every week throughout a season with little hope of a win. That year, the Browns were the youngest team in the league.

“We could see that we needed to go get better talent to provide a winning opportunity for our players,” said Jackson, who was fired in October 2018 with a record of 3-36-1 over his two and half seasons with the Browns. “But we kept going by the grace of God, and belief in our players and selves as coaches.”

The Jets, after shedding some older players, are relying heavily on rookies, and Gase has said that the team is aiming to train younger players for the coming years.

After going 23-25 in three years in Miami, Gase is 7-19 with the Jets and he might not be around for long if things don’t improve.

Mathematically, the Jets have no way of getting to the playoffs. But there is a good chance they will acquire Clemson’s dynamic quarterback, Trevor Lawrence, with the No. 1 pick next spring, assuming he enters the 2021 N.F.L. draft and the Jets continue being worse than the Jacksonville Jaguars, who are 1-9 after Sunday’s loss to Pittsburgh.

Gase and his players have insisted they are not tanking. “Nobody’s talked about that,” Gase said in a call with reporters on Wednesday.

On Sunday against the Los Angeles Chargers, Joe Flacco made his fourth start at quarterback for the Jets while Sam Darnold continues to recover from a shoulder injury, and he performed well in the second half, but ultimately the Jets lost, 34-28. The timeline for Darnold’s return is blurred; many fans and Twitter users have wondered if Darnold, in his third year out of Southern California, will be out of a job after the 2021 draft.

“I have social media, I’ve seen some of the things,” Darnold told reporters last month. 

Giving up on Darnold, though, would mean the Jets had already failed to convert a highly drafted quarterback into an N.F.L. success. He was the No. 3 pick in 2018, the same year that the Browns used the No. 1 spot — the fruit of their 0-16 season — to take quarterback Baker Mayfield, who is often credited with helping to move the franchise toward respectability. In his N.F.L. debut, in Week 3 of the 2018 season, Mayfield helped the Browns end their winless streak by defeating against the Jets. Cleveland went 7-8-1 in his rookie year and 6-10 last year.

After a win over the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday, the Browns are 7-3, good for second place in the A.F.C. North, and vying for a playoff spot.

Throughout his time with the Browns, Jackson reminded players that nothing was over until the final whistle of the last game. Which, to some extent, could not come fast enough.

“People are not built to lose, especially when you’re a leader,” he said. “In order to continue to be your best, you have to keep those down feelings away from the players, your family, the office and even yourself.”

Boosting morale can be difficult in the face of steady losses and shaming by fans. In an “All Things Covered” podcast episode last week, Jamal Adams — a First-Team All-Pro safety last year — said that frequent losing had left him depressed for much of his three seasons with the Jets. After a 7-9 record last season and disagreements between Adams and the front office, he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks this summer.

Many of the current Jets have said they are hopeful about ending their losing streak.

“We just want to go out there and win, we don’t care about the draft,” offensive tackle Mekhi Becton said in a conference call with reporters on Wednesday.

“Football is a game of love, so I can’t ever be that depressed,” linebacker Jordan Jenkins said on Thursday.

Jackson said the road through a difficult season can lead in several directions. Since 2017, he has built a foundation that aims to fight human trafficking, helped manage a tequila company and created an organization in Cleveland called Strangers 2 Changers, which helps bring together people from different backgrounds for community projects.

Jackson said he still hoped to take his expertise back to football, adding that he often summons memories of the scent of grass from the field.

Gregg Williams, the Jets’ defensive coordinator, was by Jackson’s side as the Browns’ defensive coordinator from January 2017 until he was appointed interim head coach in October 2018. 

Gase brought Williams on in January 2019, and he coached the Jets’ defense to seventh place over all in the N.F.L. last season, despite a 7-9 record. This season, the defense was ranked 28th in the league and the offense was at the bottom entering Week 11.

“One of the reasons I’ve been able to coach in the league for this long is because I’ve been a mentor: a life coach and a football coach,” Williams said in a call with reporters on Friday. “And I like that challenge, having to start over with young people in that way.”

When you’re a Jet, looking for the bright side seems a prerequisite. And on Friday Williams was no exception, saying: “We had one of best practices since I’ve been here in two years today.”





No.8 article:
House Hunting in Turkey: A Spruced-Up Olive-Oil Factory for $1.8 Million

In the Aegean coastal area of Bodrum, buyers are arriving from cities near and far, propelled by the pandemic and the struggling Turkish lira.

This restored, 19th-century olive-oil factory is in a rural section of Milas, an ancient city in Mugla Province, on the southwestern coast of Turkey. Rescued from disrepair by its current owners in 2015, it’s now a residential compound on 2.5 acres of active gardens and farmland. Its sleek interiors contrast with original stone walls and rough-hewn timber.

A hulking, 100-year-old mechanical olive press, restored by the owners with parts sourced from its original British manufacturer, anchors an airy, modern great room. “These old factories are mostly broken down and in disuse, so this is definitely an unusual property,” said Heike Tanbay, managing director of Engel &amp; Völkers Bodrum and the listing agent. “This is a very rural area, so it’s a real surprise when you come in.”

Built in 1850, the eight-bedroom, 10-bathroom residence sprawls across 8,255 square feet, including an attached two-bedroom guesthouse. Original stone walls surround the property and demarcate the grounds. The stone-inlaid driveway leads to the home’s covered front patio and main entrance. Inside, the original olive-oil production room has been transformed into a high-ceilinged great room with concrete slab floors. A 750-square-foot commercial kitchen, equipped to serve as many as 150 guests, connects to the great room.

The roof, floors and mechanicals have been replaced throughout the home. “Whatever they changed, they chose good quality,” Ms. Tanbay said. Sirio Pellegrini, one of two business partners who restored the property and live there now, said the restoration cost more than $600,000. “We kept everything as original as possible, including the walls and old woods,” he said. “But the infrastructure of the house is new,” including a generator that carries the home through the region’s occasional power outages.

The home’s warren of living spaces extends in an “L” shape from two sides of the great room, ensuring privacy even when guests fill the home, Ms. Tanbay said. Two small rooms behind the great room function as private living rooms. A gallery has a library and reading lounge, and another room is equipped as a recording studio; Bulent Tercanli, an artist and producer known as DJ Tutan, is Mr. Pellegrini’s business partner and co-resident. The owners have separate bedrooms, with en suite bathrooms and kitchenettes, on opposite sides of the property. “There are eight bedrooms listed, but you could make 13 in total if you convert these additional rooms,” Ms. Tanbay said.

Toward the rear of the property, a large room with a fireplace has been converted to an office, with built-in bookshelves and original wood ceilings reinforced with steel beams. The office opens to a large wood deck and swimming pool. The owners also built an enclosed sunroom that overlooks the pool, with a retractable ceiling and sliding glass doors.

Two guests suites, one with a kitchenette, have a separate entrance at the front of the property, “almost like a little hotel,” Ms. Tanbay said.

The grounds produce summer vegetables, herbs such as rosemary and thyme, and pine nuts, which the owners package and sell. Mr. Pellegrini also wholesales bottled olive oil and tomato sauce produced on site. “We’re calling this ‘sustainable living,’ which has become very appealing for people from cities during the pandemic,” Ms. Tanbay said. “It’s suitable to run as a professional organic farm, alternative business space, or a holiday home.”

The ancient city of Milas “is a very prominent summer holiday destination,” Ms. Tanbay said, though this home is in a quieter area. The Aegean coast city of Iassos, with 4,000-year-old historic sites in its ancient quarter, is a 30-minute drive, and Milas-Bodrum Airport is about 20 minutes. The Aegean port city of Bodrum, with about 30,000 residents, is 30 miles southwest.

While there is no centralized database for real estate transactions in Turkey, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey’s Residential Property Price Index reported impressive growth in September 2020, with a monthly increase of 1.6 percent and a year-over-year gain of 27.3 percent. In the region that includes Mugla province, prices increased 36.3 percent year over year, making it one of Turkey’s better performers.

But the higher prices belie some depreciation tied to the poor performance of the Turkish lira, the world’s worst-performing currency in 2020. “After a huge boom that lasted until about 2013, the real estate market has been in decline for five or six years, and transactions are down dramatically in the last two years,” said Ali Onuk, managing partner of Aon Invest, a real estate advisory company in Istanbul. At the same time, the sagging lira has made real estate “more affordable for foreign buyers, and there’s greater demand in the A+, $3 million and up segment.”

Prices vary wildly across Turkey depending on the type and location of property, said Neli Devidas, a Realtor with Keller Williams Platin in Istanbul. Homes and apartments can range from about $140 a square foot in central Istanbul to more than $750 a square foot for units in high-end branded developments, which are popular in Turkey, she said. In the popular coastal resort city of Bodrum, branded residences range from about $370 to $560 a square foot, with homes in surrounding areas starting around $185 a square foot.

Bodrum has long been the costliest property market on Turkey’s coast, and “prices in these areas are still rising because of Covid-19,” Ms. Devidas added. “Turks want to move out of cities into homes or mansions with stand-alone gardens. That’s the trend right now.”

The migration has helped jump-start other segments of the market. “For three years, we had difficulty selling a development of luxury townhouses and villas about 20 minutes outside Istanbul,” Ms. Devidas said. “Now, because of Covid, they’ve sold quickly, and prices have already gone up more than 10 percent.”

Bodrum in particular has seen “much bigger sales numbers this year, very strongly from Turkish buyers,” Ms. Tanbay said. “Bodrum has benefited from this terrible crisis. There’s a big surplus of buyers and visitors.”

As of Nov. 17, Turkey had reported 417,594 cases of Covid-19 and 11,601 deaths, according to the New York Times’s Coronavirus world map.

The Turkish government has made several moves to entice outside buyers, said Mr. Onuk of Aon Invest, calling real estate “one of the key sectors in Turkey as part of the macroeconomic condition, especially in recent years.” The most significant move came in 2018, when the government lowered the purchase-price threshold for foreign buyers to gain Turkish citizenship, from $1 million to $250,000.

The campaign has been a success, though the pandemic has curbed residential sales to foreigners, according to an October report from the Turkish Statistical Institute (TurkStat). Only Iranians, the largest foreign market for Turkish property, increased in number, along with Chinese buyers, who are relatively new to the market.

North Americans make up a “negligible” segment of the market, Mr. Onuk said: “They might buy not for citizenship, but for true value, investment and utilization of a vacation home.”

Istanbul, Turkey’s largest city, remained the most popular city for foreign buyers, followed by the resort town of Anatolia, and Ankara, the Turkish capital, according to TurkStat.

For U.S. citizens, there are few restrictions to buying property in Turkey, according to Melih Sisa, partner attorney at the Saban Law Office in Istanbul. They include prohibitions on purchasing property near “strategic places involving national security,” or land exceeding about 75 acres, Mr. Sisa said. While cash transactions prevail, foreign buyers can obtain mortgages from Turkish banks, with no added requirements for down payments.

Most transactions in Turkey take place without a lawyer or notary. A buyer and seller may simply sign a purchase agreement, which is validated by a local title-deed registry office. “It’s a continuation of an interesting Ottoman system,” Mr. Sisa said. Still, he recommended that foreign buyers work with a lawyer who can perform due diligence on a property.

Foreign buyers must also obtain a report from a property-evaluation company attesting to a home’s true value.

Turkish; Turkish lira (1 lira = $0.13)

Broker commissions total around 4 percent; buyers and sellers each pay 2 percent of the total transaction value, Ms. Tanbay said. Likewise, Mr. Onuk said, buyers and sellers both pay a 2 percent stamp-duty tax based on the value of the transaction.

Annual property taxes on this home are about $500. “Since it’s a rural area, taxes are low,” Ms. Tanbay said.

Heike Tanbay, Engel &amp; Völkers Bodrum, 011-90-532-243-73-47, evbodrum.com





No.9 article:
How One Airline’s Pandemic Hurt Becomes Everyone’s Pain

After more than a decade working at Manchester Airport in the northwest of England, Tracey Moore finally got the job she wanted — at Virgin Atlantic’s passenger check-in desk. Then, at 3:30 p.m. on Oct. 22, after about a year on the job and months on furlough, she returned to the airport and handed in her uniform.

She had taken a buyout and left her dream job.

“I’ve fought hard to get onto Virgin and that’s why I think I’m more upset,” Ms. Moore said. Devastated by how the pandemic had hollowed out the air travel industry, Ms. Moore took the buyout because she figured her hours and her pay would be cut, if she wasn’t one of the people eventually laid off.

“I don’t think I had a real choice,” she said, adding, “I loved being in the uniform.”

But she didn’t work for Virgin Atlantic. She was one of the thousands of people let go at Swissport, an international company that provides ground handling services for airlines, including passenger check-in and loading and unloading baggage.

From check-in through takeoff and landing, travelers with Virgin Atlantic end up interacting with hundreds of other companies the airline has hired to provide the services and goods that make up a smooth flying experience. It is the same with most big airlines. Virgin doesn’t cook the in-flight food, or print the menus, or build the business-class seats, or de-ice the wings, or unload the baggage at the airport, or return your luggage when it gets lost; it hires companies to do these and many more tasks.

But eight months after governments closed their borders and imposed travel restrictions to stop the spread of the coronavirus, lockdown restrictions have only partially eased and a second wave of the pandemic has besieged Europe, stamping out tourism.

Virgin Atlantic, which relies heavily on long-haul routes and trans-Atlantic travel, has had almost no opportunity to recover. The airline has laid off 4,700 employees, nearly half of its staff.

The companies contracted by Virgin, with names like Gogo (a provider of in-flight internet), ESP Colour (printing services) and Eagles Couriers, have also been  knocked down by the pandemic’s crushing blow on air travel, in some cases cutting staff and closing facilities.

Information about these companies rarely comes to light. But this summer, when Virgin feared it would run out of cash in the fall, it worked out an intricate $1.6 billion private rescue deal. It included about $226 million from a hedge fund; capital raised in share sales from Virgin Galactic, Richard Branson’s space venture; and agreements to defer debt payments.

As part of the plan, 162 companies around the world to whom Virgin owed about $69 million were essentially offered a choice: Get paid 20 percent less, with the balance paid in installments until September 2022, according to court documents, or risk Virgin Atlantic falling into bankruptcy, and perhaps getting little back. Most voted for the offer on the table, and so it applied to all of them. 

The organizations, which include a charity, large hotel chains and consultancy firms, provides a map of the domino effect that economists have feared since the start of the pandemic: That the companies hurt most directly — aviation, hotels and restaurants — would kick start a wave of devastation that could extend widely into the economy.

Virgin Atlantic declined to comment, and referred to earlier statements. In September, when the refinancing deal was announced, the chief executive, Shai Weiss, called it a “major step forward in our fight for survival.”

“We greatly appreciate the support of our shareholders, creditors and new private investors,” he said in a statement at the time. “Together, we will ensure that the airline continues to provide vital connectivity and competition.”

These companies didn’t attribute their financial problems to Virgin Atlantic but rather the cumulative pain of the dramatic drop in air travel.

One of the companies is Swissport Ireland, part of an international group that serves airlines at 300 airports.

“Around 95 percent of our revenue disappeared in two weeks,” said Luzius Wirth, the executive vice president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa for Swissport International. The company had to stop spending quickly and furloughed as many staff members as possible, he said.

Swissport’s British operation was able to keep its staff employed through the country’s furlough program, which helped pay up to 80 percent of wages at companies hit by the pandemic. But that government subsidy was set to expire on Oct. 31, prompting Swissport to offer layoff packages. About 950 workers accepted them, including Tracey Moore. (In November, the government extended the furlough through March.)

“The problem is, we all know that the business will take years to recover; this is not going to be over in 12 months,” Mr. Wirth said. Swissport’s income is a direct reflection of the amount of air travel. Airlines don’t agree to any minimum level of spending with the company. The flexibility that the company offered to airlines suddenly became a curse — as flights vanished from schedules, so did Swissport’s income. Until demand for flights resumes, Swissport will be a much smaller company, Mr. Wirth said. It has already laid off about 3,250 employees in Britain, 40 percent of its work force.

Swissport’s competitors have also been forced to drastically reduce staff, including some workers who have spent decades behind the scenes at airports. 

Leonardo Aquaro is one of the casualties. In 2003, at age 23, he started working in London’s Heathrow Airport at an airline check-in and ticket desk. Most recently Mr. Aquaro was an operations controller for Menzies Aviation, managing the dispatchers of flights who get planes turned around quickly at the airport. In March, he was furloughed, then in September, laid off. He doesn’t think he’ll ever return to the industry.

“There isn’t much out there at the moment, even if you have a lot of experience,” he said. And he says the industry has changed: Demands to cut costs have stretched staff and worsened contracts. Instead, he’s studying marketing and web design online and spending more time with his son, 7, and infant daughter.

Four year ago, Eagle Couriers, a corporate delivery service based in Scotland, decided to diversify into the business of returning lost luggage to passengers, known as baggage repatriation. It acquired THS Couriers, a creditor of Virgin Atlantic.

Eagle Couriers was slowly but surely integrating THS into its business before the pandemic, said Richard Beaton, the commercial director. Eagle Couriers is essentially paid for every bag it handles. With so few passengers, there are fewer opportunities for bags to get lost and for Eagle Couriers to step in. Over the summer, they were moving about 10 percent of the bags they would normally transport. As Britain’s furlough program was scheduled to end, the company laid off half of its baggage repatriation team.

“There’s no way we are getting back to previous volumes,” Mr. Beaton said. “If ever.”

For Safran Seats GB, a company based in Wales that designs and makes business and first-class seats for Virgin and other carriers as well as for Boeing and Airbus, the impact of the pandemic came in waves. In March, it was the airlines asking to defer plans to retrofit their cabins. Six weeks later, it was the aircraft manufacturers deferring plans for new aircraft.

The workers manufacturing the seats have been the most severely affected, said Victoria Foy, the chief executive. “The airlines who are clearly struggling for cash have said they cannot continue right now with those programs,” she added. By the end of the year, she expects the company to have about 900 employees, 700 fewer than at the start of 2020, and one of its facilities, in Camberley, southwest of London, has already been shut.

For the staff who design and develop new seats, the picture is less bleak. It takes several years to deliver a new design, and so Safran Seats can afford to wait out the pandemic in this area.

“We believe — firmly believe — that it will come back,” Ms. Foy said of air travel. “It’s a question of when, not if.” In the meantime, Safran is working with other companies to design airline interiors for a pandemic, with bigger partitions between passengers and hands-free reclining.

And then there are the organizations that Virgin Atlantic financially supports. In January, the airline signed a three-year deal to be the headline sponsor of Manchester Pride, an L.G.B.T.Q.+ charity that hosts an annual street festival to raise money for activities promoting greater inclusivity and empowerment.

As part of Virgin’s restructuring plan, Manchester Pride has accepted a reduced contribution from the airline  on top of the revenue lost from having to move the festival online. This year’s revenue is likely to be less than a million pounds; typically, the charity takes in a little under £4 million, the charity’s chief executive, Mark Fletcher, said. A planned expansion of the team to 20 people has been put in reverse, and after several layoffs it now has a staff of 10.

Once its restructuring plan was worked out, Virgin Atlantic agreed to remain the festival’s sponsor for the next two years. 

Manchester Pride’s previous headline sponsor was Thomas Cook, the British airline and package holiday operator, which collapsed last year and left 150,000 customers stranded abroad. “When I saw what happened with Thomas Cook airlines, I did take a closer look at the airline industry,” Mr. Fletcher said.

He said the charity did its due diligence and had worked with other successful airlines before, including British Airways and easyJet. Virgin Atlantic had been expanding in Manchester, and wanted to do something big.

“They were keen to be recognized as a key player in the region,” Mr. Fletcher said. For Manchester Pride, the promise of a minimum three-year commitment allowed organizers to consider growing the charity. “For us, this was incredible that Virgin was willing to bite the bullet and go big from the offset,” he said.

Of course, the charity’s due diligence did not foresee a pandemic. Few people did.

For Ms. Moore, who has lost a job she loved, her last day at Swissport came on Oct. 31. She would travel an hour and a half from a village in the Peak District National Park to reach Manchester Airport each day.

“There’s nothing quite like the feeling of an ungodly hour in the morning, you’re walking airside, you’re laughing with your friend and it’s dark and the sun is coming up and the lights are on in the planes on the tarmac,” she said. “You can’t explain it, if you’ve not felt it.”

At 59, Ms. Moore has just started a new job as an aide in a nursing home.





No.10 article:
Settle In for the Season With These Films

As the cold weather descends, warm your heart with a sports movie or get your blood pumping with suspenseful thrillers.

We’ve reached that time of year when the small screen is filled with Christmas movies, populated by happy folks in coats and scarves, frolicking in the snow. This will not be a list of those kinds of films. This collection is more for all of you who love the chilly weather, but who can’t stand “Jingle Bell Rock.”

Below, you’ll find winter sports stories, icy outdoor adventures and intense dramas set in places so cold that the characters have no choice but to shelter inside — however uneasily. Consider this list counter-programming for the holiday season, for when you’re eager to stream something completely Santa-free.

Rent or buy it on Amazon Prime, Apple TV, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube.

This adaptation of Rick Moody’s novel is set over Thanksgiving weekend in 1973, but it is in no way a “holiday movie.” The director Ang Lee and the screenwriter James Schamus — and a cast that includes Kevin Kline, Joan Allen, Tobey Maguire and Christina Ricci — concentrate on the subtle feelings of betrayal, arousal, loneliness and nostalgia, experienced by an upscale suburban Connecticut family and their neighbors, at a time when kids and adults alike seemed to be experimenting with recreational drugs and libertine sex. As these characters stumble through this new world, a literal ice storm transforms their surroundings, making every move more treacherous.

[Read the New York Times review.]

Stream it on Amazon Prime, Peacock, Tubi or Vudu; rent or buy it on Google Play or YouTube.

Something about the cold and snowy weather seems to lend itself to stories about trains, ones that snake their way through a forbidding wilderness. (See also: “Snowpiercer.”) In “Transsiberian,” two couples with troubled pasts meet on a train, speeding from China to Russia. The cramped spaces and the inhospitable outdoors create problems for these travelers, as they find it increasingly difficult to keep secrets from each other — or from the shady characters who are on their tail. The director Brad Anderson makes great use of some real Baltic locations, staging white-knuckle action sequences in places that look like the edge of the world.

[Read the New York Times review.]

Rent or buy it on Amazon Prime, Apple TV, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube.

Frigid winter landscapes also factor into the plot of “A Simple Plan,” a script adaptation by Scott B. Smith of his taut thriller novel and directed by Sam Raimi. Billy Bob Thornton and Bill Paxton play brothers who find a downed airplane and a sack of money in the Minnesota woods. Their previously placid lives are then violently disrupted as they try to figure out how to hold onto the cash. They quickly discover how hard it is to stay cool — so to speak — in a snow-covered small town, where each step leaves a mark, leading back to their door.

[Read the New York Times review.]

Stream it on Netflix; rent or buy it on Amazon Prime, Apple TV, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube.

Most of this leisurely western takes place indoors, at a remote Wyoming trading post, where an eclectic assemblage of outlaws and lawmen — many of them veterans of the Civil War — wait out a blizzard and stew over old beefs. An all-star cast (including Samuel L. Jackson, Bruce Dern, Tim Roth, Kurt Russell and an Oscar-nominated Jennifer Jason Leigh) makes the most of the writer-director Quentin Tarantino’s flavorfully vulgar dialogue, treating the material almost like a stage play. But Tarantino never lets the audience forget how harsh the conditions are outside, where the bitterly cold winds of a still-divided nation seep through the cracks in the walls.

[Read the New York Times review.]

Stream it on Disney+ or Netflix; rent or buy it on Amazon Prime, Apple TV, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube.

In the winter of 1980, millions of Americans cheered the U.S. Olympic hockey team as they skated to an improbable gold medal. “Miracle” dramatizes this inspiring victory, with Kurt Russell playing the coach, Herb Brooks, a thoughtful leader who convinced his players that if they put aside their old rivalries, fought through their aches and pains and played selflessly, they could beat anyone — even the dominant Soviets. The film’s director, Gavin O’Connor, emphasizes the story’s Cold War backdrop not so much for political reasons, but to remind viewers that the United States was in a bleak place back then, in need of a little uplift and warmth.

[Read the New York Times review.]





No.11 article:
She Seemed Destined for Olympic Glory. Brain Injuries Ended That.

Ellie Furneaux looked like she was going to become Britain’s next star in the sledding sport skeleton. But a series of concussions took a heavy toll.

Ellie Furneaux has a headache, every day. Even worse, once a month, a migraine grips her.

It starts innocuously. Staring at a screen at the wealth management firm where she works, she begins to see “wiggly worms” that soon morph into big white circles. The screen goes fuzzy. Pain shoots from her left temple. Her neck tightens.

This is progress. Two years ago, Furneaux’s promising career as Britain’s next great athlete in the sledding sport of skeleton came to a screeching halt when her head slammed into the ice during a race in Germany. For weeks, she struggled to recognize familiar surroundings. She could barely stay awake through a medical appointment or remember how to make a cup of tea.

What makes Furneaux’s story especially sad, though, is how inevitable its conclusion now seems, given how little attention was — and still is — paid to the dangers of repetitive brain injuries in sliding sports. Furneaux now understands, based on conversations with her neurologists, that she and her coaches appear to have misinterpreted and ignored symptoms for years that suggested she was likely experiencing a mild brain injury nearly every time she careened headfirst down a track, her head shaking and bouncing as the sled zoomed along at 75 miles per hour.

Wiped out, her brain so fried and frazzled after a run that she could not endure another, Furneaux would sleep it off and come back the next day to do it all over again, because that is all that she wanted and no one told her to stop.

“The scary thing is you can still figure out a way to slide when your brain is injured, and that is when it is most dangerous,” Furneaux, 26, said during a recent interview from her home in Bristol, in southwest England.

After a series of deaths from overdoses, suicides, and health problems among former athletes, the International Bobsled and Skeleton Federation, the world governing body for those sports, has been grappling with mounting evidence that sliding sports pose long-term dangers to brain health.

For years, the federation paid little attention to brain injury even as athletes suffered from chronic symptoms of concussions, what was known as “sledhead” around the sport. The federation has largely delegated decisions about whether athletes are healthy enough to compete to the athletes themselves, or their coaches and national governing bodies. Those entities though, have every incentive — money, glory, Olympic berths — not to remove themselves from competition.

At a meeting in September, Peter McCarthy, a neurophysiologist at the University of South Wales who has studied the effects of skeleton on the brain, and Mark Wood, one of the sport’s top coaches, urged members of the federation’s medical committee to screen athletes for brain injuries more regularly, set limits on training and to pursue research on brain injuries.

“What causes the injury? Are they more common at certain tracks, or after a certain number of runs?” said Aliyah Snyder, a former skeleton athlete who became a neuropsychologist at U.C.L.A. following years of struggling with concussion-like symptoms after she left the sport. Snyder is now working with McCarthy and Wood to make the sport safer. “Only then can we try to figure out the correct protocols.”

Adam Pengilly, a four-time Olympian and former I.B.S.F. officer, said the federation should pursue scientific research and, while it waits for more definitive answers, consider putting strict limits on the volume of runs to ensure athletes have time to recover.

“We don’t know enough,” Pengilly said. “We need to know more.”

In an email, Heike Grösswang, the secretary general of the international federation, said its medical committee is still considering safety and research proposals. She said a federation doctor examines athletes who crash during races and must clear them before they can compete again, but national team officials must take the lead during training. She said the federation has no plans to pursue long-term studies of brain health but will certify all helmets used in skeleton competitions for the 2022-23 season.

“It is an ongoing process within our federation to adapt our rules and regulations in order to implement the latest technologies or studies,” Grösswang said.

The British Bobsleigh &amp; Skeleton Association did not respond to initial requests for comment. In a statement sent after this article was published online, Marc Heywood, the director of operations, said Furneaux had been an outstanding athlete who suffered a number of hard crashes, “which, despite the nature of our sport, is a relatively uncommon occurrence. As a sport, we did everything possible to aid her recovery and return her to the sport safely and, since her retirement, to transition her into civilian life.”

He said the association is now in the middle of a four-year study of brain injury and sliding sports with The English Institute of Sport.

An Unlikely ForceVideoFurneaux at a track in Germany in 2016.For a country that has little ice and does not have a proper track for sliding sports, Britain has compiled a remarkable record of success in skeleton. Since skeleton re-entered the Olympic program in 2002 after a 54-year hiatus, Britain has won seven of the 30 medals, including three in 2018. British women have won the last three gold medals.

Always athletic, Furneaux sailed competitively during her youth. In 2013, she was training at a gym at the University of Bath, where she was pursuing an arts degree and where British Skeleton is based, when she got tapped as a potential Olympian.

Furneaux, then 20, knew little about skeleton, but she accepted an invitation to a combine where coaches put hundreds of young athletes through a series of sprints, jumps and strength tests. Furneaux made the final selection of four men and four women.

That winter in Lillehammer, Norway, she took her first run down a real track. The experience produced the same rush of adrenaline as the afternoons she spent racing 16-foot boats on the English Channel, hiking out on a trapeze to keep from tipping in the brisk winds.

She relished the challenge of making subtle adjustments required to steer the sled at high speed — the tiny shift of a shoulder or a knee, or a tilt of the head, even changing the focal point of her eyes.

“I loved the speed,” she said.

Her first major crash, in 2015, didn’t change that, even though her sled slammed into her left leg and nearly severed a major nerve. For weeks she had no feeling in the lower part of the leg and could not use it. 

She eventually recovered, but during a training run ahead of the junior world championships in Sigulda, Latvia, in 2016, she steered the sled high on a turn when she should have steered it low. Then everything went black. She was mostly conscious, but had (and still has) zero recollection of the crash. When her teammates trained that evening, she felt out of it and decided to rest.

The next day she told her coaches she was fine, even though she wasn’t. She tried, unsuccessfully, to cheat her way through a cognitive and balance test. Her coaches told her she would have to miss the competition. She continued to insist that she was fine and was doing training runs again roughly six weeks later.

Everything was different, though. Her teammates would do three or four runs a day in training. Her brain felt so depleted after a second run she could not focus hard enough to think her way through all the adjustments needed to survive 14 treacherous turns, with punishing gravitational forces pushing down on her head.

McCarthy, the neurophysiologist, said his research on skeleton suggests that Furneaux and other athletes who compile so many runs, especially after an injury, are susceptible to a decline in neck function that can lead to high-impact “whiplash-like events.” The athletes, McCarthy said, often do not report their symptoms.

Furneaux said she suffered through the occasional migraine largely in silence.

“I would tell the coaches I was fine, and they would give me the benefit of the doubt,” she said.

Even with the brain injuries, Furneaux’s raw talent allowed her to win three races during the 2017-18 season on the Europa Cup, skeleton’s second-tier circuit. She even set the track record in Lillehammer. As she traveled to a late January competition in Altenberg, Germany, Furneaux looked like British skeleton’s next star.

There, on an early training run, she hit her head hard enough to crack her helmet. Coaches asked her if she was OK. She told them she was. After all, that groggy, fried feeling she had was similar to what she felt after nearly every run.

As a precaution, coaches made her take a standard cognitive test the following day anyway. She passed it, rested, and said she was ready to slide. She produced two of her best training runs that day.

Then came the race.

The signature turn at Altenberg is the Kreisel, a circular curve roughly halfway down the 1,400-meter track. As she exited the Kreisel, Furneaux felt the sled skid. She raised her eyes from the ice to see where she was headed. She has no idea when her head hit the ice, or how she managed to stay on the sled until the bottom.

As she limped on the ice, track officials asked if she had hurt her ankle. Then she broke down in tears and lost the ability to speak.

They drove her to her coaches at the top of the track. She collapsed on the floor. All she wanted to do was sleep. Doctors checked her neck but found no serious injuries. She returned to her hotel with her coaches and managed a telephone call with British Skelton’s doctor in Britain. He said she could sleep as long as someone watched her at all times. It was midafternoon. She slept until the next morning, then traveled home to Bath for further evaluation.

Back at her team’s headquarters, she knew she was somewhere familiar but recognized nothing. She had no idea who the people were who were speaking to her. All she could do was cry, and sleep.

An M.R.I. of her brain showed no damage, which is not uncommon with brain injuries. The doctor told her partner, Jake, to take her home and let her rest, but to wake her for meals. For two weeks, she could stay awake to eat, but not for a post-meal cup of tea. Eventually she began to want tea, but could not remember how to make it or the phone number she has had for more than a decade.

When she tried to exercise again in April, walking threw her off balance. Her initial attempts to run made her so dizzy and sick she keeled over. Then she would struggle to form sentences and remember simple details.

“It was one step forward and 10 steps back,” she said.

In the fall, she traveled with her family to New York on vacation. As she tried to lift her head to gaze at the skyscrapers, her body tilted. Her sisters had to keep her upright.

In February 2019, after doctors told her to forget about ever sliding again, she announced her retirement. Slowly, she learned to accept that she may never feel like her pre-concussion self. “This is who I am now,” she said.

Nearly two years later, she knows things could be much worse. She can finally jog, but she gets dizzy if she can’t see a clear horizon. When it’s hot, her body struggles to regulate its temperature. She can cycle, but only slowly. If she removes a hand from the handlebars to signal a turn, she loses her balance.

Her sight remains slightly blurry. Nothing is crisp, though earlier this year she did read her first book since the crash. Working in sales for a financial services firm, looking at a screen for much of the day, she knows that before too long a headache will arrive. Those migraines are always lurking.





No.12 article:
Where Have All the Houseguests Gone?

The pandemic has made it impossible to invite people over, fundamentally changing the way many of us like to use our homes.

Lela Rose’s dining table can accommodate dozens of guests and is a marvel of social engineering.

One part rises from the floor to create a low seating area Japanese-style. Another part drops from the ceiling on cables to accommodate more people. Those two sections meet a third table which can be extended with leaves, and that tabletop connects to a fourth for more overflow guests.

Ms. Rose, a fashion designer, built her TriBeCa loft to be centered around entertaining. Four nights a week before the pandemic, she would host small gatherings of five or six, and several times a year, she would give rollicking dinner parties with dozens of people and food prepared by guest chefs.

ImageOne of Ms. Rose’s epic dinner parties from before the pandemic.Credit...Sara Kerens“I’ve got a table that seats 68,” Ms. Rose said by phone the other day. “When is that going to be viable again?”

Since March, the ever-expanding table has been sized to accommodate only Ms. Rose, her husband and their teenage daughter (their son started college this fall). The clatter and buzz of silverware and flirting and laughter — the sound of adult group fun — is at this point a memory echo. The curtains are drawn in her house and the lights are off most evenings.

“It looks so sad right now,” Ms. Rose said. “It just feels hermetic.”

While the pandemic has made our homes busier in many ways, with all-day video conferencing, children underfoot and hourly UPS deliveries, it has also created a lonely island effect. As Cheryl Mendelson, author of the domestic bible “Home Comforts,” put it in an interview with The New York Times earlier this year, “You are not allowed to have others in.”

We live in self-quarantine, in tight pods of immediate family members. As Covid-19 rages, houseguests pose a risk far greater than a spilled drink. And so they’ve been cast away, and with them, the social rituals and community they bring. The kitchen gossip sessions with a neighbor, the out-of-town friend crashing on the sofa, the Super Bowl viewing party and Sunday family dinners — all require a level of comfort with transmissible germs.

That’s why news outlets are offering advice from hermits.

Houseguests, love them or hate them, reflect ourselves back to us. They allow us to communicate our values to others and show off. This is the dresser I found at a flea market and refurbished myself. This is an oil portrait of my cat. What’s the point of a hero wall without someone to look enviously upon our professional trophies? (The art of trying to impress others through décor, and of “décor peeping,” has now migrated to Zoom.)  

Houseguests motivate us to clean up. They bring drama and excitement and complication into our lives, as writers from Agatha Christie (“The Unexpected Guest”) to André Aciman (“Call Me by Your Name”) well know. The destabilizing houseguest is as common a fictional device as the marriage plot. Without visitors, a home can start to feel static, boring. 

The pandemic has redefined how we use our homes, and for some of us, the inability to properly entertain strikes to the core. While some may welcome their cleared social calendars, others are exploring new ways to socialize in our current locked down reality. 

The absence of houseguests will be especially felt this year at Thanksgiving, and during the upcoming holiday season, a time when playing host and being hosted is how we traditionally celebrate. In its bulletin on holiday celebrations, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned that “small household gatherings are an important contributor to the rise in Covid-19 cases.” Celebrating virtually, the C.D.C. stressed, “poses the lowest risk for spread.”

Many Americans are following that guidance. Forty-seven percent of those surveyed by Morning Consult, the data intelligence company, said they have canceled plans to get together with family and friends for the holidays. The record number of new coronavirus cases and hospitalizations across the country may dissuade any hosts still tempted. If not, there’s the matter of mandated restrictions: Last week, New York limited private gatherings to 10 people. The city of Chicago has issued a stay-at-home advisory, with Mayor Lori Lightfoot telling residents, “You must cancel the normal Thanksgiving plans.” Such restrictions on who and how many can enter our homes have become the new frontier in the libertarian turf wars that began with mask mandates.  

For hostesses like Ms. Rose, life without people coming by is like a form of solitary confinement. “It’s the whole experience for me,” she said. “I love introducing people to interesting foods. I love the conversation. I could sit all night with people and drink and talk.”

Ms. Rose sighed. “I am missing entertaining like a lost limb.”

So is Maneesh K. Goyal. When he moved to New York after college in 1999, Mr. Goyal, a serial entrepreneur who founded MKG, an experiential marketing agency, and who will soon open an Indian restaurant, Sona, in the Flatiron district,  entertained at home as a way to build a social network. “I didn’t have friends. I found my groove being a host,” he said. 

Before the pandemic, Mr. Goyal threw so many parties at his Union Square apartment that he maintained a Google Doc to catalog them all. On the Sunday before Thanksgiving, he usually hosted his biggest bash, which he called the Salad Toss Off, a potluck competition he came up with after asking himself: What’s the gay version of the chili cook-off?

“In my apartment there will be 50 to 70 salads, with judges and prizes, and it’s wall-to-wall kids and families,” Mr. Goyal said. “That day for the past 14 years has been a day of filling the house. It’s my happiest day of the year.”

This year’s event has been canceled, and Mr. Goyal is at a loss. He retains a bittersweet memory of his last pre-pandemic gathering, a dinner for 12 on Thursday, March 5. “As soon as people walked in, the energy was askew because everybody knew something was looming,” he said.

He had planned another dinner party for the following week, but, he said, “before I could even cancel, everyone started canceling on me.”

But Winifred Gallagher, a journalist who wrote “House Thinking: A Room-by-Room Look at How We Live,” as well as a book on temperament, “Just the Way You Are: How Heredity and Experience Create the Individual,”  said the people who miss hosting are only a portion of the population.

“If you’re more introverted,” Ms. Gallagher said, “you’re experiencing it as a relief.” Several friends have told her as much. “One guy said to me, ‘No more air kisses.’”

Like most writers, Ms. Gallagher is perfectly content to stay inside with her books and research, even for months. Still, she is trying to “repurpose” her home, which is in rural Columbia County, N.Y., and rethink socializing during the pandemic.  

“One way I’ve done it is my book club now meets in the garage,” she said. In the big outbuilding where her husband also has his wood shop, “we can load up the wood stove, raise the garage door and meet out there.”

And, Ms. Gallagher added, “We have a new protocol for holiday dinner parties.” 

She will see her large family — five grown children, with assorted in-laws and grandchildren — but in a series of more intimate visits, with each child picking a weekend from now through the end of the year. Visitors will stay in the apartment above the garage.

ImageWhat a difference a year makes: Ms. Gallagher and her family last Thanksgiving. Credit...Antonia PolynAs for Thanksgiving dinner, “We have an eight-foot-long dinner table. If my husband and myself are at one end, two or three visitors are at the other end, and we raise two windows for cross ventilation, that’s actually a pretty safe situation,” Ms. Gallagher said. “Is it ideal? Is it the same as having 14 people around the table? No. But we can still have the holidays and the kids and that’s how it’s going to be this year.”

She also got a puppy during the pandemic — a mini poodle, Beowulf. “I know this is such a cliché. But I totally understand why,” she said. “Just having this very lively young wiggling thing around is such a trip.”

Michael Bierut, a graphic designer and partner in the firm Pentagram, spent the early months of the pandemic in supermax lockdown at his house in Tarrytown, N.Y. His wife, Dorothy, has lupus, and the couple couldn’t risk even inviting their three grown children over.

“I really liked it, particularly at the beginning,” said Mr. Bierut, who has been commuting to Grand Central Terminal since 1984 and welcomed a closer connection between work and home.

And “being in lockdown and having a hermetically sealed house where everything is reliably where it should be,” he added, “there’s something about it that appeals to me.”

But over time, as he finished his last Zoom call of the day and helped his wife peel potatoes or carrots, and as they sat down to dinner at 6:30 “like old people do,” Mr. Bierut began to feel disquieted by all the quiet.

He thought back to his parents’ house in Ohio, and the way everything remained in the same position from visit to visit, undisturbed. He’d walk in and wonder, “Has anyone even sat in this chair since I was last here?”

The newfound order of his home has come at a cost — his vitality. “It’s not that hard of a jump from there to a lonely life in retirement when washing the coffee cup is a high point of the day as well as checking the mailbox,” Mr. Bierut said. “That was sobering to a degree.”

Mr. Bierut referenced a John Updike short story, “Getting Into the Set,” in which a house-proud couple decorate their New England saltbox beautifully and invite over houseguests who wreak havoc, not necessarily to the couple’s displeasure.

“I’ve had to work to enjoy the mess that houseguests bring,” Mr. Bierut said.

He and his wife have since relaxed a bit and allowed their children to visit. But they are empty-nesters and lately, they are questioning the point of holiday decorating. If a Christmas tree goes up in their living room and no one is around to admire it, does it really exist?

For the Los Angeles-based designer Gere Kavanaugh, inviting people into her home had offered, as she became older and drove less, “a way of getting in touch with the rest of the world.” (She turned 91 last spring, around the time the world first locked down). 

On Sundays, Ms. Kavanaugh liked to have old friends and new acquaintances over for tea  and show off her collection of teapots and cups. “I’d say, ‘Pick out your cup and saucer and I’ll pour the tea.’ Everyone liked it. It was kind of a ritual,” she said.

Now Ms. Kavanaugh makes do with the telephone and, since May, by staging “porch picnics” of up to six guests at most, four on her porch and two on the bottom steps. She’ll be out on her porch on Thanksgiving with a few neighbors, eating a pumpkin soup she’s been meaning to try instead of turkey.

Mr. Bierut has canceled the office holiday party he hosts every year at his house. A meaningful social exchange will be lost, for himself and his employees, he said.

“Partly it’s the pleasure of welcoming someone into your home and partly it’s the voyeuristic joy of seeing what the host keeps in the bathroom cabinet,” he said. “It adds a dimension to the way we understand each other, doesn’t it?”





No.13 article:
‘I Had to See That Owl’: Central Park’s New Celebrity Bird

New Yorkers are so obsessed with Barry the barred owl that some are concerned he could be scared away. So far, he seems to like the attention.

It was late afternoon in the North Woods of Central Park, and the sun was setting fast. Joshua Kristal, a photographer with a penchant for birds, was starting to feel despondent as he searched along the creek, looking for any movement. This was the third time he’d traveled more than an hour from Brooklyn to see Manhattan’s newest celebrity bird: an ethereal and majestic barred owl.

Currently known as Barry, the owl has intense black eyes and elegant poufs of white feathers streaked with brown and gray. He looks like a perfect stuffed animal from a high-end toy store. But Barry is also unusual. Though owls are typically nocturnal, he makes regular daytime appearances, and has become something of a performer. Practically vogueing, he stares, preens and swoops into the shallow stream to wash and flick his feathers. Barry will turn his head 270 degrees right and left and up above to check for his archenemy, the hawk. He plucks chipmunks with his talons and devours them, seemingly unfazed by adoring fans and the paparazzi, many of whom have already made him Instagram-famous.

Knowing all this made Mr. Kristal even more frustrated that he couldn’t spot Barry. “I was stewing, thinking, What’s wrong with me? Why is everyone seeing the bird except me?” Mr. Kristal said. “But then, all these people passed me and said, ‘Have you seen him?’ And I realized, in my quest to find the owl, I wasn’t the only one failing. And I’m a terrible birder.”

Barry the Barred Owl was first spotted on Oct. 9 by a group of devoted birders including Robert DeCandido, a New Yorker who has conducted bird walks in Central Park for some 32 years and is known as Birding Bob. The owl was an overnight sensation, not as flamboyant as the Mandarin duck two years ago but no less magnetic. Birders flock from all over to the Loch, a creek near 103rd Street and Central Park West, for a chance to see Barry.

Owls are more common in the city than people realize, and they have been spotted in every borough, Mr. DeCandido said. Just this week, an owl, perhaps a stowaway from upstate New York, was found in the newly arrived Rockefeller Center Christmas tree. In Central Park, though, only one or two owls are usually spotted in a year, he added, and Barry is believed to be the only one there at the moment.

Barry most likely flew in from up north for a warmer temperature in which to hunt, but “only God knows,” Mr. DeCandido said. Barry is not nesting, as owls haven’t been found to nest in Central Park. He is roosting and putting on weight.

As social media bird alerts have become popular, there are more unique and rare birds reported in the city — like a recent sighting of a Virginia rail in Central Park, Mr. DeCandido said. “Before, if you saw something rare, who would you tell?” Mr. DeCandido said. “Now there is E-Bird and Manhattan Bird Alert, where bird sightings are reported almost immediately.”

But there are disagreements among birders on how healthy it is for humans to be stalking Barry, some using recorded bird calls to lure him out, surrounding him (at a respectful distance) and brandishing their cellphone cameras to capture the perfect image of a creature who typically does not like to be bothered.

Mr. Kristal learned of the owl from Manhattan Bird Alert, a Twitter feed that posts bird sightings throughout the city. When a Barry alert goes out, dozens of people show up, and fast. Therein lies the problem, said Dennis Hrehowsik, president of the Brooklyn Bird Club, based near Prospect Park. Owls are much too sensitive to be thronged, he said.

“I haven’t gone to see an owl in years,” Mr. Hrehowsik said. “If I hear about it, I won’t go. It doesn’t need the added stress,” he continued. “Owls are special. They look different, they act different, they seem magical.” Of course, this is why humans are drawn to them. As for the interest in photographing Barry, Mr. Hrehowsik said that he is concerned that the owl, rattled by the activity, “will leave and try to migrate before it has enough sustenance.”

Birding in the city has grown more popular during the coronavirus outbreak, said Mr. Hrehowsik, who has led hundreds of bird tours. The quiet, meditative search for special birds — as many as 300 species of which live and migrate through New York City — can be soothing. And it’s a fresh-air activity, a key detail when it comes to safe pandemic pursuits.

Last weekend, Wendy Iraheta, of Harlem, waited patiently with her camera for well over an hour to see Barry; her friends had waited for hours longer. She said her quest to see him has become “an obsession.” Ms. Iraheta, in business development and marketing, said she visits often. She had posted a video of the owl preening and was really proud of it.

“It melts your heart,” she said. “It’s pretty much one of the cutest things I’ve ever seen.”

Janet Lee, a novelist from Harlem, was wandering nearby, craning her neck to look into the trees. She said she was yearning for another glimpse. “Those eyes!” Ms. Lee said.

Coming upon an owl accidentally is a great thrill, most bird lovers would agree. But publicizing the location of sensitive species, Mr. Hrehowsik of the Brooklyn Bird Club said, is not ethical bird watching.

David Barrett, who runs Manhattan Bird Alert, said he does not think observing the owl stresses it. He defended his practice of alerting people.

“This is the information age. People can report what they see,” Mr. Barrett said. “You don’t get owls every day in Manhattan. In the middle of a city like this, it’s a reminder that there is mystery and beauty in nature, and we need to go see it.”

Mr. DeCandido said the Brooklyn Bird Club is wonderful in the work it does, but it guards the location of birds jealously. “They’re like the Mafia,” he said. “They keep things really secret.”

Other birders, meanwhile, have taken issue with Mr. DeCandido’s techniques to lure Barry out into the open by using recordings of owl hoots.

Mr. DeCandido said that he is simply bringing humans and birds closer together. “The more people see this, the more they’ll like owls, and the less they’ll want ice-skating rinks and things that reduce what owls need, which is woods.”

Mr. Kristal, the photographer, was not aware of the tense opposition; he just wanted to see Barry. So, after his third failed solo attempt, he paid $10 to go on an owl walk with Mr. DeCandido.

That did the trick. After 45 minutes, Barry swooped in and landed on a branch.

“It was exhilarating,” Mr. Kristal said. “I felt like I was cheating, because I wanted to find it on my own. But I had to see that owl.”

Though some birders think Barry is a female, Mr. DeCandido is convinced that Barry is a guy who answers the owl call because he’s looking for a girlfriend. “Owls have to meet people too,” Mr. DeCandido said.

It’s not known if Barry, who was last seen on Nov. 17, will remain. If he doesn’t find a mate, he might decide to stay the winter anyway, Mr. DeCandido said, since food — certainly rats and chipmunks — are plentiful.

Or he might head to the suburbs, he continued. “He might decide, ‘This ain’t the place to meet women, I’m moving to Jersey City.’”





No.14 article:
Americans Are More Willing to Take a Coronavirus Vaccine, Poll Suggests

The Gallup survey held promise for an eventual vaccine rollout, but its authors cautioned that confidence remained lower than it was earlier in the pandemic.

In a sign that Americans are becoming less hesitant to take a coronavirus vaccine, a Gallup poll released on Tuesday showed that 58 percent of the adults who were surveyed were willing to be vaccinated, up from 50 percent in September.

The survey was conducted between Oct. 19 and Nov. 1, as coronavirus cases were surging across the country but before Pfizer and Moderna announced that their vaccines were 90 percent effective or better against the virus in late-stage trials.

Still, the results were promising for an eventual vaccine rollout, as widespread inoculation against the virus is seen as essential before restrictions can be lifted and life can return to normal, or something close to it.

The survey’s authors cautioned, however, that confidence in a vaccine remained lower than it was earlier in the pandemic. In June, for instance, Gallup reported that 66 percent of Americans said they would be vaccinated.

While the percentage of American adults who said they would not be vaccinated dropped to 42 percent from 50 percent in September, skepticism about a rushed vaccine, among other factors, still presents a significant challenge for officials who will need to convince the public that any approved coronavirus vaccine is safe.

“A longer period of development and clinical testing” may help ameliorate some of the most common reasons for concern, the survey’s authors wrote.

Dr. Phoebe Danziger, a pediatrician at the University of Michigan who writes about medicine, ethics and culture, said in an interview that the Gallup data was consistent with what she had observed anecdotally.

“Clearly there’s a lot of hesitation out there, but it seems like there’s a slight shift into a positive view,” she said. As cases continue to rise across the Midwest, she senses that people across the political spectrum are starting to see that they are “really going to need this to get out of this mess.”

The poll, which reflects an online survey of 2,985 adults, has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.

The increased willingness to take a coronavirus vaccine was more pronounced in certain groups, particularly Democrats and Americans between the ages of 45 and 64.

Among Democrats, willingness to take a vaccine rose to 69 percent last month from 53 percent in September. Nearly half of Americans between the ages of 45 and 64 — 49 percent — said they were willing to take a vaccine, up from 36 percent in September. Despite the increase, people in that age group remained least likely to say they would get the vaccine.

Democrats have consistently signaled that they were more likely to get vaccinated than Republicans and independents, but there were shared concerns in the late stages of the presidential campaign.

A poll released last month by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that a clear majority of Americans were skeptical about a rushed vaccine, with 62 percent of adults saying they were concerned about the Trump administration pressuring the Food and Drug Administration to approve a coronavirus vaccine before the election.

In September, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. said he did not trust President Trump to determine when a vaccine was ready. “Let me be clear: I trust vaccines. I trust scientists,” he said. “But I don’t trust Donald Trump, and at this moment, the American people can’t either.”

Lydia Saad, Gallup’s director of U.S. social research, suggested that coronavirus vaccination had become a more rancorous partisan issue, contributing to a decline in confidence among Democrats. Their confidence rebounded somewhat in the latest survey, she said, possibly because the political rhetoric had moved away from the issue.

“People went back to their original tendencies,” she said in an interview.

A rushed approval process for a vaccine was a concern for 37 percent of the adults Gallup polled, while 26 percent said they would wait for confirmation that a vaccine was safe. A smaller group — 12 percent — said they did not trust vaccines in general, reflecting a mistrust of vaccines that has been on the rise across the country in recent years, stemming from the legacy of government experimentation on African-Americans and the disadvantaged as well as distrust of the pharmaceutical industry.

With Pfizer and Moderna’s vaccines both showing early success, Ms. Saad said she expected the willingness of Americans to be vaccinated to rise, though she was reluctant to speculate about how quickly.

“I would certainly think there’s more room for Democrats to feel more confident,” she said. “I think Republicans are likely to rally around this vaccine, because it was developed on Trump’s watch. On the other hand, there are pre-Covid attitudes that would make people resistant regardless, so there may be a ceiling for how high support will go.”





No.15 article:
How Steve Bannon and a Chinese Billionaire Created a Right-Wing Coronavirus Media Sensation

Dr. Li-Meng Yan wanted to remain anonymous. It was mid-January, and Dr. Yan, a researcher in Hong Kong, had been hearing rumors about a dangerous new virus in mainland China that the government was playing down. Terrified for her personal safety and career, she reached out to her favorite Chinese YouTube host, known for criticizing the Chinese government.

Within days, the host was telling his 100,000 followers that the coronavirus had been deliberately released by the Chinese Communist Party. He wouldn’t name the whistle-blower, he said, because officials could make the person “disappear.”

By September, Dr. Yan had abandoned caution. She appeared in the United States on Fox News making the unsubstantiated claim to millions that the coronavirus was a bio-weapon manufactured by China.

Overnight, Dr. Yan became a right-wing media sensation, with top advisers to President Trump and conservative pundits hailing her as a hero. Nearly as quickly, her interview was labeled on social media as containing “false information,” while scientists rejected her research as a polemic dressed up in jargon.

Her evolution was the product of a collaboration between two separate but increasingly allied groups that peddle misinformation: a small but active corner of the Chinese diaspora and the highly influential far right in the United States.

Each saw an opportunity in the pandemic to push its agenda. For the diaspora, Dr. Yan and her unfounded claims provided a cudgel for those intent on bringing down China’s government. For American conservatives, they played to rising anti-Chinese sentiment and distracted from the Trump administration’s bungled handling of the outbreak.

Both sides took advantage of the dearth of information coming out of China, where the government has refused to share samples of the virus and has resisted a transparent, independent investigation. Its initial cover-up of the outbreak has further fueled suspicion about the origins of the virus.

An overwhelming body of evidence shows that the virus almost certainly originated in an animal, most likely a bat, before evolving to make the leap into humans. While U.S. intelligence agencies have not ruled out the possibility of a lab leak, they have not found any proof so far to back up that theory.

Dr. Yan’s trajectory was carefully crafted by Guo Wengui, a fugitive Chinese billionaire, and Stephen K. Bannon, a former adviser to Mr. Trump.

They put Dr. Yan on a plane to the United States, gave her a place to stay, coached her on media appearances and helped her secure interviews with popular conservative television hosts like Tucker Carlson and Lou Dobbs, who have shows on Fox. They nurtured her seemingly deep belief that the virus was genetically engineered, uncritically embracing what she provided as proof.

“I said from Day 1, there’s no conspiracies,” Mr. Bannon said in an interview. “But there are also no coincidences.”

Mr. Bannon noted that unlike Dr. Yan, he did not believe the Chinese government “purposely did this.” But he has pushed the theory about an accidental leak of risky laboratory research and has been intent on creating a debate about the new coronavirus’s origins.

“Dr. Yan is one small voice, but at least she’s a voice,” he said.

The media outlets that cater to the Chinese diaspora — a jumble of independent websites, YouTube channels and Twitter accounts with anti-Beijing leanings — have formed a fast-growing echo chamber for misinformation. With few reliable Chinese-language news sources to fact-check them, rumors can quickly harden into a distorted reality. Increasingly, they are feeding and being fed by far-right American media.

Wang Dinggang, the YouTube host contacted by Dr. Yan and a close associate of Mr. Guo, appears to have been the first to seed rumors related to Hunter Biden, a son of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. A site owned by Mr. Guo amplified the baseless claims about Hunter Biden’s involvement in a child abuse conspiracy. They were picked up by Infowars and other fringe American outlets. Mr. Bannon, Mr. Wang and Mr. Guo are now all promoting the false idea that the presidential election was rigged.

Big technology companies have started to push back, as Facebook and Twitter try to better police content. Twitter permanently banned one of Mr. Bannon’s accounts for violating its rules on glorifying violence after he suggested on his podcast that the heads of the F.B.I. director and Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, should be put on pikes.

But such mainstream notoriety has only bolstered their anti-establishment credentials. Mr. Wang’s YouTube following has nearly doubled since January. Traffic for two of Mr. Guo’s websites soared to more than 135 million last month, up from fewer than five million visits last December, according to SimilarWeb, an online data provider. Many conservatives who claim Facebook and Twitter censor right-wing voices are also flocking to new social media platforms such as Parler — and Dr. Yan, Mr. Wang and Mr. Guo have already joined them.

Dr. Yan, through representatives for Mr. Bannon and Mr. Guo, declined multiple requests for an interview. So did Mr. Wang, citing The New York Times’s “reputation for fake news.”

In a statement sent through a lawyer, Mr. Guo said he had only offered “encouragement” for Dr. Yan’s efforts “to stand up against the C.C.P. mafia and tell the world the truth about Covid-19.”

“I would gladly assist others seeking to tell the world the truth,” he said.

As the new year began, Mr. Wang was doing what he did best: attacking the Chinese Communist Party on YouTube. He railed against China’s crackdown on Muslims and pontificated on the U.S. trade war.

Then on Jan. 19, he suddenly shifted to the emerging outbreak in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. It was early in the crisis, before the lockdown in the city, before China had disclosed that the virus was spreading among humans, before the world was paying attention.

In an 80-minute show devoted to an unnamed whistle-blower, Mr. Wang said that he had heard from “the world’s absolute top coronavirus expert,” who had told him China was not being transparent. “I think this is very believable, and very scary,” he said.

Mr. Wang, who was a businessman in China before moving to the United States for unknown reasons, is part of a growing group of commentators that have emerged on the Chinese-language internet. Their shows, which mix punditry, serious analysis and outright rumor, cater to a diaspora that often does not trust Chinese state media and has few reliable sources of news in its native language.

Since starting his program several years ago, Mr. Wang, who broadcasts under the name Lu De, has emerged as one of the genre’s most popular personalities, in part for his embrace of outlandish theories. He has accused Chinese officials of using “sex and seduction” to entrap enemies, and urged his audience to hoard food in preparation for the Communist Party’s collapse.

His January show on the unnamed whistle-blower combined the same elements of fact and fiction. He called his source, later revealed to be Dr. Yan, an expert, but greatly exaggerated her credentials.

She had studied influenza before the outbreak, but not coronaviruses. She did work at one of the world’s top virology labs, at the University of Hong Kong, but was fairly new to the field and hired for her experience with lab animals, according to two university employees who knew her. She helped investigate the new outbreak, but was not overseeing the effort.

The episode caught the attention of Mr. Bannon, who said he started worrying about the virus when China began locking down. Someone, he didn’t say who, pointed out the show and translated it.

A few months later, Mr. Wang suddenly told Dr. Yan to flee Hong Kong for her safety, he explained in later broadcasts. Mr. Guo, his primary patron, paid for her to fly first class, he added.

On April 28, Dr. Yan quietly left for the airport. Her family and friends panicked but could not reach her, said Jean-Marc Cavaillon, a retired professor of immunology at the Pasteur Institute in Paris who has known Dr. Yan since 2017. A missing persons report was filed in Hong Kong.

Two weeks later, she resurfaced in the United States.

“I’m currently in New York, very safe and relaxed” with the “best bodyguards and lawyers,” Dr. Yan wrote on WeChat, in a screenshot seen by The Times. “What I’m doing now is helping the whole world take control of the pandemic.”

After Dr. Yan arrived in the United States, Mr. Bannon, Mr. Guo and their allies immediately set out to package her as a whistle-blower they could sell to the American public.

They installed her in a “safe house” outside of New York City and hired lawyers, Mr. Bannon said. They found her a media coach, since English is not her first language. Mr. Bannon also asked her to submit multiple papers summarizing her purported evidence, Dr. Yan later said.

“Make sure you can walk people through this logically,” Mr. Bannon recalled telling her.

Mr. Bannon and Mr. Guo have been on a mission for years to, as they put it, bring down the Chinese Communist Party.

Mr. Guo, who also goes by Miles Kwok, was a property magnate in China with ties to senior party officials, until he fled the country about five years ago under the shadow of corruption allegations. He has since styled himself as a freedom fighter, though many are skeptical of his motivations.

Mr. Bannon, who patrolled the South China Sea as a young naval officer, has long focused much of his energy on China. During his time in the White House, he counseled Mr. Trump to take a tough approach toward the country, which he has described as “the greatest existential threat ever faced by the United States.”

Mr. Guo’s deep pockets and Mr. Bannon’s extensive network have given them an influential platform. The two men set up a $100 million fund to investigate corruption in China. They spread conspiracy theories about the accidental death of a Chinese tycoon in France, calling it a fake suicide orchestrated by Beijing.

By late January, they were both acutely focused on the outbreak in China.

Mr. Bannon pivoted his podcast to the coronavirus. He was calling it “the C.C.P. virus” long before Mr. Trump started using xenophobic labels for the pandemic. He invited fierce critics of China to the show to discuss how the outbreak exemplified the global threat posed by the Chinese Communist Party.

Mr. Guo began claiming that the virus was an attack ordered by China’s vice president. He circulated the same claims on his media operation, which includes GTV, a video platform, and GNews, a site that features glowing coverage of Mr. Guo and his associates. He released a song called “Take Down the C.C.P.,” which briefly hit No. 1 worldwide on the Apple iTunes chart.

The men have continued to target the Chinese government even as they battle their own legal woes. Mr. Guo is reportedly under investigation by U.S. federal authorities over fund-raising tactics at his media company. Mr. Bannon, who was arrested this summer on Mr. Guo’s yacht, is facing fraud charges for a nonprofit he helped set up to build a wall along the Mexican border.

In Dr. Yan, the two men found an ideal face for their campaign.

On July 10, she revealed her identity for the first time in a 13-minute interview on the Fox News website. She said that the Chinese government had concealed evidence of human-to-human transmission of the virus. She accused, without proof, professors at the University of Hong Kong of assisting in the cover-up. (The university quickly rejected her accusations as “hearsay.”)

“The reason I came to the U.S. is because I deliver the message of the truth of Covid-19,” she said.

She made no mention of Mr. Guo or Mr. Bannon, by design.

“Don’t link yourself to Bannon, don’t link yourself to Guo Wengui,” Mr. Guo on his own show recounted telling Dr. Yan. “Once you mention us, those American extreme leftists will attack and say you have a political agenda.”

After the first Fox interview, Dr. Yan embarked on a whirlwind tour of right-wing media, echoing conservative talking points. She said that she took hydroxychloroquine to ward off the virus, even though the F.D.A. had warned that it was not effective. She suggested that the World Health Organization helped cover up the outbreak.

Those interviews were amplified by social media accounts proclaiming allegiance to Mr. Guo. They translated her appearances into Chinese, then posted multiple versions on YouTube and retweeted posts by other pro-Guo accounts.

Some of the accounts have tens of thousands of followers — of a dubious nature. Many have multiple indicators of so-called inauthentic behavior, according to an analysis by First Draft, a nonprofit that studies misinformation. The analysis found that they were created in the past two years, lacked background photos and had user names that were jumbles of letters and numbers.

Collectively, the followers created online momentum for the conservative media world, which in turn re-energized the pro-Guo accounts. “The two are filtering and feeding off of each other,” said Anne Kruger, First Draft’s Asia Pacific director.

In early September, Dr. Yan met with Dr. Daniel Lucey, an infectious disease expert at Georgetown University who had floated the possibility that the virus was the product of a laboratory experiment. Dr. Lucey said Dr. Yan’s associates, who set up the meeting, wanted to find a credible scientist to endorse her claims. “That was the only reason for bringing me there,” he said.

For more than four hours, Dr. Yan discussed her background and research, while one of her associates, whom Dr. Lucey declined to name, impatiently walked in and out of the room. He said that Dr. Yan appeared to genuinely believe that the virus had been weaponized but struggled to explain why.

At the end, the associate asked Dr. Lucey if he thought Dr. Yan had a “smoking gun.” When Dr. Lucey said no, the meeting quickly ended.

Days later, Dr. Yan released a 26-page research paper that she said proved the virus was manufactured. It spread rapidly online.

The paper, which was not peer-reviewed or published in a scientific journal, was posted on an online open-access repository. It was backed by two nonprofits funded by Mr. Guo. The three other co-authors on the paper were pseudonyms for safety reasons, according to Mr. Bannon.

Virologists quickly dismissed the paper as “pseudoscience” and “based on conjecture.” Some worried that the paper — laden with charts and scientific jargon, such as “unique furin cleavage site” and “RBM-hACE2 binding” — would lend her claims a veneer of credibility.

“It’s full of science-y sorts of terms that are jumbled together to sound impressive but aren’t supported,” said Gigi Kwik Gronvall, an immunologist at Johns Hopkins University who was among several authors of a rebuttal to Dr. Yan’s report.

Other misinformation about the pandemic has also emphasized supposed expertise. In the spring, a 26-minute video that went viral featured a discredited American scientist accusing hospitals of inflating virus-related deaths. A July video showed people in white coats, calling themselves “America’s doctors” and suggesting that masks were ineffective; the video was removed by social media platforms for sharing false information.

On Sept. 15, a day after her report was published, Dr. Yan secured her biggest stage yet: an appearance with Tucker Carlson on Fox News. Mr. Carlson’s popular show has frequently served as an influential megaphone for the right.

Mr. Carlson asked if Dr. Yan believed Chinese officials had released the virus intentionally or by accident. Dr. Yan did not hesitate.

“Of course intentionally,” she said.

The clip went viral.

Footage of their interview racked up at least 8.8 million views online, even though Facebook and Instagram flagged it as false information. High-profile conservatives, including Senator Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee, shared it on Twitter. When the Rev. Franklin Graham, the evangelist supporter of Mr. Trump, posted about Dr. Yan on Facebook, it became the most-shared link posted by a U.S.-based Facebook account that day.

Lou Dobbs, another Fox host, tweeted a video of himself and a guest discussing Dr. Yan’s “great case.” Mr. Trump retweeted it.

Dr. Yan was welcomed by an audience already primed to hear her claims. A March poll found that nearly 30 percent of Americans believed the virus was most likely made in a lab.

“Once Tucker Carlson picks it up, it’s not fringe anymore,” said Yotam Ophir, a professor at the University at Buffalo who studies disinformation. “It’s now mainstream.”

Fox News declined to comment.

Weeks later, Mr. Carlson said on his show that he could not endorse Dr. Yan’s theories. Regardless, he welcomed her back as a guest to detail her latest claim: Her mother, she told him, had been arrested by the Chinese government.

The Chinese government often punishes critics by harassing their families. But when The Times reached Dr. Yan’s mother on her cellphone in October, she said that she had never been arrested and was desperate to connect with her daughter, whom she had not spoken to in months.

She declined to say more and asked not to be named, citing fears that Dr. Yan was being manipulated by her new allies.

“They are blocking our daughter from talking to us,” her mother said, referring to Mr. Guo and Mr. Wang. “We want our daughter to know that she can video-chat with us at any time.”





No.16 article:
How Do I Deal With Cheating in the Age of Zoom?

A student of mine revealed that he did poorly on my (Zoom, of course) exam because he was on his phone helping his fraternity brothers. I know his cheating isn’t ethical — no dilemma there — but what about my role? I can’t stop cheating on Zoom, so should I do nothing? What is my responsibility in creating an environment where everyone is on the same plane for evaluation? Humberto B.

The best way to prevent people from succumbing to temptation is to reduce the temptation. So you can try to design a test that makes cheating harder. In the humanities, you might be able to ask students to write essays in real time on topics not announced in advance, for example. But things are harder with quantitative subjects, especially in combination with large class sizes. In the era of Chegg and Discord (an online tutoring service and a group-chat platform), not only answers but also “show your work” explanations for those answers can be at a student’s fingertips. Various online proctoring services are available, but none are complete solutions. And the sort of one-to-one discussions, and evaluations, that are possible in seminars may just not be feasible in large-enrollment classes. Still, sometimes reminding people of moral ideas can get them to live up to them. Here are three basic angles of approach.

First, there are considerations of character: Dishonesty is a vice. So is intellectual laziness, which can making cheating appealing as a substitute for effort, and so is the vanity that may make you seek a better grade than you deserve. You don’t want to be the kind of person who cheats.

Second, you have duties arising from your relationship with your teachers and your fellow students. It is a betrayal of the teacher’s trust if you try to pass off the work of others as your own or misrepresent your own level of comprehension. It’s disrespectful to your teachers, and of course, it’s unfair to fellow students who have kept to the rules, given that your work may be ranked higher than it ought to be.

Third, it is reckless, posing harm to you and your classmates. The penalties for plagiarism are severe and can include being expelled from the university. If your exam performance seems far better than your class contributions, your teachers will often recognize that. Lying when asked about it compounds the problem and can also lead to serious consequences. Your cheating can also disadvantage your honest classmates by distorting the curve. Besides, a key purpose of the exam is to tell you how you’re doing, which won’t happen if you cheat. And if you don’t care about how you’re doing, why take the course?

People who have studied ethics, or just watched “The Good Place,” will recognize these three sets of considerations as drawing from three major currents of moral reflection: virtue ethics, which is centered on character; deontology (from “deon,” a Greek word for that which is binding or required), which is centered on obligation or duty; and consequentialism, which is centered on the harms and benefits that result from our actions. Ordinary moral thought draws freely from all of these traditions.

To students who cheat routinely, all this will seem naïve or sentimental or irrelevant. They want the best grades they can secure because good grades will help them get ahead and land the kind of job they want. In the workplace, though, you can’t call your fraternity brothers every time you face a problem you can’t handle, and I don’t know of online services that will write office memos for you. Ethics is about living well. Preparing for exams can help you develop skills that are useful in later life. All of which is to say that one person you’re letting down when you don’t do the work is you.

I’m the head of a small department at a large university. My staff is underpaid, and I have advocated salary increases for them. Then Covid-19 hit. By midsummer, I was forced to lay off one member of our staff, and the others have had to pick up the work. Then in early fall, another staff member came down with Covid-19. The remaining members of my staff have continued to do exemplary work, with the additional burden of covering the work of the person in the position we lost and the staff member who has been ill. Meanwhile, the university froze staff salaries and stopped contributing to our retirement, so the staff has actually been doing more for less.

I have always given my staff small gifts (usually gift cards in a small amount) for the holidays, which I’ve paid for myself. This year, in light of the extra work they’ve taken on and the stress they’ve all been under, I would like to provide a larger gift, again from my own funds. I’m thinking of a cash gift for each of $100 to $150. I am not rich, and I don’t make a six-figure salary, but I do make considerably more than my staff and can afford this. Another department head advised me against doing so, as staff members in other departments would be upset if they heard about it. But it’s my money, and I’d like to do it, because I feel these are great employees who have been treated unfairly. Your thoughts? Name Withheld

I understand and admire your impulse here. Many departments I’ve worked in have an annual holiday collection from the faculty that is shared among the staff, with the expectation that higher-paid faculty will make a larger contribution. This has the advantage of feeling like an institutional or at least a collective expression of gratitude, rather than a personal one. And because it is customary, the practice does not significantly alter the nature of your relationships.

You’re proposing, by contrast, to give an amount of money that is not customary and not financially insignificant to the recipient. (I understand that yours isn’t an academic department with faculty members you can call on to pony up.)

Gifts change their meaning when they move from an expression of gratitude to having a meaningful impact on someone’s economic welfare. If you don’t repeat the gift next year, you don’t want your staff members thinking that you care about them less. Still, these aren’t ordinary circumstances, and what you thoughtfully propose to do will surely be understood in that context. Exceptional times can make people want to express their sense of mutual obligation in less traditional ways.





No.17 article:
An Artist Who Paints in Cryptic Pastel Symbols

Even as a child, Caroline Kent was immersed in the language of abstraction. The Chicago-based artist — whose large-scale black canvases evoke cosmic unknowns — grew up alongside her identical twin sister, Christine Leventhal, with whom she shared special methods of communication. Their conversations can still be so elliptical and condensed that they perplex others.

Kent’s recent installation work, “Victoria/Veronica: The Figment Between Us” (2020), features a fictional set of telepathic twins, and the curious depths of cryptic speech are also reflected, more broadly, in the vibrant painting language for which Kent, 45, has become best known. She calls these works, which look a little like nocturnes by way of Hilma af Klint, “midnight canvases” and considers their black backgrounds to be metaphors for “undefinable, unlocatable spaces.” Layered on top, as if free-floating sans gravity, are pastel shapes and textures that conjure, she said, “things that might have at one time been covered in darkness, but have now been illuminated.” Eight of these mystical, abstract paintings make up Kent’s debut solo show, called “A Sudden Appearance of the Sun,” at Los Angeles’s Kohn Gallery.

Reality was very much pitched toward uncertainty, and in need of light, when I called Kent on the first Wednesday of November. FaceTiming from her bright studio on Chicago’s West Side, where she moved in 2017 after 15 years in Minneapolis, Kent spoke with genial precision — a clarity that underscored her roles as both a teacher (at Northwestern) and a mother (of three). The artist is also, she said, “a Midwesterner through and through.” Growing up in rural Sterling, Illinois — the daughter of a Mexican homemaker mother and an African-American accountant father — she absorbed the Midwestern work ethic early on. “I grew up detasseling corn,” she said, laughing at her old summer job. At the same time, the pace of life there left her room to dream. “I had a lot of curiosity about what laid beyond the borders of a small town,” she said.

Arriving at Illinois State University in 1993 on an athletic scholarship — she ran track and field — Kent had no plans to become an artist, but she would often linger in the campus gallery. Her early influences included the austere Russian Constructivists, hard-edged Ellsworth Kelly shapes and foreign films. Kent became enchanted by how a visual language could be universal. “I’d always felt on the outside of language,” she said. “Moving through the world, I found it was often a barrier one had to surpass in order to connect. With abstract painting, everybody had the same starting point.”

After college, she joined the Peace Corps, and lived for two years in Transylvania in Romania. “I was coming from a place where homes are kind of monotone,” she recalled. “In Transylvania, there were dusty pastel colors all over the place. It did something optically that I wasn’t familiar with.” She’s lately been exploring another part of the world, Mexico, and with it, her own heritage. And by actively participating in the discourse of abstraction, she said, she is interrogating a canon that has historically marginalized artists of color. “It’s almost void of Black and brown voices,” she said. “I want to confront that.” She sees some of her work as a challenge to “the preciousness of the canvas,” too, especially her tactile paintings on paper, for which she feeds painted pages into a typewriter, turning them into collages of text, color and stated emotion. Like many of Kent’s works, they contain an uncanny aura, while seeming to consider, quite powerfully, the stakes of legibility. “Time will tell if my participation will matter,” she said, “but I make as if it does.” Below, Kent’s answers to T’s artist’s questionnaire.

What is your day like? How much do you sleep? What’s your work schedule?

Well, I get eight hours of sleep, that’s for sure. My workday starts around 7:30 a.m. And because classes are now online, I get the little ones in front of a computer in the morning. My studio is where I live — it’s a separate room, but it’s right next door, part of the same building — so I dip into it whenever I can find pockets of time. If I’d had a studio that was outside the home during this whole pandemic, there is no way — I would be a mess.

What’s the first piece of art you ever made?

When I was a kid, I would write about myself in the third person and leave the pieces of paper around the house for my parents to find — they were supposed to be from teachers, or someone writing about their daughter. Of course, they were these aggrandized descriptions of “Caroline.” That had to be the beginning of me making objects that could be called art, because they were meant to get a response.

That sounds like childhood autofiction.

Yes, that’s exactly what it was!

What’s the worst studio you’ve ever had?

I had a one-bedroom apartment back in Minneapolis, many years ago, and I turned my living room into my studio. And that wasn’t great because I was working with charcoal and pastels, and you don’t want to breathe that stuff in. You don’t want that in your living space. So that was probably not a good idea. [Laughs] I had to end that.

What’s the first work you ever sold and for how much?

It was my first big painting from undergrad — it was a self-depiction with a bicycle that didn’t have spokes but was somehow riding along. And there was a house, and on the side of the house were two bugs. It was all metaphor. I was trying to be a surrealist. When I moved to Minneapolis, I couldn’t store it. I didn’t have space for it. So I kept it with my sister’s neighbor, and it stayed there for quite a while. One day, she told me that someone was interested in buying it, and I ended up selling it for $300. When I think about that today, I’m like, “Ah, if only I had had space.” I wish I still had that painting.

When you start a new piece, where do you begin? What’s the first step?

I don’t use a sketch, like some artists do. I use cut paper, which for me is a quick, immediate way to bring forth a form, whether one I’m making in a composition and a painting, or even for sculpture — something I want to build. So that’s always the first thing: paper, scissors, start cutting.

How do you know when you’re done?

At this point, I would say intuition. I start getting closer to the end and, typically, I can see that I need X number of moves to finish it. When I’m nowhere near the end — when I know it’s not resolved — I have to keep making changes until I can see that end in sight.

What music do you play when you’re making art?

Oh, a lot of bad music. I don’t let too many people know what I’m listening to because it’s so cheesy — a lot of Britpop and ’90s R&amp;B. More recently, I’ve been listening to BBC radio dramas. I don’t know how I’d missed out on this genre for so long. You’ll also notice from my practice that I like scripts, I like the performance of language. And I like theater. So this satisfies me so much. Sometimes the narrative sticks with me and sometimes I forget it because I’m working, but I just like the performance — I might be drawn into a voice or character because I get to imagine it myself.

I don’t think Britpop and ’90s R&amp;B are cheesy, for what it’s worth — they’re great!

It’s like New Order, Jody Watley, Whitney Houston, Pet Shop Boys. Those can come right after each other. You got me to say it. [Laughs] I was listening yesterday to the Breeders. Sometimes I just have to turn on “Gigantic” by the Pixies — it’s the most fitting song for how I feel sometimes.

Kim Deal is also a twin.

That’s right! I thought of this when I was watching the video on YouTube yesterday — again, these twins.

Is there a meal you eat on repeat when you’re working?

Sometimes my friend Kyle comes over and makes what I jokingly call bacon-and-egg spaghetti. It’s carbonara bucatini, but he makes it in a very specific way. I like the bucatini noodle because it’s fatter than the spaghetti noodle. It’s the most decadent meal I could ever eat, and he’s a great friend.

Are you bingeing any shows right now?

I don’t know if I should say this. I’m watching “The Walking Dead” for the second time. The first time I saw it was right when the pandemic started. I watched the entire thing and was fine with being done. But then I felt I needed that intensity back. The show is cheesy but so intense. What it reveals is that the zombies aren’t the thing to be scared of. It’s the people.

How often do you talk to other artists?

All the time. Living in Chicago, the majority of my friends are artists.

When you’re making your work, do you need to block out conversations with other people, or is that part of the process for you?

There are times when you’re having a lot of conversations because you’re kind of parsing ideas and the representation and critical underpinnings of those ideas. And so you don’t necessarily want to block that out in the studio, or at least I don’t want to. But there does need to be a point where I make my own decisions and my own choices, and those voices get silenced.

What do you do when you’re procrastinating?

Make big handwritten lists of what I should be doing. That’s more how I stay on track. I don’t necessarily procrastinate; I just can’t — because if I do, it’ll all fall apart.

What’s the last thing that made you cry?

The thing that makes me continue to cry is the unnecessary killing of Black people in America.

If you have windows, what do they look out on?

The L train tracks. Usually, I see the tracks and some trees moving, and then the train itself, which is very comforting. There’s a rhythmic sound to it. In the beginning, it was a new sound, but now it’s familiar. It became very empty during the pandemic — it had a ghostly feel to it.

What do you usually wear when you work?

One thing that’s constant is this black apron. I got it a long time ago from a job I had catering and I just kept it. It’s so useful because of the pockets in the front.

What do you bulk buy with most frequency?

Green painter’s tape.

What embarrasses you?

Watching a video recording of a lecture I’ve given is really hard for me. I can’t do it. But I’m always thinking, “I’m my worst critic.”

Do you exercise?

Yes. My father was an avid tennis player when I was growing up, and for a long time that was something I was meaning to pick back up. I finally did a few months ago and had an amazing coach. Now it’s full speed ahead. And I run. With winter coming and the pandemic surging again, I finally bought a treadmill and I’m going to put it in my studio. [Laughs] I think it will be a good way to clear my mind.

What are you reading?

I’m in a season of not reading as much. The world is so intense right now; I need that break of just watching. And, when I’ve had a little bit of time, I’ve been watching films. I just tuned in to the Chicago Jewish Community Center film festival. And Northwestern has the Block Cinema program, which is now online.

What’s your favorite artwork by someone else?

I keep going back to Ralph Lemon’s “Scaffold Room” (2014). It’s a performance piece, and I saw it at the Walker Art Center. It changed the way that I think about what happens in the space of a museum. Watching it, my feelings kept shifting from spectator to participant — because I felt like I was invited to feel inside the work. There was a lot of shifting and changing because of the intensity of the narratives, the different subjects that were coming into play. It totally rearranged my furniture.

This interview has been edited and condensed.





No.18 article:
How a Man With a Van Is Challenging U.K. Drug Policy

A former drug user turned activist is addressing Scotland’s alarming drug death crisis by running the nation’s first drug consumption room — and risking arrest to do it.

GLASGOW — Every Friday for the past two months, Peter Krykant has parked his white van on Parnie Street in central Glasgow, around the corner from a games shop and several art galleries, and waited for people to come by and inject illegal drugs.

Inside the van are two seats and two tables, each with a stainless steel tray and hypodermic needles, as well as several biohazard trash cans. The van is also equipped with naloxone, the medication used to reverse an opioid overdose, and a defibrillator. (There are Covid-19 safety precautions, too: hand sanitizer and a box of masks.)

Mr. Krykant usually opens the van by 10 a.m., and on this particular day three people were already waiting to get inside. This was something of a surprise, since the Scottish police had charged him with obstruction the week before when he refused to open the vehicle to officers, knowing several people were inside taking drugs. He wasn’t sure anyone would come back after that scare.

Scotland is in the midst of its worst drug crisis on record, and one of the worst in the world. The country has tallied five straight years of record-setting, drug-related deaths and now holds a per capita death rate three times higher than anywhere else in Europe.

Overdoses are more common in Scotland, by some measures, than even the United States. In 2018, Scotland had nearly 20 drug-related deaths per 100,000 people, compared with 18 deaths in the United States and around five in Ireland, Finland and Sweden.

Mr. Krykant is adamant that drug consumption rooms will help slow the rate of overdose deaths in Scotland by allowing drug users to inject under supervision and with naloxone on hand.

Mr. Krykant chats easily with several men waiting to be let inside. He asks them what type of drug they’ll be injecting, writes it down and then opens the sliding back door.

In addition to Mr. Krykant, at least one other trained volunteer is on duty; they take turns watching for the police and checking on the people inside.

A 25-year-old man who would give only his first name, Gezzy, for fear of arrest, said he had injected both heroin and cocaine that day. Dressed in a navy blue tracksuit with a clean haircut, he talked candidly about the death of his ex-girlfriend, who suffered an overdose seven weeks earlier.

“This is what we needed,” he said. “There are too many overdoses.”

Mr. Krykant, a former addict himself, said he had “learned very quickly that harm reduction is the most fundamental thing.”

“People don’t get any more opportunities after they’re dead,” he said.

Drug consumption rooms are facilities that legally allow people to take illicit drugs under the supervision of trained professionals, in a sterile environment and with clean equipment. They have been shown to reduce overdose deaths and blood-borne viruses like H.I.V., decrease public injecting and more quickly connect people to treatment services.

“In all recorded injections that have taken place in these spaces across the world, there has not been one recorded death,” said Andrew McAuley, a public health professor at Glasgow Caledonian University.

The first legal facility opened in Switzerland in the mid 1980s, and over the last three decades they have been established across Europe, Canada and Australia, around 200 in all.

Despite their effectiveness and Scotland’s increasingly dire drug problem, they remain illegal throughout Britain.

The Scottish government has expressed its support, butWestminster has not budged. “We have no plans to introduce drug consumption rooms, and anyone running them would be committing a range of offenses,” a spokesperson for the British Home Office said in a statement.

But Mr. Krykant thinks blaming Westminster is an easy out.

“All we’ve been hearing is that it’s the U.K. government’s fault,” he said, adding: “We could have drug consumption rooms in Scotland right now if there was political will.”

With Scotland in control of its own health care and policing — a system known as devolution — Mr. Krykant and other drug policy advocates argue that the Lord Advocate, Scotland’s chief public prosecutor, could provide legal cover in the form of a “letter of comfort” stating that drug consumption rooms could operate without fear of criminal prosecution. (The Lord Advocate provided similar guidance this spring for naloxone.)

But he has so far declined to do this, saying the facilities require a legal solution that addresses civil liability and the full range of exemptions from criminal law.

To date, the police have not shut down the van, nor have they made any arrests. In a statement, they seemed to suggest they would leave well enough alone — for now, at least.

“The establishment of any form of safe consumption location contravenes the U.K. Misuse of Drugs Act 1971,” an assistant chief constable of Police Scotland, Gary Ritchie, said in a statement. “Any attempt to circumvent the law, as it stands, by providing an unregulated and unlicensed facility may expose already vulnerable people to more risk and harm.”

For Mr. Krykant, the goal of the van is to challenge drug policy more than to curb Scotland’s soaring drug deaths.

“We may keep people alive, but this has always been about a push for an official establishment,” he said. “We can’t provide a service for hundreds of people from the back of one transit van.”

Mr. Krykant grew up in Falkirk, about 20 miles from Glasgow, and said he was taking drugs on a daily basis by the time he was 11 years old. By 17, he was injecting heroin, and a few years later found himself in Birmingham, England, living on the street and begging for money to fuel his drug habit.

He was eventually approached by an outreach team in Birmingham and offered a chance to enter a residential treatment program. “I grabbed my bag and enough drugs to take on the train and got myself there,” he said.

After that, he moved to Brighton in southern England and completed another program, and has been clean now for two decades. He returned to Falkirk in 2013 with his family and started working in drug recovery services.

But he started to grow disillusioned with the work he was doing. As an outreach coordinator for a charity, part of his job was testing homeless people in Glasgow for H.I.V. and hepatitis C.

“We would be walking away from people who tested negative, knowing that they were going to be back in the alleyway later that day,” he said.

In February, he attended a conference sponsored by the Scottish government and heard about the promise of drug consumption rooms. He was intrigued. A few weeks later he traveled to Copenhagen and met with the people who opened Denmark’s first mobile site in 2011. Less than a year later, the Danish Parliament legalized supervised injection facilities.

“I took my inspiration from what happened there,” he said. “They quickly got the legal framework and now have the world’s largest safe consumption facility.”

He traveled back to Scotland and decided to do the same.

He invested 500 pounds, or about $650, of his own money and crowd-funded the remaining £2,400 to purchase the well-traveled van and outfit it with the necessary equipment. On Aug. 31 — International Overdose Awareness Day — he drove it to Parnie Street for the first time.

“Almost all of the interventions that work to help people were started through civil disobedience,” said Alex Kral, an epidemiologist from the nonprofit research institute RTI International. “Needle exchange programs, naloxone programs. Safe consumption sites are no different.”

Mr. Kral said the situation in Scotland was “completely parallel” to the United States. Despite attempts by cities like Seattle and Philadelphia to establish drug consumption rooms, the country currently has no legal sites. (One unsanctioned facility has operated since 2014 in an undisclosed location.)

Mr. Krykant chose the van’s parking spot carefully. Within a 30-second walk is an alleyway where drug users publicly inject. It is filled with discarded needles, slivers of foil and small spoons.

James Muir, 34, said that when the van was not there he usually injected in alleys like the one nearby or in parking lots around Glasgow. He said he had been to the van about three or four times now, adding, “I think it’s really good.” I asked if he was worried about the possibility of the police showing up and arresting him over drug possession.

“The guy reassured me he locks the van,” Mr. Muir said of Mr. Krykant. “I trust him.”





No.19 article:
Protesters in Guatemala Set Fire to Congress Building Over Spending Cuts

After two hurricanes displaced thousands of people and wrecked infrastructure, a bill that cut spending on health and education and bolstered lawmakers’ meal stipends touched off a wave of anger in the capital.

ANTIGUA, Guatemala — Thousands of protesters took to the streets in Guatemala’s capital on Saturday, setting fire to the nation’s congressional building in a show of anger over a budget bill passed this week that cut funding for health care and education.

The demonstrations in Guatemala City, which also included peaceful marches in the central plaza, rocked a nation still recovering from back-to-back hurricanes that displaced thousands of people, destroyed homes and obliterated critical infrastructure. As heavy rains brought on by the second storm pummeled impoverished towns in Guatemala’s highlands and coastal regions on Wednesday, the country’s Congress passed a budget that cut spending on education and health in favor of increasing lawmakers’ meal stipends.

The bill, which also proposed gutting funding to combat malnutrition and slashed funding for the judiciary, set off immediate outrage and led to demonstrations across the country.

One group of protesters kicked in the windows of the Congress building and set a fire that sent flames billowing out of the entrance, social media videos showed. Police officers sprayed tear gas at demonstrators and firefighters quickly put the blaze out, according to local news reports.

On Twitter, Guatemala’s president, Alejandro Giammattei, denounced the arson. “We cannot permit public and private property to be vandalized,” he said in a tweet, adding that those who committed “criminal acts” would “be punished with the full force of the law.” In an attempt to appease demonstrators, the president also said in an earlier news release that he was reviewing possible modifications to the budget.

But the frustration with Mr. Giammattei’s leadership has also reached the highest levels of his own cabinet.

On Friday, Vice President Guillermo Castillo said in a news conference that he had “little communication with the president” and offered to resign, but only if Mr. Giammattei stepped down with him. Mr. Giammattei has not responded to Mr. Castillo’s comments.

Protesters in Antigua, a city about an hour’s drive west of the capital, said they were enraged at the rampant corruption that has long flourished at every rung of their government. Last year, former President Jimmy Morales ousted a U.N.-backed commission that had been aggressively investigating high-profile cases of graft. The move was widely criticized as an effort to protect officials charged with abusing public office for their personal enrichment.

“I am upset that the country keeps getting in debt and things don’t change,” said Maria Vega, a 42-year-old teacher who brought her two sons to the protest in Antigua. “We have endured a lot over the past few months and the fact that health, education are not prioritized is frustrating.”

In Guatemala City, people held signs saying that they had “neither a president, nor a Congress” representing them and calling on all lawmakers to resign, photos on social media showed. A giant rat towered over the capital’s central plaza plastered with the president’s name. Religious groups, including the Roman Catholic Church leadership, joined the cacophony of voices demanding Mr. Giammattei veto the budget.

“The lack of clarity with which Congress approved the budget is the last straw for me,” said Antonio Durán, an engineer in Antigua. “The corruption that governments in Guatemala have shown has impacted generations of people — and it’s something that we need to stop.”

On Saturday night, Guatemala’s Interior Ministry published a list of the names of 33 people who were arrested during the protests in Guatemala City, with six more detained in Quetzaltenango, about 70 miles to the west. 





No.20 article:
A Headline (or Five) for History

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

A funny thing about print journalism is that the most momentous events often call for the simplest headlines. MEN WALK ON MOON did not require any great turn of phrase or judicious selection of information, yet it had a crisp power that endures decades later.

But which two or three words would declare the winner of the 2020 presidential election atop The New York Times? The debate went on for days in a chain of emails among more than a dozen editors from various departments.

For this “hammer head,” we had to prepare for a wide range of outcomes: A close win by Joseph R. Biden Jr. A narrow victory by President Trump. A Biden landslide. A decisive Trump re-election. And there was the very real possibility of no winner on election night. (More on that later.)

In the event of a Trump win, we preferred TRUMP PREVAILS — nothing fancy, but it would say a lot in two words.

The Biden options included IT’S BIDEN and BIDEN’S MOMENT. But the consensus was that if Mr. Biden won, Mr. Trump’s defeat would be a significant part of the story as well, given the president’s domination of the news cycle for four years.

So the best course, we felt, was to go straight: BIDEN (verb) TRUMP. The next question: Which verb?

Defeats? Ousts? Topples?

“Defeats feels a tad bland,” said Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, later adding, “Ousts feels like a coup.” Some felt that topples was too close to ousts.

What we needed was simple. Powerfully simple. BIDEN BEATS TRUMP. Clear and crisp, a rapid-fire combination of three five-letter words. And it took a dozen journalists only about 25 emails to get there.

While this particular discussion was unusually extensive, headline collaboration at The Times is not at all unusual. Most Page 1 headlines face scrutiny by at least five sets of eyes.

We are both members of the Print Hub, the team responsible for producing the newspaper on paper. In the old days, we were called copy editors. Our responsibilities include writing headlines, photo captions and other “hardware,” or display type, and working with designers to make sure articles fit their allotted spaces in the many sections of the paper.

On a typical night, a Print Hub editor may be assigned to write the hardware for one front-page article, which is reviewed by a second print editor. The proposed headline is also sent to Steve Kenny, the senior editor for nights, who either suggests revisions or moves it along to the masthead editors for final approval. Once it’s on the page, the headline is subject to further polishing by other print editors.

In the print newspaper, obviously, space is a consideration. A headline must fit, be clear and accurate, and have a certain liveliness to it, all while adhering to a long list of rules (that’s a whole other Insider) that can make the task feel a little like trying to solve a linguistic Rubik’s Cube. It can take minutes, or it can take hours.

And sometimes, after the first edition closes at 8 p.m., the article develops further or we simply realize we can do better. So we do it all again.

On Election Day, we knew we wouldn’t have an outcome for that first edition. The lead story for the early papers would be a “mood” piece, focusing on the high turnout and the stakes in a divided and virus-ravaged nation. We went with this banner:

And this secondary headline, or bank:

We hoped to have a more decisive banner for the later editions. But as the night wore on, it became apparent that was not going to happen, not even for the final edition, which closed after midnight. The challenge faced by the Print Hub, as opposed to our colleagues on the website, was that we needed to write a permanent headline for events that could be drastically different by the time the paper landed on doorsteps. So we kept the “turnout/suspense” banner for all editions but updated the bank to say:

Wednesday night was more of the same. We had to be extremely careful about not saying more than we knew for sure, although we were able to convey Mr. Biden’s growing momentum and Mr. Trump’s efforts to undermine the process:

On Thursday, the outcome continued to take shape, gradually …

… As it did on Friday night …

On Saturday, we were less than an hour from the noon deadline for the Sunday paper’s first edition — what we call the Bulldog — and planned to go with this:

Then Mr. Biden was declared the winner. We pulled the BIDEN BEATS TRUMP hammer head out of mothballs and set to work on the secondary banner and the bank:

Once again, simple.





No.21 article:
New &amp; Noteworthy Audiobooks, From Rebel Girls to Rachel Bloom

COMEDY IN COLOR, by Laugh Out Loud, read by a full cast. (Simon &amp; Schuster Audio.) The first volume in a series of audiobooks from Kevin Hart’s Pluto TV franchise collects stand-up routines by 40 comedians, hosted by “Get Out”’s Lil Rel Howery.

I WANT TO BE WHERE THE NORMAL PEOPLE ARE, by Rachel Bloom, read by the author. (Grand Central.) A creator of the CW’s “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend” narrates her uproarious collection of essays, poems and more, revealing what it’s like to live your whole life feeling “different” from everyone around you.

GOODNIGHT STORIES FOR REBEL GIRLS: 100 Immigrant Women Who Changed the World, by Elena Favilli, read by a full cast. (Listening Library.) The third book in this best-selling kids’ series celebrates female figures from Madeleine Albright to Rihanna, who left their native countries and made a difference.

AMERICAN CRISIS: Leadership Lessons From the Covid-19 Pandemic, by Andrew Cuomo, read by the author. (Random House Audio.) New York’s governor reflects on a harrowing spring, in the grips of Covid-19’s staggering first wave.

UNCOMFORTABLE CONVERSATIONS WITH A BLACK MAN, by Emmanuel Acho, read by the author. (Macmillan Audio.) The Fox Sports host expounds on white privilege, antiracist protests and how America can begin to move forward.

As a citizen of the American Republic and of Twitter, I have had little patience for reading much beyond my feed lately. Fortunately, I went into the election fortified by Susanna Clarke’s haunting new novel, PIRANESI. More magical-realist (and far briefer) than her fantastical alternative history, “Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell,” it follows the title character, who lives alone inside a seemingly infinite labyrinth of halls and statuary, flooded by mysterious tides. One day, a chance encounter with a stranger makes him wonder if there is a world beyond the one he’s always known. Clarke’s narrator is guileless and thoughtful, a kind of academic Caliban who journals his explorations and bedecks himself with seashells. His home is filled with sculpted abstractions, a concrete representation of living inside one’s mind. Is it a prison or a paradise? “Piranesi” answers this question with delicacy and grace, but the novel itself is a marvelous place to visit.

—James Poniewozik, chief television critic





No.22 article:
Parents Adjusting to the U.S., Then to Remote Learning

Jansy Molina de Maldonado’s son couldn’t speak.

When he was a year and a half, her son, Ian, loved to watch videos of dinosaurs, and could mimic the screeching and snarling he heard — but nothing more. By the time he was nearly 3, he still couldn’t say any words, and Mrs. Molina de Maldonado became distressed.

“Dinosaurs don’t talk,” she said in a recent interview in Spanish. “And I noticed that he didn’t want to either. I became worried that something was very wrong.”

Two months before the coronavirus pandemic hit the United States, Ms. Molina de Maldonado enrolled Ian in speech therapy classes. When the school shuttered, she was worried his education would languish.

At the time, she had only seven books at home, she said, and they weren’t at Ian’s reading level. But a few weeks after lockdown began, she was able to bring home some new books for Ian, who fell in love with “Mowgli’s Rainy Day,” a story set in the world of “The Jungle Book,” and “Patitas Sucias,” or “Dirty Paws,” which follows the shenanigans of a messy dog.

The family read to him several times a day and Ms. Molina de Maldonado worked with him using materials from his speech therapy classes. By the time she took him back to his Head Start program in May, he could say a few words like “mama,” “banana” and “snack.” A few more months of classes and reading at home, and Ian could speak in short sentences.

“For Ian, who couldn’t speak, the books helped him develop his language and use short words, not just sounds,” said Ms. Molina de Maldonado, 37. “He still makes the dinosaur sounds sometimes when he speaks, but every day it’s less and less.”

The books for Ian were provided thanks to a collaboration among First Book, an organization supported by the The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; UnidosUS, a nonprofit focused on Latino communities; and Pi Beta Phi Fraternity for Women. Under the initiative, the books, in Spanish and English, were distributed to several Head Start programs for migrant families, including Centro de la Familia in Salt Lake City, where Ian received speech therapy, as well as sites in Washington, Florida and North Carolina.

The coronavirus has disproportionally affected migrant communities in the United States (nearly Ms. Molina de Maldonado’s entire family recently tested positive for the virus, she said). First Book wanted to reach children in these communities, who often face intermittent schooling and a lack of educational resources. The pandemic has intensified these obstacles, and something as basic as access to books in the home can help fill that gap.

In 2016, Ms. Molina de Maldonado moved to the United States from Guatemala and began working in a food packaging plant near Santaquin, Utah, while her husband operated a tractor on a nearby alfalfa ranch.

Long days packing bags with chips and candy wore on Ms. Molina de Maldonado, so she began working as a cleaner at Centro de la Familia in 2017 and is now an assistant teacher.

The parents from the school often pool resources to hire one babysitter to care for children from multiple families while they work. For them, remote learning was particularly difficult, and near impossible if the home didn’t have an internet connection or if electronic devices weren’t available.

When the center closed in March because of the pandemic, Ms. Molina de Maldonado and other teachers, like Emma Mireya Lopez, delivered hundreds of books to their students through support from First Book, UnidosUS and the Pi Beta Phi Fraternity for Women.

“It’s a way for us to stay connected to the students,” Ms. Lopez said. “It’s important for the children to know that we still care about their education, even if we’re far away.”

The International Rescue Committee, another organization supported by The Fund, shifted its programming in Seattle to keep students’ learning on track. The agency, which assists refugees and other immigrants in rebuilding their lives in the United States, compiled and distributed school supplies and worked with parents on digital literacy so they could help oversee remote learning at home.

In place of its in-person after school programs, the International Rescue Committee opened online reading rooms and posted hundreds of books and reading assignments. It is now offering more individual tutoring and facilitating virtual group workshops, where students can connect with their peers.

Fatema Noori, 18, who moved to the Seattle area in 2019 from Kabul, Afghanistan, said the organization kept her on track to attend college. It helped her apply for and secure financial aid, and after she tested positive for Covid-19, staff members helped her navigate paperwork from her employer so she could still receive her paycheck.

Ms. Noori said that whenever she had an issue, the group’s message was always the same: “We can solve it together.”

Tahira Aziz, 12, also moved to the Seattle area from Kabul, arriving in 2018 with her parents and six of her siblings. Her father, Aziz Ahmad Zaheer, 48, deeply values education and worked as a cultural adviser and interpreter with the U.S. forces in Afghanistan. He would bring home books given to him by American military colleagues — like “A Thousand Splendid Suns” — and translate them for his children.

Tahira, who likes Harry Potter books and wants to become an artist, said she prefers school in the United States because in Afghanistan, girls are often shamed for going to school.

She said she was frustrated when the pandemic hit because she didn’t know how to use Zoom and missed a lot of meetings — until the International Rescue Committee trained her family in how to connect.

Since then, she said, school during the pandemic has been great.

“The good thing about it,” she said, “is that we can just learn. We don’t have to stop learning.”





No.23 article:
Kiernan Shipka Is Relaxing with Tony Soprano and a Margarita

The actress, who stars in Netflix’s “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina,” shared her essentials ahead of the show’s final season.

Kiernan Shipka knows a thing or two about growing up onscreen: The actress was 6 when she first appeared on “Mad Men” as Sally Draper, the role that first brought her acclaim, and had turned 15 by the time the series ended in 2015.

Now 21, as of this month — her first legal drink stateside was a Campari spritz — Shipka has realized, even after seven seasons as Don Draper’s daughter, she still had a bit of onscreen growing left to go. Shipka has spent the past several years as the teenage witch at the heart of Netflix’s “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina,” which will wrap up with its fourth season, premiering Dec. 31.

“I’ve been playing that character since I was 18, and 18 to late 20, those are big years,” she said. “It’s super formative of your adulthood in a lot of ways. All my friends were going to college, and then I was going off to do this other thing. It was kind of emotional to feel like I was letting her go.”

Ahead of the final season, Shipka discussed 10 of her favorite things, cultural and otherwise, in a phone interview from her home in Los Angeles. (Coffee and cheese were both strong honorable mentions: “The backbone of my happiness,” Shipka said, “is probably dairy products.”) These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

1. Phoebe Bridgers

One of my favorite artists — ugh, she’s so good — is Phoebe Bridgers. She just came out with a new album a little bit earlier in the year, and it is such a stunning piece of work. I grew up in the same circles as her; she went to school with a lot of my friends in L.A. And now the fact that everyone loves her and she’s this incredible, fully assumed artist, it makes me so happy to see. There’s a song on her latest album — it’s the last song, called “I Know The End” — and it’s truly such a work of art. Honestly, if you want to feel like your life is a TV show and this is the finale episode of season one, that’s the perfect song to listen to.

2. Scuba Diving

I have done maybe 10 dives now; I’m still pretty new. The first time you just want to make sure you’re not going to die or explode. But once I got the hang of it, it became my favorite thing ever. I’m really bad at meditating; I’ve tried and tried and tried and I just can’t do it — I have the app on my phone staring at me at all times. But when you’re diving, you have to focus on your breath very closely, because that’s pretty much informing your buoyancy, so it becomes this super meditative experience. You have this very calm, meticulous cadence to your breath, and you’re in a beautiful place.

3. Ottessa Moshfegh

I think that she’s probably my favorite author of the moment. I read “My Year of Rest and Relaxation” for a book club, and it’s just so brilliantly worded and funny and heartbreaking. It’s wonderful. And then the book she wrote before that, “Eileen,” really keeps you on your toes. It’s a little bit more of a thriller, and my goodness, it’s so fabulous.

4. Euchre

I’ve been playing this card game called Euchre, which is like a modified, low-key version of bridge. I truly wish it was more of a mainstream thing — it is just a really nice way to connect with people. If you’re lucky enough to bond with three other people in your life right now, playing Euchre is the way to go.

5. Mini Trampolines

When I was filming “Sabrina” in Vancouver, I found that the only way I would get any sort of movement was if I brought this mini trampoline to set. Me and my family have accumulated a couple mini trampolines around the house, and it’s become really normalized in our world. But every time a new person sees the trampoline, they’re like, “Why is there a trampoline in your kitchen?” I love jumping on them when I’m watching TV, if I’m just hanging, when I’m bored, if I need to get a little boost going — I find that a little midday bounce really does the trick.

6. ‘The Sopranos’

I feel like this is a lot of people during quarantine, but I watched the series for the first time. I have now become fully obsessed. I follow every “Sopranos”-related Instagram account that there is, every “Sopranos” meme account — these “Sopranos” Reddit conversations just bring me so much joy. I’ve seen every analysis of the finale on YouTube. I was locked down with my family and my best friend, and my best friend watched it with us — he got me this pair of Tony Soprano sweatpants and Tony Soprano slides. They’ve got Tony’s face on it, a little Prozac pill, the Bada Bing sign. By the end, I just felt like I wanted to make ziti.

7. My White Supergas

I think I’ve worn the same shoes all year — these are my every day, every night shoes. I’m 5-foot-3, so I like the platform without having to actually wear a heel. I wear with dresses, jeans, sweats — I think it goes with just about everything.

8. Margaritas

I know I’ve been 21 for like three days. However, I was legal in Vancouver starting at 19 years old, and I spent two years up there, so I have had plenty of margaritas in my short time as a legal drinker. It’s a drink I always go back to. I think there’s a nice novelty in other drinks, but there’s something about the tequila, salt, citrus, light sweetness. Rain or shine, that’s my favorite drink.

9. New York

The first time I went to New York to promote “Mad Men,” when I was 10, I could not contain my excitement. Honestly, I don’t think there’s a better experience than looking out that plane window and seeing Manhattan. There’s just so many layers of life and memories in that city for me; I really miss it. I really enjoy the Lower East Side, and I know New Yorkers aren’t very excited by Times Square, but I think that there’s a novelty to it — there’s such a cinematic element to that portion of New York. Also, Russ &amp; Daughters for bagels has my heart and soul.

10. Tino the Mannequin Head

My mom got me these mannequin heads that I could do makeup on when I was a kid, just for fun. And for some reason, this one stuck around in the basement for years. When I was maybe 14 or 15, my friends dug it up — they were like, “What is this? It’s haunted for sure.” We’ve given it a life of its own: His name is Tino, and he’s a fixture, I would say, in my friend group. And it does give off really weird cursed vibes.





No.24 article:
F.D.A. Grants Emergency Authorization of Antibody Treatment Given to Trump

The treatment, made by the biotech company Regeneron, is a cocktail of two powerful antibodies that have shown promise for people who get it early in the course of the disease.

The Food and Drug Administration has granted emergency authorization for the experimental antibody treatment given to President Trump shortly after he was diagnosed with Covid-19, giving doctors another option to treat Covid-19 patients as cases across the country continue to rise.

The treatment, made by the biotech company Regeneron, is a cocktail of two powerful antibodies that have shown promise in early studies at keeping the infection in check, reducing medical visits in patients who get the drug early in the course of their disease. A similar treatment, made by Eli Lilly, was given emergency approval earlier this month.

The emergency authorization for Regeneron’s drug is limited in scope: It is for people 12 and over who have tested positive for the coronavirus and who are at high risk for developing severe Covid-19. Evidence so far suggests that antibody treatments work best early in the course of the disease, before the virus has gained a foothold in the body. Like Eli Lilly’s treatment, Regeneron’s is not authorized for use in people who are hospitalized or who need oxygen.

The emergency authorization raises immediate questions about who will get access to the treatments as an average of more than 168,000 people are diagnosed each day with Covid-19 in the United States and hospitals are running out of beds in some regions of the country. Regeneron has said it will have enough of the drug for only about 80,000 people by the end of November, enough for 200,000 patients by the first week of January, and 300,000 by the end of January. After that, the company said it will be able to ramp up production thanks to a partnership with the Swiss manufacturer Roche.

Regeneron has received more than $500 million from the federal government to develop and manufacture the treatments, a complex and time-consuming process. Although the first 300,000 doses will be provided free of charge, patients may be charged for having the treatment administered; it must be infused in a clinic or hospital.

Antibody treatments have gotten less attention than vaccines, but health officials have long held out hope that they may serve as a possible bridge until a coronavirus vaccine is more broadly available. Two vaccines, one made by Pfizer and another by Moderna, were recently shown to be more than 90 percent effective in early analyses. Pfizer, which has completed its trial, submitted an application on Friday for emergency authorization of the vaccine, and Moderna said it also planned to apply soon. Still, it will be weeks before a vaccine is available, and even then, access will be limited to people in high-risk groups.

Dr. George D. Yancopoulos, Regeneron’s president and chief scientific officer, said in a statement that he was encouraged by the recent vaccine results, but “there remains a need to treat patients who develop Covid-19, especially as some may not have had access to or were not protected by vaccination.”

Regeneron enjoyed a burst of publicity in October, when Mr. Trump received an infusion of its cocktail and then enthusiastically promoted the drug as lending him a superpower-like feeling. In a video released on Oct. 7, the president claimed without evidence that it had cured him, and that he had authorized it — something he does not have the power to do.

It remains impossible to know whether the Regeneron treatment helped Mr. Trump. He was given multiple drugs while at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, and many people recover from the virus on their own.

Since the spring, White House and health officials have been closely watching the development of the antibody treatments. In addition to Regeneron’s deal with the federal government, Eli Lilly announced a $375 million deal in October to supply the government with 300,000 doses.

A similar antibody treatment that Regeneron developed to fight Ebola was approved by the F.D.A. in October, bolstering confidence that its Covid-19 version would prevail in the ongoing trials of outpatients.

The president and two of his top advisers — Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, and Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law — have called Dr. Stephen M. Hahn, the F.D.A. commissioner, to press for speed in agency reviews. And Dr. Leonard S. Schleifer, the billionaire co-founder and chief executive of Regeneron, who has known Mr. Trump casually for years, has told associates that Mr. Trump calls him to ask about the status of the treatment.

Early data released by Regeneron suggest that its cocktail works best in people who do not appear to be mounting an early immune response to the virus, or who have high levels of the virus, and who are therefore at greater risk of faring poorly.

But early evidence also shows that the antibody treatments do not work well once people are sick enough to be hospitalized. Eli Lilly stopped giving its treatment to hospitalized patients in a government-run trial, because it said it did not seem to be helping those patients. And Regeneron paused enrolling the sickest hospitalized patients in one of its trials.

This causes a challenge for distributing the drugs, since they are only authorized for people who are not hospitalized, yet must be infused intravenously in a clinic or hospital.

Regeneron has suggested that the people who benefit the most from the treatment are those who have not yet mounted an antibody response and who also have high viral loads — but learning who those people are would require separate tests that are not routinely given to patients who test positive for the virus. Company executives have acknowledged that at first, such tests may not be available, and the emergency authorization notes that people at high risk include those who are over 65, or have underlying conditions such as obesity or diabetes.

Getting the treatment to the right people will require quick turnarounds in testing, as well as coordination among federal, state and hospital officials — many of the same challenges that have complicated the U.S. response to the pandemic.

The distributor AmerisourceBergen will deliver Regeneron’s treatment on a weekly schedule based on the number of Covid-19 cases in each state. The federal government plans to work with state health officials to determine which hospitals and clinics should receive it.

In a call with reporters this month to outline how the Eli Lilly treatment would be distributed, Janet Woodcock, a top federal drug official, said the administration was working with hospitals and infusion companies, and acknowledged the logistical complexity of a drug that takes an hour to administer, followed by an hour of observation. The hospitals and clinics will also have to figure out how to safely treat infectious patients without exposing other people to the virus.

“We’re all going to need to get the word out that people at high risk have a therapeutic option now as outpatients, because until this point people have been told to stay home unless they get very sick,” she said.

The emergency use authorization, or E.U.A., was previously an obscure corner of regulatory law that mostly escaped broad public attention. But during the pandemic, it has become a centerpiece of the administration’s health policy: Since February, the agency has granted hundreds of emergency authorizations related to Covid-19, many for diagnostic tests and others for personal protective equipment, blood-purification devices, ventilators and therapies.

In signing off on the emergency authorizations, F.D.A. scientists in the agency’s Office of Infectious Diseases had to weigh the need for clear evidence that the treatments worked with the increasing desperation for useful drugs as the pandemic accelerated again in the United States. Unlike a full F.D.A. approval, which requires a rigorous vetting of clinical trial data showing a drug is safe and effective, an emergency authorization simply requires the potential benefits of a drug to outweigh its risks.

The emergency authorization for Regeneron may still have the unintended effect of complicating the role of clinical trials in proving the treatment’s effectiveness for different age groups. If the drug becomes available more broadly, fewer people may want to sign up for clinical trials and risk the possibility that they may receive a placebo.

Regeneron’s clinical trials are continuing in hospitalized patients as well as in studies looking at whether the treatment can prevent infections in people who have been exposed to someone with Covid-19.





No.25 article:
Quotation of the Day: Dolly: Country Music Legend, Songwriter, Pandemic Hero

“Shakespeare may have written King Lear during the plague, but Dolly Parton funded a Covid vaccine, dropped a Christmas album and a Christmas special.”

LYZ LENZ, an author, responding on Twitter to attention the country singer has received for donating $1 million to Vanderbilt University Medical Center, which worked with the drugmaker Moderna to develop a coronavirus vaccine.





No.26 article:
Judge Dismisses Trump Lawsuit Seeking to Delay Certification in Pennsylvania

In a scathing order, a federal judge rejected the Trump campaign’s claim of widespread improprieties with mail-in ballots, removing a major legal hurdle to certifying Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory there. 

A federal judge in Pennsylvania dismissed on Saturday night a lawsuit by the Trump campaign that had claimed there were widespread improprieties with mail-in ballots in the state, ending the last major effort to delay the certification of Pennsylvania’s vote results, which is scheduled to take place on Monday.

In a scathing order, Judge Matthew W. Brann wrote that President Trump’s campaign, which had asked him to effectively disenfranchise nearly seven million voters, should have come to court “armed with compelling legal arguments and factual proof of rampant corruption” in its efforts to essentially nullify the results of Pennsylvania’s election.

But instead, Judge Brann complained, the Trump campaign provided only “strained legal arguments without merit and speculative accusations” that were “unsupported by evidence.”

After legal defeats in nearly all of the key swing states — Michigan, Georgia, Nevada, Arizona and Wisconsin — Mr. Trump’s path to overturning the results of the election through the courts has all but vanished. After Judge Brann handed down his order, Senator Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, released a statement that called Joseph R. Biden Jr. the president-elect and said “President Trump should accept the outcome of the election and facilitate the presidential transition process.”

The Pennsylvania lawsuit, filed on Nov. 9, accused its secretary of state, Kathy Boockvar, and several counties with largely Democratic populations of unfairly handling mail-in ballots, which were used in unprecedented numbers during this year’s election.

The suit claimed that under Ms. Boockvar’s guidance, the Democratic counties gave voters who had submitted mail-in ballots with minor flaws an opportunity to “cure” or fix them while counties with mostly Republican populations did not alert voters about faulty ballots. 

That, according to the Trump campaign, violated the equal protections clause of the United States Constitution.

Judge Brann, a former Pennsylvania Republican Party official and a member of the conservative Federalist Society, who was appointed by President Barack Obama, rejected this argument, likening it to Frankenstein’s monster, which, he noted, had been “haphazardly stitched together.”

He ruled that the Trump campaign, lacking standing to make the claim, could not prove that it had suffered any harm if some counties, anticipating a deluge of mail-in ballots, helped their voters to file proper ballots while others did not. 

“That some counties may have chosen to implement” Ms. Boockvar’s suggestions but others did not, “does not constitute an equal-protection violation,” Judge Brann wrote.

The dismissal of the suit just two days before Pennsylvania was scheduled to certify its vote and award its 20 electors to Mr. Biden was merely the latest of the more than 30 legal losses the Trump campaign and other Republican plaintiffs have suffered since Election Day. 

At a rambling news conference on Thursday that mixed misleading statements, conspiracy theories and outright fabrications, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, promised more suits attacking the integrity of the elections and proving “massive fraud,” but at least so far, those suits have not been filed.

The suit Judge Brann considered was particularly troubled by legal challenges. 

One week after it was filed, the Trump campaign was already on its third set of lawyers. On Tuesday, Mr. Giuliani, rushing into the matter, personally appeared at a hearing in Federal District Court in Williamsport, Pa., and gave a disjointed opening statement that mentioned Mickey Mouse, former mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago and the Philadelphia mafia.

In court papers filed on Saturday, he misspelled the name of Pennsylvania’s governor, Tom Wolf.

Even though Mr. Giuliani began his presentation at the court hearing by accusing the Democratic Party of committing “nationwide fraud” in Pennsylvania and at least nine other states, under questioning by Judge Brann, he quickly backtracked and acknowledged he was making no such claims in this case. 

“This is not a fraud case,” he said. 

In his 37-page order, Judge Brann systemically dismantled the Trump campaign’s arguments and those brought by the suit’s two other plaintiffs, Republican voters who claimed their mail-in ballots had not been counted.

Given the almost total lack of evidence that the Trump campaign provided, Judge Brann seemed incredulous that he was being asked to toss the results of an entire state’s election.

“In the United States of America, this cannot justify the disenfranchisement of a single voter, let alone all the voters of its sixth most populated state,” he wrote. “Our people, laws and institutions demand more.”

Advertisement





No.27 article:
The Wild, Rangy, Unclassifiable Delights of Joy Williams’s Fiction

If the vanity of writers is originality, the vice of critics is classification. Novelists and poets show off their bright plumage and emit their unique trills and warbles while scholars and journalists peer through the foliage, identifying the specimens and sorting them into categories. Look: a regional realist! A flock of autofictionists! Was that a postmodernist? I’ve never seen one in the wild.

If I have birds (and bird metaphors) on the brain it’s because I’ve spent much of the past few months reading and rereading Joy Williams, whose books (four novels and five volumes of stories since 1973) abound with avian life. As I tracked the mutilated pelicans and the wounded heron from “Breaking and Entering,” the “pet peahen named Atilla” in “The Quick and the Dead,” the old woman whose body appears grotesquely birdlike to the heroine of “The Changeling,” and the artificial and natural flamingos that pop up everywhere, I wondered if Williams, now 76 and a practiced observer of wildlife in her own right, might be the rarest of literary birds — one who defies guidebook taxonomies altogether.

It’s easy enough to say that, but Williams’s individuality isn’t just a matter of idiosyncrasy, of plots and characters willfully torqued away from the ordinary. What she practices is more like camouflage, except that instead of adapting to its environment, Williams’s imagination, by remaining true to itself, reveals new colorations in the ecology around her. You can place her books on a shelf alongside, say, Raymond Carver or Karen Russell, Lauren Groff or Harry Crews, Kate Chopin or Nathaniel Hawthorne, and your ideas about them will change as tendrils of affinity snake from Williams’s pages into theirs.

This isn’t influence or coincidence, though Williams shares geographical, generational and genre markings with those and many other writers. Russell wrote the introduction to a recent edition of Williams’s 1978 novel “The Changeling” (grouping its author alongside “Ovid, Shakespeare, Morrison, God”), and you could make a case that they are, with Crews and Groff, leading exponents of the kind of contemporary literary Floridiana that focuses on the sometimes comic, sometimes grotesque, sometimes sad doings of wayward white people in the Sunshine State. Florida comes up a lot in Williams’s work (she has written a nonfiction book about Key West). It’s a landscape of vacation homes and cut-rate amusements with a complicated gravity that expels some characters, attracts others and causes still others to sink into fragrant, hazy torpor.

But she’s equally at home in — she has in fact lived in — Arizona and Maine. She’s not really a Western or a New England writer, though. Or maybe she is, insofar as the flat, dry heat of the desert affects the restless young women in “The Quick and the Dead” as much as the humidity of Florida afflicts the listless young women in “State of Grace” and “Breaking and Entering,” and the deep, lonesome dark of a Maine winter shadows the mother-and-child odyssey in the short story “Escapes.” Her sense of place is acute, but her places aren’t steeped in history or tradition. People pass through or stop in them without always understanding or caring where they are. “It was one of those rugged American places,” a minor character in “The Quick and the Dead” muses, recalling his hometown in Washington State, “a remote, sad-ass, but plucky downwind town whose citizens were flawed and brave. He would never go back there, of course.”

What kind of writer is Joy Williams? If you put that question to me under torture — you might! I don’t know — I would probably blurt out “a Vintage Contemporaries author.” That’s the imprint that has published most of her books, and while I know that a corporate brand isn’t necessarily a meaningful literary identity, I want to insist that, for some of us whose tastes and sensibilities were formed in the 1980s, this particular brand kind of is.

In the decades since, Vintage Contemporaries paperbacks issued between, say, 1984 and 1994 — with their super-glossy covers and bright white spines, their Philip Johnsonesque colophon, the too-bright color illustrations that at once give away everything inside the book and miss the point entirely — have become collectors’ items and fetish objects. They are ugly and beautiful and distinctive in a way that can only start to convey, to those who weren’t around, how weird it was to be alive back then. The covers sometimes more than the contents, since the collection was notably eclectic, inclusive rather than programmatic in its choices. It’s preposterous to suggest that “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love,”“Bright Lights, Big City,” “From Rockaway” and “Clea and Zeus Divorce” — eye-catching flagships in the vintage Vintage fleet as I remember it — were all examples of the same thing. But they could nonetheless feel that way to an obsessive young reader in the days before recommendation algorithms. And for this obsessive young reader, the author who most consistently embodied whatever that thing might have been was absolutely Joy Williams.

Her covers could be provocative and enigmatic, like the Modiglianiesque woman caressing her own armpit as she reclined above a blurb from Harold Brodkey for “State of Grace,” or the woman (was it the same one?) seen from the back as she hugged herself next to a virtually identical Brodkey quote for “Escapes.” (“To put it simply,” said Brodkey, who was famous for not putting anything simply, “Joy Williams is the most gifted writer of her generation.”)

But for me the epitome of Williams, Vintage contemporaneity and everything I didn’t understand about Reagan-era America was “Breaking and Entering,” her 1988 novel about a young Florida couple who squat in other people’s houses and bump up against other human flotsam. That cover is almost absurdly literal: A woman in a blue bikini peeks through brass-handled French doors. In their panes you see reflections of a beach, a palm tree and a pelican in flight. A dog crouches in front of the woman. These are Liberty and Clem, “a big white Alsatian with pale eyes,” and their inscrutable gazes — wary? teasing? hostile? bereft? — hint at the novel’s shifting, enigmatic emotional weather.

That bluntly figurative illustration — it reads as a highly specific picture, stylized and slightly fantastical but in no way abstract — implies a tone and a subject matter associated with other well-known writers of the time, who rendered fragments of American life with deadpan diction and hard empirical detail. It was called minimalism or (after a special issue of the literary magazine Granta) dirty realism, rubrics that have long faded from critical discourse.

Those old labels can be suggestive, though, in the way that old paperbacks are. And Liberty and her husband, Willie, display some kinship with the unmoored, numbed characters who amble through the pages of Ann Beattie and Raymond Carver. This is partly a matter of the absences that define the minimalized fictional terrain of the 1970s and ’80s. There is a general air of discontent, of alienation, but this feeling doesn’t have a social cause or a political effect. It’s just the way people are. There are richer and poorer people — fancy villas and ratty apartments, childhoods of pampered leisure and first-class schooling as well as back stories of deprivation and precarity — but class is more often a source of atmospheric detail than an explanatory principle. Economics is tangential to eros and subsumed by ecology:

It may be that explanation as such — the assumption that things in fiction happen for a reason, and that the writer’s job is to supply or at least imply that reason — is the most important absence in the Williams cosmos. Her characters, the women in particular, often occupy psychological states and exhibit behavioral patterns that might elicit a diagnosis of some kind. But it wouldn’t just be reductive to say that Liberty suffers from depression, or that Pearl and the other heavy drinkers struggle with addiction or that the countless orphans, widows and parents of lost children — nearly everybody in “The Quick and the Dead” and half of the population of the stories in the omnibus collection “The Visiting Privilege” — are processing their grief. Phrases like those are clichés, examples of the kind of banal, flattened language Williams avoids the way her characters avoid permanence — temperamentally and also programmatically. A lazy, secondhand phrase will sometimes turn up in quotation marks, but always flagged as a moral error, a sign of bad faith or bad taste, a category mistake.

More often, people say remarkable things. You hear — and characters overhear — crazy stories, cracked bits of wisdom, fragments of longer conversations that threaten to distract you from the main action, like this:

Or this:

I’ve often wondered if Williams invented these tidbits or collected them, or both — or if having a fertile imagination and a finely tuned ear finally amount to the same thing.

There is a plain everydayness to most of Williams’s settings. An exception is the island estate in “The Changeling,” which evokes both the spooky mansions of Gothic romance and the mad-scientist research facilities of dystopian science fiction, but even that novel begins, like “Breaking and Entering,” in a drab stretch of Florida. A woman is drinking alone in a bar — hardly a remarkable sight. But this woman, named Pearl, is, like Liberty — and also like the less evocatively named Helens, Glorias, Donnas and Alices who circulate through the other books — embedded in, surrounded by and granted the power to utter sentences that are outrageous, disturbing and loaded with surprise.

Williams’s beginnings feint toward the usual introductory business — offering names, setting scenes — and invariably swerve into a sinuous motion that repeats until the last page, when the prose stops short and the reader keeps moving, like a passenger without a seatbelt. Here are a pair of beginnings, both from the 2004 collection “Honored Guest”:

You won’t believe what happens next. Someone named Louise, a late-arriving protagonist, gets her dead friend’s dog, which she renames Broom, and finds her life disrupted. Miriam, for her part, falls in love with a lamp with a stag’s hoof for feet, and embarks on a road trip with the lamp, Jack and one of his students. Here’s where things end up in one of the stories:

Is that Miriam or Louise? I’d rather not say. Maybe you can guess? There’s no danger of spoiling anything, and no shame in being wrong. The anticipation of just how you will be wrong — just how wrong you will be — if you try to predict what will happen, is one of the keenest and most consistent pleasures of reading Williams. And also, as the passage above suggests, a philosophical insight, a universal principle of alteration and sameness.

Her inventiveness is both linguistic and narrative. Her people don’t behave in the expected ways, and neither do her words. Reality itself can seem to bend in her grasp, in subtle and also in florid ways. There is that strong-and-silent, oddly passionate lamp. A literal ghost appears in “The Quick and the Dead” — too voluble and abrasive to be an alcoholic hallucination, though she may also be that. The island in “The Changeling” is full of weird enchantments that erupt, in the novel’s harrowing and beautiful climax, into full-blown wizardry. There are dark, fairy-tale overtones in the parts of “Breaking and Entering” that recount Willie and Liberty’s meeting as children, and a feverish magic infuses the dreamy, chronologically splintered coming-of-age story buried in “State of Grace,” Williams’s first novel.

This lush, insistent and elusive strangeness might push Williams out of the realist camp altogether, and land her in the once-overrun, now underpopulated zone of experimental fiction, the convention-smashing avant-gardism that the reticent realists of the ’80s were often seen as reacting against. The hothouse fabulism of “State of Grace” and “The Changeling” might put Williams in the company of John Hawkes and John Barth, as the cryptic games and surreal humor of her stories (including the very short ones assembled in her most recent book, from 2013, “99 Stories of God”) might reshelve them closer to Donald Barthelme or Lydia Davis than to Raymond Carver.

Not that she needs their company. Her protean aspect — her manner of showing both a realist and an experimental face, sometimes in the space of a single page — exposes the limitations of such sorting. The bird evades capture, even in a notebook. Capture and evasion, not incidentally, are what she writes about most.

Captivity and freedom are among the oldest and most adaptable themes in American literature. The captivity narrative, typically the ambiguously factual chronicle of a white Protestant woman’s abduction by Indians, Catholics or other designated Others, may be the foundational American prose genre, dating back to pre-Revolutionary texts like “A Narrative of the Captivity and Restoration of Mrs. Mary Rowlandson” and “The Redeemed Captive.” It proved to be a highly elastic form. Autobiographies of the enslaved, central to the Abolitionist cause before the Civil War, brought political and moral urgency to the tropes of violated innocence and daring escape. Women stifled by the demands of marriage and the conventions of middle-class propriety are fixtures of late-19th- and early-20th-century fiction. What are Kate Chopin’s “The Awakening” or Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s “The Yellow Wallpaper,” two of the canonical works of Gilded Age literary feminism, if not captivity narratives recast as psychological dramas?

I’m tempted to say the same about Williams’s fiction, which features women grappling with various kinds of entrapment — mostly emotional, psychological and spiritual, though sometimes physical as well. Does that make Williams a feminist writer? If this means just that she’s sympathetic to the problems women face and interested in how they deal with those problems, well then of course. It’s also worth adding that her view of men tends to be critical and sometimes piercingly satiric, focused equally on their power and their impotence. Fathers, suitors, sons and husbands are variously overbearing, needy, useless, volatile and out of the picture completely, leaving their wives, exes, daughters and widows to figure things out for themselves.

But you read Williams in vain if you’re looking for fables of empowerment or inspiring visions of sisterhood. Her heroines can be funny, brave and resilient for sure, but she is just as concerned with showing them as mean, mercurial, judgmental and passive.

At the start of “The Changeling,” Pearl has escaped, along with her infant son, from her husband, Walker, and his bizarre extended family. The patriarch is Walker’s brother Thomas, an aristocratic intellectual who has conscripted the children in his household into a twisted educational experiment. But the novel isn’t about Pearl’s liberation. It flashes back to her courtship with (or capture by) Walker and her ambivalent submission to Thomas’s authority. It then chronicles her return to the island, with results that defy easy summary.

Pearl is the active underminer of her own agency, the high priestess at her own sacrifice, an icon of maternity at once selfless and monstrous. She shares her name with a singularly mercurial female character in American literature — Hester Prynne’s daughter in “The Scarlet Letter,”a “wild and flighty little elf” whose impish anarchy is both a manifestation of Hester’s sin and proof of her rebellious, independent spirit. The paradox is that this Pearl, having made the passage from daughter to mother, is in rebellion against that very independence, in flight toward a captivity that promises neither safety nor stability, but rather an intensity of feeling that freedom can’t quite deliver. It’s still horrific, but like the households that sheltered and damaged Liberty in “Breaking and Entering” and the nameless narrator in “State of Grace,” it’s home.

In “The Changeling,” Williams pushes Pearl, the reader and her own imagination to an extreme she doesn’t attempt to reach elsewhere. “The spirit inside it is not the human spirit,” Karen Russell warns in her introduction. “It is far vaster than that.” But the novel also underlines the dialectic that threads through nearly all Williams’s fiction, winding from Key West to Tucson via towns and subdivisions too generic to name, and animating the episodic sprawl of “The Quick and the Dead” and the gnomic compression of the entries in “99 Stories of God.”

Her women are simultaneously stuck and adrift, alternating between motion and stasis, impatience and resignation, fury and compassion, longing and disgust until all those states threaten to blur together. But they never do. The particulars of experience are infinitely variable, as are the words Williams uses to capture it. To live in her world can be terrifying, its grim truths eloquently summarized in the recent story “The Mother Cell” by one of a group of women whose sons have been executed for murder: “We gave birth to mayhem and therefore history. Oh, ladies, oh my friends, we have resolved nothing and the earth is no more beautiful.”

But that’s not quite the end of it, and Williams’s harsh, funny, overgrown world is not without a measure of consolation, which you might almost call grace. This is how the story ends: “Of course it was all just whistling in the dark, but sometimes she would conclude by saying that despite their clumsy grief and all the lost and puzzling years that still lay ahead of them, the earth was no less beautiful.”





No.28 article:
In Brooklyn, Grand Army Plaza Gets an Intervention

The Memorial Arch, a granite monument to soldiers and sailors in the plaza, is about to get desperately needed restoration work.

In the moments after the Presidential election was called in favor of Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Nov. 7, a jubilant crowd gathered spontaneously in Brooklyn’s Grand Army Plaza, whooping and dancing around the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Memorial Arch, atop which the bronze allegorical figure of Columbia, representing America, thundered forth in her horse-drawn chariot, flanked by trumpeting figures of winged Victory.

For much of its history since its cornerstone was ceremonially laid by Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman in 1889, the arch, a monument to Union veterans of the Civil War, has offered a pretty good measure of which way the wind was blowing in Brooklyn.

In 1976, a time of lean municipal budgets and blight, that wind was literal, as Columbia was blown backward out the back of her chariot, ending up hanging precariously off the arch’s roof as a ready symbol of the city’s malign neglect. Quick cable work by local firefighters kept her from tumbling into the plaza, and the incident led to a major restoration of the arch beginning in the late ’70s.

Today, Columbia and her triumphal bronze companions are healthy and well cared for, thanks to a privately funded preservation program begun in 1999. But the arch they stand on has not been so lucky. The roof of the 80-foot granite monument failed at least 10 years ago, and invasive reeds are growing from the shattered roof tiles. In late 2018, mortar fell from around one of the arch’s nine-ton keystones and the fire department again raced to the scene, along with the police. Barricades have been in place ever since to protect pedestrians from falling debris.

To address this monumental decay, a top-to-bottom restoration of the arch will be undertaken next year, funded by $6 million from Mayor Bill de Blasio and performed by the Prospect Park Alliance, a private nonprofit group that operates the park, along with Grand Army Plaza, in partnership with the city. The project, the first full restoration of the arch in 40 years, will stabilize and repoint the exterior envelope of the waterlogged monument, replace the roof, repair some of the interior iron staircases, upgrade the dreary exterior lighting and add new lights inside.

The alliance will also spend $3 million to replace the uneven paving around Bailey Fountain, in the plaza’s center, and restore the planted berms around its periphery. The conservation work is expected to be completed by 2022, after which the arch’s interior and roof will be open to the public on special occasions.

The great ellipse now known as Grand Army Plaza was planned as an elegant formal entrance to Prospect Park by the park’s designers, Calvert Vaux and Frederick Law Olmsted. But despite the addition of a statue of Abraham Lincoln and a fountain with a large dome, the vast, simple plaza was never really embraced by the public.

“It is devoid of all life and is a stony waste,” lamented the Parks Commission in 1887. “It is suggestive of Siberia in winter and Sahara in summer.”

The vaunted firm of McKim, Mead &amp; White was retained to reimagine the plaza, and veterans of the Grand Army of the Republic solicited donations for the construction of a commemorative monument. When fund-raising fell short, the state provided $250,000.

John Hemingway Duncan, who was also the architect of Grant’s Tomb on Manhattan’s Riverside Drive, beat out 35 other entrants to win the $1,000 prize for the design of a memorial arch. To create the bronze sculptural groups subsequently added to the arch’s crown and to its two pedestals facing the park, the architect Stanford White tapped the Brooklyn-boy-made-good Frederick MacMonnies, who lived in Paris and had studied at the influential École des Beaux-Arts.

For the pedestals, MacMonnies crafted two complementary groups of fighting men known as the Spirit of the Army and the Spirit of the Navy — dynamic, agitated depictions of the heroism and sorrows of war. For the Army group, the sculptor included a kind of selfie in bronze, as the officer urging on a cluster of soldiers in the scene was said to be MacMonnies himself.

The artist sculpted his works for the Brooklyn arch in France, casting them primarily at Parisian foundries. But the Navy group was damaged while being loaded into a steamship, snapping interior braces and deforming the base so that, as MacMonnies put it, “the men’s knees were shoved up into their neckties.” The statuary was repaired at the direction of the sculptor’s brother but encountered additional trouble at the Brooklyn Bridge, where the driver delivering it from New York City was stopped for not having a permit for a wide load. In the end, though, “Navy” was hoisted onto the eastern pier of Brooklyn’s arch in 1901.

Harking back to the Arch of Titus in Rome, Brooklyn’s monument blended classical Roman antecedents with French neoclassical adaptations of the form. “The use of sculptural groups on pedestals attached to the piers” is borrowed from the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, art historian Elizabeth Macaulay-Lewis wrote in Classical Receptions Journal in 2016, while the triumphal Columbia and her horse-drawn chariot were inspired by “the large sculptural group atop the Arc du Carrousel,” also in Paris.

The interior of the Brooklyn arch was also designed with some fine classical details, although the structure is in such disrepair that stepping inside today feels distinctly like entering a ruin. The 107-step iron spiral staircases that corkscrew elegantly up the two piers are badly corroded from chronic leaks and high humidity; icicles have even been known to form in winter.

The cast-iron newel posts, chipped and rusted, are in the form of Roman-style “fasces,” a bundle of rods with a single ax head that was carried as a symbol of authority during triumphal Roman processions. Though some of the ax heads are missing, they will be replaced with new castings made from molds taken from their surviving counterparts. The stairs in the eastern pier will be repaired.

Above the arch, an empty 44-foot-long trophy room — built to house war relics and formerly the home of the Puppet Library — has rusting beams supporting its vaulted ceiling, while pools of water have collected on its concrete floor.

Understanding the structural elements hidden beneath that floor was crucial to determining the necessary scope of restoration work. No original plans of the arch survive, and the drawings from the 1970s restoration left important mysteries of the arch’s construction unsolved.

Those ’70s plans “would point to these voids and say, ‘structure unknown,’” said Alden Maddry, the Prospect Park Alliance architect overseeing the restoration. “We wanted to make sure that the structure of the arch was in reasonably good shape so it won’t fall down.”

Consequently, the alliance employed modern technologies to investigate the concealed structure of the monument without cutting it open. Surface-penetrating radar scans of the trophy room floor revealed the presence of seven beams running east-west across the top of the arch, while magnetic field pulses generated by a pachometer confirmed that the beams were made of metal. Borescope investigations showed that the beams were in good condition. All these discoveries came as a relief.

“For an arch, the natural structural movement is to push the towers out,” Mr. Maddry said. “But if you have something stable tying these two towers together, like these beams can do, it’s more stable.”

Jonathan Kuhn, the longstanding director of art and antiquities for the Parks Department, said that the most successful monuments are those that transcend their original commemorative function.

“The arch has transcended the origin of its meaning,” he said. “It’s come to represent the borough, which was its own city, so it has taken on a rare level of visibility.”

In recent months the arch has also become a locus of community gatherings, for Black Lives Matter demonstrations as well as for the celebration of Mr. Biden’s projected victory.

“Its significance lies in the tension between the arch’s status as this monumental and solid and enduring landmark — which represents what at the time was meant to be timeless, right? — these meanings on the one side, and then the additional shifting meanings that it has acquired as the result of the changing configurations of the plaza, the uses of those spaces, the changing populations and most recently as the centerpiece of these protests” after the police killing of George Floyd, said the art historian Michele H. Bogart, the author of “Public Sculpture and the Civic Ideal in New York City, 1890-1930.”

The tension between the enduring and the ephemeral is also brought into high relief by the compromised physical structure of the monument itself.

“It’s in a very vulnerable condition right now, and the Parks Department knows more than anyone that bronze and stone are as fragile in their own ways as any tree or any natural material that they are charged with overseeing,” Ms. Bogart added. “It’s a fragile object, and it’s wonderful in my opinion that this work is about to be done so that people can gather there for whatever reason and find meaning in what they’re seeing, whatever those meanings may be.”





No.29 article:
How Hispanic Voters Swung Miami Right

Many expected that liberal young Hispanic voters would propel a Democratic wave. But Miami, a city where Hispanics hold the levers of power, confounded expectations.

MIAMI — As the mayor of reliably Democratic Miami-Dade County in Florida, Carlos A. Gimenez, a Republican, was a pragmatist who avoided partisan politics and in 2016 voted for Hillary Clinton. But after President Trump’s election, things started to change.

Six days after the inauguration in 2017, Mr. Gimenez became the first big-city leader in the country to reverse the county’s de facto status as a “sanctuary” for undocumented immigrants. Critics said he had kowtowed to Mr. Trump and turned his back on the county with the second-highest number of immigrants in the nation, after Los Angeles.

This year, Mr. Gimenez received Mr. Trump’s endorsement, spoke at one of his rallies and was elected to Congress.

His remarkable political evolution mirrored a broader shift in Miami-Dade, where 58 percent of the electorate is Hispanic and Mr. Trump made huge inroads from 2016 to 2020. Hundreds of thousands more people voted for him this year, and though he still lost the county to Joseph R. Biden Jr., he improved his margin over 2016 by 22 percentage points, a swing that helped him easily win Florida and sweep a slew of local Republicans into office.

Much has been said about how Latinos in many parts of the country, while still favoring Mr. Biden in large numbers, voted more Republican than in 2016. But South Florida is a unique case study. No other place has quite the same mix of Republican-friendly Hispanics, led by conservative Cuban-Americans. And the Trump presidency has strengthened their hand, forcing Miami to reckon with hard and contradictory truths about immigration, racism and power.

“Miami is a total bubble,” said Michael J. Bustamante, an assistant professor of Latin American history at Florida International University who studies Cuban-American political culture. “You can’t talk about the Latino community or Hispanic community here in the same way perhaps that you talk about it in East L.A. or Chicago or New York or wherever because here, Latinos run the show.”

Mr. Trump’s stunning improvement here shocked not only the nation but also much of Miami, a city that likes to think of itself as the forward-looking capital of Latin America. A waiter or store clerk or Uber driver is more likely to speak to a customer first in Spanish than in English. Every local institution has been shaped by immigrants and their children, who have tended to lean more and more liberal with each passing generation.

And yet many residents have come to the difficult realization that Miami even now is not quite as progressive as they had hoped.

“We used to be more compassionate,” said Carmen Peláez, a Cuban-American playwright and filmmaker who campaigned for Mr. Biden.

Some reckoning took place over the summer, when it became evident that relatively few Latinos, especially Cuban-Americans, were showing up at local protests against police brutality that mirrored others across the nation, causing consternation among more liberal Hispanics.

Then in July, Eliécer Ávila, a Cuban dissident, posted a photograph on Instagram showing himself and other Trump supporters posing in front of Miami shrine to Our Lady of Charity of El Cobre, Cuba’s patron saint, with their middle fingers in the air. (The target of their disrespect was unclear, but the overall message was not.)

In the days leading up to the election, members of the Proud Boys, a group linked to white supremacy, campaigned openly at Miami-area polls, and some of them, including the organization’s chairman, Enrique Tarrio, were Cuban-Americans. Mr. Tarrio was also the Florida state director for a grass-roots campaign group, Latinos for Trump, that was unaffiliated with the campaign.

Nowhere in the country do Hispanics control the levers of power as they do in Miami, and voters do not behave as they might in other places where their ethnic group is more marginalized, Dr. Bustamante said. Traditional “Latino” issues such as immigration, combating racism and identity politics often take a back seat to concerns over the economy, religion and foreign policy.

About 72 percent of registered Republicans in Miami-Dade are Hispanic, many of them Cuban-American. But the Hispanic vote in the region more broadly is a combination of aging Cuban exiles, newer Cuban immigrants and various waves of immigrants from the Spanish-speaking Caribbean and Central and South America. Non-Cuban Hispanics make up about half of the Latino vote in Miami-Dade, and they tend to lean Democratic.

Mr. Trump’s campaign succeeded in South Florida for understanding many of those complexities, as well as for a variety of other reasons: He visited often. Republicans effectively branded Democrats as “socialists.” A vast misinformation campaign targeted Spanish-speaking voters. Mr. Biden failed to reach out to Hispanic voters until it was too late.

It did not help Democrats that, during the summer’s Black Lives Matter protests, some demonstrators in Miami waved flags depicting Che Guevara — a brutal revolutionary despised by Cuban exiles — and defaced a Christopher Columbus statue with graffiti of a Soviet-style sickle and hammer.

“The reality is that the Democratic Party is very far left, and a lot of our people in Miami fled that kind of policy,” said Nelson Diaz, the chairman of the Miami-Dade Republican Party.

In recent years, Cuban exiles and the Republican Party embraced newly arrived Venezuelans fleeing the left-wing presidencies of Hugo Chávez and Nicolás Maduro as their ideological brethren. That reignited a conservative activist fervor that spilled into communities of Colombian and Nicaraguan immigrants.

Even some of the more recent Cuban immigrants who had been derided by many old-guard Cuban-American Republican officials as economic refugees who did not share older exiles’ anti-Communist ideology became Trump voters.

That has proved a source of distress for some Hispanics like Ms. Peláez. She recalled how her Cuban exile grandparents helped Nicaraguan immigrants and subsequent waves of Cuban refugees. Now, she fears the attitude among some Cubans and non-Cubans is to shut the door behind them.

“When Gimenez declared us no longer a sanctuary city,” she said, “it became very much ‘us versus them.’”

Mr. Gimenez chafed at that idea, saying that the county never intended to designate itself as a “sanctuary” and had only stopped complying with federal immigration detention requests to save money. “It was a bad policy,” he said. “We should have never instituted it. We should have been cooperating with ICE.”

In an interview while he was campaigning last month, Mr. Gimenez said endorsing the president did not mean that he would always vote with the Republican Party. His politics, like those of many voters in Miami these days, are based on philosophy, not identity, he said.

“I believe that most of his policies are good for the country,” he said of Mr. Trump. “We had the greatest economy of our lifetimes before the pandemic. It was roaring. We had record-low unemployment. And I support his trade policies. I think that we’ve been taken advantage of, especially by China.”

Mr. Gimenez said his own immigrant experience has informed his politics and steeped him in American patriotism. He recalled his family’s ranch in Cuba, where he rode a speckled gray horse named Cascarita (“Little Peel”) before they left the island when he was 6. He has never gone back.

“I didn’t speak a word of English when I came over here,” he said. “And this country has given me and blessed me with all this opportunity.”

In this month’s Congressional election, Mr. Gimenez defeated Representative Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, a Democrat who immigrated from Ecuador and was caught on video earlier this year marveling at the fact that non-Cuban Democrats had been winning seats in Miami.

“No one thought we’d be able to take the Republican Cuban establishment that has taken ahold of Florida politics for more than 20 years,” she told supporters, in a remark that upset some Cuban Republicans — and proved to be a dramatic miscalculation about the power those voters still wield.

Ms. Mucarsel-Powell lost to Mr. Gimenez by more than 3 percentage points.

Still, in choosing a new mayor, Miami-Dade voters delivered yet another surprise, in line with the many political contradictions of this complicated city: They elected Daniella Levine Cava. The county’s first female mayor, she is a progressive Democrat who is neither Cuban nor Hispanic.





No.30 article:
Will These Two Classic New York Eateries Survive the Pandemic?

It’s never just about the food.

From modest ethnic restaurants with dishes redolent of home to classic diners where the server knows your name and has your order in by the time you’re seated, one of the most appealing items at restaurants around New York isn’t always on the menu: community.

That is just one of the many losses New Yorkers and restaurateurs alike have endured in the months since the pandemic sent the city into a lockdown. Empty dining rooms preceded layoffs, leading restaurants to beef up their takeout and delivery services as they struggled to find ways to coax back nervous diners.

Outdoor dining has helped, but the cooler weather and an increasing infection rate have owners wondering how they’ll manage — let alone survive — the coming months.

The Times visited two restaurants that in their own ways have convened community: Joloff, a Senegalese restaurant in Brooklyn, and the Riverdale Diner, a Bronx institution. Apart from missing busier and better times, their owners are waiting to see what local officials will do next.

Any diner can offer country-fresh eggs for breakfast. The Riverdale Diner goes one further and lets you choose the country whose style you prefer: from Mexico’s huevos rancheros to Dominican-style eggs with mashed plantains smothered with red onions. And yes, for those who remember the diner’s earliest years in the north Bronx — not far from Gaelic Park — an Irish breakfast is still served.

Having a menu that appeals to everyone was much simpler when the diner opened in 1967, when the neighborhood was heavily Irish and Jewish. But as the city changed, so did the diner’s offerings.

“We always had a menu for everyone,” said Anna Kaperonis, who opened the Riverdale Diner with her husband, George. “We try to do a little for everybody, and as the years went on, we added more items.”

On a recent rainy morning a server with masks and gloves went from table to table taking orders and refilling cups of coffee before vanishing behind the counter and through the swinging kitchen doors. The large main dining room was empty, as was the tented area set up in the parking lot. In the kitchen, workers cooked and prepared food for deliveries.

“When the pandemic came, we got an unexpected vacation,” said Gustavo Barrera, 22, as he swiftly bagged takeout meals. “Now I have to work harder to pay my debts.”

Since reopening, only half of the 40-person staff has been brought back, said Joe Daka, the diner’s manager. They now work three days instead of five, which helps keep more people employed.

“We have some workers who have been here for 35 years,” Mr. Daka said. “Some of them moved. Some of them got stimulus checks. But they have kids, they want to eat. Thank God we’re still open.”

The extensive menu offered by large restaurants like the Riverdale Diner, while a draw for its customers, has its own cost, since such a wide range of ingredients has to be kept on hand.

“People like diners because they can have whatever they want when they want it,” Mrs. Kaperonis said.

While not a problem when the diner was at maximum capacity of 205, the owners are now considering trimming the menu to save money.

And as the weather gets colder, they will take heaters outside to encourage dining there. But that’s a stopgap measure.

“Hopefully, they’ll allow 50 percent capacity,” she said. “Then we hope for the best, hope we find a vaccine, and everybody gets on with their lives once again.”

At Joloff — named for the West African rice dish — staffing is a family affair. Soon after moving to New York from Senegal in 1990, Papa Konare Diagne started selling food he prepared in his apartment to Rastafarian friends.

His success in selling meals from home led him to open a restaurant in Bedford-Stuyvesant with his wife and siblings in 1995.

After 17 years, gentrification and rising rents drove him to his current location, in the same neighborhood, where he has walls covered in art and tables arrayed before a slightly raised stage.

“Since I opened, we did a lot of spoken word, exhibits and drumming,” he said. “This was oriented around culture and community.”

But since the pandemic hit, the stage has fallen silent. Gone, too, are the private parties to celebrate naming ceremonies, weddings and birthdays.

“I just can’t have too many people in here at one time,” Mr. Diagne said. “I’m here with my family, but I care more about their health than money.”

Those community-oriented activities, as much as the food, had helped Joloff attract a diverse clientele.

“We’ve had a younger generation from the Middle East and South Asia, too,” he said. “They’re very curious about the food.”

That curiosity was Mr. Diagne’s entree to offering tours of Senegal and establishing a sister city relationship between Brooklyn and Goree Island, off the Senegalese coast, where enslaved Africans were herded onto ships bound for the Caribbean and the Americas.

“Taking people to visit the motherland was always an extension of the restaurant,” he said. But the tours, along with a festival he organized in Senegal, have been canceled for now.

Mr. Diagne is now trying to find ways to save money, including hiring his own delivery person with scooter rather than relying on app-based services that take a hefty cut.

“I hope to have more deliveries,” he said, “because that’s where the business is going to be.”





No.31 article:
D.I.Y. Microgreens You Can Grow on Your Kitchen Counter

Think of the rewards of cultivating the tastes of summer all through the winter.  You can do this.

Since Kate Spring and her husband, Edge Fuentes, founded Good Heart Farmstead in Vermont in 2013, she has cultivated not just mesclun, strawberries and tomatoes, but also the abundance of the patience required of a farmer. Plant parenthood reminds us: Living things take time. And sometimes they have minds of their own.

Lately, as mother to Waylon, a 7-year-old son she calls “our best crop ever,” Ms. Spring is occasionally asked to dig down even deeper, in a growing test of wills — as she did after three long days of carrot harvest. “There are those moments, like when all those root vegetables need to be washed,” she said, “and your child commandeers the hose and washes you instead.”

But there is one crop, whose time is now, that promises near-instant gratification, requiring little patience and exhibiting blessedly minimal rebellion.

Microgreens — fully developed seed leaves or cotyledons plus a true leaf or two, bigger than sprouts but smaller than baby greens — can be grown indoors in a small space, making them the ideal off-season do-it-yourself project for those who miss the vegetable garden and its in-season flavors. By investing a couple of weeks in each tray of tiny, leafy greens, root vegetables or herbs, you can enliven winter with concentrated bursts of nutrition and taste.

Microgreens are a cusp-season crop at Good Heart Farmstead, an L3C, or low-profit limited-liability corporation, which means it’s “a mix between a nonprofit and for-profit business — a for-profit but with a social mission in the forefront,” Ms. Spring said. “We work on increasing food access for low-income Vermonters,” often in collaboration with the Northeast Organic Farming Association of Vermont.

The small, certified-organic operation in Worcester (Zone 4a) focuses on farm shares, or CSA subscriptions, serving up to 100 subscribers in the summer season, one of four subscription periods each year.

As the last outdoor fall greens fade, Ms. Spring and Mr. Fuentes sow microgreens in greenhouse flats to add “a nice, fresh green item in the share,” she said, that is otherwise transitioning to roots and other winter storage vegetables.

So order some seed, clear a space on the kitchen counter and call the seed-starting light into service. It’s microgreen season.

Besides the sheer awe inherent in any version of seed-starting, there are other motivating factors. Price, for instance.

Microgreens are what farmers refer to as a high-value crop. In plastic grocery-store clamshell boxes they may run $2 to $3 an ounce ($32 to $48 a pound) — “a really premium product,” Ms. Spring said.

Microgreens are also nutrient-dense. Researchers with the University of Maryland College of Agriculture and Natural Resources and the United States Department of Agriculture evaluated vitamin and carotenoid concentrations in a range of varieties in a 2012 paper. The findings, in brief: Microgreens contained up to 40 times the nutrients of the plants’ mature leaves.

And oh, the flavor. Yes, they brighten up salads and sandwiches, but cilantro microgreens on top of black bean and sweet potato tacos, anyone? They’re highly recommended by the Spring-Fuentes household, where there are always basil microgreens as well, for punching up the summery quotient of red sauce frozen at peak tomato harvest.

“Arugula or basil or kale microgreens are also really good on eggs in the morning,” said Ms. Spring, who tends to use them “as an additive, not the main ingredient.”

The diversity of organic microgreen seed offerings in catalogs like Johnny’s Selected Seeds and High Mowing Organic Seeds can be intimidating. Start with something in the mustard family (Brassicaceae) that promises a quick payoff, Ms. Spring suggested, like radish, arugula or mizuna (a mild-flavored mustard).

“Our favorites are basil, cilantro, Red Russian kale and the arugula and mizuna,” Ms. Spring said.

Broccoli and chard are popular, too. Catalogs also offer mixes — like a spicy one of various mustards, selected to germinate and mature on a similar timeline.

Yes, you can upcycle a cardboard egg carton or plastic sushi container into seed-sowing service, and maybe that’s a good place to begin. But once you’re hooked, a couple of standard nursery flats with drainage holes, called 1020 flats, with trays that fit beneath, will optimize the process. (In the meantime, a plastic boot tray or a rimmed baking sheet could be called into action under ad hoc seedling trays.)

You’ll also need:

There is no one-size-fits-all growing method. “It takes some guesswork and practice, so go into it with a trial mind,” Ms. Spring said.

Experimenting with varieties, sowing density and harvest timing — an extra day or two, a half-inch taller than the last batch? — will reveal what works for you.

Using more than one flat and tray will mean fewer gaps in your supply. You could try sowing a succession crop when the current one is within a few days of harvest, or sowing slower- and faster-growing varieties at the same time.

The key is taking notes and researching the catalog websites, where the “number of days to first true leaf” will indicate how fast one variety will grow relative to another. That is especially important if you want to grow partial flats of two things. A good match for a uniform harvest pairs crops with similar days to maturity — like broccoli and Red Russian kale (both 10 to 15 days to true leaf) or basil and cilantro (16 to 25 days).

Start with the right location: 65 to 70 degrees, not adjacent to a heater or a drafty window. Moisten a supply of potting soil, either in its plastic bag or in a waterproof tub, by adding a small amount of water and mixing it with your hands or a trowel. Squeeze a fistful; it should be moist enough to hold its shape, but not so wet that water drips out.

Then line your tray with an inch or so of soil, tamped down so it’s compact, with an even surface. This will help ensure that seeds have equal soil contact for even germination.

To sow the seeds, scatter them thickly, according to the packet directions, aiming for 10 to 12 seeds per square inch for small seeds like basil, mizuna or kale and six to eight seeds for larger ones like beets or chard. Gently press them into the soil.

Lightly water the seeds with a mister or spray bottle.

Cover the tray with a germination dome or a damp paper towel. (If you use a paper towel, mist it daily so it stays moist during germination.) No supplemental light is needed yet.

As soon as the seeds germinate, usually in about three to five days, remove the dome or towel and place the uncovered tray under grow lights for 16 hours a day.

Water as needed to keep the soil moist but not waterlogged. Microgreens flatten easily, so use a mist or spray, or switch to bottom watering, adding a quarter of an inch of water to the tray below; the flat’s drainage holes will allow the soil to wick up water. For even watering, trays must be on a level surface.

Airflow is important, or thickly sown microgreens can suffer from a fungal disease called damping off. A fan set on low nearby helps.

Microgreens are harvested around the time the first true leaf appears — the one that resembles an older version of the plant, often between an inch or two tall. Use sharp scissors or a harvest knife (Johnny’s and High Moving both sell Victorinox serrated knives). Eat immediately or refrigerate in a closed plastic bag or container for two to three days.

Pea shoots, a CSA-subscriber favorite at Good Heart Farmstead, are grown indoors in spring from organic field pea seeds, a kind of pea used for cover-cropping beds to improve the soil.

There are subtle differences in the process, Ms. Spring said: “We soak the seeds overnight, so that they have a little head start, and we really pack them in there.”

After that, the seeds take 12 to 14 days to harvest, at two to four inches high. Ms. Spring likes them on the bigger side — as does Waylon, who has all too quickly gone from sprout to shoot stage himself, his mother noted.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.





No.32 article:
‘Gram, Are You Sad?’ This Year, We’re Spending the Holidays Alone

As Covid-19 cases in my city climb to record levels and county officials warn the vulnerable among us to shelter in place, I feel as if I’m living in the cursed kingdom of Narnia, in C.S. Lewis’s children’s fantasy “The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe.” In Narnia, it’s “always winter and never Christmas.”

Like Americans everywhere, my family and friends have begun planning for the holidays. Some will ignore the Covid curse in our midst and gather anyway. My husband and I are battening down for a long winter.

When my 3-year-old granddaughter recently came over to play, I blocked the door she usually enters into the house. “Sorry, Eliza,” I said, stooping to her eye level, “we have to play outside from now on.”

She looked stunned.

“Why, Gram?” she said. “Are there germs in there?”

“Germs,” in our family, is code for Covid. They are what make the places our grandchildren know and love, like Pops’s and Gram’s house, off limits.

I’d already pulled Eliza’s “Frozen” dollhouse out of the playroom and set it up on the back porch. She put the tiny pieces of furniture in the castle where they belong, but left the two sisters on the outside.

“Why don’t you put Elsa and Anna in their home?” I asked.

“They can’t EVER go in!” she said adamantly. “It’s not safe!”

Is this my grandchildren’s world now? A place where even their grandparents’ home isn’t safe? Will they look back at holiday photos and wonder why Gram and Pops weren’t there?

This Thanksgiving and Christmas, for the first time in our lives, none of our 10 children and grandchildren will be at our table.

When the pandemic began, we tried to form Covid bubbles, where groups of us followed enough safety rules to continue doing life up close.

But our secure little pods developed leaks whenever our adult children had responsibilities that exposed them to risk. A daughter who’s a lawyer spent days in hearings at the courthouse where someone was infected. Eliza’s mom, a pastor, is back at church, singing with her congregation. One son, who’s an E.M.T., swabs suspected Covid-19 patients at an urgent care center.

Now, as I string Thanksgiving garlands across the mantel and pull the straw Pilgrims out of their boxes, I face the depressing reality that no one else will be in our home for the holidays. By Thanksgiving, our Covid bubble will have popped.

Even when it worked, when small pods of us had our groceries delivered and worked from home, the waltzing in and out of one another’s bubbles created stress. When does a leak require a confession?

“Your nanny goes to the college with the Covid outbreak?”

“Are you wiping down your groceries, Mom?”

“Your husband is meeting clients in person?”

Someone tumbles out of the bubble, and suddenly, icy walls separate family members. You’re in and then you’re out.

We all want off the Covid-coaster we’ve been riding: dropping our guard when cases slide into the yellow zone, upping our vigilance when infections rocket back into the red zone, where they are now.

I posted the color-coded risk scale on my refrigerator, so that when I’m tempted to meet with friends or hug a grandchild, I can rehearse the latest warnings:

No restaurants, haircuts, manicures or teeth cleanings. And now … no holiday gatherings.

Few people in my circle follow Dr. Anthony Fauci’s guidelines or C.D.C. recommendations. It’s made me wonder, “Am I the one who’s crazy?” Or have we so blurred the lines between fantasy and reality that some of us have forgotten that Narnia is cursed … that Thanksgiving and Christmas in a pandemic spell disaster.

“Come meet us outdoors at the restaurant for dinner,” several close friends texted me weeks ago, the day our community moved back into the red zone.

“We’re not supposed to be meeting now,” I typed into the group chat. How would we all sit six feet apart at a dinner table?

“Don’t be so extreme,” a friend texted. “You’re missing out on so much of life.”

When it comes to grandchildren, almost all of my friends ignore the warnings.

“No way I’m going to live in fear and isolation and miss out on the joy of being with my grandchildren,” one close friend with six of them said.

My friends and extended family may be right. I am missing out on joy and I’m probably the most isolated in my little world. But when I catch even the mildest respiratory virus, I develop asthma, so I probably fear Covid more than most.

Wrestling with both the virus and a contentious election season has left me in a state of low-grade anxiety and righteous indignation.

As Eliza’s mother strapped her into the car seat to drive home after one of our awkward backyard visits, my granddaughter looked at me and said, “Gram, are you sad?”

I thought I’d hidden those feelings.

“Yes, I’m sad,” I said.

“It’s gonna be all right,” she reassured me. “When the germs go away, we’ll be together again.”

When Eliza’s old enough, I’ll tell her how the curse in the magical land of Narnia was eventually broken.

Aslan did it. Eliza’s seen his portrait hanging in my library. Aslan is the powerful lion C.S. Lewis created to fight the curse and make the world safe again.

The Narnia allegory sprang from Lewis’s own childhood struggles with loneliness and despair. Lewis credited his faith with restoring his hope. Aslan is the Christ figure in the chronicles.

While we’re waiting for a vaccine to reach us and end the Covid curse cast on our land, I’ll take shelter from the cold of winter by writing daily in the gratitude journal I started in March during the first lockdown. And I’ll hold onto the hope my own faith provides that even if there’s no Christmas this year, there will be an end to this long winter.





No.33 article:
Sometimes Our Favorite Sports Need to Love Us Back

Fans are there for soccer when it needs us. But we expect the favor to be returned.

Clutching his phone in one hand and his passport in the other, Ruben Gabrielsen sprinted through his apartment. Duty had called, and he would answer. He had even tied a makeshift cape around his neck for the occasion. He would be the one to save his country in its hour of need.

A 28-year-old defender playing in France’s second division, Gabrielsen probably would not have chosen these to be the circumstances in which he made his first international appearance. Not long ago, he probably would not have been able to imagine them.

Gabrielsen was one of a host of players called up by Norway this week after its entire first-choice squad was forced into quarantine after one of its members recorded a positive coronavirus test. One game, against Romania, had already been forfeited, but the country’s soccer authorities did not want to sacrifice a second, in Austria.

And so in came the shadow squad, Gabrielsen included, as the only alternative. Most of the players had never played for their country. All but one played outside Norway. They donned their capes, grabbed their passports and flew to Austria so the game could go ahead. The game, as the whole episode made clear, must always go ahead.

Bars and restaurants across Europe are shuttered. Offices stand empty. City streets are deserted. Much of the continent is locked down again, in one form or another, as the second wave of the pandemic bares its teeth. And yet soccer barrels on, bullish and determined, if not unaffected then grimly undeterred.

It has been impressive, in a way, how smoothly elite soccer has transitioned to its new reality, a nonnative species thriving in a hostile land. In the spring, a single positive test — that of Mikel Arteta, the Arsenal coach — opened the eyes of the Premier League to the fact that it was not, as it had previously believed, immune to the coronavirus.

Now, when 16 Premier League players test positive after the international break, not a single eyelid is batted. Occasionally, games are postponed — Olympique Marseille has three fixtures backdated, the result of outbreaks either within its ranks or those of an opponent — but mostly, soccer plows on, plays through. Shakhtar Donetsk took a team of teenagers to Real Madrid in the Champions League, and won. The game must always go ahead.

That perseverance occasionally drifts into the realms of the absurd, but soccer has a remarkable ability to tolerate that, too. As mentioned last week, Denmark played Sweden even though both teams’ managers were self-isolating, and both teams had been deprived of a raft of players. England considered playing Iceland in Albania. Norway cobbled together a last-minute team.

Indeed, Norway’s case was something of an anomaly: a rare example of reality intruding. Norway needed to take emergency measures because the country’s government insisted it could not make an exception to its stringent quarantine rules even for the country’s national team.

That is unusual: Soccer, generally, is given a pass. Players cross borders without needing to self-isolate upon arrival. Rules are changed and allowances made so the game — this great cultural phenomenon that absorbs so many of us so much of the time — can go ahead.

In almost every other sphere of life, the problem now is that there is too little: too little culture, too little business, too little foot traffic, too little social contact, too little hope. Only in soccer do managers, players, executives and fans worry about whether there is too much.

At times, it all feels a little brazen, a touch gauche. It is easy to see why some have fallen out of love with the game. It is even easier to see why those who never had much time for it feel vindicated by the crassness, the chutzpah of soccer during the pandemic.

There are moments in empty stadiums and in vacuous controversies when it seems as if its mask has slipped and its inner workings are laid bare: a grinding, grasping, cash-grabbing machine, a sports-industrial complex locked in a spiral of “abusive self-addiction,” as the writer Jonathan Liew put it.

And yet for all that soccer determined it had to continue because of an inflated sense of its own importance and an immediate understanding of its own financial model, its decision has been tolerated only because of something else. We accept it, in all its absurdity and gall, because none of that completely clouds its worth.

As the Marseille owner, Frank McCourt, put it when we spoke a few weeks ago, a club is “a societal symbol of sorts.” What has struck him most forcibly since he took charge of France’s most popular team four years ago is how it is at O.M. — he is studious in referring to the club as its fans refer to it — that “the whole city of Marseille comes together and functions.”

“Someone said to me a little while ago, and it has stuck with me, that not everyone in the city of Marseille loves football, though of course a lot of them do,” he said. “But everyone loves O.M.”

That is what gives every team — and by extension, the game of which each one is a small but significant constituent part — its power. That affection enables soccer to be an exception, even in the most trying times. It is the guarantee that, no matter how much the sport might try our patience with its egotism and self-reverence and greed, we keep coming back.

But it is not only a source of power; it is a source of responsibility, and one that ought to be more keenly felt now than ever. “It is in moments of crisis that sports, and soccer particularly, shows up,” McCourt said. “It’s when you see the great importance of it all.”

The last few months have brought plenty of examples of that, too, from the advocacy of Manchester United’s Marcus Rashford in helping to feed the vulnerable to Jürgen Klopp’s urging residents of Liverpool to take part in a mass testing program. Countless players have made donations, or used their platforms to promote the work of others.

In 2017, McCourt set up an educational foundation, to use O.M. as a way of helping the city; the pandemic, and its economic consequences, has convinced him that it has to be not a sideline, but central to the work of the club. “In times of crisis, what we give back to the community is crucial,” he said.

“We have to demonstrate who we are, what we stand for. At a time when some of the civic institutions we used to lean on do not have the strong shoulders they had before, sports still shows up as a way for us to work together. It does not replace the thrill of winning, but it brings energy. The more you win, the more impact you can have.”

There have been plenty of moments, these last few months, when soccer has been hard to love, when it has tried our patience to its very limits with its petty squabbles and its headstrong self-absorption. We allow the game to go ahead because each of its teams, its tiny empires, matter to so many of us. We are there for soccer when it needs us. But we expect the favor to be returned. We expect soccer to be there for us, too, in our hour of need.

Really, it is a little strange that Joachim Löw was still in charge of the German national team even before its 6-0 humiliation by Spain this week. The world’s major soccer nations are not exactly paragons of patience, so national team manager is rarely a job with a long shelf life.

It was understandable that he survived in 2016: Germany had won the World Cup two years earlier, and losing to France in the semifinals of the European Championship was hardly a humiliation. And it was kind of admirable that Löw was forgiven — surprisingly easily — for 2018, when his team, the reigning world champion, exited the World Cup in Russia after the group stage.

Since then, Germany’s fortunes have been — at best — mixed. It finished at the bottom of its inaugural Nations League group, failing to win a game against France and the Netherlands. It qualified with ease for the delayed European Championships, as it qualifies with ease for basically every major tournament.

And yet now it must prepare for next summer on the back of its heaviest defeat in 90 years, the evidence of its decline laid bare in Seville. It is easy — and not entirely wrong — to suggest that Löw’s employers have been too contented, too slow to read the warning signs, to believe that disappointment in Euro 2020(1) will be punishment for institutional stasis.

But it is also testament to a very specific problem the major nations face. For those countries, like Germany, that qualify with ease for tournaments, qualifying is almost too much of a cakewalk. It makes it difficult to gauge exactly where the team is in relation to its rivals for the crown. Running up the score against Estonia and Andorra can disguise a multitude of sins.

Perhaps, then, it is in Germany’s favor that Spain should have exposed its flaws in such brutal fashion. Germany can be under no illusions, now, of where it stands in the pecking order. The question is what Löw, or his bosses, intends to do about it.

Pep Guardiola has already conquered Spain, Germany and England. He has transformed the way all three countries play soccer. He has shifted our horizons of what is possible. He has recalibrated the way we think certain positions work. He has — and it is not too much of a stretch to say it — redefined the sport’s very concept of beauty.

What he has not done, at any point in his career, is rebuild: to tear down one successful team and establish another, even more successful one in its place. In England, certainly, this is held up as the ultimate challenge for any manager, something only a handful of greats — Alex Ferguson, Arsène Wenger, Matt Busby, Bill Shankly — have ever managed to do.

Now that he has signed a two-year contract extension at Manchester City, Guardiola must add his name to that list. This is already the longest job of his career; if he sees out this new deal, he will have spent more than twice as long in Manchester than he did in Munich.

Previously, Guardiola has always insisted that after three or four years a manager’s message grows repetitive, starts to lose its power. At Barcelona and at Bayern Munich, he walked as soon as he sensed that moment. At City, if he is staying, that means some of the players will have to go.

That process has already started — in Ruben Dias and Ferran Torres, City has the outline of its next team — but it will be a challenging one.

Guardiola has already waved farewell to David Silva and Vincent Kompany, two of the cornerstones of City’s rise. Fernandinho and Sergio Agüero will probably be next. It is not just, then, that Guardiola must demonstrate that he can refresh a team on the move. It is that he must do so without the players who have contributed so much to the very identity of the club. In a way, this may be his greatest test.

An excellent point from James Armstrong, who took issue with my assertion that perhaps the international break we have just endured should not have happened. “To that, I say: Scotland,” he wrote. And he’s right: seeing the Scots qualify for a first major tournament since Bannockburn was heartening. That’s the important thing to remember about international breaks: They aren’t really for the dominant teams. They get their moment in major tournaments. These windows are about everyone else.

Daniel Jones has been indulging in a little soothsaying: “It appears the men’s national teams for both the United States and Norway have the potential for a golden generation. A bold prediction for the 2026 World Cup final: United States 2-1 Norway.” Bold is the word for that, to be honest — because success at a major tournament is as much about having a mix of good generations, rather than being great in one age bracket — but both should be peaking around then.

And Ed Taylor wants to add Diego Forlán to the list of unfairly maligned players, alongside Patrick Bamford and James Rodríguez. In the 2010 World Cup, he wrote, “the pundits were dismissive of a player who hadn’t shown the best of himself at Manchester United at a young age, but who had scored over 120 goals in the six seasons after leaving, and who was named Best Player at the tournament.” Forlán is an extremely good example of the phenomenon. Fine work.

That’s all for this week, other than to remind you all that the best story in soccer this year should have its conclusion in the next couple of days: Bodo/Glimt will, most likely, win its first Norwegian championship by Sunday evening. This newsletter is, like the rest of The Times, entirely impartial, but makes no bones about its long-held passion for Bodo.

Remember that askrory@nytimes.com is the place to send the constructive kind of feedback; Twitter is the best place for the unconstructive sort. This week’s Set Piece Menu asks what makes a great game, but begins with a whole thing about teeth that I neither condone nor advocate. And, as ever, it’s hugely appreciated when you tell your friends and family and Tinder dates to sign up to receive this newsletter.





No.34 article:
President Trump’s Show Has Been Canceled

For years, we’ve been living inside a story defined by Donald Trump’s reality-TV worldview. America finally changed the channel.

Many incumbent presidents have gone on the campaign trail to make their cases for a second term. Donald J. Trump was the first to campaign for a second season.

At a 2019 campaign rally in Minnesota, he described his victory in 2016 as “one of the greatest nights in the history of television.” And he often seemed to cast his re-election argument less in terms of policies than as a TV producer’s pitch to keep the show going.

Only with him, he argued, would you get the zing, the pizazz, the drama that kept you on the edge of your seat. A vote for President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., he told a rally in Erie, Pa., on Oct. 20, would be a vote for “boredom.”

“Look at all those cameras,” he said, gesturing at the press pen. “If you had Sleepy Joe, nobody’s going to be interested in politics anymore.”

On Nov. 3, a majority of the electorate answered, “You promise?”

If Donald Trump’s loss still seems somehow unreal, and not just to the president’s lawyers, it may be the aftereffect of having spent years trapped in his personal Truman Show. It’s distorted our sense of what’s normal. Was it ever not like this? Was there a time when each day didn’t rattle us awake to the blaring alarm clock of his Fox News livetweets?

American life, since Mr. Trump’s escalator ride on June 16, 2015, had been like a Willy Wonka ironic punishment: You like TV, do you? Then you shall live inside TV — forever!

And then, one day, the show was canceled.

The former “Apprentice” host and lifelong media hound dominated the 2016 campaign by knowing what TV wanted. Before he ran for office, Mr. Trump flourished in reality TV, cable news and even pro wrestling, genres that thrive on the same thing he does: conflict.

He was a perfect fit for the “You’re fired” ethos of Mark Burnett’s pseudo-business competition because he, like “The Apprentice,” saw competition and fighting as the most productive state of existence.

This made his presidency an eyeball magnet, for cheerleaders and hate-watchers alike. He was the show’s biggest superfan, consuming hours of TV news, a magic mirror reflecting him, every day.

He trumpeted his Nielsen ratings as if they were jobs reports. He told advisers to think of every day of his administration as an episode of a reality show.

Mr. Trump has often said, not without justification, that the news networks were addicted to him as much as he was to them: “Without me, their ratings are going down the tubes.”

But the Trump presidency proved something else as well. People may like to watch exciting TV shows. They do not necessarily want to live inside one.

And for four years, that’s what we did. We were redshirt extras inside a potboiler driven by, and customized for, the adrenaline urges of a conflict junkie. The unceasing tension. The ever-ratcheting drama. The tweets that became news that generated more tweets. What was the latest story line? What was the president mad about today? What did you get mad about today?

The TV-addict president assumed that everyone else found constant battle as invigorating as he did, that they, like him, would rather be relentlessly upset than momentarily bored. He tweeted out links to his choleric TV interviews with a hearty “Enjoy!” There was no apparent irony. Why wouldn’t people enjoy all this? Everything was so exciting!

He believed this partly because he immersed himself in environments where this was true: Tucker and Hannity and Dobbs; his rallies; the mega-MAGA reply choruses on his Twitter feed. All these inputs validated his conviction that a life best lived was a never-ending slugfest.

He postured as a TV antihero, the unpleasant guy it takes to get results in an unpleasant world. Like a “Breaking Bad” or “The Sopranos,” his presidency invited fans to compartmentalize their own morality from the dishonesty, racism and bullying of the protagonist whose exploits mesmerized them. “He’s no Mr. Nice Guy,” one of his re-election ads said, “but sometimes it takes a Donald Trump to change Washington.”

And he ran his White House on the “Apprentice” model. Pundits who expected him to become “presidential” (that would be so boring, he told a rally crowd in Texas) ignored the evidence of his showbiz career.

People forget this now, but the first and highest-rated season of “The Apprentice” had relatively little Trump in it. The host showed up in the beginning, fired someone in the end and mostly vanished in the middle.

From Season 2 on, though, Mr. Trump’s boss-from-hell persona, like a breakout character on a sitcom, became bigger, louder and more ubiquitous. The show spotlighted him with longer, nastier boardroom sessions, sometimes with multiple firings. NBC scheduled the show twice a year, following a fundamental TV dictum — if something’s a hit, give it to people twice as much, twice as hard — all the way down the ratings charts.

So too with Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign, which often seemed like a grittier reboot of the 2016 version. In the White House as on NBC, the solution to any problem had to be more of him. The pro-wrestling heel turns — barking his way through the first debate, brazenly undermining the voting process — were louder and less subtle.

Each big twist had to outdo last season’s. The monster rallies came back, this time with the apocalyptic frisson of defying, or denying, the prospect of death in a pandemic. When he himself got Covid, as the season’s writers had been foreshadowing all along, he timed his flights to and from the hospital for the network evening news.

The president’s media omnipresence may have made some difference; he increased his turnout in the end, however many votes it also motivated against him. As Election Day neared, he openly tried to cast his constant schedule of rallies and gaggles and events as proof of his strength. But it often felt like a test of ours.

In the closing days of the campaign, Mr. Trump often said that he couldn’t imagine losing to the likes of Mr. Biden. That is, he couldn’t fathom people choosing the political equivalent of PBS — a Trump adviser likened Mr. Biden to Fred Rogers, apparently considering that an insult — when they got so much razzmatazz from the president.

I’ll admit, as somebody who writes about TV and politics, that I was skeptical, too. In the television era, candidates who make themselves the protagonists of their elections — Reagan, Obama, Bill Clinton — usually win. To beat President TV, I assumed, you had to counterprogram him, not just offer to turn the set off.

That offer turned out to be powerful. Jim Carrey’s Biden impression on “Saturday Night Live” was mostly a comedic dud, but its one great insight into the campaign was imagining Mr. Biden at a debate pausing and silencing Mr. Trump with a magical remote control.

But the more I watched the campaign, the more I realized that Mr. Biden was not merely trying to replace something with nothing. I started to get a sense of his media message this summer, when I offhandedly wrote that, amid a reality-show presidency, Mr. Biden was producing a political version of “This Is Us.”

I can explain. “This Is Us” is the NBC drama (whose story starts, fittingly, in the swing state of Pennsylvania) that follows several generations of an extended, multiracial family from the Vietnam War era into the fictional future. “This Is Us” is not cool. It’s not groundbreaking. It’s sentimental and a little sappy. It relies on big life moments (births, weddings, tragic deaths) that shamelessly pull at the heartstrings. Its aesthetic is strictly middle-of-the-road.

But in mass-experience environments, like network TV and general elections, basic and sentimental and middle-of-the-road still get you a big following. Most people are not cool. Grieving and loving are powerful themes because they’re universal.

And Mr. Biden’s campaign happened to come when the country was experiencing a tremendous loss from the ongoing pandemic, which it still has not entirely processed, under a president who has shown no interest in empathy or catharsis. In all those soulful addresses to the camera, sharing his own history of family loss, Mr. Biden was filling a role of the presidency that had essentially been vacant for four years.

But it wasn’t entirely about him. In fact, much of the point of his campaign was that it was not all about him. It was an ensemble drama, not a star vehicle.

You could see the difference in the two parties’ conventions in August. The Republican convention was fully the Trump show, with the above-the-title talent making repeated appearances, speakers trying to mimic his notes like “American Idol” contestants, the production climaxing with his name spelled in fireworks over the Washington Monument.

The Democratic convention was a group production. It emphasized the demographic variety of the party and of the country, most vividly in the roll call of the states. When Mr. Biden made guest appearances, it was in little virtual forums that foregrounded the voices of others. Each night featured different headliners, including both Obamas, Kamala Harris and Mr. Biden’s wife, Jill.

This was as much a matter of necessity as a statement — modeling safe behavior in a pandemic precluded traditional barnstorming. And Mr. Biden, while often a strong one-on-one connector, is not a meteoric screen presence like the president he ran to replace, or the one he served under.

So it didn’t hurt to bolster him with telegenic co-stars, and he didn’t seem to mind sharing the stage. Even his victory celebration gave prominent billing to the more dynamic Ms. Harris, making history as the first woman, and the first Black person and person of South Asian descent, elected vice president.

All this also echoed a message of their campaign. America had spent years sitting through a relentless solo act. From the minute Mr. Trump rode down the escalator in 2015, the national story had been about him, him, him.

Maybe the corrective to the Trump drama wasn’t a copycat show built around another operatic camera hog. As much as anything, Mr. Biden was offering America a chance to reclaim its breath from a celebrity-in-chief who had sucked up all the cultural oxygen.

Like many canceled programs, this administration still has a few more episodes to burn off, even if its stunts feel increasingly like shtick and self-parody, like Rudy Giuliani’s raging against the dying of the light in a Four Seasons Total Landscaping parking lot.

But the noise of the Trump era will outlast the president, in some form, because it preceded him. It had existed on Fox News and conservative talk radio, whose dialect he mimicked after spending four years as a weekly regular on “Fox &amp; Friends.”

Maybe another politician will learn its language. Maybe another Trumpist — say, Don Jr., who speaks in Twitter-troll memes and hosts an online show called “Triggered” — will be its next interpreter.

Maybe Mr. Trump will become, as some have speculated, a right-wing-TV host, or maybe a right-wing-TV host will become the next Trump. If this presidency has accomplished anything, it was to obliterate the line between the two job descriptions.

It’s easier to vote out a president than to repeal a media ethos. And as it plays out in our media now, politics seems to be as much a battle between aesthetics as a battle between ideologies. The inclusive, return-to-normal tone of the Biden campaign — this is us. And the high-octane, finger-in-your-eye style of Trumpism — this is us, too.

But while the circus goes on, it will pitch its tent farther away from the White House for a while, maybe long enough for our ears to stop ringing.





No.35 article:
How a Third-Generation Turkey Farmer Got a Leg Up From the Pandemic

After 81 years — and in the midst of a pandemic — Hemlock Hill Farm in New York is finally hitting its stride.





No.36 article:
How to Shop for a Used Computer





No.37 article:
Zillow Surfing Is the Escape We All Need Right Now

Millions of people have spent far more time at home than they expected to this year. It’s made many of them daydream about what it might be like to live somewhere else, often while scrolling through listings on Zillow.

“I go into neighborhoods that obviously I can’t afford as a college student and look at my ideal house and fantasize about when this is all over,” said Crystal Silva, 20, who lives in North Carolina. She spends hours at a time surfing the app, touring homes she’ll never buy.

She’s likely not alone in that. Zillow usage has climbed since March, with online visitors to for-sale listings up more than 50 percent year-over-year in the early months of the pandemic. 

People bond over listings on Discord servers, group chats and “Zillow Twitter,” and their obsession has made many strange and obscure listings go viral. Curbed, a website covering city life, real estate and design, recently started a column called My Week in Zillow Saves, in which people (myself included) share the homes they’ve admired on the site.

What many are contemplating when they browse Zillow and similar home buying sites — like Redfin, Trulia and Realtor.com — is not necessarily a purchase, but an alternate life. Zillow surfing has become a primary form of escapism for those who want to flee not just their homes but the reality of 2020.

Ione Damasco, 45, an academic librarian in Ohio, said that she started to open up Zillow every day on her lunch break not long ago. “It’s a really personal thing,” she said. “It’s me daydreaming about what’s possible down the road. Right now I feel like the future is so uncertain, there’s something therapeutic about searching houses and starting to make plans for something with a positive outcome. It makes me think there is a light at the end of the tunnel, and someday I’ll be at my dream house.”

The amount of data Zillow provides, some say, is key in aiding their fantasies. While platforms like Pinterest and Instagram offer an endless stream of beautiful interiors, Zillow provides images, data, video tours and highly detailed information on each house. It’s easier to picture your future when you have access to the floor plan of the space or know which school your children would attend if you lived there.

Some will go to great lengths to find new and interesting houses. “I’ll see a house on Instagram then go to Google Maps to try to find the house using street view, then go to Zillow to look up what it’s currently worth, who bought it and historical price data,” said Kelsey Steele Cooper, 24, a hotel manager in Arkansas. “I’d like to think that hasn’t become my hobby, but I’ll use three different apps to take a look at this house that’s 1,000 miles away from me. That’s how much time we have on our hands in 2020.”

The pandemic has also upended many people’s priorities when it comes to housing; even those who’d never thought about moving now dream of more space or a backyard. Jenny Xie, an editor at Curbed, said many people who weren’t previously looking for a home are now considering moving or have broadened their housing searches.

“You hear about friends or friends of friends moving,” Ms. Xie said. “If your friend recently bought something it’s like, ‘Oh, let me see what I can get two hours outside of New York.’ Suddenly you’re exploring possibilities.” Houston, Dallas and Atlanta are now hot housing markets, according to data provided by Zillow. Traffic to listings in those cities has jumped 88 percent from last year.

That said, most Zillow surfers simply enjoy the hunt.

Tucker Boner, 27, began streaming Zillow hunts on Twitch nearly three years ago, and has seen a bump in interest since the pandemic. He said the majority of his viewers are young millennials or members of Gen Z, people who may never have the independent means to purchase a home. “This isn’t a 9-to-5-job-and-everyone-gets-a-home kind of economy,” he said.

The sheer absurdity of listings also makes for engaging content. “It’s really fun to have a virtually unending supply of very interesting things to look at,” Mr. Boner said. “There’s always going to be someone with too much money and too much creativity that results in some Frankenstein of a home.”

Zillow surfing is especially popular among teenagers. A TikTok meme over the summer consisted of users talking about knowing where the bathrooms were in their friend’s or crush’s house before ever visiting it because they had toured all of their classmates’ homes on Zillow. Many young people have extensive lists of saved homes and discuss and share listings with friends.

“We don’t have control over where we live because most of us live in our parents’ home,” Ms. Silva said, “so being able to create this world where I pick where I live and what house I live in regardless of price is fun.”

After Ariel Norling, 29, a designer in Oakland, made a name for herself on Zillow Twitter by identifying unique, enviable listings around the country, she started a weekly house-hunting newsletter on Substack called I Know A Spot. “I’ve always been a Zillow scroller,” she said, “but it’s been a big activity for me as a part of quarantine. I felt like I was running out of things to do, Zillow felt like a different kind of outlet.”

Ali Zaidi, 40, an attorney in Boston, prefers Redfin over Zillow, and has made checking the site part of his morning routine, despite the fact that he has no plans to buy a house. “It’s part of my morning,” he said. “I log into my work email, check different media outlets, then one of the websites I open up is always Redfin.”

He compared the serotonin rush of seeing beautifully staged homes to checking social media and seeing pictures of people’s private lives. “I get the same sort of joy from looking into Redfin as I do on Facebook or Instagram,” he said. “I find it interesting and almost voyeuristic.”

What makes Zillow different from those social networks, though, is the absence of people, the writer Brian Feldman noted in his newsletter, BNet, this summer. “It has no engagement loop, no social interactions, no real network effects to speak of,” he wrote. “It is a giant canvas onto which people project their desires and insecurities, and a constantly evolving document not just of the housing market, but of how people lived.”

Though the site hasn’t delved into social networking yet, many users have begged Zillow to add a comment section where surfers can connect and bond over listings.

“I think for a lot of people, Zillow feels like the opposite of doomscrolling,” Ms. Norling said. “You’re stuck in your apartment, maybe you can’t move, but it’s easy to look at listings and imagine yourself in a different life. And maybe in that life Covid isn’t happening.”





No.38 article:
After a ‘Covid Semester,’ the University of Michigan Gets Tougher on the Virus

Like many big state universities, it tried to open with some semblance of normalcy. Outbreaks ensued.

The University of Michigan’s flagship campus in Ann Arbor opened the fall semester with great expectations. Thousands of students were welcomed back to the dorms in August. Nearly one in three classes offered in-person instruction. Even Big Ten football eventually kicked off its season after some early doubts.

Pessimists were asked to reserve judgment. But hundreds of faculty and graduate assistants protested the level of face-to-face interaction. Several prominent public health experts scorned the school’s lack of mandatory coronavirus testing. Parents worried that students would not be safe.

Sure enough, by midsemester, coronavirus clusters were erupting on and off campus: 11 positive tests in a week in the athletic department; 13 more tied to two restaurants near campus; 17 in one dormitory. In October, county health authorities ordered the whole campus to shelter in place, citing “social gatherings” on or near campus as a major source of infections.

Now, after more than 2,540 Covid-19 cases among students and staff, the university is shifting course drastically. It has asked students not to come back to campus in January unless they have to. Each dorm room will hold only one person, forcing thousands of students to stay home or find off-campus housing. Instruction will be remote in 90 percent of classes. Students who violate certain health rules will face tougher sanctions, including automatic probation, and coronavirus tests will be mandatory for anyone coming to campus.

“One thing I’ve learned in this Covid semester is that every decision you make that makes one subset of people happy will make a different subset of people unhappy,” said the school’s president, Mark Schlissel, a physician, who has been a focus of criticism all year and is being pummeled again with complaints about the school’s new policies.

“What’s changed is the national context,” he said. “The outbreak is blossoming again all over the country, including in our state.”

The University of Michigan’s about-face comes as the nation is recording more than 162,000 new virus cases a day and many states are imposing tougher health restrictions. In Michigan, state health authorities and Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, have suspended in-person classes in high schools and colleges, and shut down bars, indoor dining, bowling alleys and other businesses for three weeks despite intense opposition from many Republicans, including members of the Trump administration.

In many ways, the school’s chaotic fall has typified the struggles of big state universities that tried to maintain some semblance of normalcy amid contagion, allowing intercollegiate sports, Greek life and off-campus housing — often without the kind of mandatory coronavirus testing considered crucial to containing outbreaks.

And like Michigan, many of those universities are now looking to batten down their hatches for the winter and spring semesters. Virtually all classes at the university pivoted this week to remote instruction, and students will be sent home Friday until the Jan. 19 start of the winter semester.

The State University of New York has delayed 2021 classes until Feb. 1 across its 64-campus system, requiring all students to be tested upon their return and throughout the semester. Dozens of campuses — the University of Arizona, the University of Wyoming, Cornell University, the University of Kentucky and many others — have canceled spring break, while the Ivy League has ended intercollegiate athletic competition at least through February.

There are some schools looking to open up their campuses. At the behest of its Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, Florida’s public universities plan to offer even more face-to-face classes next year. But they seem to be outliers.

Though the virus has proved to be less lethal among young people, it has also spread like wildfire on many campuses. A New York Times survey has revealed at least 321,000 cases at 1,700 colleges across the country. Among the hardest hit: Clemson University in South Carolina with more than 5,080 cases; the University of Florida with more than 5,000; and the University of Georgia with more than 4,380.

The prospect of a vaccine, while encouraging, is not likely to make campuses safer in the short term, said Carl Bergstrom, a University of Washington evolutionary biologist who has been tracking the pandemic.

“I don’t think there’s anybody now who thinks this will be gone by January,” Mr. Bergstrom said. “It’s clear that we have to hunker down.”

That assumption was less clear this summer, when Michigan decided to bring some 6,400 students back to campus housing. Students relished the prospect of college-town life in Ann Arbor. Regents welcomed the revenue from housing.

Health experts were cautiously optimistic, too, including Dr. Schlissel, who earned his M.D. and Ph.D. at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and is an immunologist.

He was especially hopeful that campus rules would influence the behavior of students who planned to rent apartments in Ann Arbor — typically two-thirds of the school’s 48,000 undergraduate and graduate students live off-campus — because they could not break a lease or because “they’d rather live with their friends than in mom’s basement.”

In an August message to campus, he wrote that off-campus students might even end up safer than if they had chosen to study remotely from home.

But Michigan did not mandate weekly or biweekly coronavirus tests as a condition of coming onto campus, as did some universities, including Duke University and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Beyond an initial pre-entry test that students were instructed to take before the fall semester started, testing was limited to people who had been exposed to the virus, who had symptoms or who opted in to a weekly surveillance sample of about 3,000 volunteers.

At that time, the commercial labs working with the university could not process tens of thousands of tests fast enough to effectively contain outbreaks, Dr. Schlissel said; the university’s own hospital worried that it could not help without undermining care for patients.

Ann Arbor had a relatively low infection rate, he told university employees, and a lot of risk could be mitigated with masks and social distance. But faculty were not reassured.

“Show us the science,” more than 830 faculty members and graduate instructors demanded in an Aug. 7 letter, citing an influential study on campus reopening that suggested the University of Michigan needed to do much more testing. In an online town hall, Dr. Schlissel tried to explain that testing had limits, even at places like the University of Illinois, which had invested heavily in testing and tracing. But his choice of words inflamed the situation.

“Sometimes testing can give you a false sense of security,” he told the faculty, repeating a Trump administration argument against testing. And universal testing at an institution Michigan’s size was, he said, “science fiction.” Without evidence, he added that the H.I.V. epidemic had spread as “people got a negative test and they presented it to their sex partners.”

Dr. Schlissel quickly walked back the H.I.V. remark and apologized, saying he only meant to question the effectiveness of universal testing. But the video was on YouTube. Gregg Gonsalves, professor of epidemiology at Yale University and co-director of the Global Health Justice Partnership, called his stance “egregious” in The Nation, and other epidemiologists, including Mr. Bergstrom and one of the authors of the study on safe reopening, Yale’s A. David Paltiel, blasted him on Twitter.

By the time fall classes started on Aug. 31, graduate students were preparing to strike rather than teach face-to-face, and undergraduates, parents and faculty were petitioning for expanded testing. Two and a half weeks later — on the same day the Big Ten announced it had found a way to test athletes daily and therefore would go ahead with football season — Dr. Schlissel’s faculty narrowly passed a vote of no confidence in him.

The faculty relationship has since improved, but the virus has whipsawed the campus. Dr. Schlissel said outbreaks have been traced almost entirely to undergraduate gatherings. In late October, after health authorities in surrounding Washtenaw County slapped the whole campus with an emergency stay-in-place order, the faculty petitioned the president for a winter semester with fewer students in dorms, fewer in-person classes and much more mandatory testing. It had more than 1,100 signatures.

Dr. Schlissel still talks about testing as just one key tool in a combination of actions necessary to control the virus, but he has come around, he said, to seeing its importance in “reassuring” the community. When classes resume in 2021, the university will de-densify the dorms and ramp up testing. Only about 3,000 students will be allowed back into university housing, and anyone who comes onto campus, symptomatic or not, will have to be cleared via a saliva-based test processed by a faculty-founded start-up in Ann Arbor.

“If they don’t,” Dr. Schlissel said, “we’ll inactivate their ID cards.”

The retrenchment has pleased faculty but upset undergraduates and their parents. More than 1,500 angry parents have signed a petition protesting the short notice with which the university canceled spring housing contracts. If the university doesn’t “reverse its drastic decision to close the dorms,” it says, the parents want a discount.

“He should say, ‘Listen, we screwed up,’ and apologize to all of us,” said Amy Tara Koch, a Chicago writer and Michigan alumna whose daughter, a freshman, scrambled last week to find an apartment for the spring in Ann Arbor. “And then give a tuition abatement. Out-of-state tuition there is, like, $50,000.”

The disappointment has been particularly keen, other parents said, because Michigan’s reputation for academic excellence had led them to expect a state-of-the-art response to the crisis.

“It’s all too little, too late,” said Sherry Levine, a teacher from Rye Brook, N.Y., whose son, a junior, lives in a fraternity house in Ann Arbor, and who feels the university’s pandemic response all year has been merely “reactive.”

Dr. Schlissel said the university had refunded housing deposits for the spring, offered lower double-room rates to students who’ll spend the spring in a single and already “apologized profusely.” And, he noted, not all of the fall semester lessons were negative.

“Students continued in their studies, they’ll get credit for the semester, they’re going to head toward being Michigan graduates and they’re doing so in an environment that is really challenging,” he said. “Everyone is doing their best.”





No.39 article:
Can America Restore the Rule of Law Without Prosecuting Trump?

Early in November, as President Trump challenged the integrity of the election with baseless lawsuits, Joe Biden delivered his first speech as president-elect, declaring it a “time to heal.” It was a phrase that many Americans were surely longing to hear, given the precarious state of the nation’s political culture. But it was also one that carried significant historical weight and possible implications for the future. When President Gerald R. Ford pardoned Richard Nixon for his role in the Watergate scandal, he, too, spoke about the need for “healing.” (Ford titled his subsequent memoir “A Time to Heal.”) When President Lincoln delivered his second inaugural address during the waning days of the Civil War, he spoke in similar terms about the imperative to “bind up the nation’s wounds.” Whether Biden intended to do so, his words provided an early signal about one of the first questions he is going to confront as president: What to do about Donald Trump? Biden faces many daunting challenges — mitigating the ongoing damage from the pandemic, repairing institutions, restoring faith in government — but how to deal with his predecessor’s flagrant and relentless subversion of the rule of law is in many ways the most vexing.

Last year, one of Trump’s lawyers, William Consovoy, memorably argued in open court that a sitting president could shoot a man in public and not be prosecuted. The legal validity of this claim notwithstanding, there is nothing to protect a former president from prosecution. No ex-president has ever been indicted before, but no president has ever left office with so much potential criminal liability.

As the election approached and the polls pointed to a Trump defeat, there was a growing sense that his moment of reckoning was coming. He was, after all, already the subject of a criminal investigation by the district attorney of Manhattan as well as a civil investigation by the attorney general of New York State. Both of those inquiries concern his conduct as a private businessman. The bigger and infinitely more fraught question is how to address Trump’s potentially criminal acts as a political candidate and president. Those would most likely be federal crimes that could only be prosecuted by the federal government.

As president, Trump cavalierly called for the imprisonment of political opponents, shattering a longstanding democratic norm. This is not a precedent to follow lightly. Presidents have historically gone out of their way to avoid using the power of the office to pursue their political rivals. When President George H.W. Bush pardoned six Reagan White House officials who were involved in the Iran-contra affair, he warned of “a profoundly troubling development in the political and legal climate of our country: the criminalization of policy differences.” Bush was sparing members of his own party. President Obama created what is perhaps an even more relevant precedent for Biden by choosing not to prosecute members of the George W. Bush administration who had authorized the unlawful torture of detainees; his nominee for attorney general, Eric Holder, used the very same phrase — the criminalization of policy differences — when the issue came up during a 2009 congressional hearing. Over the summer, I asked David Cole, the national legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, what he thought would happen to Trump if he lost the election. “My gut is that you’re very unlikely to see a federal prosecution,” he told me. “For me, the real accountability will be on Nov. 3, if he is sent packing from the White House.”

It was a sentiment that I heard from a lot of legal thinkers and former government officials in the months leading up to the election: The visions of Donald Trump in an orange jumpsuit were more fantasy than reality. His true moment of reckoning would happen at the ballot box. But the election has now come and gone, and Trump, along with most of his party and many millions of Americans, has refused to accept the results. Accountability feels as if it might be further away than ever.

The stakes of an indictment would be very high. The commander in chief’s broad powers under the Constitution could make it difficult to secure convictions. The damage to democracy that would be caused by a failed prosecution of a former president is hard to even fathom. An acquittal could also set back future efforts at accountability, and embolden aspiring abusers of authority. Even once he’s out of office, Trump is going to be a powerful force in the country’s political life; putting him on trial for his conduct as president would be tantamount to putting on trial the more than 72 million Americans who voted for his re-election. One institution that Biden will no doubt be focused on trying to rebuild is the Justice Department; prosecuting Trump could complicate any effort to restore the agency’s reputation for independence and integrity. There are logistical issues, too. Prosecuting a former president could mean convicting him, and the idea of sending a former president to prison does indeed seem fantastical.

If history is any guide, the desire to “move on” will only grow stronger in the weeks and months ahead. But how does the country move on from a president whose disregard for the law has been so constant and pervasive? Every president seeks to exploit the immense power of the office, but Trump’s exploitation of this power represented a difference in both degree and kind. Never before had a president leveraged so much of the “energy” of the executive branch — Alexander Hamilton’s word — to advance his personal interests. Presidents Reagan and George W. Bush stretched the limits of their authority in the name of national security. Trump stretched the limits of his authority not just to enrich himself and his family but to block investigations into his personal and official conduct and to maintain his grip on power.

Trump’s conduct as president was a product of his unique character. But it was also enabled by the office. The accumulation of decades’ worth of lawmaking, legal theorizing and historical precedent had given the president almost total freedom from accountability, rendering useless any seemingly applicable tool of law enforcement. Under the special-counsel regulations, the independent prosecutor who was charged with investigating the Trump campaign’s links to Russia effectively served at the pleasure of the Trump administration. The federal prosecutors who indicted Michael Cohen for an illegal campaign-finance scheme were bound to respect a decades-old legal opinion from the Justice Department asserting that the president — who, according to Cohen, directed him to carry out the scheme — was immune from criminal prosecution. There was nothing, and no one, to stop Trump from ordering numerous officials not to cooperate with his impeachment inquiry. Not that this mattered; Trump’s acquittal by the G.O.P.-controlled Senate was a foregone conclusion before the hearings even opened. One after another, Trump’s close associates faced charges for actions committed on his behalf, even as he walked through still more open doors, confident that as long as he remained in office, he was untouchable.

It would be wrong to think about Trump’s behavior as existing on the same spectrum as that of his post-Watergate predecessors. To see why, you have to first look back on the entire Trump presidency in a different way — one that sees his possibly criminal conduct not as a byproduct of the pursuit of a political agenda but as a central, self-perpetuating feature of his tenure. In this light, Trump’s potential criminality becomes a kind of throughline, the dots that connect his life as a businessman to his entry into politics and then onward across his four years as president. One potentially illegal act led Trump to the next: from his law-bending moves as a businessman, to his questionable campaign-finance practices, to his willingness to interfere with investigations into his conduct, to his acts of public corruption and, finally, to the seemingly illegal abuse of the powers of his office in order to remain in office.

The stakes of prosecuting Donald Trump may be high; but so are the costs of not prosecuting him, which would send a dangerous message, one that transcends even the presidency, about the country’s commitment to the rule of law. Trump has presented Biden — and America, really — with a very difficult dilemma. “This whole presidency has been about someone who thought he was above the law,” Anne Milgram, the former attorney general of New Jersey, told me. “If he isn’t held accountable for possible crimes, then he literally was above the law.”

Donald Trump’s singular relationship with the law, which long predated his presidency, was perhaps an inevitable consequence of his relationship with Roy Cohn during his formative years in business. It was Cohn who taught Trump that the law was not a set of inviolable rules but a system to beat and even work to your advantage, the most powerful tool in a businessman’s toolbox. “I decided long ago to make my own rules,” Cohn told Penthouse magazine in 1981. (Trump later passed along one of those rules to his first White House counsel, Donald McGahn, when he told him, “Lawyers don’t take notes.”)

As a businessman with an inherited and growing fortune, Trump engaged in a great deal of litigation — “I’m like a Ph.D. in litigation,” he joked at one campaign rally in 2016 — answering suits with countersuits; wearing down his adversaries with endless rounds of delays, motions and appeals; compelling his employees to sign sweeping nondisclosure agreements. At risk of defaulting on a $640 million loan from Deutsche Bank in 2008, Trump sued the institution for $3 billion, blaming it for helping cause the global financial meltdown that had made him temporarily insolvent. Unhappy with the $15 million property-tax valuation placed on a golf course that he had paid $47.5 million to buy and renovate, Trump sued the town of Ossining, N.Y., claiming that the property was worth only $1.4 million.

Trump had figured out something about the American system: You could solve a lot of problems with money, lawyers and a willingness to double down. This attitude led him, inexorably, toward business practices that tested the line of legality. After Trump’s financial struggles in the early 2000s made it more difficult for him to borrow money from established financial institutions, he sought partnerships with private individuals like the Russian oligarch Aras Agalarov, whom Senate investigators have linked to organized crime. (A spokesman for the Trump Organization challenged the notion that the company was struggling at the time and said that it in fact “enjoyed great success in the 2000s.”) Trump’s real estate training program, Trump University, was essentially a pyramid scheme, encouraging consumers, in particular the elderly, to purchase high-priced seminars for supposedly proprietary investment advice that in fact came from third-party marketing companies. Trump used money raised by his nonprofit foundation to settle lawsuits against his for-profit businesses (as well as to buy a gigantic painting of himself, which he had hung at one of his golf clubs). According to the congressional testimony of Trump’s longtime personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, Trump deliberately inflated the value of his assets by hundreds of millions of dollars in order to secure bank loans and cheaper insurance rates, and deflated their value to lower his tax burden. (A spokesman for the Trump Organization said Cohen’s claims were “completely untrue.”)

Trump’s tax strategy, enabled by a large team of accountants and lawyers, stretched the limits of tax avoidance and may well have crossed the line into tax fraud. Trump has steadfastly refused to disclose his tax returns, but a team of investigative reporters at The Times obtained reams of his tax data; what they revealed was startling. In 2010, Trump took a $72.9 million tax refund for an abandoned Atlantic City casino venture, which would require him to have received absolutely nothing in return for his investment, and he appears to have grossly overstated the value of several properties in order to claim larger deductions known as conservation easements. During Trump’s years on “The Apprentice,” he wrote off $70,000 in haircuts as a business expense. He also wrote off the expenses associated with a family compound in Westchester County by classifying it as an investment property, and he paid his daughter Ivanka more than $740,000 in consulting fees when she was an employee of the Trump Organization.

Most major financial crimes carry a five-year statute of limitations, so any illegal acts committed since 2015 would be chargeable. Both the New York attorney general, Letitia James — who entered office in 2019 vowing to use “every area of the law” to investigate President Trump — and the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., operate independently of the federal government, and even if Trump were to successfully engineer a pardon for himself, he would not be immune from state charges.

Vance’s inquiry appears to cover a range of possible white-collar crimes; one of his office’s filings made reference to “potentially widespread and protracted criminal conduct” at the Trump Organization. Tax fraud and insurance fraud have been mentioned explicitly in court documents, but some of the prosecutors and white-collar defense lawyers I spoke with suggested other possibilities, too. Given Trump’s history of doing business with foreign actors with a demonstrated need to conceal the sources of their income, another one might be money laundering. If investigators are able to establish that Trump engaged in a pattern of illegal activity, he could also be indicted under New York’s racketeering statute.

But prosecuting Trump under state law poses challenges of its own. New York’s state courts afford defendants far more protections than the federal courts. There are stricter rules governing evidence that can be presented to a grand jury, and even minor procedural errors can result in indictments being thrown out. “If you’re a white-collar defendant, you’d rather be in New York State court than in federal court any day of the week,” Daniel R. Alonso, who served as Vance’s top deputy from 2010 to 2014 and is now in private practice, told me.

Trump could also face federal prosecution for tax fraud. He is currently in the midst of a protracted audit at the Internal Revenue Service concerning the casino-venture refund. If the agency’s auditors find a “firm indication” of fraud, they can refer the case to the agency’s criminal investigators or even the Department of Justice. (A spokesman for the Trump Organization said that all of the company’s transactions occurred under the supervision of tax lawyers and “followed all applicable provisions of the tax code.”) Historically, the I.R.S. has not hesitated to prosecute high-profile figures; it’s an efficient way to send a message to the public that there are serious repercussions for committing tax fraud. One of Trump’s fellow New York City real estate moguls, Leona Helmsley, served 18 months in federal prison for using corporate funds to renovate her Connecticut mansion. More recently, a former New York City police commissioner, Bernard Kerik, admitted to failing to disclose the receipt of a gift from a contractor who renovated his Bronx apartment for free; after pleading guilty to two counts of tax fraud and six other felonies, he was sentenced to four years. (Trump pardoned him last winter.)

But cases like these are rare. Wealthy businesspeople are generally able to take extraordinary liberties with their taxes without fear of prosecution. In criminal tax-fraud cases, prosecutors are required to prove that the misconduct was intentional, which is a high bar to clear. A jury might agree that Trump’s daughter’s consulting services were not worth $740,000, but if Trump argued that he thought they were, that could constitute a viable defense. So could ignorance: Trump’s large team of accountants gives him cover for many potentially fraudulent claims that might be uncovered in the course of an investigation. The sheer complexity of Trump’s finances — the numerous partnerships, limited-liability corporations and shell companies through which he does business — would make it difficult to build a case that a jury could follow.

Most of the tax lawyers I spoke with said that it was much more likely that Trump’s I.R.S. audit will remain a civil matter; he could face steep penalties, but he would be spared the prospect of prison. “Even if Trump weren’t in politics, his celebrity would make him a super appealing prosecutorial target for the I.R.S.,” said Daniel Shaviro, a tax professor at New York University Law School. “But in the fraught political world we’re in, politics will have to be considered.”

When Donald Trump announced his presidential candidacy, he entered a new realm, with new laws to govern his conduct and new forms of potential liability. Fund-raising was a challenge for a long-shot, anti-establishment candidate, so Trump sought financing through unconventional, and at least in some instances possibly illegal, means. Days before the first Republican nominating caucuses, he used his foundation to host a televised fund-raiser for military veterans and then redirected millions of the dollars in donations to his campaign, prompting an investigation by the New York State attorney general, Eric Schneiderman. (The foundation was eventually fined $2 million for the misappropriation of funds and shut down under court supervision.)

When potentially damaging episodes from Trump’s past surfaced, or threatened to surface, he shut them down as expeditiously as he could, without apparent concern for legal consequences. After a former contestant on “The Apprentice,” Summer Zervos, accused Trump of sexual assault, he publicly called her a liar, prompting a defamation suit. His lawyer Michael Cohen arranged for six-figure hush-money payments to be made to two women, Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal, who were threatening to go public with their claims of having had affairs with Trump.

At the same time, Trump’s campaign eagerly embraced Russia’s effort to interfere in the election. The campaign’s chairman and chief strategist, Paul Manafort, had a long history of carrying out Russian influence operations. He shared internal polling data with a Russian intelligence agent, while another adviser, Roger Stone, helped arrange for WikiLeaks to publish — minutes after the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape in which Trump joked about sexually assaulting women — a large cache of Democratic Party emails stolen by Russian hackers. (Stone has said that he didn’t know where the emails came from or what was in them.)

A number of Trump’s campaign associates, including Cohen, Manafort and Stone, have since faced federal charges and been sentenced to prison. Once Trump is out of office, he could also be investigated and potentially prosecuted for his conduct during the campaign. Robert Mueller, the special counsel, did not find sufficient evidence to prove that Trump’s participation in his campaign’s involvement with Russia violated the federal conspiracy statute. But the fifth and final volume of the Senate Intelligence Committee’s bipartisan report on Russian interference in the 2016 election, which was released in August, made it clear that Mueller’s investigation was not exhaustive. The Senate report detailed numerous new instances of engagement between the Trump campaign and Russian actors and documented a flurry of conversations between Trump and Stone that investigators suspected involved the imminent Democratic National Committee email dumps. Still, most of the prosecutors I spoke with thought that the Mueller investigation effectively foreclosed the possibility of a criminal inquiry of Trump’s conduct with respect to Russia. “People can disagree about how it was done or how it went, but that doesn’t mean it wasn’t a thorough process,” Milgram said. “It doesn’t feel to me like someone would go digging there to see if there was more. That could feel vindictive because Mueller already made the call.”

An election-law case against Trump might be more appealing to a Biden Justice Department. When Cohen pleaded guilty to violating two campaign-finance laws in the Southern District of New York, he testified in federal court that Trump directed him to arrange for the hush-money payments. Trump was part of the investigation, but was protected by the Justice Department policy against indicting a sitting president. He was instead named an unindicted co-conspirator in the case — “Individual-1,” as the prosecution’s filings called him.

There is not much disagreement among campaign-finance experts about whether Trump could be indicted. The hush-money payments to Daniels and McDougal were clearly meant to prevent the disclosure of information that could have damaged Trump’s campaign. As such, they almost certainly violated several campaign-finance laws, including the prohibition against accepting contributions in excess of $2,700 and the failure to properly report contributions to the Federal Election Commission. And because the amount of money involved exceeded $25,000, the violations would be considered felonies; each one would be punishable by up to five years in prison. Judging from the facts, it looks like a strong case. There is already material evidence of the scheme: Cohen presented congressional investigators with copies of canceled checks from Trump and the Trump Organization — reimbursements for the payments that he made to Daniels and that the Trump Organization classified as legal fees.

Campaign-finance laws were designed to limit the influence of private actors in elections — “to prevent not only the actual corruption of public officials but even the appearance of corruption that could undermine voter faith in government,” as Paul S. Ryan, the vice president of policy and litigation at the election-watchdog group Common Cause, told me. But it’s a body of law that has proved difficult to enforce. The Supreme Court has struck down a host of campaign-finance restrictions in recent years, and the government’s failed prosecution in 2012 of the former Democratic vice-presidential nominee John Edwards on charges of campaign-finance violations had a chilling effect on possible subsequent indictments.

Edwards’s case was not so different from Trump’s. He was accused of illegally arranging for two of his wealthy supporters to pay $925,000 to help him keep his pregnant mistress, Rielle Hunter, out of public view during a critical phase of the primary campaign. The Justice Department argued that because the money was intended to prevent a disclosure that could have hurt Edwards’s presidential bid, it should be considered a campaign contribution. But prosecutors had a hard time making their case to the jury. One of the two wealthy supporters died before the indictment; the other, the 101-year-old banking heiress Bunny Mellon, was too frail to testify. Edwards’s lawyers exploited the confusing nature of campaign-finance laws to their advantage. After four years of legal wrangling and six weeks in court, the trial ended in a hung jury. The government decided to cut its losses and drop the case.

The presidency offered Trump both new opportunities and a new degree of protection. He would have all of the formal and informal powers of the office at his disposal, but he would also have full immunity from criminal prosecution, thanks to a legal opinion from the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel in 1973 stating that a sitting president should not be indicted. It was just a memo, not an actual ruling, but it had been honored by federal prosecutors for close to 50 years. The power of the office would not only allow Trump to enrich himself and his family but to frustrate any investigations into his actions as president — or, for that matter, into his prior conduct.

Nearly all of Trump’s modern predecessors separated themselves from their financial interests before entering office to eliminate the possibility of any conflicts. Trump announced that he would do the opposite, consolidating his businesses in a family trust. His two eldest sons would run the Trump Organization, and he would become the trust’s sole beneficiary, allowing his family to take full advantage of the office’s financial potential.

Money flooded into the inaugural committee, which raised an unprecedented $107 million. The laws governing contributions to inaugural committees are far more forgiving than those governing campaign finance. Nevertheless, Trump’s inaugural committee appears to have broken a number of them. The committee may have violated its nonprofit status by paying more than $1 million to rent event space at Trump’s new Washington hotel — well above market rate and the hotel’s own pricing guidelines — and spending another $300,000 to rent a room in the hotel for a private, after-hours party for Trump’s children. The inaugural committee’s disclosure report to the Federal Election Commission contained dozens of false entries; it reported, for instance, that Katherine Johnson — the NASA mathematician who was one of the subjects of the movie “Hidden Figures” and was then 98 years old — had contributed $25,000, listing her address as the address for NASA’s research center in Hampton, Va. (Johnson did not contribute to the committee, nor did she reside at NASA.) The inaugural committee’s activities have already prompted federal prosecutions. The Republican lobbyist Samuel Patten pleaded guilty in 2018 to illegally arranging for a Ukrainian oligarch to purchase four tickets to the inaugural for $50,000. And a venture capitalist in California, Imaad Zuberi, pleaded guilty earlier this year to trying to hide from investigators the source of a portion of the $900,000 contribution he made to the committee.

Just a few months into Trump’s presidency, the news broke that the F.B.I. had begun an investigation into his campaign’s links to Russia. Trump tried to derail it. His first attorney general, Jeff Sessions, had recused himself from the inquiry because he had been involved with the campaign; Trump pressed him to “un-recuse” himself. He also pressed the director of the F.B.I., James Comey, to announce that he wasn’t a target of the investigation and to back off his former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, who pleaded guilty to lying to investigators about a meeting with the Russian ambassador Sergei Kislyak. Trump eventually fired Comey, which led to the appointment of Mueller as special counsel, and Mueller took over the investigation. Trump soon tried to stop Mueller too, ordering his White House counsel, Donald McGahn, to fire him. When the story of Trump’s order — and McGahn’s refusal to follow it — became public, Trump told McGahn to publicly deny it and ordered him to create a false record to substantiate the lie. (He didn’t.)

As Mueller’s investigation continued and started claiming its first victims, Trump floated the idea of pardoning a potential witness against him — his former campaign manager Manafort, who was convicted of eight felonies and pleaded guilty to two others. And he tried to intimidate and then discredit another potential witness, Michael Cohen, first publicly predicting that he wouldn’t “flip,” and then, once he did, calling him a “liar.”

Mueller’s brief was to investigate the Trump campaign’s Russia connections, but it did not take long for him to begin a parallel inquiry into whether the president’s resistance to the initial investigation constituted obstruction of justice. Mueller proceeded as though he did not have the authority to indict a sitting president, but the second volume of his report detailed 10 potentially obstructive acts. There was broad agreement among the dozens of prosecutors and legal experts with whom I spoke that Mueller presented more than enough evidence to seek a grand-jury indictment against Trump for obstruction. In fact, when Mueller’s report was released in the spring of 2019, more than 700 former federal prosecutors from Republican and Democratic administrations signed an open letter stating that if those same acts had been committed by anyone but the president, they would have resulted in multiple felony charges.

It is not uncommon for criminal investigations to splinter into obstruction investigations. After the tech boom of the late 1990s, the investment banker Frank Quattrone was investigated for taking kickbacks in exchange for shares in hotly anticipated I.P.O.s; he wasn’t charged with securities fraud, but he was indicted for directing employees to “clean up” their files after learning that the inquiry might be imminent. (He was convicted but the verdict was overturned.) When political figures are prosecuted, it is often for obstruction. Scooter Libby, an adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney, was never charged with leaking the name of a covert C.I.A. operative to the media, but he was convicted of lying to a grand jury investigating the leak. (His sentence was commuted by George W. Bush.) Roger Stone was not prosecuted for his efforts to get Trump elected; he was convicted of obscuring those efforts by lying under oath, withholding documents and threatening an associate if he cooperated with a congressional investigation into the campaign’s ties to Russia. (His sentence was commuted by Trump.)

Obstructing justice is the mechanism by which powerful people try to place themselves above the law. And yet it’s not entirely clear how fully the obstruction statute applies to the president, or if it does at all. An obstructive act requires “corrupt intent,” which would mean convincing 12 members of a jury that the president had corrupt motives. For that matter, some legal thinkers have gone so far as to argue that because the president has complete authority over the administration of justice, he cannot by definition commit an act that interferes with it.

Since the days of Roy Cohn, Trump had always been able to find the right lawyer for the job, whether the issue at hand was a failed deal or a failed marriage. It took Trump a little while to find the right attorney general. But after temporarily replacing Jeff Sessions with the more compliant Matthew Whitaker, he landed on the man he really needed: William P. Barr.

Decades earlier, Barr was part of a group of conservative legal thinkers who developed and championed a new theory of presidential power known as “the unitary executive.” The argument was that Article II of the Constitution not only gave the president unfettered control over foreign policy and covert operations but also protected him against incursions into that authority by independent prosecutors. Then a young policy lawyer in the Reagan White House, Barr later served as attorney general to President George H.W. Bush, whom he helped persuade to pardon all of the Reagan officials still at risk of indictment in the Iran-contra scandal.

After Bush left office, Barr spent many years in the private sector. He was approaching 70 when the chance to return to the Justice Department presented itself, this time working for a president who needed no encouragement to push the limits of his authority. With his reflexive instinct to harness and exploit any power available to him, Trump was the perfect test case for Barr’s expansive view of executive power. Even before he was sworn in as Trump’s attorney general, Barr wrote an unsolicited legal memo to the Justice Department characterizing Mueller’s investigation as a “fatally misconceived” assault on the presidency. The president’s authority on all of the nation’s law-enforcement matters — even those concerning his own conduct — was “illimitable,” Barr wrote in a 19-page defense of presidential power. “Constitutionally, it is wrong to conceive of the President as simply the highest officer within the Executive branch hierarchy,” he concluded. “He alone is the Executive branch.” Once ensconced in the Justice Department, Barr pre-empted the release of the Mueller Report with a misleading summary of its findings and then refused to provide Congress with an unredacted version of the report, citing executive privilege.

Backed now by a constitutional theory giving him nearly limitless power, and an attorney general eager to implement it, Trump could test still more legal boundaries, leveraging his “unitary” authority over the nation’s foreign affairs for political purposes. For this, he needed the help of a very different sort of lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, who set the scheme in motion. The plan called for holding back from Ukraine $391 million in congressionally approved military aid until the country’s newly elected president, Volodymyr Zelensky, agreed to investigate two debunked conspiracy theories — one casting doubt on Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, the other raising ethical questions about Joe Biden. United States diplomats, including the ambassador to the European Union and the special envoy to Ukraine, were pressed into service to aid in the effort.

When a whistle-blower filed a complaint, Barr’s Justice Department again came to Trump’s defense, dismissing it as unworthy of further investigation and refusing to make it available to Congress, arguing that it was not a matter of “urgent concern.” The House of Representatives soon opened a formal impeachment inquiry, which Trump tried to obstruct, directing various agencies to refuse to comply with congressional subpoenas for documents and ordering numerous executive-branch officials not to testify.

One reason the framers opted for a president over a governing council was to facilitate accountability — to ensure that a single, identifiable person could be held responsible for the conduct of the government. There is a broad consensus among legal scholars that presidents can be impeached without having engaged in explicitly criminal conduct: For one thing, when the framers drafted the Constitution, creating the office of the president, the United States did not yet have a criminal code. But the House Judiciary Committee nevertheless decided to detail the crimes they believed Trump had committed in their impeachment report: bribery (18 U.S.C. 201), wire fraud (18 U.S.C. 1343) and honest-services fraud (18 U.S.C. 1346). “We thought it was important that the American people understand that the president of the United States engaged in conduct for which any other citizen could, and likely would, have been prosecuted,” Barry Berke, a white-collar defense lawyer who served as special counsel to the committee, told me. Some of the prosecutors I spoke with mentioned two other possible charges: conspiracy to defraud the United States and extortion.

Acts of public corruption are often vigorously prosecuted at the local and even state level, in part because they undercut one of the basic tenets of democracy — the idea of a government run by the people, for the people. In 2011, the former governor of Illinois, Rod Blagojevich, was convicted of trying to sell the Illinois Senate seat of the newly elected President Obama and increasing the Medicaid reimbursement rates at a children’s hospital in exchange for campaign contributions. (While awaiting trial, a disgraced but now nationally recognizable Blagojevich appeared on Trump’s reality TV spinoff, “The Celebrity Apprentice.” Trump commuted his 14-year sentence in February.)

When it comes to their obligation to prioritize the public good, presidents might be judged by the same, if not higher, legal standards than local officials. The presidency is, after all, the ultimate public trust. But experts largely agree that this isn’t the case. Barr’s view of the unitary executive may be extreme, but there is little dispute that the framers intended to invest the president with nearly unquestioned authority on matters of national security and foreign diplomacy. Legal challenges to that authority are rare and have historically been met with wariness from the courts, which don’t like to contradict a president’s insistence that he was acting in the best interests of the nation.

As the 2020 election approached, Trump appeared emboldened by his years of presidential unaccountability. Thanks to his self-compounding liability, he was also confronting an increasingly urgent need to retain it.

The Justice Department had by now been transformed under Barr. There seemed to be no Trump problem that the agency wouldn’t at least try to fix. It began a counterinvestigation into the F.B.I.’s investigation into Trump’s campaign, tried to block the distribution of a memoir by the former national security adviser John Bolton that was unflattering to Trump and intervened in a defamation lawsuit brought by the author and columnist E. Jean Carroll, who accused Trump of raping her in the mid-1990s, arguing that Trump’s insulting comments about her fell within the scope of his official duties as president. (Trump has denied Carroll’s allegations.)

Trump, meanwhile, continued to test the limits of his seemingly limitless authority. He pushed out five inspectors general charged with overseeing the conduct of the executive branch, commuted Stone’s prison sentence and openly defied the authority of the other two branches of government in an effort to stoke his political base. Rather than nominating Chad F. Wolf, who oversaw the administration’s “law and order” response to the racial-justice protests in Portland, Ore., to serve as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Trump appointed him acting director to avoid the Senate confirmation process. Even after the Government Accountability Office and a federal judge ruled that Wolf was most likely serving in his job illegally — and that many of his actions may have thus been unlawful — Trump left him in place. He similarly disregarded a federal judge’s order compelling him to restore the Obama-era DACA program that enabled hundreds of thousands of immigrants to remain in the United States.

Even as Trump was exercising his power in bold new ways, the potential threats awaiting him if he lost the election were proliferating and intensifying. Not only was the Manhattan D.A.’s investigation progressing, but a watchdog group had accused Trump’s re-election campaign of illegally funneling $170 million in funds to unidentified recipients through firms controlled by the campaign’s recently deposed manager, Brad Parscale, and other officials. (The Trump campaign denied any wrongdoing.) Out of office, Trump would almost certainly face financial problems too. The presidency had been good for business, bringing in tens of millions of dollars in foreign projects to the Trump Organization, providing a steady stream of favor-seeking patrons to Trump’s Washington hotel and allowing Trump and his children to bill the government for hundreds of “official visits” to his properties. But his golf courses had been losing millions of dollars every year, and he had $421 million in personal debt obligations, most of which is coming due in the next four years.

And so, in the final weeks of his term, Trump moved into a new sphere of potential criminality, directing all of the weight of the government’s executive branch toward his re-election effort. He turned the White House into a stage prop for the Republican National Convention, pardoning a former prisoner and participating in a naturalization ceremony as part of the festivities. In October, days after checking out of Walter Reed hospital with Covid-19, Trump held a campaign rally on the South Lawn. Even this was not enough to move his poll numbers. Still trailing in the final days of the campaign, Trump lashed out at some of his staunchest allies in the administration for not using their power aggressively enough on his behalf, even calling out Barr for failing to arrest his political rivals, including Biden, and trying to push the secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, to make public Hillary Clinton’s more-than-four-year-old emails.

In 1939, in the face of widespread claims that Works Progress Administration employees were being pressured to work on Democratic Party campaigns, Congress passed a law known as the Hatch Act to prevent federal officials from exploiting their authority for partisan purposes. Most presidential administrations have since taken pains to separate their public and political operations, so as not to break the law. Civil violations of the act are handled by an independent agency known as the Office of Special Counsel. President Obama’s secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Julián Castro, was censured for discussing the 2016 election during a TV interview. He issued a public apology, explaining that the error was inadvertent.

Presidents and vice presidents are exempt from the statute’s civil provisions. Because they are effectively always on the job, some of the prohibitions — like the one against engaging in political activity while on duty — would be difficult to apply. Dozens of Trump administration employees, including at least nine high-level appointees, have been investigated for Hatch Act violations. Kellyanne Conway violated the act on more than 60 occasions, prompting the Office of Special Counsel to recommend that Trump remove her from her position as a senior White House official. (“Blah, blah, blah,” Conway said at the time. “Let me know when the jail sentence starts.”)

But the Hatch Act also has criminal provisions from which the president is not exempt; one is the prohibition against using one’s official authority to influence a federal election. “That’s the very heart of the Hatch Act,” Kathleen Clark, a professor of legal and government ethics at the law school at Washington University in St. Louis, told me. “Public power is for public good, not for private good.” Trump’s flagrant violations of this prohibition were widely noted at the time of the Republican convention. Neither Trump nor his senior staff seemed that worried about it. “No one outside the Beltway really cares,” his chief of staff, Mark Meadows, said.

In the end, the dilemma over what to do about Donald Trump may be less about Trump than it is about the structural problems his presidency exposed. Trump may have turned the executive branch into an instrument for his personal gain and deliverance, but it was the country’s legal and political systems that enabled him to do it. And even out of office, he may still face no consequences.

In September, two former executive-branch lawyers, Bob Bauer (who served under Obama) and Jack Goldsmith (who served under George W. Bush) published an entire book, “After Trump,” addressing the subject of how to reform the presidency. They identified the many open doors that Trump had charged through and offered some 50 suggestions on how to close them, whether that meant rewriting existing laws or passing new ones. Among other things, they proposed requiring campaigns to report any contact with foreign governments and clarifying the obstruction statute to eliminate ambiguity about when the president has violated it. The one subject on which Bauer and Goldsmith couldn’t agree was what to do with Trump; they divided that chapter in half, with Bauer advocating for a full investigation and Goldsmith urging caution.

Even as I write this, Trump’s subversion of democratic norms continues. He still has not conceded, and Barr has overruled the head of the Justice Department’s Election Crimes department to approve investigations into “vote tabulation irregularities.” These legal maneuvers may be less about Trump trying to overturn the results of the election than they are about him trying to gain leverage to limit his liability when he leaves office. Even though Biden pledged during the campaign not to pardon him, Trump could still try to trade his concession for the promise of leniency. He could also try to pardon himself, though this has never been done before and may not hold up in court. (Another, probably more far-fetched scenario has Trump resigning so President Pence can pardon him.)

The nation may desire healing. But there is also the matter of justice, and there is no guarantee that what feels right now will look right through the longer lens of history. Ford was widely assailed for pardoning Nixon. But one of his most outspoken critics at the time, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, later honored Ford with a Profile in Courage award, explaining that he’d been moved to rethink his views after witnessing the sprawling and protracted investigation into President Clinton by the independent counsel Ken Starr. It may be time to rethink Ford’s decision once more; it’s hard not to wonder if a Trump presidency would have been possible if Nixon had been criminally prosecuted rather than pardoned.

In that sense, the problem that Trump poses for Biden may also present an opportunity, a chance to repair more than just the damage of the last four years. To begin with, this may require recognizing that when a president brazenly flouts the law, electoral defeat might not be enough of a punishment. “There’s a mind-set that we need to reset,” Stephen Vladeck, a constitutional law professor at the University of Texas, told me. “Breaking the law is not a political difference.” It might also require recognizing that to really move on from Trump, “healing” may have to mean something fundamentally different from what it has in the past — and that without accountability, it may in fact be impossible.





No.40 article:
Saudi Arabia and Human Rights Activists Fight Over Kingdom’s Image at G-20

As the summit’s host, the kingdom hopes to showcase its advances, while critics see an opportunity to pounce. But the virtual event will have a lower profile.

BEIRUT, Lebanon — For Saudi Arabia, hosting the Group of 20 summit in Riyadh this year was supposed to cement its global stature. Heads of state from the world’s richest nations were to be wowed by the kingdom’s rugged beauty and changing society — and encouraged to let its war in Yemen and murder of a prominent journalist drift into the past.

For critics of Saudi Arabia’s human rights record, the event looked very different: A golden opportunity to highlight the kingdom’s abuses and press world leaders to embarrass its de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.

The two-day summit, which started Saturday, is not expected to live up to either side’s hopes. Instead, the coronavirus has effectively reduced the G-20 summit — like so many other meet-ups this year — to a giant webinar.

That may not be entirely bad news for Prince Mohammed. Despite fierce campaigning by activists, no state chose to boycott the virtual event, marking a significant step in the prince’s rehabilitation among world leaders.

“Clearly, it has not gone as planned, but that may have been a blessing” for the Saudis, said Karen Young, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute who studies Middle Eastern economies.

Heads of state and other dignitaries who might have balked at appearing in photos in Riyadh have less to lose at an online event, she said, while the summit still advances the kingdom’s goal of claiming a place among powerful countries it considers peers.

“A virtual conference plays to Saudi Arabia’s strengths and could prevent any embarrassing mishaps,” she said.

The summit, which continues Sunday, is expected to address the battle against the coronavirus, the restart of damaged economies and potential financial aid for poor countries hit hard by the pandemic.

King Salman of Saudi Arabia opened the summit on Saturday with a video address calling on rich countries to ensure that poor nations also receive tools to fight Covid-19.

“We must work to create the conditions for affordable and equitable access to these tools for all peoples,” the 84-year-old monarch said. “At the same time, we must prepare better for any future pandemic.”

Also on the agenda is potential debt relief to help poor countries deal with the economic fallout of the pandemic, and a European Union proposal for an international treaty on pandemics.

President Trump briefly took part in the summit on Saturday from the White House Situation Room, but he was not listed as a participant at a sideline event on pandemic preparedness. Instead, he followed his recent weekend routine of tweeting baseless assertions of U.S. election fraud and heading to his Virginia country club for a round of golf.

The G-20 is a forum for the 19 nations with the world’s largest economies and the European Union to discuss global economic affairs. The organization’s presidency rotates among five groups of countries, with one country in each group holding the position at a time. Saudi Arabia, in a group with Canada, Australia and the United States, was named president for the first time last December.  It is the first Arab country to host the summit.

The kingdom celebrated the title as a recognition of the importance of the world’s largest oil exporter in the global economy as well as an opportunity to showcase vast social and economic reforms being championed by Prince Mohammed, whose father, King Salman, became the Saudi monarch in 2015.

Since then, Prince Mohammed has lifted some restrictions on women, promoted entertainment and tourism, and advanced plans to diversify the economy away from oil. He has also led the Saudi military into Yemen’s civil war, which has become a grave humanitarian crisis, and locked up clerics, women’s rights activists and even members of the royal family.

In 2018, Saudi agents entrapped, killed and dismembered the dissident Saudi writer Jamal Khashoggi inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, damaging Prince Mohammed’s reputation and leading to calls from activists to punish Saudi Arabia for that and other human rights violations.

Those activists seized on the kingdom’s presidency of the G-20 to campaign for their cause, lobbying members of the group to boycott the summit or use it as a platform to call for the release of detainees.

Last month, the Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz used his keynote address at a related event organized by Saudi Arabia to call for a moment of silence for Mr. Khashoggi and for a group of women who were detained after opposing and defying the kingdom’s former ban on women driving. The ban was lifted in 2018, but some of the women remain in detention.

“If this meeting does not come to terms with the violations of these human rights and those in other countries around the world, it cannot hope to achieve inclusive societies for which we all strive,” Mr. Stiglitz said in a video of the event, called the Think 20 summit, that was captured by activists but not published on the event’s website.

The mayors of Paris, Los Angeles, London and New York declined invitations to join G-20 events, and a number of rights groups organized an alternative, virtual summit this weekend to highlight the kingdom’s human rights record.

But the critics appear to have had a limited effect on the headline event, the leaders’ summit.

During a media briefing on Saturday, a reporter asked Khalid al-Falih, the Saudi investment minister, if negative headlines had deterred investors from embracing the kingdom.

The moderator tried to dismiss the journalist, but Mr. al-Falih answered anyway.

“Investors are not journalists,” he said. “Investors are looking for countries where they can place their trust in an effective government that has proper economic decision-making.”

Diplomats from a number of countries participating in the event said their nations regularly raised concerns about human rights directly with the Saudis but considered the summit too important to miss.

“Some said, ‘This is too important, we have to plan a strategy for Covid and deal with big economic issues,’” Adam Coogle, deputy director of the Middle East and North Africa division at Human Rights Watch, said of responses to his group’s lobbying efforts. “There were others who did see it was problematic that Saudi Arabia was getting this reward.”

Spokespersons for the State Department and for the foreign ministries of France and Germany did not respond to requests for comment on whether they had considered the kingdom’s human rights record when deciding to participate in the summit.

“The murder of Jamal Khashoggi was a heinous crime and we have repeatedly called for justice to be done,” a press officer for the British government wrote, adding that the foreign secretary had raised the issue with the Saudi government during a visit in March.

Mr. Coogle said he had been struck by the Saudi G-20 program’s emphasis on women’s empowerment while prominent Saudi women activists were “jailed, silenced or in exile.”

“That demands attention by the attendees,” he said. “It is not something that can be swept under the rug.”





No.41 article:
Cook an Indigenous Meal or Dance with Dua Lipa

Spend this holiday week experimenting with turkey bones, painting botanical art or running a virtual race.

Here is a sampling of the week’s events and how to tune in (all times are Eastern). Note that events are subject to change after publication.

Celebrate Indigenous cuisine at the “Reclamation Feast,” a seminar hosted by the Museum of Food and Drink and the Greene Space. During the 90-minute event, participants will learn to make a three-course meal using heirloom ingredients. Experts leading the demonstration include Crystal Wahpepah, the first Native American chef to appear on the Food Network show “Chopped.” Tickets are $20.

When 8 p.m.Where thegreenespace.org/event/reclamationfeastAppreciate surrealist women artists with Abbi Jacobson, a star of “Broad City” and the host of the “A Piece of Work” podcast, and Anne Umland, a senior curator at MoMA. As part of the museum’s Virtual Views series, they will cover works by Claude Cahun, Frida Kahlo and Remedios Varo. To prepare, play the exquisite corpse game with your quarantine pals or listen to Ada Limón’s poem, ‘The Mirror &amp; The Ribbon,’ inspired by Kahlo. The discussion is free.When 8 p.m.Where moma.org

Mix yourself a cocktail and settle in for some graveyard tales at Green-Wood Cemetery’s “History Happy Hour: Hidden Green-Wood.” Attendees will learn about some of the lesser-known graves on the cemetery’s 478 acres — including that of the 19th-century suffragist Elizabeth Tilton, who became embroiled in a scandalous affair with her pastor. Her grave is inscribed with just one word: “Grandmother.” Entry is $9 and includes an appletini recipe.

When 6 p.m.Where green-wood.com/event

Trot your way into the holidays with New York Road Runners’ Virtual NYRR Run for Thanks 5K, one of many remote races happening across the country next week. Thanksgiving, it turns out, is the most popular day of the year to run. Entrance is free, and you can run your 3.1 miles anywhere; for $30, runners can access a virtual course map and leader board.

When Anytime, through Nov. 29Where nyrr.org/races/virtualnyrrrunforthanks5kWatch 15 short readings by Italian playwrights and then vote for your favorite as part of the Italian &amp; American Playwrights Project. Themes examined in the plays include underage prostitution and family tragedy.When Anytime, through Dec. 1Where italianandamericanplaywrightsproject.com

Shake up your holiday traditions with a botanical art lesson by the London Drawing Group, an all-female art collective. The session starts with quick sketches and is followed by basic water color techniques. It is helpful to have some houseplants or collected leaves and flowers handy. A donation is encouraged and registration is required.

When 1:30 p.m.Where eventbrite.co.ukTry this at home with your leftover turkey bones. Science Fun For Everyone, an educational nonprofit, guides you through an experiment showing the effect of vinegar on bone strength. Chicken and ham bones work, too. Vegetarian households can substitute pasta for the bones. You’ll also need water, vinegar, two glass jars, two labels and pencil.

When AnytimeWhere sciencefun.orgIf you missed PBS’s broadcast of “A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving” on Sunday, you can still stream the Peanuts special for free on Apple TV+ for three days, starting today.When Until Nov. 27Where tv.apple.com

Tune into a marathon reading of Toni Morrison’s novel “Song of Solomon,” featuring contemporary writers like Jesmyn Ward, Jason Reynolds and Margaret Atwood. The three-day event, hosted by the nonprofit Literacy Partners, begins tonight and continues at 2 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. A $5 donation is suggested; a $50 donation earns attendees a book by one of the participating authors.

When 8 p.m.Where litpartners2020.org/toni-morrison

Attend a virtual concert with Dua Lipa. Her “Studio 2054” performance will be livestreamed from a warehouse and feature songs from her new album “Future Nostalgia,” as well as FKA Twigs as a special guest.  On a recent Instagram live post, she described the livestream as “more like a theater performance — it’s more like someone giving me the reigns and letting me have my own TV show.” Tickets start at $14.99.When 9 p.m.Where dualipa.co/2054-livestream

View the art exhibition, “On Photographs,” named after a new book by David Campany, a curator and writer based in London and New York who was inspired by Susan Sontag’s “On Photography.” Both the book and the exhibition, which is presented by the Robert Klein Gallery in Boston, examine the meaning of the medium. The virtual collection surveys works by 18 prominent 20th-century photographers including Eugène Atget, Ilse Bing, Henri Cartier-Bresson and Mark Cohen.

When Until Dec. 31Where robertkleingallery.com

Seize your last chance to watch “Kristina Wong for Public Office,” a virtual one-woman play starring Ms. Wong, a performance artist, and staged by the Center Theater Group in Los Angeles. In 2019, Ms. Wong was elected to the Wilshire Center Koreatown Neighborhood Council, an advisory board to the City of Los Angeles; the play explores the intersection of art and politics. Tickets cost $10.

When Until Nov. 30 at 2:59 a.m.Where centertheatregroup.org





No.42 article:
Watch These TikTok Videos. The Vibe Is Contagious.

In a world of viral-video stars who flaunt, twirl and twerk to lure viewers, @someguywithaguitar is a model of benevolent indifference. In the most-liked of his videos, the musician — a young man with frizzy hair and a soft, untended lumberjack beard — sits in the passenger seat of a car as he plays a moody, twangy riff, his eyes cast heavenward or off to the side. The melody requires technical precision, but the video is resolutely low-fi: The unedited, muffled sound of wind filters through, and the breeze gently moves wisps of his hair this way and that. If you squint, you can see only a tiny square of green background out the back window; he could be sitting anywhere, really — his own driveway, or some pastoral idyll, or the parking lot of a Kroger while his mom is stocking up on paper towels. It’s mundane, it’s sublime and it’s intimate, a glimpse into someone else’s unguarded reverie.

The lumberjack-bearded musician is just one of a group of TikTok creators whose feel-good, under-a-minute clips I’ve been consuming regularly. What these creators have in common is the way they capture, fleetingly, a mood I want to be inside of right now — a vibe, to use a word that has recently come to define a substantial corner of the platform. The best-known of these creators is @420doggface208, real name Nathan Apodaca, who filmed himself skateboarding down an unremarkable street to “Dreams” by Fleetwood Mac, his free hand clutching a 64-ounce bottle of Ocean Spray Cran-Raspberry juice; the video went so viral that TikTok co-opted it for an advertising campaign that began running during the N.B.A. finals. These good-vibe TikTok creators do go to the effort of filming themselves and posting the results, and yet there is something convincingly un-self-conscious about how they do it. The vibe is chill; it chills, contagiously. The vibe is pure. The vibe is: It’s a pandemic, we’ve got nothing but time, might as well play some guitar right here in the parking lot.

I watch these videos with admiration and no small amount of longing; they access a humor and a lightness, a belief in the easy accessibility of everyday beauty, that I have trouble locating in my environment of late. My own home sometimes feels like a shoddily run penal institution, as my husband and I either ignore our 14-year-old twin boys to work, or hover anxiously over them, making sure they are staring at the right screens (their laptops, where their teachers are) and not the wrong ones (their phones, where friends and Fortnite videos beckon). We construct elaborate rules about weekday and weekend screen time, promptly forget what they are, then start over. We are resigned to the certainty that nothing will ever change, that we will all be cooped up in this house forever, that if we are looking for freshness in our lives we will most likely find it in the new and different faint food stains that seem to be appearing regularly on our beige couch, a couch we will never get around to replacing because of an overwhelming inertia, and because in any case Ikea is backed up until (checking website) the next pandemic.

I am sure all this explains why, even before I started watching TikToks, I was already fascinated by any positive vibe I could spot in the wild. Since I never go anywhere, it was convenient that I found one right next door. Jesse, my new neighbor, moved in with his family and an antic something-doodle in early summer, after the cold fear of the first wave had passed. As I sat on my outdoor couch on any given warm day trying to work, I could see, inside, my boys hunched over their computers; but a few feet away, there was Jesse, pushing his giggling son high in the air on a round rainbow-striped swing hung from a tree. Or there was Jesse, taking a work call while lounging on a bright yellow hammock, or building a massive fire pit with salvaged bricks that some previous resident had chucked into the far reaches of their backyard. It was almost galling. He built a bonfire for his family one night, when my husband and I were social-distancing in our backyard with friends, peering at one another in the dark across dim solar-powered lanterns. We all stood up to stare at the magnificent blaze, and I think it’s safe to say we shared the same collective thought: What are we doing on this side of the fence, and how do we get ourselves over to that one? We wanted in on their vibe.

After Jesse and I became friendly, he started texting me some of his favorite TikToks, most of which share his kind of contagious vibe. As a result, by now, I’ve watched over and over the parking-lot musician, but also a clip of a young man in South Africa named Ziyaad, who pulls his head-kerchiefed mother, middle-aged father and homework-absorbed little sister into the throbbing rhythm of some soft house music; what makes it work is the way all their faces, except his, betray the tiniest hint of indulgence, rather than outright enthusiasm.

In another, a young woman rocks out hard to Whitney Houston, her face contorting with emotion, while taking breaks to play along on her recorder. In yet another, a young man skates backward on an autumnal country road, an electric guitar wailing in the background; when he spins around to face the camera in slow-mo, his shirt unbuttoned, he treats the viewer to the sight of his big, pale belly.

Through some alchemy of music and editing, the short clips evoke, without all the buildup of a movie or the need to be there in person, a particular distilled feeling or a scene. In part, the creators achieve this by excluding the context of their own lives — editing out their own pandemic situation and allowing the viewer to inhabit, albeit briefly, the kind of mood that can feel so hard to sustain this year. For those who aren’t going to a workplace, who aren’t traveling, who are barely hitting the grocery store, the novelty of gaining access to someone else’s scene holds unusual power now. When @someguywithaguitar does finally look into the camera, I always feel a jolt — he makes just enough eye contact to create the illusion of connection with someone out there, someone in need of his vibe.

Soon, the cold will bear down, and my neighbors will be swallowed up inside, taking with them the groovy backyard scenes I’ve shared vicariously. I’ll ask Jesse to keep sending me those good-vibe TikToks, and for a few months, that will have to be enough.





No.43 article:
Another Transition: Audrey Pence Weds

The vice president’s youngest child marries Daniel Tomanelli Nov. 1 in a small outdoor ceremony in Washington.

During the most painful and difficult days of Daniel Tomanelli’s life, he continued to take care of Audrey Pence.

“He’s lying there in his hospital bed, asking me if I’m getting enough sleep,” said Ms. Pence, 26. “He’s asking his brother to go down to the gift shop to pick up a gift for me. He was, quite frankly, being brave and strong not just for me, but for all of us during a really tough time.”

On April 24, 2017, Mr. Tomanelli, now 25, and his father, Dr. Joseph Tomanelli, 56, were piloting an airplane together, as the elder Tomanelli practiced takeoffs and landings near the Meriden Markham Municipal Airport in Meriden, Conn.

According to the Record-Journal the plane crashed through a fence and caught fire. Mr. Tomanelli, who was ejected from the plane, survived. His father did not.

“Audrey came and lived with me in the hospital,” Mr. Tomanelli said. “She never left my side, and she took care of not just me but my family, and she has remained fiercely loyal to all of us.”

“Once we came out of that,” he said, “I knew she was the girl I wanted to marry.”

Ms. Pence, an associate at Covington &amp; Burling in Washington, and Mr. Tomanelli, a policy adviser in the office of the deputy assistant secretary of the Air Force at the Pentagon, first met in July 2015 during a studies abroad program in the Balkans run through Northeastern University. They each graduated with degrees in international affairs. Both also minored in Arabic. Ms. Pence also has a law degree from Yale.

“From the start he had such an ease about him,” Ms. Pence said. “I think within our first two conversations, it was if we had been best friends for years.”

Mr. Tomanelli was equally impressed. “I had admired her from afar before we met,” he said. “I soon found out that she was brilliant and very beautiful, and also very adventurous.

They were engaged in February 2019.

“I took her to a family vacation area in Cape Cod to give her the ring and tried to catch a romantic sunset,” he said.

But it rained all day. “After a long drive to get there, it was a little disappointing,” Ms. Pence said. “But at least there was another surprise coming as far as my ring was concerned.”

They had originally planned to marry in May in Kauai, Hawaii with up to 80 guests, but the coronavirus shut down those plans.

They were married instead on Nov. 1 in a self-uniting style ceremony on a patch of sidewalk near the flagpole outside the Moultrie Courthouse in Washington. Twelve guests were present, including the bride’s father, Vice President Mike Pence, and her mother, the second lady, Karen Pence, and the groom’s mother, Eve Tomanelli.

“We really wanted to pull off a courthouse wedding, but the courthouses in D.C. are currently closed,” said the bride, whose father led the couple’s exchange of vows. She said if all goes well, they will have another bigger celebration next summer in Hawaii.

“I just love Dan,” said the bride’s mother, Mrs. Pence. “He has a really gentle spirit. He’s friendly and respectful. But the thing I love about him most is that I can tell how much he loves Audrey.”

When asked if her father’s career has affected her everyday life, Ms. Pence said simply: “Dan and I started dating before my family stepped onto the national stage, and I think that family comes before politics every day of the week and this is certainly the case with our relationship.”





No.44 article:
‘People of Color’ Do Not Belong to the Democratic Party

It’s past time to start seeing voters the way they see themselves.

Every immigrant arrives in this country with an implied debt. This country was nice enough to let you in, handed you a bag of rights and will now leave you alone to make your fortune. Left and right might disagree on how many people to let into the country or how to treat them when they’re here, but both sides expect a return on their good will.

They agree that America is enough — as long as you meet opportunity with hard work, you can secure ownership in this country. In exchange, both sides expect loyalty, whether complaint-free allegiance to the country’s ideals or the acknowledgment that very open-minded and generous people worked hard to fight off the racists and the xenophobes and that you, downtrodden immigrant, should never forget those who protect your freedom to pursue the American dream.

In the wake of the election, there has been a concerted call to stop treating Latinos and, to a lesser extent, Asian-Americans as a monolith. Such a reckoning is long overdue and certainly necessary. It’s fundamentally true that a Cuban-American in South Florida shares very little in common with a Guatemalan fishery worker in New Bedford, Mass. — who, in turn, does not identify in any real way with fifth-generation Texans along the Rio Grande Valley.

Similarly, former Vietnamese refugees in Orange County, Calif., will have a different level of sensitivity toward charges of “Communism” than a second-generation Ivy League-educated Indian-American just up the freeway in suburban Los Angeles. Though the full picture of the electorate is not yet clear, it shouldn’t be surprising that some of these populations ended up ignoring or even championing the xenophobia of the first Trump administration while others found it abhorrent and against their particular interests.

This should be fairly obvious — different people from different parts of the world think differently, especially across generations — but the quintessentially American idea of the immigrant’s debt flattens all immigrants down into fixed categories. Those categories might help organize data, but they do not capture any meaningful insights into why people are voting the way they are.

It’s why the right does not understand why a group of castoffs from “shithole countries” would ever complain about America. It’s why progressives, the people who place “Immigrants Are Welcome Here” signs in their coffee shops and who appreciate all the nuances of immigrants’ native cuisines, cannot understand why those same castoffs would ever vote against their self-appointed protectors. The debt is the monolith.

The 2020 election promises to be an awakening from all this miscategorization. Exit polls and pre-election surveys have shown a sharp, albeit seemingly localized, shift toward the Republican Party among immigrant populations, most notably in parts of South Florida and the Rio Grande Valley; Asian-American voters also seem to have shifted right. The data is still preliminary, messy and difficult to responsibly quantify at this date, especially when one considers the unprecedented number of people who voted by mail, but there seems to be no evidence that President Trump’s cruel immigration policies and his constant refrains of the “China virus” set off a blue wave.

Though these results showed up in early polling, the perception of a rightward shift in immigrant votes has shocked many in the Democratic Party and led to the usual theorizing about what, exactly, should be done about it. Sixty-five percent of Latinos and 61 percent of Asian-Americans voted for Joe Biden, but the party cannot afford to slip with either demographic. The easiest and perhaps most logical move would be to disaggregate “Latinos” and “Asian-Americans” — and stop treating them as a coherent population whose voting preferences can be explained through the language of polling averages and who can be reached through big-picture Democratic messaging.

This seems like a prudent and necessary first step, one that’s already been taken in several local and statewide elections across the country. A recent New Yorker article by Hua Hsu explained how in 2018 Gil Cisneros — a Latino Democratic representative running against Young Kim, a Korean-American Republican, in a California congressional district evenly split among whites, Latinos and Asian-Americans — employed a digital campaign strategy that targeted immigrant populations through the social media apps they used. Chinese-American voters were reached through WeChat, the community’s dominant method of communication, while Korean-Americans were reached through KakaoTalk, the ubiquitous messaging app that connects the Korean diaspora to their relatives back home.

Mr. Cisneros did not tailor a separate message for each group — simply reaching out to them in their language on their apps helped him cause an upset, winning the seat by three points. (As perhaps more evidence of a rightward shift in the immigrant vote, in this year’s rematch election Ms. Kim defeated Mr. Cisneros, in a close race.)

Part of the Republican Party’s success in South Florida and South Texas can also be attributed to this disaggregated approach. Aggressive anti-Communist messaging on Spanish-language radio stations and disinformation social media campaigns started up in South Florida in the weeks before the election. These were not just aimed at Cuban-Americans who have historically leaned rightward, but also specifically at more recent Nicaraguan and Venezuelan immigrants. These efforts were never effectively addressed by Democrats, according to Chuck Rocha, the strategist behind Senator Bernie Sanders’s successful courting of Latino voters during the primary season.

Greg Abbott, the current Republican governor of Texas, has aggressively courted Mexican-American voters in the Rio Grande since 2014 and laid down an infrastructure of community groups that turned into “Trump Trains” — caravans of trucks and cars that rolled through historically Democratic counties and picked up converts along the way.

The Biden campaign, by contrast, made only cursory and tardy efforts in South Texas and failed in its efforts to reach voters in South Florida. Though it’s a fool’s errand to suggest exactly why this happened or what the exact effect might have been at the polls, there were swings toward the G.O.P. in both areas that helped deliver Mr. Trump victories in both states.

I have little doubt that in the future Democrats will try their best to address these swings, both on the local and national levels. But as long as they believe Latinos, the second-largest voting demographic in this election, and Asian-Americans, the fastest-growing group in the country, will continue to vote down the Democratic Party line because they care deeply about racism and bigotry as defined by the left, they will continue to misdiagnose the complexities within these populations, neither of which primarily think of themselves as “Latino” or “Asian-American” at all.

Disaggregation and specific targeting within groups will certainly create a clearer picture for the Democrats, but it’s unclear whether that means the party should then automatically transition to hyper-focused mini-campaigns that try to address each demographic’s stated needs. The tools of diagnosis do not always double as the tools to fix the problem.

Earlier this year, I had a series of conversations — through a translator — with Zhou Ming, a delivery worker in New York City who had immigrated from China to the United States to start a small business. Things hadn’t worked out and he found himself in the one industry that would take a 54-year-old who didn’t speak any English. Like many immigrants, Mr. Zhou came to America with almost no real understanding of the racial dynamics of the country — he vaguely knew that Black Americans were treated badly and assumed that Chinese-Americans would act together and look after one another’s best interests.

His understanding of his new home came entirely through Chinese-language television and social media — after work, he would retire to his bed and take in a translation of what was happening around him through his phone. He knew that Mr. Trump was stoking anti-Chinese sentiment around the coronavirus, but he largely missed the antiracism campaigns that sprung up in response because they were mostly in English and catered toward Asian-Americans who had a more stable foothold in the country. The term “Asian-American,” in fact, meant nothing to him. If Chinese people in America couldn’t even act together as a coherent group, what hope would there ever be for “Asians”?

During the George Floyd protests in New York, Mr. Zhou, like many delivery workers, suffered from the citywide curfews handed down by the de Blasio administration. He had watched the video of George Floyd’s death and recognized that the killing had been unjust, but he could find no real reason to hoist up a picket sign. Mr. Floyd was not Chinese.

Mr. Zhou had his own run-ins with the police, but he did not feel like the problems of delivery workers had anything to do with what had happened to George Floyd. He did find the protests inspiring, mostly because he admired the way Black people would show up and protest injustice against their people, but he felt like that had nothing to do with him. Their fight was not his fight and broad Democratic messages around the police and antiracism were mostly lost on him, not only because he never came across them on Chinese-language media, but also because he did not feel any kinship as a fellow minority or person of color or whatever other category might consolidate Chinese and Black interests.

A pragmatist might look at a recent immigrant like Mr. Zhou and conclude that there is no way to reach someone who feels no real purchase in this country and does not consider his fate to be bound to America’s. But there are problems with this assumption: Mr. Zhou’s perspective is common among first-generation immigrants, and although many of them tend to remain apolitical, there have been efforts in recent years to organize people like him, whether through the burgeoning anti-affirmative-action movement that thrives on Chinese social media apps or through grass-roots and labor organizing.

There’s evidence these efforts may have worked: Some preliminary data suggests that Asian-American and Latino voting turnout increased during this election. Mr. Zhou even dipped a toe into political activism during his time in America. In 2018, he attended a rally, met with Chinese organizers and marched with Black and Latino immigrant delivery workers to protest the de Blasio administration’s crackdown on electric bicycles.

With his usual cynicism, Mr. Zhou said that this multiethnic movement had been inspired entirely by self-interest — if the Latino and Black immigrant delivery people had not also been affected by the proposed ban, they wouldn’t have shown up at a rally organized by Chinese workers, he said.

But they did show up. If the Democratic Party wants to disaggregate immigrant populations from one another, they must take a difficult, clear look at the dynamics between these groups and come up with a broad message that tries to find pockets of mutual interest. Broad antiracist and antixenophobic messaging will not work for growing populations who mostly see themselves outside of America’s racial hierarchy or, in many cases, believe their interests align better with middle-class white voters.

The answer may lie in doing away with “Asian-American” and “Latino” altogether and replacing them with “immigrant.” In the past, antiracist messages relied on categorizations like Asian-American, Latino and the umbrella of “people of color.” All three are abstractions that have little grounding in the everyday lives of immigrants. My uncle, who has lived in Los Angeles for 40 years, might now understand in a purely taxonomic sense that he is “Asian,” but he would laugh at the idea of “people of color.” His interactions with his fellow “people of color” have mostly come in kitchens where he works as a chef and speaks a hybrid Korean-Spanish with his Latino co-workers.

“The joke,” the political strategist David Shor said in a recent interview, “is that the G.O.P. is really assembling the multiracial working-class coalition that the left has always dreamed of.” As someone who has spent years reporting in immigrant neighborhoods, I share Mr. Shor’s concerns. The Republican Party’s message of hard work, capitalism and freedom makes sense to large portions of the immigrant population — in fact, it’s why many of them, including my uncle and many of his fellow kitchen workers, chose to plant roots in the country.

Democrats must find a similarly broad platform that focuses on the needs of working-class immigrants for health care, access to quality education and other universal programs. If Democrats want to continue winning elections in states with sizable immigrant populations, which now include swing states like Georgia, North Carolina and Arizona, they must find some coherent message that goes beyond “the other side is racist.” If such a message, immersed in the idea of immigrant debt, did not work after the Muslim ban, “China virus” and the inhumane treatment of families at the border, what hope does it have in the future?

While a term like “people of color” might ring hollow or even confused, immigrants across generations share — at the very least — the experience of building a life in a foreign country. They must, in other words, disaggregate and then reorganize into an even broader movement that could build on existing, like-minded grass-roots organizations, such as those that emerged from the Bernie Sanders campaign in Nevada or immigrant labor organizations throughout New York and California, and develop a spirit of solidarity that puts less weight on questions of belonging and citizenship for these nebulously and conditionally defined groups — and more on the experiences, as working-class immigrants, they share both in America and their homelands.

Too much of the messaging toward these groups is aimed at the upwardly ascendant second- and third-generation immigrants who worry about questions of representation within elite institutions. If Democrats want to combat charges of “socialism,” which are perhaps especially effective on immigrants who fled Communist or socialist countries, they must stop believing that an immigrant shows up in America and immediately begins worrying, say, about how many Asian or Latino actors have been cast in the latest comic book movie.

This, of course, does not mean that the Democratic Party should entirely abandon its anti-racist message. Part of the effort must include a much-needed clarification between the needs of Black Americans and Latino and Asian immigrants; that would end the confusing and harmful conflation between two groups whose interests and actions are often at odds with one another.Nor should we succumb to the temptation to wipe away all distinctions. Some part of every immigrant will still identify with their home country, through language, food and culture. The path forward is to create coalitions that make sense, not only for the immigrants themselves but also in their relationships with both working-class Black and white Americans.

Such a strategy would require the upwardly mobile second-generation immigrants — the people most likely to be tasked with broadcasting this message out toward the public — to do something that might feel counterintuitive or even contradictory. But we must abandon the broad style of diversity politics that designates us as “people of color.” Those categories might help us navigate the academy and the workplace, but they only resonate with a small, generally wealthy portion of our population.

The late historian Noel Ignatiev argued that racism in America could be solved only when white people committed treason against the white race — when they recognized that the antagonists in their lives weren’t Black people, but rather the wealthy class that used racism to divide workers whose interests should be aligned.

In a similar spirit, those of us who have assimilated into the professional class must commit treason against “people of color” and help build a coalition of working-class immigrants, from Guatemalan workers in fish processing plants and Bangladeshi cabdrivers to Chinese and Vietnamese restaurant workers and Mexican farm workers.

If not for the future of the Democratic Party, we should do it for ourselves. Then we might finally feel like part of a broad, multiethnic movement that unapologetically speaks to the best interests of our families.





No.45 article:
Which Classic Thanksgiving Character are You?

Knowing exactly who is gathered around the dinner table could make for a lower-stress holiday.

Nothing this year has been normal. Weddings have happened over Zoom. Home runs have soared through empty stadiums. You are now, bizarrely, a person with a favorite mask. For eight months, the world has felt unfamiliar. Thank goodness, then, for Thanksgiving! If there’s anything our collectively beleaguered psyche needs, it’s a holiday embracing gratitude and mashed potatoes.

But it’s also a holiday that’s likely to be fraught with complexity. Beyond the usual family friction, there is the stress of fresh election wounds, simmering racial unrest and a surging pandemic. “Thanksgiving this year will be intensified,” said Karl Pillemer, a professor of human development at Cornell University and the author of “Fault Lines: Fractured Families and How to Mend Them.”

“Politics has moved beyond policy to people feeling like their core values are being attacked, which is a breeding ground for family tensions,” Dr. Pillemer said. “On top of that, you’ve got people who haven’t seen each other in a long time. You’ve got people who are comfortable with different levels of risk.”

One key to a lower-stress Thanksgiving at a high-stakes time is a pinch of self-awareness. Your holiday table may be smaller this year — or even virtual — but it’s helpful to know what types of guests are around it.

Up until now, The Squabbler has done battle on Facebook, directing the odd scathing comment at a cousin with opposing political views. But with an empty well of patience, a full bottle of Pinot and that cousin now across the table, The Squabbler is poised for attack.

For some, the holidays may be the only time they engage with people holding dramatically different beliefs, Dr. Pillemer said. “Suddenly, you have an actual person in front of you who represents the other side,” he said. “It’s tempting to make them the target of your frustration.”

Walking into a room of people who voted for the other guy can feel like entering a foreign country with different codes and customs. So consider the perspective of someone who spent years doing exactly that. “In diplomacy, you get really good at not reacting to things in a knee-jerk way,” said Matt Fuller, a former U.S. diplomat whose postings included Jerusalem and Tokyo. “You may already know you’re not going to convince each other, but you can still create a civil space to exchange views.”

Listen before speaking, Mr. Fuller said. And when you’re ready to speak, start by establishing some common ground. “You can always find something,” he said, “even if it feels minor or obvious.” Next, “acknowledge something positive about their side.”

Susan Heitler, a Denver-based clinical psychologist and author specializing in conflict, calls this “the three As: agree, add and appreciate.” Once you’ve found mutual territory and contributed something that makes your opponent feel heard, Dr. Heitler said, go a step further: Thank them.

“Just saying ‘I appreciate you helping me think about that in a new way,’ changes the tone of the conversation,” Dr. Heitler said. “Now it’s less oppositional, more collaborative.”

Observe The Referee in their natural habitat: Arranging the place cards so the Steelers fan isn’t next to the Ravens one. Kicking their partner under the table before he says something controversial.

Even if you’ve committed to a Thanksgiving where the only pot you’re stirring is full of cranberry sauce, you can’t always control others. Still, a few preventive measures don’t hurt, said Lovern Moseley, a psychologist at Boston Medical Center and chief executive of the Empowerment Counseling &amp; Psychotherapy Center.

“Keep the news off,” she said. “If you think alcohol will contribute to outbursts, don’t drink — or don’t even serve it.”

You can also declare talk of the election or pandemic off-limits. But then, Dr. Heitler said, “plan something to fill the gap. Prepare a Thanksgiving quiz. Start a game of Pictionary. Do a group project, like building a marble run from cardboard.”

To avoid mismatched expectations, be upfront in advance about rules you expect people to follow, Dr. Heitler said. “Eliminate any potential surprise that might lead to hurt feelings, like why the kids won’t be hugging grandma.” Keep an ear out for words that can signal a conversation is devolving into an argument, like “but” and “not,” which criticize or erase the previous point. Counteract them with positive connectors like “yes” (although not “yes, but…”) or “and” (as in, “and, at the same time…”).

Even as a quarrel builds, you can still divert the danger, Dr. Heitler said, by falling back on that timeworn parenting strategy: Separate the offenders from a situation they can’t handle.

Just don’t tell them to stop talking. “That’s a low-odds strategy since it hands all the power to the other person, who may not be willing or able to stop the escalation,” she said. Instead, take control by switching to a new topic or speaker. And while it’s jarring — which is kind of the point — you can even introduce physical activity. “Say ‘OK everyone, 1-2-3, we’re going to stand up and stretch,’” she said. “Whatever it takes to break the rising tide of tension.”

With everyone finally together, The Problem Solver can tie a bow around pressing family conundrums. Midway through the turkey is the perfect time to ask their parents about selling the family home!

Not so fast, Dr. Pillemer said. While it can be tempting to broach big issues, particularly if it may be a while before you’re together again, “don’t use Thanksgiving as a time to try and fix someone’s life.”

Instead, consider it a research period for the issue you’re concerned about. “Ask leading questions,” he said. “But make them neutral and show genuine interest: ‘What are your plans over the next five years? What are your friends doing about downsizing?’ Use the time together for compassionate inquiry. Then come back to a real discussion after the holiday, based on what you’ve learned.”

If you can’t resist, Dr. Pillemer said, at least rehearse the conversation beforehand. “Role-play it first with someone who’s not emotionally involved and can give you objective feedback about the content and tone,” he said.

That doesn’t mean you’ll have to eat in silence. Instead, focus on everyone’s favorite topic. “People love talking about kids,” Dr. Moseley said. “If there are children there, ask what new things they can show you. If not, bring up fond memories everyone can appreciate from when you were a child.”

While some people look forward to the comforting fanfare of Thanksgiving as a way to smooth the rough edges of a difficult year, others can’t pull themselves out of a funk while the world feels like it’s on fire. The Eeyore wants to celebrate, but if the festivities are smaller, what’s the point? Might as well just eat a frozen pizza on the couch, right?

It’s normal to grieve missed experiences, Dr. Heitler said, and important to give yourself some time to mourn. After that, try to lean into the idea that different doesn’t always have to mean worse.

“The concept of newness engenders positive emotion,” she said. Even if it’ll just be your immediate household, “launch a new tradition or ritual. Have everyone research a fact about Thanksgiving and share it at dinner. Or write down adjectives, put them in a jar, then take turns pulling them out and describing a ‘blank’ thing that happened to you this year.”

Peer behind that impeccable Instagram feed and here you’ll find The Put-Upon Perfectionist, whose holiday dishes are arranged in rainbow order.

The pressure to stage a flawless gathering this year is high, said Dr. Pillemer. “People are taking heroic measures to be together — driving long distances, quarantining for weeks. It can feel like there’s a lot on the line.” Write out a Plan B — “literally, write out the specifics of your plan,” Dr. Moseley said, if things don’t go the way you expected. “And by the way,” she said. “They won’t.”

It can be hard not to feel resentful if you’ve worked hard and people don’t recognize your efforts, Dr. Moseley said. But don’t tip over into martyrdom. “There’s nothing wrong with wanting to be validated, but reduce the amount of pressure you’re putting on the situation. Don’t expect ‘you’ from other people.”

Whichever holiday guest you are, tuck this piece of advice in your back pocket along with that favorite mask. If you’re perched on the precipice of a decision you may regret, Dr. Pillemer said, fast-forward 24 hours and think: “What will I wish I had or hadn’t done?”





No.46 article:
Find a Use for All That Bread

Sweet or savory, bread pudding is a perfect dish for cold weather. 

Perhaps you have been baking bread for the past many months and you  have extra waiting in the freezer. Now it’s time to add bread pudding to your repertoire.  A good bread pudding is essentially bread and custard baked together, and welcomes a host of enhancements. It can be savory, with the addition of vegetables like sautéed onions or mushrooms, shredded greens, peppers or fennel. Earthy sourdough and whole grain breads enhance savory versions. 

At breakfast, consider a bread pudding with sausage or blueberries instead of its cousin, French toast. For dessert, brioche, challah, panettone, white or whole grain breads, and leftover babka, especially chocolate babka, make delicious bread-pudding material. 

Regardless of your ingredients, a reliable basic formula for an 8-inch square or 8-cup baking dish to serve six is three eggs and two cups of milk, cream or a combination. Before baking, you’ll need at least two hours to let the ingredients sop up the custard; overnight soaking is not a mistake. Toward the end of the baking time the bread pudding will puff up; that’s a good indicator that it’s almost done. Wait another five minutes, then pull it out of the oven. Serve it warm; it can be reheated.

(Adapted from Susan Spungen)

Time: 40 minutes plus up to 12 hours soaking, then baking

Yield: 6 servings

1 ½ tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more for pan

1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil

6 ounces mixed fresh mushrooms sliced ¼-inch thick

8 fresh sage leaves, slivered, plus more for garnish

1 small shallot, thinly sliced

Kosher salt, plus more to taste

Ground black pepper

2 medium-size leeks, white and pale green only, washed, halved lengthwise, thinly sliced

3 large eggs

1 ½ cups whole milk

½ cup heavy cream

¼ teaspoon cayenne

½ cup shredded Gruyère cheese

8 ounces cubed bread (brioche, challah etc.), about 5 cups

¼ cup grated Parmigiano-Reggiano

1. In a large skillet, heat 1 tablespoon butter and the oil over medium-high heat. Add mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, until lightly browned. Add the sage and shallots and cook, stirring, until the shallot is translucent, 3 to 4 minutes. Season with salt and pepper and cook, stirring, 1 minute more. Transfer to a plate.

2. Add the remaining butter to the same pan over medium heat. Add the leeks, season with salt and cook, stirring, until the leeks are wilted but not brown. Return the mushroom mixture to the pan, stir and remove pan from heat. In a large bowl whisk the eggs, milk and cream together until well-blended Add the cayenne and season well with salt and pepper. Whisk again, then stir in the Gruyère.

3. Butter the bottom and sides of an 8-inch square baking dish. Spread a thin layer of the mushroom and leek mixture on the bottom. Add the bread, then spread the remaining mushroom mixture on top. Pour the egg mixture into the dish, taking care that the cheese is evenly distributed. Press down lightly on the bread to be sure it is well-moistened. Cover and set aside 2 hours or refrigerate for a longer time, up to overnight.

4. Allow the pudding to come to room temperature a good 30 minutes before baking. Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Uncover the pudding, press down on the bread again, then dust with the Parmigiano-Reggiano. Bake 35 to 40 minutes until set and lightly browned. Let sit a few minutes, then scatter with sage leaves before serving.

Time: 20 minutes plus up to 12 hours soaking and baking

Yield: 6 servings

3 large eggs

⅓ cup plus 1 ½ tablespoons sugar

2 tablespoons honey

1 cup whole milk

1 cup half-and-half

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

¼ teaspoon salt

½ cup raisins (optional)

5 cups cubed babka; brioche, challah, panettone or other bread can be used

Unsalted butter for baking dish

½ teaspoon cinnamon

Whipped cream or ice cream for serving

1. In a large bowl whisk eggs until well blended. Whisk in the ⅓ cup sugar and the honey until dissolved. Whisk in the milk, half-and-half, vanilla and salt. Stir in the raisins if using. Add the bread, pressing down on it so it sops up the liquid.

2. Butter an 8-cup baking dish. Add the bread mixture, lightly pressing it again. Cover and set aside 2 hours; refrigerate for a longer time, up to overnight.

3. Allow the pudding to come to room temperature a good 30 minutes before baking. Mix the remaining sugar with the cinnamon. Uncover the pudding, press down on the bread again, then dust the top with the cinnamon-sugar. Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Bake 35 to 40 minutes until set and lightly browned. Let cool about 30 minutes before serving with ice cream or whipped cream.





No.47 article:
Overcoming Cancer, Postponements and a Hurricane

Yoelvis Valdez and Anabel Santeliz, who met in 2012, faced numerous obstacles before finally marrying in the backyard of friends in Manalapan, N.J.

A hurricane ruined Yoelvis Valdez’s plans to propose to Anabel Santeliz. And their wedding was first postponed because of a cancer diagnosis, then because of the coronavirus. But when two friends came to the rescue, the couple finally got their wedding in a backyard tent drenched in pink roses and candlelight.

Mr. Valdez, 32, and Ms. Santeliz, 29, first met in July 2012. She was working as a cashier at Xios, a men’s clothing store, in the Woodbridge Center shopping mall in New Jersey. Mr. Valdez was friends with one of her co-workers and would frequently stop by. “He would only speak to my friend because he couldn’t muster up the courage to introduce himself to me,” Ms. Santeliz said. “Initially I thought that he was interested in my friend.” But he finally messaged her on Twitter and asked her out.

Their first date was in August 2012. They saw Cirque du Soleil’s “Zarkana” at Radio City Music Hall. 

Mr. Valdez and Ms. Santeliz currently live in Aberdeen, N.J. Before the coronavirus pandemic, Ms. Santeliz, who came to the United States from San Salvador when she was 7, had worked as a paralegal in Union County, N.J.

Mr. Valdez, a native of Queens, is a federal law enforcement officer based in New Jersey. He also served 10 years in the Army National Guard.

In those early days of dating, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Santeliz knew there was a strong possibility he might be deployed one day. And he was, in March 2014, to Kuwait, with missions throughout the Middle East, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.

When Ms. Santeliz heard the news he had been deployed, she had no doubt that she would wait for him.  “In that moment I realized that regardless of what life may throw our way, I wanted to get through it together,” she said.

Mr. Valdez said that she would send a themed care package “filled with goodies, pictures, and notes telling me how strong I was and how much she missed me.”

“She would check up on my family and take care of all my affairs stateside while I was away,” he added. “I came back from deployment and I knew right then and there I never wanted that feeling with anyone else. She was the one, my one.”

After five years together, Mr. Valdez decided it was time to propose. He planned a vacation in St. Thomas, in the U.S. Virgin Islands, for September 2017. “I had found the perfect location, hired a photographer, and prepared everything for the proposal,” he said.

But just a few days before their trip, Hurricane Irma tore through the region. Mr. Valdez didn’t want to wait any longer to ask Ms. Santeliz to marry him, so he planned a night in New York City with some of their close friends. “We took a walk in Williamsburg near the Brooklyn Bridge before dinner,” he said. “With the city skyline behind us and our friends nearby to capture the moment, I poured my heart out to Anabel and asked her to marry me. She, of course, said yes.”

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

The couple had planned to marry in December 2019. But on Oct. 31, Mr. Valdez learned he had a rare bone cancer, jaw osteosarcoma. “The doctors thought it was crucial for him to start his treatment as soon as possible and so we made the decision to cancel the wedding and focus on his treatment,” Ms. Santeliz said.

They decided to have a destination wedding in the Dominican Republic in October 2020.

To prepare him for surgery, Mr. Valdez received chemotherapy for three days a month for three months. “On Dec. 6, 2019, what would have been our wedding date, Yoelvis and I were at the N.Y.U. Cancer Center as he received his first round of chemotherapy,” Ms. Santeliz said.

The hope was that the chemotherapy would shrink the tumor, making removing it easier. Even though the chemotherapy helped, “the tumor was still very large, aggressive, and invasive,” Ms. Santeliz said. On Feb. 27, Mr. Valdez had surgery to remove the mass from his jaw.

The doctors took the fibula from his leg to reconstruct his jaw after the tumor was removed. But, because of Covid-19, Ms. Santeliz said, he did not resume chemotherapy again until the end of April. “His oncologist wanted to decrease his chance of exposure to the virus and avoid him traveling into New York City for treatment.” Mr. Valdez’s second round of chemotherapy began in April and finished in July.

On July 13, his scans showed that he was cancer free. “At this point we thought he was done with treatment and we could move on with our lives,” Ms. Santeliz said. “However, his surgeons felt that as a preventive measure, because of the magnitude and severity of the tumor prior to surgery, he should undergo radiation as well.”

He is currently receiving physical therapy to aid with the swelling and fluid buildup that radiation caused and he will be going for another set of scans at the end of the year, Ms. Santeliz said. “To see the love of my life, the strongest man I know, at his lowest and weakest point as he fought for his life is something I wouldn’t wish on anyone.”

Their plans to wed in the Dominican Republic had to be scrapped because of the coronavirus. “Once the U.S. and other countries started shutting down, we knew that we would no longer be able to have our destination wedding,” Ms. Santeliz said. 

“We’ve waited long enough and been through enough and it’s finally our time to celebrate our love and our victories,” Mr. Valdez added.

Then some friends of Mr. Valdez, Juan and Adriana Gonzalez of Manalapan, N.J., offered a new plan.

Mr. Gonzalez and Mr. Valdez’s friendship dates back to high school. Ms. Gonzalez met Mr. Valdez about 15 years ago and said, “He became like a brother to me.”

One sunny afternoon in mid-July, the two couples were having lunch when Ms. Gonzalez told them they just had to do something to celebrate love’s triumph — something like a backyard wedding.

“Yoelvis asked, ‘Your backyard?’ I said ‘Sure. Let’s do this.’ And just like that, the wedding was back on track,” Ms. Gonzalez said.

“Given that we had already canceled our wedding plans twice, we decided that we didn’t want to wait any longer to have our wedding,” Ms. Santeliz said. “Now that he is in remission, we want to start our lives and start a family together. We see everything that has happened in the last year as a sign that having a big wedding is not what’s important.”

Ms. Gonzalez referred the couple to a wedding planner, Kisha Barner at K. Barner Events in Morristown, N.J., to help create a backyard microwedding.

“The biggest thing we had to change was the guest list, which was really hard to do,” Ms. Santeliz said. Initially their guest list included about 150 people.

“Yoelvis has a huge family,” she said. “He’s the youngest of eight and the only one without kids. He has tons of nieces and nephews.” None of those nieces or nephews were invited. They kept the list to parents, siblings and their significant others, and the wedding party.

Although the couple didn’t require guests to get a Covid test, they did recommend it by sending an electronic notice to guests about two weeks before the wedding using the same app they used for their invitations. “Yoelvis and I got tested a couple of days prior and some of our family got tested as well,” Ms. Santeliz said.

On the evening of Oct. 23, under a white tent, embellished with roses and lighted by candles, Mr. Valdez and Ms. Santeliz finally had their wedding. Ms. Santeliz wore a lace mermaid gown with a long train and a cathedral veil, the same dress and veil she was going to wear on their original wedding date. “I absolutely loved my gown and I’m so happy I finally got to wear it,” she said. Mr. Valdez wore a dark blue jacket with black lapels and black pants.

With 35 guests gathered, the ceremony was performed by Brandon Hurley, a Universal Life minister, who has known the couple since 2016. “I feel a wedding ceremony should be fun and a show of love for the couple,” Mr. Hurley said. “But Covid-19 has really reinforced to just make sure the people you love most are there.”

It was an outdoor wedding, so the couple provided masks but did not require them outside. “A lot of guests wore masks most of the time, which I wasn’t expecting,” Ms. Santeliz said.

Both Mr. Valdez and Ms. Santeliz agree that the best moment of the night was their first look. “It was a moment we got to share with just us and Yoelvis’s reaction when he saw me was the highlight of my day,” Ms. Santeliz said.

They had decided on Playa del Carmen, Mexico, as their honeymoon destination, but, Ms. Santeliz said, “Mother Nature loves to mess with us. So it was only fitting that our first night in Mexico they got hit by Hurricane Zeta and we had to evacuate our rooms and spend the night at a shelter in the hotel.”

Still, they couldn’t have been happier.

“It was a true moment of reflection in which we both recognized that no matter what this crazy life throws our way we’re going to make it through together,” the bride said.

When Oct. 23, 2020

Where In the backyard of the Manalapan, N.J., home of Juan and Adriana Gonzalez

In Solidarity Because of radiation treatments, Mr. Valdez lost his hair, including his beloved beard. “Yoelvis was very sad about this, so all of his groomsmen and our officiant decided to all shave their facial hair in solidarity with him and to show their love and support for him,” Ms. Santeliz said.

More Covid Precautions Masks were mandatory for anyone going inside the Gonzalez home to use the bathroom during the wedding and reception. Hand sanitizer, sanitizing wipes and masks were placed at the entrance to the house and sanitizer was available in bathroom as well.

Quarantine Period The couple quarantined following their return from their honeymoon and Mr. Valdez was tested before returning to work. “It was easy for me to stay home because I’m not working right now and Yoelvis stayed home for a week and after his test came back negative they put him back on the schedule,” Ms. Santeliz said.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.48 article:
Why Weekday Weddings Work (And, It’s Not Just the Savings)

Since the coronavirus outbreak, more couples are choosing to get married during the week. For one thing it’s less expensive. It’s also easier for rescheduling.

With one day blurring into the next (thanks, Covid-19!), and work-play time blurred, we knew that eventually, the biggest party of our many people’s lives would soon mix into the perpetual cycle.

Weddings — once primarily reserved for Saturday — are now scheduled for whenever. Monday? Sure. Tuesday afternoon? No big deal. Want your wedding on a Thursday morning? Simply move your Zoom meeting a few hours, and you’re golden.

The weekday wedding trend started a few years ago, as it’s typically less expensive to have a nonweekend party, but this movement accelerated with the coronavirus pandemic. Also, the sheer number of 2020 cancellations forced an abundance of weddings to be rescheduled to 2021. After all the Saturday 2021 dates were snatched up, couples had a choice: Choose another day or wait another year.

Claire LeBlanc, a real estate agent in Waltham, Mass., was originally planning to marry before 100 guests at a Massachusetts mansion on Saturday, April 25. But she was forced to cancel her dream wedding because of the pandemic. Even a small ceremony at her home on the same date wasn’t possible, as nonessential government offices were closed, and she couldn’t get a marriage license.

So she rescheduled for Thursday, Sept. 24, and was married before 19 guests.

“It was really special because it was different: a weekday versus a typical weekend affair,” Ms. LeBlanc, 60, said. “It seemed so insular and unique in this crazy world. And despite this extraordinary time, we were able to carve out a little time, magic and normalcy just for us.”

A May study from the Knot and WeddingWire of more than 6,200 people worldwide found that 12 percent of couples are moving their rescheduled weddings to a different day of the week. The most popular alternative days were Friday (40 percent), Sunday (33 percent) and Thursday (8 percent).

Some couples are also moving their weddings to months previously considered off-season.

Karen Norian, an editor at Simply Eloped, an elopement and micro-wedding planning company based in Boise, Idaho, said her December weekday bookings rose 55 percent this year from the same period last year. Most of her couples who choose weekday weddings select Mondays or Fridays, she said, with Wednesdays being the least desired.

But really, any day is fair game. Joshua Gabrielson, an owner of Wedding Photography and Films in Roanoke, Va., collected data via a Facebook survey of 812 couples nationwide from March 2017 to May 2020, and found that while Friday through Sunday are still desired days, Mondays have become the most popular weekday for his couples, with 7 percent booking this day.

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

It’s easy to make a three-day weekend out of a Monday weekend, and for many guests, it’s simpler to take a day off work on a Monday rather than a day in the middle of the week.

Bailey Moreno, 28, an occupational therapist in Miami, was supposed to be married on Sunday, May 3, but rescheduled for Monday, Aug. 24. Her venue was booked every weekend for the remainder of 2020, and she wanted to get married before the end of the year.

Ms. Moreno’s guest list was slashed to 50 from 85, but she was able to retain all her original vendors.

“We were so lucky that from those 50 guests, no one had an issue, or complaint with our Monday wedding,” Ms. Moreno said. “I did not want to lose any of my previously hired vendors, who had other couples and commitments for the rest of the year on weekends.”

Holly Spooner, 33, a London-based office manager, moved her May wedding to a Thursday in September , and she set the time for 3 p.m. so guests could work in the morning, party in the afternoon and still get a good night’s sleep before heading to the office the next day if they desired.

“It certainly didn’t hinder the fun that evening — everyone stayed late and danced and drank until the wee hours,” Ms. Spooner said.

Because of the coronavirus most people don’t have an office to stumble into the following morning, since many are working from home, said Elizabeth Babinski, the Chicago-based founder of Liz Rae Weddings, an officiating business, and Vows Well Traveled, a planning company for small weddings and elopements. Overindulgent guests can sleep a little later, drink their coffee, take their Tylenol and then pop on a Zoom, with their bosses none the wiser. Plus, their weekend will still be free from obligations.

“During Covid, guests don’t really seem to care,” Ms. Babinski said. “Pre-Covid, guests certainly complained — not exactly to the couple — but in slight comments about needing to take days off work, needing to find a babysitter, and other passive-aggressive notes.”

But not all guests may be too happy about weekday weddings, especially at a time when their worlds are already disrupted.

Pat Hope, a wedding videographer and a founder of Wedding Learning, an educational site for wedding professionals, said she often hears complaints from guests that the midweek parties involve taking time off work, which eats into their paid annual leave.

Still, it’s a trend expected to continue well beyond the pandemic.

“Word will spread from newlyweds to newly engaged couples that they received better deals and managed to have a great event despite it not falling on a weekend,” Mr. Hope said.

And at the end of the day — any day — you’re married.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.49 article:
1 America, 1 Pandemic, 2 Realities 

Journeys through two states found Americans leading starkly different lives in the pandemic. New Mexico feels at a standstill. In South Dakota, life is going right on.  

In one pandemic reality, restaurants are packed. There are no coronavirus limits at college-town bars. No social-distancing dots speckling the floor. Some people are wearing masks, but even a weak proposal to make it a requirement in one city prompted an outcry. Welcome to South Dakota.

In another, hundreds of miles to the south, much of life is shut down. No dining inside restaurants. Capacity limits at Walmart. Shuttered bookstores, museums, hair salons, parks. A mask-wearing culture so widespread that someone put one on an old statue. Welcome to New Mexico.

This is the view from America’s two discordant, dissonant pandemic realities.

The pandemic and the nation’s disjointed response have taken the notion of two Americas to a new extreme. As known coronavirus cases in the United States have surpassed 12 million over the course of the pandemic, the daily routines of millions of Americans are now shaped by their ZIP codes and governors and beliefs about the virus: Do they wear masks? Go to school in person or online? Eat out? Get exposed to the virus? 

Hospitalization rates in South Dakota have been the highest in the nation, but a conservative frontier philosophy dominates the state’s approach. Some towns, stores and school districts require masks or social distancing, but, as a whole, South Dakota has the fewest restrictions of any state, with neither a mask mandate nor significant limits on businesses. Gov. Kristi Noem, a Republican, has called that distinction a badge of freedom and criticized restrictions as ineffective and economically destructive.

“You wouldn’t even know there’s a pandemic going on,” said Heidi Haugan, a mother of four young children in Sioux Falls, South Dakota’s biggest city.

As the virus surged in New Mexico, Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat, on Monday put the state’s two million residents under some of the toughest restrictions in the country, issuing a two-week stay-at-home order, banning restaurant dining, setting capacity limits on grocery stores and closing indoor malls, movie theaters and gyms. 

The limits clash with the wide-open feel of a place where the skyscrapers are mountain ranges, and have exacerbated months of anxiety and economic pain. 

“It’s something that my mailman said several months ago,” said State Representative Angelica Rubio, a Democrat who represents Las Cruces. “He said we should have never started calling it social distancing. What we should have called it was physical distancing. The basic concept of the language that we’ve used to try to deter people from being physically together — how could we still have some kind of community regardless of that?”

It felt like going back in time. A Saturday night in Vermillion, home to the University of South Dakota, and bars and restaurants were brimming with parents celebrating after the state high-school football championships. 

Chad Grunewaldt hung a “Masks Expected” sign at the front door of his two-story bar, the Old Lumber Company. Like many businesses, he left the decision up to staff and patrons. Some servers and bartenders have gotten sick, and Mr. Grunewaldt said he sends them home and welcomes them back when they recover.  But he was wary of the growing calls for mask orders and restrictions on business.

“It’s not a dictatorship,” he said.

In New Mexico, the virus has pummeled the economy, which has long been one of the country’s poorest. Unemployment in the state has risen to 8 percent during the pandemic — roughly the same as Arizona, its Republican-led neighbor — and small-business owners voice widespread fears about closing down. 

South Dakota’s economy, which Governor Noem has declared “open for business” during the pandemic has fared better, with unemployment at 3.6 percent, well below the 6.9 percent national average. But critics wonder about the public-health costs of staying open.

Right now, South Dakota has the country’s second-highest rate of new cases. More than 7 percent of the state’s residents have tested positive. New Mexico has fewer cases per capita, but a more alarming trend line. Though reports of new infections have started to level off in South Dakota, daily case numbers have more than doubled over the past two weeks in New Mexico. 

In New Mexico, Tom Hutchinson laid off 80 employees at his two restaurants in Mesilla, a small town next to Las Cruces, on the first day of the governor’s ban on dine-in service. Because of the prohibition on large gatherings, many of the workers found out through an online scheduling system and notices posted at the restaurants.

“That’s a hell of a way to tell somebody,” Mr. Hutchinson said. “I’d love to be able to pay them, but we have no revenue to pay them with.”

Before the pandemic, he had 170 workers. Now he has about 20.

His 81-year-old restaurant, La Posta de Mesilla, is a kind of museum, if museums smelled of enchiladas. Tucked into  an old adobe stagecoach stop, it sits across the street from the building where Billy the Kid was convicted of murder in 1881. 

“It’s sad as hell to walk through this place and not see anybody,” Mr. Hutchinson said.

In Sioux Falls, Joy Howe has never worn a mask or taken a Covid test. She vows she never will.

She has fashioned a life seemingly unfazed by the pandemic raging around her: Unmasked church services on Sundays. In-person piano lessons for her children on Tuesdays and  Bible classes on Wednesdays at their evangelical church. Sioux Falls passed a mask mandate this week, but Ms. Howe said she will not follow it. 

She is planning a menu of turkey, carrot casserole and strawberry-glazed fruit salad for Thanksgiving, when 20 family members will pile into her house.

It is all deliberately, defiantly normal. “We have never stopped doing anything we’ve always done,” she said. The rest of America, she said, “are losing their souls. And with that they will lose this country.”

In New Mexico, Mary Helen Ratje, 67, usually wears a mask when she ventures outdoors. She has been tested four times. She does this not so much for herself, but for her father, who turned 100 in August.

Her father, J. Paul Taylor y Romero, who served for 18 years in the New Mexico Legislature, stays indoors most days at his adobe home, except for trips to the doctor and an occasional drive with his family.

“I think that if the governor and our city hadn’t taken the steps that they had, people would feel like they have more freedom to be around elderly people like my dad,” said Ms. Ratje, who teaches at a charter school named for her father.

Interviewed by telephone, Mr. Taylor said he was doing pretty well “for a 100-year-old guy.”

“My kids are very protective of me, I should tell you that,” he said. “I think they all think I’m going to die, but I’m not ready to die.”

Allison Byington, who lives in South Dakota, said her mother recently called her a murderer for refusing to wear a face mask. “We don’t have a relationship anymore,” Ms. Byington said.

Ms. Byington sees not masking as her decision. She does not wear one when she sets out on Mondays to comb through thrift stores for the online resale business she runs with her husband. They pulled their 8-year-old son from school when the district required masks.

Ms. Byington’s mother, Jeannie Ammon, says she is simply trying to keep herself, her husband and an ailing oldest daughter alive. She said her youngest daughter had unfriended her on Facebook.

“It’s caused a lot of strain in the family,,” Ms. Ammon said. “We feel like we’re just skipping over land mines.”

In the suburbs of Sioux Falls, the pandemic has made Lacey Wingert’s family feel like strangers to their home state.  

While the family cloistered in their home beside farm fields, their Instagram feeds were an endless stream of birthdays, football games, weekends at the corn maze, kids unmasked and happy and living a life that didn’t exist for the Wingerts’ four children anymore. 

“Some people just don’t care,” said 8-year-old Nolan.

Ms. Wingert’s 13-year-old son, Conner, is at high risk because of a heart condition and a collapsed lung he suffered at birth. A few weeks ago, with cases rising and many students maskless at school, Ms. Wingert decided to enroll her children in online classes. Conner said he wished his school had just insisted on masks.

“They didn’t even try to help me,” he said. “They just gave me up.”

Between 12-hour shifts in a Covid-19 ward in Sioux Falls where every bed is full, Dianne Dansman tried to pop into a dollar store. Inside it was so crowded. Almost nobody in masks. She fled.

She would like people to stop calling her a “masker” or “one of those” when she wears a face covering. She cringes when shoppers curse at the volunteers offering masks at the entrance to grocery stores. She would like to not feel this hopeless.

 “Nobody’s on the same page of this book,” she said. “There are days when you drive home in tears.”

In Las Cruces, relatives huddle outside I.C.U. windows at Memorial Medical Center, staring at their loved ones. Next to the bushes and shrubs, they rest their hands on the glass and tape trinkets and crucifixes to the windows. 

With no one allowed inside, one family uses a wooden pallet as a stepping stool, because some of the windows are too high off the ground.

Relatives and friends of Sylvia Garcia, 60, have gathered outside since she arrived three weeks ago. She used to tease her children, telling them she did not have three children, but hundreds of them. She has been a teacher for decades.

Dominic Garcia, 26, the youngest of her children, said no one knows how she got infected. He heads nightly to the I.C.U. windows straight from work, his hands and cargo pants still smeared with paint. 

“You can’t even describe the feelings you get when you’re outside of a window, and you can’t go in there,” Mr. Garcia said. “You start thinking I should have hugged her a little bit harder. I should have held her hand a little bit tighter.”

Early one evening, a stranger walked up to the Garcia family and another family outside another window. The woman was holding two pizza boxes. She handed each family a pizza and quickly walked back down the sidewalk.

She had a mask on her face and tears in her eyes.







No.50 article:
A Bright Spot in the Pandemic Gloom: Jazz Is Everywhere in New York 

Musicians are playing al fresco all over the city to earn money and boost morale.

Every night after her shift this spring, Bridget Queral would leave the hospital where she worked as a nurse to find her husband, Luis, waiting to walk her home. As they ambled through an eerily silent Central Park, Ms. Queral would shed the baggage from treating patients during the pandemic’s intense peak. The stroll became a highlight of the couple’s coronavirus routine, even with the lawns devoid of their usual crowds.

When the weather warmed and the virus, for the moment, waned, the sounds of instruments once again rippled through the heavy Manhattan air. “It was really emotional,” Ms. Queral said. “Luis describes it as a black-and-white movie turning to color.”

For many New Yorkers in late spring, hearing musicians performing outside again was a welcome sign of hope and resilience. Throughout the summer and into the fall, jazz tunes, in particular, have become a near-constant presence across the city’s parks, stoops and sidewalks. And that real-life soundtrack can make you feel like you’re walking through a vintage film by Spike Lee or Nora Ephron — not a city in crisis.

It’s easy to get swept up into the New Yorky romance of it all, until you remember that virtually all of the city’s 2,400 indoor performance venues have closed since the coronavirus outbreak, at the same time that concert tours have been canceled, putting countless musicians out of work.

Even so, these makeshift outdoor shows awaken a sense of connection that has been therapeutic for musicians and fans alike.

The communal catharsis reached a new peak on Nov. 7, when crowds descended on Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn to celebrate the call of the presidential election. Since June, the Prospect Park entrance plaza had served as the regular venue for Wayne Tucker and the Bad Motha’s, who were dutifully playing on that sunny Saturday.

As Mr. Tucker and his fellow musicians played to the champagne-popping throngs, “everyone had so much love for each other,” Mr. Tucker said. “I felt like a messenger delivering that feeling to people.”

The Bad Motha’s are well practiced at delivering relief. Several times each week, they serenade parkgoers with a mix of jazz classics, originals and reinterpreted pop hits in a tight fusion reminiscent of Weather Report.

Keeping in touch with fans over Instagram, the group of 30-somethings has thoroughly charmed the community: One frequent audience member likes to cheer the players on, individually, by name. Another fan, reeling from a breakup, said the band had reawakened her sense of attraction. Even the police, who might in normal times ticket musicians for using amplifiers without a permit, tend to cast a blind eye to any potential violations as they nod along to the beat.

This summer the Bad Motha’s started playing outside to feel the thrill of performing in company after months of playing at home by themselves and found that they could make a bit of cash as well.

Mr. Tucker, who had planned to spend nine months of this year on the road, had flown home from an international tour in March, expecting to leave again soon. As weeks stretched into months and no new gigs appeared, he began to miss performing with others, so he organized a day of busking in the park for his roommates, the keyboard player David Linard, the saxophonist Miles Tucker (Wayne’s brother) and some friends, the bassist Tamir Shmerling and the drummer Diego Joaquin Ramirez.

“We didn’t think we sounded very good,” Mr. Tucker said, but “it got a great response, and we decided to keep doing it.”

Tips for a typical set, gathered through Venmo and an open bass drum case, tend to exceed, ever so slightly, the $100 standard club gig might bring in, Mr. Tucker said. Split among five band members, it’s not much. His group has also been lucky enough to play at socially distanced birthday parties and small weddings, which tend to pay more, but are scarce. In his free time, Mr. Tucker has been helping other musician friends move out of the city that they can no longer afford. He estimates that about half of his performing community is gone.

“It’s something of a sweet and bitter situation,” said Jerome Harris, a bass and guitar player who has toured extensively with jazz greats like the saxophonist Sonny Rollins and the guitarist and composer Bill Frisell. Recently, Mr. Harris has participated in the weekly Prospect Heights Community Jam, which takes place on a stretch of Vanderbilt Avenue in Brooklyn that has been cordoned off for pedestrians and outdoor dining. While connecting with the community has been a joy, he said, that connection arises out of necessity.

In a survey published by the Jazz Journalists Association last month, 61 percent of jazz musicians said their 2020 income would be less than half of last year’s. And 73 percent of American jazz musicians said they had no live performances scheduled for 2021.

Serving as a board member of the Music Workers Alliance, Mr. Harris has been seeking aid and work opportunities for musicians, many of whom are self-employed. So far, the organization’s calls to extend Pandemic Unemployment Assistance have gone unheeded, as have local proposals for safe, outdoor performance opportunities, along the lines of what musicians have been organizing themselves.

Even music schools have limited chances for artists to play together. Kellin Hanas, a freshman trumpeter at Manhattan School of Music, has been organizing busking trips to Central Park to comfort friends from other schools who have grown lonely livestreaming rehearsals from separate practice studios.

Ms. Hanas, an 18-year-old from Wheaton, Ill., can’t quite believe her new venue: “Central Park, holy cow! I saw this on the Disney Channel.” But as her fingers stiffen in the cooling air, she said, Ms. Hanas senses that these idyllic days are numbered.

In Harlem, Berta Alloway is likewise anticipating a wintertime end to the shows she has been hosting on Sunday afternoons in Riverside Park under the memorial to Ralph Ellison, the renowned local (and jazz fan) who wrote “Invisible Man.”

A longtime booker who is known for reinvigorating St. Nick’s Jazz Pub, a Harlem Renaissance landmark, Ms. Alloway has been inviting a rotating cast of players to her outdoor spot around 150th Street.

Patience Higgins, a multi-reed player who has toured with the Duke Ellington and Count Basie Orchestras, among other acts, often headlines with members of the Sugar Hill Quartet. The vocalist Maxine Brown, whose songs “All In My Mind” and “Funny” topped the charts in the 1960s, is also known to appear regularly.

Each week at Riverside Park, older jazz fans arrive early in Access-A-Ride vans to secure spots on benches before neighbors pour out from the surrounding buildings, clapping and swaying along with the players and greeting one another between songs. On one chilly Sunday last month, June Terry, a white-haired regular, was moved to dance to the singer Karl Dixon’s rendition of “Route 66.” The dancing also kept Ms. Terry warm.

Ms. Alloway, known as someone who makes opportunity where there is none, is unsure of what the winter holds. “It’s going to make me sick to my stomach,” she said of the weather forcing an end to her series.

Both Ms. Alloway and Mr. Tucker plan to return to the parks in the spring, particularly if the pandemic continues to block indoor performances. In the meantime, the morale they provide to the public, and the tips they receive in return, will go on pause.

This is not a typical autumn in New York, but that song’s lyrics resonate as deeply as ever: “It’s autumn in New York that brings the promise of new love. Autumn in New York is often mingled with pain. Dreamers with empty hands, they sigh for exotic lands. It’s autumn in New York. It’s good to live it again.”





No.51 article:
Yes, Your Kids Can Play Outside All Winter

Hardened athletes and explorers weigh in on how to keep your kids warm.

Every morning, between 9 and 10 a.m., my 3-year-old hits his “go outside” point. It’s the moment when his energy overflows into pull-the-dog’s-tail-and-get-a-timeout territory.

If my husband and I can get his shoes on and shove him out the door in time, he transforms into an angel, running sprints through the park and digging in the dirt without a trace of that little miscreant. He’s happy, we’re happy. Our dog breathes a sigh a relief.

In the age of Covid-19, getting outside has become even more essential as an antidote to lockdowns and as one of the safest ways to have play dates. And it’ll remain my number one activity as this fall turns into winter.

So if you’re staring down the barrel of the impending winter with dread, visions of cabin-fever-induced meltdowns dancing in your head, fear not. Yes, your kids can play outside in foul weather. And what’s more, they’ll love it.

Don’t take my word for it. I tapped parents who endure the world’s harshest weather for a living to get their secrets around keeping kids comfortable and happy outdoors year-round.

Start by embracing the British guidebook writer Alfred Wainwright’s point of view: “There’s no such thing as bad weather, only unsuitable clothing.” You know layering is the key to trapping body heat and keeping the elements out, but there’s more to it than just slipping a child into a puffy jacket and heading out the door.

“Make sure the hands, head, heart and feet are covered; out of those, the feet are probably the most important thing,” said Pete Ripmaster, who won the 2018 Iditarod Trail Invitational 1000 on foot (a 1,000-mile winter ultramarathon that traces the route of the eponymous sled dog race across Alaska). Based in Asheville, N.C., he started winter backpacking in the Great Smoky Mountains with his daughters, now 9 and 11, when the youngest was 5.

Dry feet are warm feet, so think waterproof insulated boots or rubber boots paired with fleece or wool liners, plus cozy wool or synthetic socks (not cotton, which doesn’t wick moisture away from the skin and takes ages to dry). Speaking of socks: Pack an extra pair for each kid.

Little hands are also prone to feeling cold quickly, said Jackson, Wyo., resident Kit DesLauriers, the first person to ski down the tallest mountain on every continent (the Seven Summits) and a mom who took her daughters rafting in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge when they were 5 and 7 (they’re now 11 and 12).

“I’ve learned from big winter expeditions that if my hands or feet are cold, I can ask for help — I’ve put my feet on my partner’s stomach,” she said. So when one of her daughters feels the chill, “you get to put your hands on mommy’s belly. You laugh about it, have a connection, and make it fun.” Mittens beat gloves for warmth; go for a pair with a waterproof outer layer, not fleece or acrylic that can soak through to the fingers and bring an end to any outing quickly.

And mind the gaps, said Sune Tamm. The Reykjavik, Iceland-based father of a 2-year-old daughter has spent four years leading winter camping and mountaineering trips for scientists in Antarctica. “The main thing is, I make sure to seal the edges,” he said. Dress kids in gauntlet-style gloves or mittens that cinch over their jacket’s cuffs, and keep cold winds from sneaking down their necks with a gaiter. A jacket overlapping with bib snow pants will be warmer than shorter layers that can gape open when kids are off and moving.

What if your child isn’t walking yet? Tamm strolled through blizzards when his daughter was an infant by popping her in a chest carrier, wrapping a blanket around her legs and zipping her inside his extra-large winter coat.

A free-roaming kid is generally a happy kid, but whining will still happen. The key to keeping the happy vibes rolling in winter is distraction, said Bekah Quirin, head of the outdoor education program Valley Forest School in Roanoke, Va., and a mom who hiked the entire Appalachian Trail with her daughter starting when she was 12 months old.

“Things that keep them moving are the best distractions,” she said. “The more they move, the more they’ll stay warm.” Go out prepped with a few games in mind, like Red Light Green Light, tag or a scavenger hunt. And keep it simple: Kids aren’t likely to listen to complicated instructions while standing around in the cold.

Ripmaster sets up a community treasure hunt for his kids, tipping off neighbors ahead of time that his daughters will be knocking on the door in search of, say, a pink paper clip. (This year, arrange for a distanced handoff.) “They’re on a mission,” he said. “By the end of the hunt, they might have hiked two and a half miles, but they’re not thinking, ‘Oh, I have to go on a hike with Mom and Dad.’ All they care about is the next box they need to check.” He also takes his family on orienteering trips to a nearby park, where the kids practice using a map and compass to navigate from checkpoint to checkpoint.

Good old snowman-building, sledding and snowball fights are classics for a reason, too. Even when the ground is bare, DesLauriers has set up a mini-igloo-building project for her kids by freezing ice blocks in old milk cartons. And Ripmaster swears by the novelty of cooking and eating outdoors, whether by campfire or camping stove.

“Making a warm meal is always really rewarding in the cold,” he said. “We do a lot of burritos, potatoes and beans — things that are easy to make.” A just-add-hot-water dehydrated camping meal is even easier. And don’t forget the s’mores.

Keeping snacks on hand is doubly important in winter, as the effort of slogging through snow and simply being in the cold requires extra energy, said Eric Larsen, “and kids are getting dehydrated faster than you are.”

Larsen — who lives in Crested Butte, Colo., has skied to both the North and South Poles, and takes his 5-year-old daughter and 7-year-old son winter camping and mountain biking — chooses snacks based on how likely they are to freeze. No granola bars, heavy energy bars or fruit pouches, all of which tend to turn into bricks after a couple of hours. Instead, he goes for fig bars, freeze-dried fruit, trail mix, fruit snacks, “and I’m not opposed to throwing in treats, like potato chips.”

As for hydration, sources agree that a thermos full of something hot is the way to go. Besides encouraging kids to drink up (hello, hot cocoa) and helping little ones feel warmer, several pros note the cozy power of a drink-based ritual. “It adds an element of feeling comfortable in the outdoors,” said DesLauriers, who packs tea for three on skiing outings. “Why not turn it into a little tea party?”

Tamm embraces an outdoor version of the Swedish tradition of fika, a mindful break to share coffee or tea with others. “I always bring a blanket that’s water-resistant on the bottom and lay that out,” he said. For his daughter, he makes “tea — five percent honey-ginger tea and 95 percent milk — and we make a moment out of it.”

Even the children of people who have skied from the summit of Mt. Everest occasionally balk at leaving the couch in winter. DesLauriers convinced her young daughters to go to ski school by zipping each one’s favorite stuffed animal into her coat with its head sticking out at the neck. Now that they’re older, inviting a friend along provides plenty of incentive to get out. Or tell the kids to try playing outdoors for just 10 minutes: “What we see is 10 turns into 20, which turns into 30,” said Larsen.

And it’s always worthwhile to make the effort. “My daughter is so much happier when she’s outside,” said Tamm. “She comes in windblown and tired, and she sleeps better.” There’s also the character-building benefits of braving a potentially uncomfortable situation, said DesLauriers. Getting out “teaches us a lesson in what we’re able to handle. Don’t shy away — if it feels like a stretch, challenge your perception.”

So start small and build up to longer and longer outings. Besides, if you find yourself with a true meltdown on your hands, you can — and should — head back inside and try again tomorrow. “You don’t want to create such a negative experience that the kids don’t want to go out again,” said Quirin. “It’s OK for kids to be uncomfortable, but you don’t want them to be miserable.”

This might be a winter unlike any other. But as long as we can get out and play, I know we’ll make it through. Better than that — I hope my son remembers this winter as one filled with rosy cheeks, hot cocoa breaks, snow forts and so much fun.





No.52 article:
How the Owner of a Coffee Shop With a Community Fridge Spends Sundays

Zenat Begum is into self-care, which includes burning incense, setting intentions and binge-watching ‘Girlfriends.’

You can be an entrepreneur and also an activist. Just ask Zenat Begum, the founder and owner of Playground Coffee Shop, which used to be a hardware store in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, that was run by her family.

When Black Lives Matter protests erupted across the city this summer, Ms. Begum assembled supply kits for participants. In June, to help with the city’s escalating hunger problem, she established a community fridge initiative that provides fresh, free produce. Ms. Begum also runs a free library and a community organization out of Playground.

With the holidays approaching, Ms. Begum plans to distribute 200 boxes of essentials, including coats and books, to Black, Indigenous and other people of color who are residents of Bed-Stuy and are financially struggling. She will also organize several free or sliding-scale meal pop-ups next month.

Ms. Begum, 27, lives among 45 plants in a brownstone apartment within walking distance of the coffee shop.

SUN, WATER, MUSIC I wake up in my apartment in Bed-Stuy to the utmost gratitude and gratefulness that I am safe and starting my day with myself and rituals. I start every morning opening the blinds to let the sun pour into my home. I greet my plants and water them while a record is on or a mix from my friend Sterling. I toast a cinnamon raisin bagel to complement my drip coffee.

BODY AND MIND I recently started training with Thea Hughes, a fitness instructor who guided me into a practice of strength training and mobility. Usually, I FaceTime my friend Krisitia, who lives in Miami. Our friendship in this time period has consisted of holding each other accountable while checking in to become the best versions of ourselves.

THE GIG I drive, walk or bike to Playground Coffee Shop. Walking through Bed-Stuy has become a ritual for myself as I wave to my neighbors or smile at dogs sniffing their way through town. I usually walk through Herbert Von King Park to catch a performance happening in the amphitheater.

On Sundays, my friend and shop manager Sam and I connect about our week while exchanging relationship advice, administrative details and, obviously, a ’fit check to make sure our “drip,” or outfits, come correct.

I check on the community fridge outside of the shop that is cleaned and stocked by our volunteers. I restock and reorganize our “Take One, Leave One” library and give a nice sweep. I’m always on top of keeping our block clean. I get a text from my friends to hang out, I ask for an iced cortado with oat milk, to go.

CHICK TALK I pop into our local community garden on 100 Quincy Street to drop off compost from my fridge and the shop. I place the buckets in the back by the chicken coop. I always have a banter with the chickens where I “sillily talk” about the day ahead. After our deep conversation, I walk to meet my friends.

CHAT AND CHEW My friends Ridah and Aldo join me at Bed-Stuy Fish Fry to pick up a combo meal, or a fried shrimp and fries from Shipwreck Seafood Boutique. We smoke on my stoop while we watch passers-by on my block.

FAMILY CHECK-IN I always FaceTime my sisters Rifat and Nisat, who live in Park Slope with my parents. They toss the phone between each other and my mother, who expresses the details of her day with a feature of Luna, the house cat.

AGENDA I sit and go through my emails and create an agenda for the week ahead. I always write everything down. I go through various Instagram DMs and make sure to respond to anyone I haven’t already. My friend Elle and I always call each other to catch up on the week.

DINNER AND A SHOW I am eating a lot of meals that I learned to make during quarantine. My go-to is a shallot pasta, stir-fry or even roasting a bed of veggies. I have been bingeing “Girlfriends” on Netflix, so I make some time to watch a few episodes while eating my dinner.

INTENTIONS, SET I burn a candle and light incense, using a Bakhoor burner from Balady Market. After I cook my meal, I lay out my crystals and sage to pray to my ancestors. Right before I sleep, I think about an affirmation my friend Edward has helped me integrate into my practice. I manifest one goal that I want to make happen and set my intentions for the future, because we can do nothing without intention.





No.53 article:
This American Mess

Thanksgiving is here. Unfortunately, America is all over the place.

After a record-setting election and record-setting unemployment claims, within a frightening pandemic and between strict diets of misinformation and disinformation, America is ready to have a great meal with loved ones, put our feet up and breathe … on each other.

Half of the states have travel restrictions of some kind. Nearly 4 out of 5 epidemiologists surveyed are having Thanksgiving at home with just their household or not at all. The C.D.C. is nearly begging people to stay home over the holidays in expectations of an even greater explosion in the spread of coronavirus. But, this Thanksgiving, Americans are still absolutely gonna America anyway. Here’s some ways we’re solving — or failing to solve — the ethical, political, emotional and viral puzzles of 2020.

Kara Schweitzer, 43, is the only sister of six brothers, all of whom live in or around Sioux Falls. That state had, as of mid-November, the highest Covid-19 hospitalization rate in the United States. Still, Ms. Schweitzer said, several of her siblings had been planning on keeping with tradition for Thanksgiving: a big meal, with about 35 people, hosted at a single house.

“Being the only daughter, often a lot of these decisions get put on me,” Ms. Schweitzer said. But this year, someone else kicked off the planning. A couple weeks ago, her oldest brother, a family practice doctor, sent a group text to the family, saying he and his wife would be hosting this year. They asked what dishes everyone would be bringing.

“He thinks he and his family all already had it and it wasn’t a big deal,” Ms. Schweitzer said.

A disagreement centered on their parents, who are in their 70s.

“If something happened to my dad, then we would all be responsible for caring for my mom, and vice versa,” she said. “And my brother’s attitude is, ‘If they’re going to get it, they’re going to get it.’”

As Thanksgiving grew nearer, dissent rose. Their youngest brother opted out. Their father, a Vietnam veteran who can’t tolerate President Trump, said he wasn’t sure if he was comfortable gathering, either. In the end, family dinner has been scrapped.

Before it was decided, though, some of her siblings had argued that 2020 could represent the last time the whole family could gather for the holidays, given their parents’ ages. “And I said, ‘Yeah, I really don’t want to push that along,’” Ms. Schweitzer said. — JONAH ENGEL BROMWICH

Henry Lyons, a 24-year-old artist manager in Los Angeles, will be figuring out his Thanksgiving agenda the night before.

Mr. Lyons is currently with Wallice, one of his artists, at a house in Cedar City, Utah, where a four-person team is working on her first EP. They’ll be returning to Los Angeles the day before Thanksgiving. Then, he plans to get a rapid test and let the results determine where he spends the holiday.

“If the rapid test comes back negative, then I’ll drive straight from the urgent care to my parents’ house in San Francisco to celebrate Thanksgiving with them and my younger brothers,” Mr. Lyons said.

“If the test comes back positive, then I don’t have a plan,” he said. “I’m probably going to get in the car and call my mom while I drive back to my apartment and basically say, ‘I’m so sorry, but I can’t come.’”

Partly, he said, this plan helps him avoid thinking about the prospect of spending the holiday alone. It’s also an attempt to not stress out the family.

“I haven’t told my mom that I might not be able to come because I don’t even want to put it on her mind,” he said. “I don’t want to add any stress or anxiety to her life unless I have to.”

Mr. Lyons is optimistic that things will work out for the better and the family will come together. He said that because he and his three brothers are often spread out across the country, Thanksgiving is always a special opportunity for them to get together.

“I care a little bit more this year even than I normally would,” Mr. Lyons said, “because I really want one of the silver linings of this year to be how much time I spent with my family.” — JULIA CARMEL

This will be Jamie Buffone’s second Thanksgiving in a hospital.

Ms. Buffone, 24, is a traveling nurse and will be spending the night taking care of patients, including those fighting Covid-19, at the Kona Community Hospital in Kealakekua.

“Everyone is super on edge here. It’s such a small place,” Ms. Buffone said. “Everyone is super-cautious, because if something did go really wrong, they don’t have the resources here that they do in New York or Boston.”

Fear and worry douses virtually everything this year touches. But Ms. Buffone and other staff members have a plan: to bring in a potluck to share with one another, including traditional Thanksgiving dishes, Hawaiian cuisine and fruit from some of their own farms.

“One way you show that you care here is to bring in food,” Ms. Buffone said.

While she and her colleagues have taken steps to make the day feel special, she knows it’ll feel different than holidays past. For one thing, because of restrictions on visitation at the hospital, not only will staff be away from family, but also each patient will have to spend the day apart from their families and loved ones.

“In Hawaii, they say everyone is your ohana. Everyone is your family,” Ms. Buffone said. “It’s a special part of the job to be with people who can’t see their family, to be there for them and the people you’re working with.” — DANYA ISSAWI

When you’re a social media influencer, Thanksgiving isn’t just a holiday — it’s a content opportunity.

For Dominic Andre, 27, and his girlfriend Mary Noura, 22, both influencers in Los Angeles, that made for an extra consideration going into an already logistically complicated holiday. Though both of their sets of parents live nearby, Mr. Andre’s are far more cautious about coronavirus restrictions and weren’t comfortable with the couple hopping from one feast to another.

To keep everyone safe and happy, they decided to spend the holiday with Mr. Andre’s family. (And, they provide better content opportunities.)

“It would be much more beneficial for me when it comes to my business and making content to spend Thanksgiving with Dom’s family,” Ms. Noura said. “A lot of my followers typically look forward to videos of Dom’s mom. All the past videos I’ve made with her have gone viral.”

Mr. Andre doesn’t often post about his personal life to his more than six million TikTok followers, but he’s begun preparing his audience on Instagram for what they may see next Thursday, letting them know the precautions the couple has taken ahead of the holiday.

“I’ve communicated through Instagram Stories that I’ve been quarantining for two weeks,” he said. “I’m laying the groundwork so that they know I am quarantining and I am going to see my family. I’m telling them now so they can understand the context. A lot of people jump the gun on getting upset when they don’t really know the back story.”

Ms. Noura is planning to film Thanksgiving pranks and cooking videos with Mr. Andre’s mother on Thursday. She’ll pepper her posts with reminders about the steps she and her boyfriend took to celebrate the holiday safely.

“I’m going to push that a little bit more on my Instagram,” Ms. Noura said, “and post about how it’s important to quarantine before spending holidays with your family.” — TAYLOR LORENZ

This Thanksgiving, Nicole Monique Beede, 27, is sleeping on an air mattress in a friend’s apartment in Worcester. But come December, she’ll need to find somewhere else to go. “I’m pretty much pretending Thanksgiving isn’t happening,” she said.

Her mother died suddenly of lymphoma when Ms. Beede was 17. She went on to study child psychology at Northeastern University, then worked as a victim’s advocate in Rhode Island. But it all felt ephemeral until this spring, when she drove to Los Angeles and found a like-minded community, and began pursuing training as a death doula. In the fervor of the Black Lives Matter movement, support from strangers poured in on Venmo, carrying her onward.

“I’ve already found a community of Black health healers here,” she said in June, “and that’s where I want to be.”

But the stress of protests, the pandemic and lingering effects of transracial adoption and her mother’s death came to a head on the West Coast. She said she was hospitalized for post-traumatic stress disorder, contracted Covid-19, lost her ID.

Now back East, she feels adrift. A lack of a steady mailing address complicates applying for disability and receiving unemployment; the pandemic complicates things further.

“I don’t feel like I have the right to ask my friend what she’s doing for Thanksgiving,” she said. “I feel like an embarrassed burden to the people that check in on me.”

“I really need a mom or a family right now. And that just doesn’t exist.” — ALEXANDRA MARVAR

Not long ago, three friends in Austin, Texas — Gabby Phi, Jackie Fu, both 26, and Michelle Kao, 27 — got together and purged their closets, inviting friends over for the clean-out sale.

It went so well that they turned it into a recurring series, roping in people outside their immediate social circles. Any gathering requires food, so they began to expand beyond clothes, turning their attention to food-centric pop-ups under the name Gan Bei Gals. For Lunar New Year, in late January of this year, they hosted family-style hot pot dinners, a style of eating that the group says is otherwise hard to find in Austin.

Since the pandemic, they’ve collaborated to host Instagram tutorials for how to make asam laksa and fresh homemade paneer and participated in a contactless pickup pop-up Asian-centric market in August, selling dishes like Chinese Five Spice wings and boba cocktails.

The collective has found that moving their work online still maintains the same sense of community they want to cultivate. It may even expand their reach.

For Thanksgiving week, Ms. Phi will lead a virtual Friendsgiving cooking class and brunch. Participants will get lists of ingredients to purchase or pick up locally; she’ll be teaching how to make crispy banh xeo, Vietnamese-style stuffed crepes.

“While we do love hosting events and seeing people in real life, people are dying every day and we definitely don’t want to worsen that number,” she said.

In her family’s household, she said, “traditional” American Thanksgiving foods are joined by egg rolls, fried rice, shredded chicken salad dressed in fish sauce, chicken wings and curry or stew. “My family usually does a really big gathering in Houston every year,” Ms. Phi said. “We call it Vietsgiving.”

This year she still plans to drive home, but that event too will be limited to her immediate loved ones. — EMMA ORLOW

Frederick Briggs Sr., 79, and his wife, Peggy, moved to Florida in 2012. They live in the Villages, America’s largest retirement community, which made headlines during the presidential election.

For Mr. Briggs, it’s an oasis. They live in a “three-bedroom, two-bath villa.” He is very active in the community, and for five years he was the president of the homeowners advocates. They have five children, seven grandchildren (another on the way) and four great-grandchildren, who live out of state. Mr. Briggs loves to golf and this place is a golfer’s dream. The weather is “gorgeous,” he said.

In his childhood, Thanksgiving was a main event. “I grew up on a farm, up in northern Pennsylvania. Everybody came there for Thanksgiving. It was a time where we all went to church, we always had a big turkey,” Mr. Briggs said. “As my mother used to say, ‘Don’t make any plans, this is family time.’ That’s what it was. It was wonderful.”

The Briggses carried on the tradition until, of course, this year. “We’ve told them all to stay at home,” he said. “When you get to be our age, you’re concerned about Covid and so you take precautions.”

“My wife and I actually ordered our Thanksgiving dinner and I’m going to go pick it up at a place called the Fresh Market — curbside.” But they’ll still see the kids. “I’m sure we’ll be FaceTiming with all of the children,” he said. “It’ll still be family, but it’ll be arm’s-length family.” — LINDSEY UNDERWOOD

At first, the cranberries confounded Sharada Kumar.

It was her first encounter with the tart fruit and her initial attempt at Thanksgiving dinner. Inspired by her upbringing in Mumbai, Ms. Kumar, 77, made a savory cranberry chutney. Turkey, corn pudding and pumpkin pie were replaced with masala dosa, corn vadas and pumpkin halwa to suit her Hindu vegetarian family.

“Our parents felt a need to both preserve our culture, but also make us see how we fit in,” said her daughter, Dr. Vidya Ramanathan.

That family dinner in 1980 gradually mushroomed into a Thanksgiving blowout held at Chinmaya Mission Ann Arbor, a local chapter of an international Hindu organization. But, amid the pandemic, this event, which draws more than 1,000 people, would be considered a potential super-spreader event.

Michigan recently ordered new restrictions to curb the steep surge of Covid-19 cases. Dr. Ramanathan, 44, a practicing pediatric emergency room physician, said her mother had already planned to host the festivities on Zoom. “As a health care worker, I have a real front seat to the suffering,” Dr. Ramanathan said.

The usual activities are still scheduled, virtually: dosa making, Shanti Mantras recitations and competitive rounds of Antakshari, the song game. Last week, Ms. Kumar led a two-day Diwali celebration attended by more than 500 families, all online.

“They were telling my mom, ‘Auntie, it was like you were doing the celebration in our own home,’” Dr. Ramanathan said. — PATRICE PECK

Jeramy Neugin, 44, is a magician in Lost City, a community of around 800 people in Cherokee County.

Until recently, he and his father, Bobby Neugin, 69, performed together under the name Lost City Magic. Their show involved retelling Cherokee myths, including “bringing a swarm of live wasps from a handful of dirt, pulling live snakes from drawings, using a preserved finger of a Bigfoot to bend coins and trapping demons in Dreamcatchers,” the younger Mr. Neugin wrote in a Twitter direct message. (Lost City does not have phone reception.) The elder Mr. Neugin retired from performing after suffering from a stroke but he still helps his son, who recently moved in to help care for him, develop routines.

Thanksgiving has always been important to the Neugins. “We generally celebrate Thanksgiving with family, same as everyone else, but will be isolating this year,” Jeramy wrote. “For my memories of my grandfather telling me, we celebrated on that day because the Civil War had ended, it meant that family members who had fought on both sides tried to reconcile on that day, not the traditional celebration of a pilgrimage landing.”

When he was growing up, his family would serve venison as their main dish. “Because the turkey wasn’t served at the first Thanksgiving,” he wrote. “If it was, it was a side dish. The main meal was venison meat.”

This year, the Neugins are planning on a meal of buffalo meat, home gardened potatoes and wild mushrooms.

Venison won’t be on the menu. “We began to use our spot of land as a no hunting area, a place they can run to from hunters, poachers,” Jeramy wrote. “We’ve always felt the need to watch over them and have been setting up feed and water stations for them, stray cats, even some rabbits that have settled. Now we’re too emotionally attached to think of them in that way.” — EZRA MARCUS

For Bronwen Wyatt in New Orleans, this Thanksgiving is strange because she’s starting a cake business while feeling ethically conflicted about selling cakes.

Two months ago, in furloughed unemployment purgatory, she decided to strike out on her own, peddling desserts out of her shotgun house in Tremé under the banner Bayou Saint Cake.

But business is no cakewalk: Supply chains are in shambles, so planning ahead is critical; overhead is steep; and specialty ingredients are all the harder to come by. (Her favorite fresh-milled flour vendor folded their milling operation; her muscadine dealer has disappeared into quarantine.) And, as Americans are increasingly — and enthusiastically — baking at home, professionals are seeing decreased dessert demand at a time when they need cash flow most.

Ms. Wyatt, 36, came out strong with a special Thanksgiving menu with items like classic Southern spoon bread and chicory ice cream pie. “You’re staring at the numbers, hoping they make everything possible,” she said. So far, they’re “OK but not great” — and people who do buy are asking questions like, “Will this last 12 hours in a car?”

“Honestly, I don’t think people should be traveling,” she said. “I’m not. And it’s been a long argument with my extended family and my parents. Still, I’m trying to optimistically sell desserts I know are being taken to large gatherings. That definitely makes me uncomfortable.” But at the end of the day, the baker can’t tell people how to eat their cake. — ALEXANDRA MARVAR

“My family ritual for Thanksgiving involves an early dinner and then going to the stores that are open to just walk around and buy some stuff,” Shelby Covington, 25, said. It isn’t about being first in line or chasing specific deals, but rather experiencing a moment of stillness before the Friday storm.

This year, though, Mx. Covington, a recent college graduate in Portland, is thinking about working. They started driving for DoorDash at the beginning of the pandemic, in addition to an office administrator job, and they’re anticipating deliveries.

Thanksgiving has a reputation as a dud day among DoorDashers. “Last 2 years I was on the schedule for 10 hours on Thanksgiving … NOT ONE ORDER…,” wrote a driver on a DoorDash subreddit. “The day before and after is busy,” another longtime driver wrote. “The day of is dead and should be.”

Mx. Covington expects this year to be different. “It seems like people will be getting food delivered for dinner and possibly through the night,” they said. Maybe retail workers preparing for Black Friday will get deliveries. Lots of people will be alone, or in smaller groups, and might not want to cook a whole Thanksgiving meal, or to cook at all. A statewide “freeze” affecting nonessential businesses went into effect in Oregon on Wednesday and will extend through Thanksgiving, limiting restaurants to takeout and delivery.

There will be no stores to wander on Friday, so Mx. Covington may as well keep an eye on DoorDash. “I signed up to supplement my family’s income due to a lost job and a pay cut,” they said. “When I first signed up, they sent me a masks and hand sanitizer, and had clear guidelines to keep yourself and others safe. It’s stressful to think about how many people you come into contact with, but it is usually brief.”

When restaurants reopened during the summer, Mx. Covington, who is immunocompromised, avoided orders from establishments that reopened for indoor dining. “I truly didn’t believe in bringing more germs into that situation, or getting sick,” they said.

Mx. Covington shared some advice for anyone thinking of ordering delivery on Thanksgiving.

“If you want your order delivered on time and hot, tip well and give clear instructions on how to get food to you,” they said. “Otherwise your order will keep getting rejected by drivers wanting to make a living wage.” — JOHN HERRMAN

Alberto Polanco, 42, hopes his son, Luis Fernando, 18, is able to make it to Atlanta from Honduras in time for Thanksgiving. But with virus cases surging, destruction from two major hurricanes and a looming travel restriction, there’s a lot to worry about.

Within two weeks, two Category 4 hurricanes have hit Honduras — Eta on Nov. 3 and Iota on Nov. 17. Mr. Polanco grew up in Siguatepeque, where Mr. Fernando lives with his mother and extended family. The town sits at a higher elevation in central Honduras, so it has been spared flooding and mudslides.

“They’ve been without power for two days now. Bridges are closed so you can’t go to the other side of town where the grocery stores are,” Mr. Polanco said. “Hopefully in a few days bridges will open again so they can get to the store.”

Most of the country hasn’t been so lucky. Levies were already broken and soil was already saturated. Evacuees returning to their already-flooded homes were forced to turn around. Almost every major road is closed for mudslides, and all the bridges are out.

“The main airport was flooded with the first hurricane and then flooded again last night,” said Mr. Polanco.

Assuming Mr. Fernando can get to an airport, there are still other obstacles.

“He has a green card, so he has to be here before Nov. 30, due to travel restrictions,” Mr. Polanco said. “If he tries to come after, he likely won’t be allowed in.”

Mr. Polanco has lived in the United States for 10 years and gained citizenship five years ago. In the past, he’s spent Thanksgiving with friends, but that won’t be happening this year.

“I wish I could take him to visit my friends and their families, but we’ll probably just get something for the two of us and do some shopping for him,” Mr. Polanco said. — SHEENA ROETMAN

“Every year in residency scheduling, we request a holiday off,” said Dr. Alice Shanklin, 28, a pediatric resident at a hospital in Washington, D.C. “This year we were excited to get Thanksgiving.”

At first, she and her fiancé felt good about their chances of spending the holiday with family. “We were optimistic when Covid rates started going down on the East Coast this summer,” she said. “We were thinking we might get tested prior and go home, or try and distance really well and go home.”

But as rates started to climb in recent weeks, the holiday gathering was off — least for them.

Because her three siblings all work from home and are able to quarantine at home before Thanksgiving, they will still gather at their parents’ home on Long Island.

But Dr. Shanklin will not be there, because of the Covid risks of her profession. During a family phone call about the risks and benefits of joining the festivities, both sides agreed that the risks outweighed the rewards.

The sacrifice that so many health care workers made in 2020 now extends to the holidays.

On the plus side, Dr. Shanklin and her fiancé, Dr. Sunny Sandhu, 29, a primary care pediatrician, have a prized holiday off with no social commitments.

“I don’t know what we’ll do,” she said. “We probably should have bought a turkey by now. Maybe we’ll just make curry.” — ALEX WILLIAMS

“My family is just ignoring all recommendations and moving forward with their holiday plans,” said Cullan Bonilla, 25. “I’m in the really frustrating position of trying to explain it to them. And I’m being met with the response, ‘If you’re uncomfortable, you don’t have to come.’”

Mx. Bonilla, a software developer who lives in Philadelphia and takes nongendered pronouns, usually spends Thanksgiving with their father’s family, including their 89-year-old grandfather, a barber who still regularly goes to work (and, occasionally, goes out for karaoke).

He had open-heart surgery last year, they said. Also, their father is diabetic and their aunt, an expected guest, has Parkinson’s disease. That side of the family lives in Elkton in northern Maryland, in a county where, as of mid-November, there were more than 1,500 reported positive tests for coronavirus.

In a tense phone call with their father last week, Mx. Bonilla said, they paced the room, trying to find the combination of reason and emotion that might persuade him to change his mind.

“He’s been safe so far,” they said. “That’s his attitude. Nothing has happened yet so he must be invincible. I tried bringing him data. But he is someone who has had his brain rotted out of his head by Fox News, and he said, sure, look, deaths are going down.”

Mx. Bonilla has not seen their family since January and said that they feel guilty, “even though I know in the rational part of my brain that I’m doing the right thing.”

But they feel that they have no hope of convincing their father.

“All I can feel is this impending sense of doom and dread because there’s nothing I can do to change my family’s mind about what they’re doing,” they said. — JONAH ENGEL BROMWICH

Back in April, when the pandemic was still new, Natalie Geisel was on her phone, swiping through the country.

Though the 22-year-old was quarantined at her parents’ home in a suburb of Atlanta, her Tinder location was set to New York City. Soon enough, she matched with Eliana Kaplowitz, 23, who was also not in New York City. The two soon became “internet girlfriends.”

“It just got really, really intense because we were both at home with our families so it was a very nice thing to guide our sad quarantines,” Ms. Geisel said. “After like two-and-a-half months — so in June — we were like, ‘we should meet in person,’ and I was like, ‘I would fly to you.’ So I decided to book a flight to Michigan,” which is where Ms. Kaplowitz was.

After their four-day-long first date, Ms. Geisel returned to Georgia, but just for a moment.

“I went back two weeks later and met her entire family,” Ms. Geisel said. “In June I met her and then in July, I met her entire family, like, grandma included. Uncles, aunts, cousins — it was so funny.”

Ms. Geisel soon moved to Washington, D.C., and Ms. Kaplowitz moved to Providence, R.I. Their whirlwind seven months of dating will escalate with Ms. Kaplowitz’s family once more, as the couple heads home for Thanksgiving.

“We schemed a plan for me to go and stay with her in Providence, quarantine there for a week, and then drive from Providence to Michigan with her little brother who lives in Connecticut,” Ms. Geisel said. “Then I think we’re staying in a separate house than them? But by Thanksgiving Day we’re going to be able to see them inside.”

“I’m not worried about it,” she said. “I’m actually more excited about it than worried about it, which is kind of weird to say.” — JULIA CARMEL

About three hours south of where America’s first confirmed case of Covid-19 was found, Jamison Green, 72, is quarantining with his wife and adult son in their home in Vancouver, Wash. The three of them will spend Thanksgiving the way many families will this year: their little pod gathered around a turkey dinner.

Missing from that pod is Mr. Green’s daughter. She lives only a dozen miles away, but she is on a medication that compromises her immune system, and Mr. Green has asthma, so any type of travel was out of the question. She moved to the area at the beginning of the pandemic, and their only in-person contacts have been the occasional outdoor visit.

“When she and her husband moved up here, the pandemic was already going full-board and restrictions were already in place. We hoped we’d all get together — we just like to get together,” Mr. Green said. “I have a weekly phone call with her as if she were on the other side of the world, and she’s just 12 miles door to door.”

It’s because of the pandemic that Mr. Green, an author and transgender rights activist, will spend Thanksgiving with his son: About six months ago, his son came to stay in Vancouver after struggling to work from his Los Angeles home.

“I’m very happy to have him around, he’s becoming a very nice young adult man,” Mr. Green said, pausing before letting out a laugh. “As opposed to an overgrown teenager.” — TIM HERRERA

For the past several Thanksgivings, Maria Counts, 33, a public relations associate in Millsboro, has packed a turkey dinner and driven 45 minutes to deliver it to her father, Clement Counts, at a nursing home in Salisbury, Md.

She always brought leftovers, since her father, a former biology professor and a food connoisseur, has little affection for the nursing home’s cooking.

“Food was one of the great pleasures in his life,” Ms. Counts said. “He loved going out to restaurants.”

That obsession did not end when he had a stroke and found himself confined to a home. He ordered from local restaurants “and I receive daily requests for cheese and fettuccine alfredo,” Ms. Counts said. “In short, the man lives for food.”

The pandemic, however, has limited family visits — and food deliveries. At first, she could chat with her father through a glass door, using a cordless telephone. But after nursing home employees started testing positive, those visits ceased.

So Ms. Counts searched for a workaround. Could the nursing home make a one-day exception for a home-cooked meal? Could she cater a dinner for her father’s entire floor?

But at a time of spiking infection rates, the home would not be relaxing its safety precautions. “This particular group is so vulnerable,” she said. “But, I also want to give him something to look forward to, something to enjoy, even if it’s just one meal.”

She hasn’t totally given up. “I’ll likely just drive there, park in the parking lot, and call him to tell him I love him,” she said. “It’s probably the closest thing to our normal for the holiday.” — ALEX WILLIAMS

Adrienne Michelson, 25, a data analyst, knows that the survival rate for her cancer, within her age range, is 90 to 92 percent over five years, she said. She has Stage 3 Hodgkin’s lymphoma.

What is unknown is that rate in a pandemic, when hospitals are overwhelmed and immunocompromised people are more likely to become severely sick from Covid-19.

Which is why Ms. Michelson will spend Thanksgiving home alone in Nevada, eating vegan takeout while Zooming with family, instead of visiting her parents in Texas.

”My survivability is incredibly high — I’m doing everything possible to make sure it stays that way,” said Ms. Michelson, who has remained positive in the seven weeks since the disease was diagnosed.

For most of 2020, Ms. Michelson believed her persistent cough was regional allergies; she’d tested negative for Covid-19. But while on a Labor Day weekend hike, her body began swelling up significantly.

After the diagnosis, her parents stayed with her for a week, helping Ms. Michelson prepare for chemotherapy. But when they began talking Thanksgiving plans, Ms. Michelson fell back on the data. As of Nov. 17, Nevada’s average daily cases had increased by 86 percent from two weeks earlier.

“Based on the numbers, no thanks,” Ms. Michelson said. She worried about elevating the risk for her parents, too, who are in their 60s. Her father, an emergency medicine physician, is handling a dangerous Covid-19 wave in El Paso. (Currently, nearly 1,500 cases are reported in the county each day, the highest daily average in all of Texas.)

Still, they’re her parents, living 800 miles away from their daughter while she manages nausea, hot flashes and bone pain.

“They definitely fought me on it,” she said. “But if they got sick from coming to see me, I don’t think I could live with myself.” — JESSICA TESTA

Kendra Valentine has grown used to spending her favorite holiday away from home, but the first few Thanksgivings outside the United States were difficult. “One year I was eating ramen on Thanksgiving. I don’t really eat ramen,” said Ms. Valentine, a 35-year-old business consultant in Berlin. “I was extra sad.”

Now, after 10 years of living abroad, she’s established her own tradition: hosting friends and putting out a full spread, with collard greens, pecan pie, cornbread stuffing, turkey and gravy. And when she’s able to, she makes the trip back to Boston to celebrate with her family.

This time around, she’s staying put. “It feels very different this year when the reason why you can’t go home is because there’s danger or you could put your family at risk,” Ms. Valentine said. “There’s a pandemic. It’s a very different feeling to ‘I really can’t afford to go home this year because I decided to travel to the islands last month for vacation.’”

Her German Friendsgiving will also look different this year, with fewer guests invited. The country is currently under a “light lockdown,” and in Berlin, the rules state that a maximum of two households are allowed to meet at a time. (If she breaks the rules, Ms. Valentine said, there is a risk that someone could report her to the police.)

For people living alone, that could mean a two-person Thanksgiving. But for those with big families, it could mean dinner for 10. “I talked to some people who were feeling off about that,” Ms. Valentine said. After all, many of them, Ms. Valentine included, have not seen relatives and friends in America for over a year.

Ms. Valentine hopes to fly back to the East Coast next month, in time for Christmas. Given flight cancellations and the rise of infection rates, she is preparing for an extended stay. “I am taking my dog, my computer and basically setting things up in a way that if I need to stay longer, I can,” she said.

Uncertainty aside, she is excited to return. “I can’t wait to go back to America, I’m not going to lie,” she said. — VALERIYA SAFRONOVA

Americans of all stripes have had plenty of reasons to burst into tears this year, but few of them have matched the explosive force of the 2020 Kohl’s holiday ad. “Give With All Your Heart” depicts the cozy friendship that grows between a little girl and her elderly neighbor as they communicate through their windows with hand-drawn signs — until one day, without warning, the neighbor’s half of the conversation goes silent. Reatha Grey, a Los Angeles native, portrays the neighbor (whose return at the commercial’s end is marked by a fresh sign, a new hospital bracelet and the sobbing relief of viewers). — CAITY WEAVER

The following interview was edited and condensed.

Caity Weaver: Have you made your Thanksgiving plans yet?

Reatha Grey: My plans just fell through last night. I was going to go over to my grandson’s family’s house because they have big holiday parties. At first I was excited about it, and I thought “Oh! I want to go and be around people!” Then they started talking about how the Covid was rising, and I thought “Oh. Maybe I’ll just have them bring me a plate out to the car.”

So when I got the cancellation, I was kind of relieved. Having 30 or 40 people over your house is probably just not a good idea right now. And certainly not someplace that I should be.

CW: What are your rejiggered plans?

RG: I was thinking about doing Zoom calls, believe it or not. I went to a Zoom wedding this weekend and it was great! I was thinking, at first, “I don’t know, a Zoom wedding — how fun could that be?” But they were in the backyard, and they filmed them doing the vows. And it was very sweet to watch. I’ve seen more stuff over Zoom over the last few months than I probably would have gone to in person.

My grandmother used to tell me this, and I didn’t really know what she meant, how she was getting lonely. And all of her friends were going away. And as I get older, I realize, you start losing friends. That was one of the things about the commercial that kind of touched me. You don’t get to go out and meet people that much anymore. And I kept up with technology, so I do Zoom and FaceTime and all that stuff. But there’s nothing like an old-fashioned handwritten note. And I thought, that would be nice, to look out my window and have a friend that’s kind of a pen pal.

CW: What were your Thanksgivings like growing up?

RG: I miss our family Thanksgivings. We had wonderful Thanksgivings when I was a child. The children did a talent show at the holiday dinners. Most of my relatives are in-laws. I come from a small family but we became a big family with all these in-laws.

It’s California, so we never had bad Thanksgivings or Christmases. The kids could play outside. It was always a beautiful day. I didn’t understand people from the East Coast that would put on all of these layers of clothing to go to Christmas and Thanksgiving dinners because I had never experienced winter.

CW: You were a real California baby. Were your parents born there?

RG: My mother came here with her family her last year of college. They moved out here from Tennessee. My grandmother’s generation came out, also from Tennessee, but she was raised in Louisiana. Everybody came from someplace. My father came from Missouri. That’s, I guess, why it was kind of a small family — because they had all moved from their original places.

My mother’s father was a doctor. And he came out here from Tennessee and opened the practice here in Los Angeles. It was one of the first Black-owned full-service doctor’s offices. He had an office on Figueroa Street. They had an X-ray machine in there, their own lab.

The reason he became a doctor is because his father died out in the country, because there were no Black doctors at the time. The white doctors weren’t going to come out in the rural area. And so his father ended up dying because he wasn’t being treated. So that’s how my grandfather decided he would become a doctor.

CW: What is your Thanksgiving dish of choice?

RG: My grandmother would make sweet potatoes with marshmallows, and I don’t know what all was in it. I never got the recipe. So get the recipe!





No.54 article:
Kimchi Making at Home Was Going Out of Style. Rural Towns to the Rescue.

Families that have grown weary of eating commercial kimchi in big cities have started making pilgrimages to the countryside where they can learn how to prepare it on their own.

GOESAN, South Korea — The family van was loaded with a precious cargo — 11 brown plastic boxes filled with 150 pounds of kimchi that Ha Si-nae, her husband and three daughters had made with their own hands.

“We are all set until this time next year!” said Ms. Ha, 40, looking contentedly at the​ neat stack of ​boxes. “Nothing makes a Korean family feel secure like a good stock of kimchi does.”

In Korea, where people like to say they “can’t live without kimchi,” November is kimchi-making season, or “kimjang.” And like the Ha family, many Koreans are trying to keep the centuries-old tradition alive.

Kimjang was once a ritual as timeless as the changing of the seasons. When the first frost came, families would create stockpiles of kimchi, storing it in large clay pots often buried ​in the ground. These pots of kimchi sustained them through the long winter and lean spring, when fresh vegetables were unavailable​.

Both South and North Korea are so proud of the autumn ritual that they campaigned — separately, but successfully — to put kimjang on UNESCO’s list of “intangible cultural heritage of humanity.”

But in the age of foolproof meal kits and on-demand grocery delivery, the tradition is in decline.

“Whatever else they make well, those big businesses can’t make kimchi as good as the one your mom or mother-in-law made,” Ms. Ha said.

Ms. Ha used to get kimchi from her mother, a common practice among many younger Koreans living in big cities. But when her mother became too old to make the dish — a laborious, time-consuming task — Ms. Ha and her husband tried to make it on their own, using recipes found on YouTube.

More often than not, they failed.

Last year, weary of commercial kimchi but unable to make their own from scratch, Ms. Ha’s family began traveling to a rural town to learn.

Goesan, a mountainous county in central South Korea, is famous for its scenic gorges, Zelkova trees and three foods — corn, chili pepper and cabbage. Those last two are among the most important ingredients for kimchi.

Han Sook-hee, 59, and other women in White Horse village, in Goesan county, still make kimchi for themselves and for their children​, who have migrated to cities. In recent years, the women started receiving requests for kimchi from their children’s neighbors.

Four years ago, a villager made a suggestion: Why not lead a kimjang workshop to give the village’s rapidly aging population extra income during the agricultural off-season and to help those who want to learn the art of making kimchi?

The festival was an instant hit.

“We provide the ingredients fixed and ready, and all the participating families have to do is mix them into kimchi,” Ms. Han said. “We also try to recreate the merrymaking atmosphere of kimjang.”

In a custom similar to an Amish barn raising, entire villages used to turn out during kimjang, helping one family make its kimchi before moving on to the next. Hogs were slaughtered and makgeolli — Korean rice wine — was consumed over songs and laughter.

During kimjang, families cleaned hundreds of heads of cabbage and soaked them in large tubs of salty water for a couple of days, turning them over twice a day. They slathered each cabbage leaf with a sauce made of chili pepper, garlic, ginger, scallion, radish, fermented fish and other ingredients. The cabbages were then stacked and patted down in jars. Lactic fermentation gave the kimchi its unique taste and texture.

After the success of the White Horse workshop, the Goesan government began hosting a three-day “kimjang festival” last fall.

“The kimjang festival will serve as a bridge between urban families who wish to make their own kimchi and our farmers who want to sell cabbage and other kimchi ingredients,” said Goesan’s mayor, Lee Cha-young.

The first festival attracted 80,000 people last year, he said. This year, because of the coronavirus, the county held a socially-distanced version inside its stadium.

Shin Tae-sook, 71, joined the festival last year because she said it made the work easier. This year, she brought her daughter, son-in-law and granddaughter with her. Although she used the sauce the county provided, she added her family touch — a bucket of raw oysters.

“A Korean meal is not complete without kimchi; it makes you feel embarrassed when you have a guest and you don’t have kimchi on the table,” Ms. Shin said. “Kimchi is a dish, but you can make other dishes out of it.”

She listed them off: “Kimchi soup, kimchi stew, kimchi pancake, kimchi anything,” she said. “You can’t talk about Korean food without talking about kimchi.”

Woo Kyong-ho, a workshop organizer, said that when he traveled abroad and didn’t have kimchi for a few days, he suffered “kimchi withdrawal symptoms.” The food is so closely associated with Korean identity that when South Korea sent its first astronaut to the International Space Station in 2008, kimchi was taken along on the mission.

When Koreans take group photos, they say, “Kimchiiii,” instead of “cheese.”

“Kimjang and kimchi brought a Korean community together,” said Kim Jeong-hee, head of the Jinji Museum, which specializes in Korean culinary history.

Korean families don’t consume as much kimchi at home as their ancestors did. They eat out more often and have plenty of alternatives to choose from. They also buy more factory-made kimchi, 38 percent of which is imported from China.

In 2018, four out of every 10 South Korean households said they had never made kimchi or knew how to​, according to the World Institute of Kimchi.

But kimchi remains the food Korean families like to share. Recipes usually vary from village to village, and from family to family, and are handed down through generations. A request for seconds is considered high praise and a source of pride.

The autumn foliage was starting to change colors in Goesan as the festival got underway this year. Roadside placards read, “Come to Goesan and make kimchi!” Families arrived with plastic boxes specially designed for kimchi fridges, a common appliance in many Korean homes. They paid $134 for 44 pounds of cleaned and salted cabbage and 16.5 pounds of kimchi marinade.

Standing around a table, each family began mixing, all wearing elbow-length pink rubber gloves, while village meisters looked on and offered tips. Steamed pork and makgeolli were available for free, though singing was banned for safety reasons related to the coronavirus.

Ms. Han said each village in Goesan had a secret ingredient or two. White Horse’s, she said proudly, was the pumpkin and white forsythia extracts. Adding them, she said, makes its kimchi “sweet, spicy and crisp.”





No.55 article:
Who Will We Be Without Donald Trump?

He lost. We’ll have to stop obsessing about him.

A friend was all worked up about the possibility of Trump 2024.

“I can’t go through this again!” she cried. But what I heard was that she couldn’t stop going through this. Her contempt for Donald Trump is too finely honed at this point, too essential a part of her psyche. Who would she be — conversationally, politically — without it?

Another friend sent me an email in which he’d worked out the economics of a web-only Trump news channel of the kind that Trump may — or may not — start. With minimal investment, Trump could rake in millions and millions!

We were supposed to be breathing a huge sigh of relief about Joe Biden’s victory. But instead he was finding a fresh source of outrage about Trump.

And here I am writing about Trump — again. It’s a tic, not one I’m proud of. But I’m surrendering to it now to acknowledge that I can’t continue doing so. None of us can.

I’m not talking just about journalists. An obsession with Trump as the brute of all evil extends far beyond us. It has been an animating, organizing principle for the Democratic Party, a bond among civic-minded people of otherwise divergent persuasions and a pillar of many Americans’ political identity. It turned his rise and reign into an all-consuming international soap opera with ratings not just through the roof but also through the stratosphere. No public figure in my lifetime has made such a monopolizing claim on our attention, even our souls.

On Jan. 20 — praise be! — his presidency will be over. But his hold on us may not end as quickly and cleanly. And his departure from the White House will be more disorienting than some of us realize, posing its own challenges: for Democrats, for news organizations, for anyone who has grown accustomed over these past four years to an apocalyptic churn of events and emotions.

“Donald Trump is still coursing through your veins, isn’t he?” asked John Harris in a column in Politico published on Tuesday, likening him to an addiction from which there must be a meticulously plotted recovery.

Actually, Democratic lawmakers seem to be moving on from him — and revealing, in the process, what a potent glue he was. He united the party’s left and center by giving them the same top priority: Dump Trump. No sooner was he dumped than the glue dissolved.

Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a New York progressive, and Conor Lamb, a Pennsylvania moderate, began trading recriminations about where Democrats went right, where they went wrong and where they should go from here. So did Representatives Abigail Spanberger, a Virginia moderate, and Rashida Tlaib, a Michigan progressive.

In a column published in The Times on Monday evening, my colleague Michelle Goldberg implored Democrats to tone it down and keep it together. In a column published on Wednesday morning, my colleague Thomas Edsall asked whether they could. This one-two punch wasn’t overkill. It was a 20-20 glimpse of life beyond 2020.

Policy differences between progressives and moderates may be solved by Mitch McConnell: If Republicans win at least one of the two runoffs in Georgia on Jan. 5 and hold on to their Senate majority, McConnell, as the majority leader, will be the grim reaper of any transformative legislation.

But that still leaves room for arguments about the issues that Democrats should emphasize and the tone that they should strike for the 2022 midterms. Especially with Trump out of office, those disputes could be heated.

And there will be plenty of political friction to go around. Up until Nov. 3, Never Trump Republicans were heroes to many Democrats — ultimate proof that the ruler was rotten. But that love affair can’t survive Trump’s defeat, a reality evident in a few progressives’ fierce attacks on the Lincoln Project — an anti-Trump super PAC founded by Republicans — since Election Day.

And what happens to those Republicans? The more than 73 million ballots cast for Trump in 2020 — giving him about 47 percent of the popular vote, up from 46 percent four years ago — prove that the party didn’t come around to them and isn’t about to cue up Peaches and Herb’s “Reunited.” They’re paradigmatic, emblematic: When you’ve shaped yourself almost entirely in opposition to someone who has been vanquished, are you free or formless?

The test for the mainstream media is our ability to turn away from Trump even if he remains a potent audience draw. It’s not certain that he will be: When Trump and Biden appeared at rival town halls on the same night in October, Biden drew more television viewers. And the much-discussed “Trump bump” that cable news channels and newspapers experienced in and right after 2016 faded over time.

But there’s no doubt that chronicling and commenting on how bad Trump is for democracy has been good for business. It also made virtuous sense: His station and power justified coverage of every tweet and bleat. His attempt to steal the election demands exactly the scrutiny it’s getting, as does the assent of his base and most of his fellow Republicans.

The situation, however, will soon grow complicated. Unlike his more dignified predecessors, he won’t maintain a relatively low post-presidency profile; he’ll keep whipping up passions on the right. And there will surely be a laudable journalistic excavation of Trump administration misdeeds that he and his aides successfully buried. Suffice it to say that Trump won’t exit the news.

But he also won’t be nearly as relevant as he is now, and that compels news organizations to ratchet down his presence in a huge way, potentially turning our backs on easy stories that would have been raptly consumed by readers and viewers still consumed by their disgust with him. I worry about our resolve.

“With Biden you’re not going to have these wild rallies,” Jim VandeHei, a co-founder of Axios, told Bloomberg recently. “You’re going to have speeches on budget reconciliation. I don’t think that’s going to light people’s hearts afire.” He added that “there’s no way you’re not going to see lower cable ratings and some reduction in traffic to websites.”

I also worry that in the wake of Trump’s presidency, which both reflected and intensified the furious pitch of American politics, melodrama may be the new normal. I worry that while Americans are exhausted by it, we’re also habituated to it; that we’ll manufacture it where it doesn’t exist; that hearings in a Republican-controlled Senate will turn Hunter Biden into the new Benghazi; and that we’ll hear no less from the likes of Lindsey Graham and Rudy Giuliani next year than we did this one, because no reality show would cast off cast members that juicy.

I worry that my worry is part of the problem — that it’s not so much epiphany as muscle memory. It has gotten a hell of a workout since 2016.





No.56 article:
7 Podcasts From Familiar Faces

The podcast boom has produced plenty of star vehicles in audio form, and these celebrity-hosted shows are a cut above the rest.

As the podcast boom has snowballed over the past few years, so has the number of star vehicles in audio form. Once seen as a hobby, or at best a side hustle, podcasts now provide an opportunity for stars to connect directly with their audience. And ever since the pandemic brought film, TV and live performances to a standstill, the format has become even more appealing as an inexpensive and safe way to create content. A household name at the helm is no guarantee of a good audio experience, but these seven podcasts hosted by celebrities are worth the listen.

The comedic actress Anna Faris (“Mom”), one of the earliest big names to get into podcasting, has been delivering an uplifting blend of laughs and heartfelt life advice since 2015. Every week, Faris welcomes a fellow comedian or cultural figure for a conversation that is always unscripted but often plays more like a humorous skit than a straightforward chat-show interview. In addition to her own affable persona, Faris plays a range of recurring characters on the show, including Chad, a doltish, oblivious bro; and Karen, a jaded, eccentric Hollywood studio executive to whom guests pitch movie ideas. Each episode ends with a Dear Abby-inspired segment in which Faris and her guest call a listener who has reached out for guidance. Unqualified though they may be, Faris &amp; Co. always deliver.

Starter episode: “Chelsea Handler”

“Using your platform for good” is a common, yet sometimes unclear, refrain among celebrities. But this riveting six-part audio series showcases the actress Dakota Johnson (“Fifty Shades of Grey”) using her own platform in a very specific way: to elevate the stories of sexual abuse victims around the world. “The Left Ear” is a compilation of candid first-person stories about sexual violence, presented without editorializing, told to Johnson via voice mail. In 2018, she put out a call inviting victims to anonymously share their experiences. Johnson’s soothing voice sets the tone with a brief introduction to each episode, inviting the audience to set aside preconceptions and simply listen, and ending with the phrase: “We hear you. We witness you.” The result is dizzyingly powerful.

Starter episode: “ONE”

Conan O’Brien getting into podcasting, which came as his iconic late-night talk show was on hiatus at the end of 2018, was a landmark moment for the format. The hit series is, unsurprisingly, a total pleasure, beginning with its premise: that O’Brien has no friends outside of work, and therefore has to invite people like Tom Hanks, Maya Rudolph and Keegan-Michael Key onto his show for company. After stating upfront how they feel about being O’Brien’s friend — their reactions range from “euphoric” to “fully indifferent” to “confused” — the celebrity guest of the week sits down for a warm, amusing and sincere conversation, in which O’Brien’s self-effacing weirdness always encourages a sense of real intimacy.

Starter episode: “Bill Hader”

Kumail Nanjiani and Emily V. Gordon established themselves as a comedic power couple a few years back with the debut of their Sundance breakout “The Big Sick,” which told the story of their early courtship during which Gordon was hospitalized with a near-fatal inflammatory disease. That illness means that the couple has some experience with self-isolating, and when the Covid-19 lockdown hit, they were uniquely placed to speak to the weirdness of the moment. Each episode is simply a candid, funny, often affecting conversation between Nanjiani and Gordon on all sorts of topics, whether pop culture favorites, embarrassing childhood memories or the psychological toll of the pandemic. With a tone that falls somewhere between a standup set, therapy session and dinner conversation with close friends, “Staying In” is the ultimate 2020 comfort listen.

Starter episode: “In The Weirds”

The bubbly breakout star of “Queer Eye,” Jonathan Van Ness began his podcast just a few years before the show’s debut on Netflix in 2018. But “Getting Curious” is not the venture of a new star seeking to capitalize on his fame; rather, it’s an opportunity for Van Ness to ask questions about the world and spotlight experts in fields that don’t tend to get the red carpet treatment. The show’s wide-ranging recent episodes have covered Native American rights, unions and antiracism, as well as more idiosyncratic subjects like “techno-chauvinism” (i.e. unconscious bias in computer systems) and the threatened future of bees. Every episode is delivered with Van Ness’s trademark irreverent humor and sass, as evidenced by titles like “Is Trump an Autocratic Basic B?”

Starter episode: “Are You Getting Every Word of This? With Erin Brockovich”

The former first lady Michelle Obama is famously not a fan of politics, and so it’s no surprise that her much-anticipated podcast is not a political show. But the personal is political, and Obama is cognizant of that as she leads a series of down-to-earth conversations about relationships, parenting and values. The podcast started with a bang over the summer when Obama introduced her first guest: her husband, President Barack Obama, who reflected on what it means to show up for your community in a time of crisis. Other Season 1 episodes have woven interviews with family members and friends with her insights into her upbringing, her work for nonprofits and her post-White House life.

Starter episode: “President Barack Obama”

Podcast-to-screen adaptations are a dime a dozen right now, but this audio companion to “The Daily Show” makes a strong argument for the reverse. Bringing the same insight and nuance Noah has been known for since he took over the show from Jon Stewart in 2015, the “Ears Edition” features a mix of unaired segments, backstage clips and discussions of the week’s top stories. Shorter “In Case You Missed It” episodes let listeners catch up on segments that did air, while other installments focus a single satirical idea. One recent episode was a parody of the political history podcast “Slow Burn,” breaking down President Obama’s “latte salute” in faux-painstaking detail, highlighting the yawning gulf between what constituted a controversy in the Obama years compared with one in 2020.

Starter episode: “Trump’s Road To ‘Recovery’”




No.1 article:
Abiy Ahmed urges ‘peaceful’ end to three-week conflict after generals say civilians in the regional capital Mekelle will be shown ‘no mercy’

Ethiopia’s prime minister has given Tigrayan rebel forces 72 hours to surrender before the army begins an offensive on the capital of the wartorn region.

As army tanks gathered around the city of Mekelle, Abiy Ahmed posted a message on Twitter on Sunday night which read: “We urge you to surrender peacefully within 72 hours, recognising that you are at the point of no return.”

Army chiefs earlier warned civilians in the capital of the wartorn Tigray region to “free themselves” from rebel leaders or be offered “no mercy” in a coming assault on the city.

The Ethiopian military said tanks would be deployed to encircle Mekelle, the highland capital of the northern Tigray region, and that it may also use artillery on the city, state media reported on Sunday.

Tigrayan made no comment on the ultimatum, but it will deepen international concerns as the conflict goes into its third week without any sign that hostilities will cease soon.

Ethiopian forces are advancing steadily from the north and south towards Mekelle, which lies on a plateau at an altitude of more than 2,500 metres.

Hundreds, possibly thousands, of people have been killed in the conflict so far and many more have been displaced. More than 36,000 have fled into neighbouring Sudan, and large numbers are on the move within Tigray to avoid the fighting.

The warning to the half million inhabitants of Mekelle may prompt many to abandon their homes, adding to the growing humanitarian crisis.

“The next phases are the decisive part of the operation, which is to encircle Mekelle using tanks, finishing the battle on mountainous areas and advancing to the fields,” Col Dejene Tsegaye told the state-run Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation.

Tsegaye said the Ethiopian military had so far avoided any targets that might risk civilian casualties but said that in the case of Mekelle “it might be different”.

“We want to send a message to the public in Mekelle to save themselves from any artillery attacks and free themselves from junta,” he said, referring to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the ruling party in the region. “The junta is now shielding itself within the public and the public must isolate itself from the junta. After that, there will no mercy.”

Redwan Hussein, a spokesman for the government’s taskforce on Tigray, said there was still time for the TPLF leadership to surrender. “The government will take maximum restraint not to cause major risks for civilians,” he added.

Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the TPLF, promised “fierce fighting” that would make federal forces “pay for every move”, and warned that an assault on Mekelle would not be the conflict’s endgame. “As long as the occupation force is in Tigray, fighting will not stop,” he said.

Officials in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, have been clear that the “law enforcement operation” will continue until the TPLF is ousted and federal authority reasserted over the region.

On Saturday, the Ethiopian government rebuffed an African diplomatic push to mediate.

Last week, Abiy Ahmed, the Ethiopian prime minister, said government forces were preparing for a “final push” on Mekelle to end the conflict within days.

However, a confidential UN assessment of the military situation in Tigray, seen by the Guardian, suggests Ethiopian national forces are meeting heavier resistance than official communications have made clear and may face a protracted “war of attrition” in Tigray.

Though heavily armed regular troops have steadily advanced towards Mekelle, the paramilitaries and militia deployed in their wake are still struggling to clear and secure territory, the assessment says, raising the prospect of a lengthy guerrilla war.

“Although Tigray regional forces may have initially been backfooted by the EDF’s swift advances, the terrain in eastern Tigray is easier to defend … and if they make a stand, they have the capability to stall the EDF advance,” one analysis reads, warning that this will then “change the dimension of the conflict from one of rapid movement into one of attrition”.

Information has been difficult to obtain and confirm, with communications cut to Tigray and journalists banned.

Abiy’s government has claimed the capture of a string of towns in recent days, including the ancient city of Aksum and the town of Edega Hamus, 60 miles north of Mekelle. This would mean federal armoured columns now have a single major ridge to cross before reaching the plateau around the city.

“The defence forces are currently marching on the campaign’s last goal,” the Ethiopia State of Emergency Fact Check, a government agency, said on Sunday.

Ethiopian officials said resistance to federal forces was stronger on the longer road leading to Mekelle from the south, along which rebels have destroyed bridges and laid hidden explosives.

The war is the culmination of months of rising tensions between the TPLF and the ruling coalition in Addis Ababa. When national elections were cancelled because of the pandemic, the TPLF held polls anyway, in a move that aggravated tensions.

Abiy, who is Africa’s youngest leader and won the Nobel peace prize last year, launched his operation after accusing the TPLF of attacking a military camp and trying to seize military hardware.

Ethiopian planes have launched airstrikes and Tigrayans have fired missiles into Amhara and Eritrea, which has supported the offensive to remove the TPLF. At least one massacre has been reported: it has been blamed on retreating Tigrayan militia targeting a community seen as loyal to the central government, but there is no confirmation of this.

There are concerns that even if Abiy achieves his aim of forcing out the TPLF and imposing federal authority on Tigray, violence will continue.

Though they number only 6 million out of a total of 110 million people living in Africa’s second most populous country, Tigrayans effectively ruled Ethiopia for decades.

Until Abiy took power two years ago, they were the strongest force in a multi-ethnic coalition. Abiy, whose parents are from the larger Oromo and Amhara ethnic groups, freed thousands of political prisoners and pledged to end domination by one ethnic group.

“Even if the EDF are successful in their mission to take Mekelle,” the UN assessment warns, “this will not necessarily end the conflict. It is likely that a protracted asymmetric conflict and insurgency would continue. From a humanitarian perspective, the longer the conflict is drawn out, the more severe the crisis will become.”

On Saturday, Abiy said on Twitter that the safety and wellbeing of the people of Tigray was of paramount importance and the federal government would do everything to “ensure stability prevails in the Tigray region and that our citizens are free from harm and want”.

The government-appointed head of a newly named interim administration for Tigray, the academic Mulu Nega, said new local elections were planned to restore peace to the region once TPLF leaders were ousted.





No.2 article:
UK lab-confirmed cases pass 1.5m – as it happened

 This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

G20 leaders meeting have remotely pledged to “spare no effort” to ensure the fair distribution of coronavirus vaccines worldwide, but offered no specific new funding to meet that goal.

The virtual summit hosted by Saudi Arabia was an awkward swan song for Donald Trump, who skipped some sessions on Saturday to play golf, paid little attention to other leaders’ speeches and claimed the Paris climate agreement was designed not to save the planet but to the kill the US economy.

Joe Biden has promised to rejoin the accord on day one of his presidency, giving other world leaders hope that the UN climate change conference at the end of next year will see more ambitious pledges, including from China, to cut carbon emissions by 2050.

Experts have urged Americans against travelling for family gatherings at Thanksgiving this week even though millions were set to defy the advice, as the US crossed the threshold of more than 12m cases of coronavirus.

Ominous warnings came as Donald Trump appeared to admit that coronavirus is “running wild” across the US, in contrast with his statements throughout the election campaign that the virus would simply “go away” or “disappear” and, more recently, that the country was “rounding the turn” on the pandemic.

The Palestinian health ministry has recommended strict limits on Christmas celebrations in Bethlehem this year due to the coronavirus outbreak.

Celebrations in the biblical town revered by Christians as Jesus’ birthplace are usually attended by thousands of people from around the world, but this year the ministry has recommended the upcoming tree lighting ceremony in Manger Square be limited to 50 people, throughout the festive season. 

The lights of the tree would be turned off by 9pm each night, with restaurants closing at the same time. Religious services on Christmas Eve should also have limited attendance, the recommendations said, with Palestinian officials expected to make a final decision in the coming days. 

Israel’s international airport — the main entry point for foreign travellers — has been closed to tourists for months, limiting the potential numbers of pilgrims in any case, the Associated Press reported.

Earlier today (see 1.07pm) , public health advisers warned that sharply rising coronavirus infections in the Gaza Strip could overwhelm the Palestinian enclave’s meagre medical system by next week.

Gaza, where the dense and poor population of two million is vulnerable to contagions, has logged 14,000 coronavirus cases and 65 deaths, mostly since August, Reuters reports.

Seventy-nine of Gaza’s 100 ventilators have been taken up by Covid-19 patients, said Abdelraouf Elmanama, a microbiologist who is part of the enclave’s pandemic task force.

Gaza’s Islamist Hamas rulers have so far imposed one lockdown. A long-standing Israeli blockade, which is supported by neighbouring Egypt, has crippled the Gazan economy and undermined its public health apparatus. Israel says it is trying to keep weapons from reaching Hamas.

Officers carrying out arrest at an anti-lockdown protest in Liverpool, UK, have been criticised after footage emerged apparently showing a member of the public being punched and pepper-sprayed at close range while restrained. 

The Northern Police Monitoring Project said it was “a very concerning incident, and yet another abuse of police power” after footage of the incident went viral.

A spokesperson added: “The recent video of police violence in Liverpool is yet another example of an appalling abuse of power. How many more scenes like this do we have to witness before the police in this country are held to account?”

Merseyside police said: “A 36-year-old man from Kirkby was arrested on Church Street during an ongoing gathering in Liverpool city centre yesterday on suspicion of assaulting an emergency worker after allegedly pushing an officer and resisting arrest.

“He has been released under investigation. Merseyside Police has received a complaint relating to the arrest and enquiries are ongoing into the matter.”

The force had put in a dispersal zone for Liverpool city centre over the weekend, giving police the powers to move people out the area for 48 hours. Thirteen arrests were made in total and 25 fixed penalty notices were issued after many flouted coronavirus restrictions.

The UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Nice) has confirmed that it will publish recommendations on the use of vitamin D as a potential way to prevent and treat coronavirus before the end of the year.

It comes after health secretary Matt Hancock asked government health advisers to produce new guidelines on its use amid reports that the government is planning to give four months worth of vitamin D supplements to more than 2 million vulnerable and elderly people, following the lead of Scotland.

However, following news about the free supplement rations two weeks ago, there has been no update from the government and there have been suggestions from those involved in the discussions that some within the Department of Health may oppose the proposals.

Italy has reported 562 Covid-related deaths, down from 692 on Saturday and 699 on Friday, the health ministry said, with 28,337 new infections recorded over the past 24 hours, down from 34,767 the day before.

There were 188,747 coronavirus swabs carried out in the past day, the ministry said, against a previous 237,225.

Italy has the second highest toll in Europe after the UK. It has also registered more than 1.4m cases. While Italy’s daily death tolls have been the highest in Europe over recent days, the increase in hospital admissions and intensive care occupancy has slowed.

The number of people in hospital with COVID-19 stood at 34,279 on Sunday, a rise of 216 from the day before, Reuters reported, compared with a daily increase of 106 on Saturday.

The number of patients in intensive care rose by 43, following an increase of just 10 on Saturday, and now stands at 3,801.

When Italy’s second wave of the epidemic was accelerating fast, until around a week ago, hospital admissions were rising by around 1,000 per day, while intensive care occupancy was increasing by about 100 per day.

Spain will begin a comprehensive coronavirus vaccination programme in January and expects to have covered a substantial part of the population within six months, prime minister Pedro Sanchez has announced.

He said Spain and Germany were the first European Union countries to have a complete vaccination plan in place. “The campaign will start in January and have 13,000 vaccination points,” Sanchez told a news conference after a two-day online summit of G20 leaders.

“A very substantial part of the population will be able to be vaccinated, with all guarantees, in the first half of the year.”

Spain will implement a single national strategy, starting with “priority groups”, Sanchez said, adding that he would present the plan to the cabinet on Tuesday. He also said more health professionals would be recruited.

“We have a tough few months ahead of us but the road map has been drawn up,” Sanchez said.

Another 139 people in Turkey have died after contracting Covid-19 deaths, taking the country’s total to 12,358, the health ministry said.

It comes as a record number of people were confirmed as having the virus, with 6,017 new symptomatic patients documented. The number of new daily cases are now running at higher levels than the outbreak’s previous peak in April, though testing capacity figures were not reported.

Evening lockdowns were introduced over the weekend in the country between Europe and Asia for the first time since June, with businesses such as restaurants and bars ordered to close.

The ministry said a total of 446,882 patients with symptoms had been identified since the country’s first recorded case in March. 

A video has gone viral of a confrontation at a coronavirus lockdown protest in Hannover, Germany, where a young woman compared herself to a famous Nazi resistance fighter and then was accused by a security guard of “trivialising” the Holocaust.

The Associated Press reported that the woman spoke on stage and told fellow protesters “I feel like Sophie Scholl, since I’ve been active in the resistance, giving speeches, going to protests, distributing flyers.”

Scholl fought the Nazis with her brother and other members of the resistance group White Rose. After distributing flyers at a Munich university, she was convicted of high treason and was executed aged 22 by the Nazis in 1943.

While the female protester was talking, a security guard approached the stage, saying repeatedly that “I’m not going to be a security guard for this kind of idiocy.” and calling her speech “a trivialisation of the Holocaust.” He was ushered away and she threw down the mic.

German foreign minister Heiko Maas tweeted that the comparison with Scholl “mocks the bravery that was needed to take a stand against the Nazis.” He wrote: “Nothing connects the corona protests with the resistance fighters. Nothing!”

There have been just over 14,000 coronavirus-related deaths in Germany, about a quarter of those in the UK.

The number of coronavirus cases in the UK confirmed in laboratories has passed 1.5m after a further 18,662 cases were announced by the government.

It brings the total number of cases in the UK over the course of the pandemic to 1,512,045, though it is widely thought the true figure is far higher.

The government said a further 398 people had died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 as of Sunday, bringing the UK total to 55,024, however today’s figures included 141 deaths omitted from yesterday’s daily total.

Due to a processing update, 141 previously published deaths within 28 days in England were excluded from the published data on November 21. This issue has now been corrected for data published on November 22, which includes deaths omitted yesterday in today’s total and daily number of newly reported deaths.

US president-elect Joe Biden will have a scaled-down version inauguration due to the coronavirus pandemic, the incoming White House chief of staff has said.

Ron Klain said: “I think it’s going to definitely have to be changed ... Obviously, this is not going to be the same kind of inauguration we had in the past.”

Its worth remembering here that Donald Trump, the outgoing president, had something akin to a scaled-down inauguration in 2017 due to remarkably low attendance, though his then press secretary Sean Spicer falsely claimed it was “the largest audience ever to witness an inauguration, period, both in person and around the globe”.

Presidential inaugurations traditionally featur a swearing-in and speech by the new president before crowds backed onto the national mall, as well as lunch with lawmakers and a parade to the White House.

Biden’s team is consulting with leaders in the House of Representatives and Senate on details and best practices, said Klain. The result will likely be a “scaled down versions of the existing traditions,” he told ABC.“We know people want to celebrate. There is something here to celebrate. We just want to try to find a way to do it as safely as possible.” 

Thanks Caroline, and hello everyone, its Mattha Busby here to take you through the next couple of hours and beyond. Feel free to contact me on Twitter with any tips or via email on mattha.busby.freelance@guardian.co.uk.

Ministers from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have endorsed a shared UK objective of allowing “some limited additional household bubbling for a small number of days” over Christmas, the Cabinet Office has said just now following a meeting.

However, they “reiterated the importance of allowing families and friends to meet in a careful and limited way, while recognising that this will not be a normal festive period and the risks of transmission remain very real”. It was unclear how many households would be permitted to mix over Christmas and for how many days restrictions will be relaxed.

The proposals are likely to split opinion, with some fearing that relaxing lockdown could risk lives, and others believing that the dangers of households mixing are not significant. Some, it must be said – one-in-four, suggests a poll this weekend – would likely go about their Christmas as usual even in spite of government restrictions if they were maintained.

There was no loosening of lockdown for the Hindu, Sikh and Jain festival of Diwali last week, nor for the Muslim festival of Eid in May. 

On Saturday, Michael Gove, the chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, met the first ministers of Scotland and Wales and the first and deputy ministers of Northern Ireland to discuss shared arrangements for the festive period.

The Cabinet Office said in a statement:

Welcoming the good progress made by all administrations over the past few days to design a single set of arrangements that can apply across the UK, ministers reiterated the importance of allowing families and friends to meet in a careful and limited way, while recognising that this will not be a normal festive period and the risks of transmission remain very real.

As such, ministers endorsed a shared objective of facilitating some limited additional household bubbling for a small number of days, but also emphasised that the public will be advised to remain cautious, and that wherever possible people should avoid travelling and minimise social contact.

In respect of Northern Ireland, ministers also recognised that people will want to see family and friends across the island of Ireland, and this is the subject of discussions with the Irish Government. Work is continuing to finalise the arrangements, including relating to travel. The UK government, Scottish government, Welsh government and Northern Ireland executive hope to conclude this work this week, subject to agreement by each administration.

A Scottish government spokesman said: “No agreement has been reached and discussions are continuing.”

However, the Scottish Tories’ health spokesman Donald Cameron said: “We urge the Scottish government to work with the UK government to make sure Christmas goes ahead as normally as possible. If ever there was an issue where both of Scotland’s governments should put politics aside, this is it.”

Most of the public would rather have a locked-down Christmas than have a new lockdown imposed in January, a poll for the Observer this weekend suggests.

The government’s key scientific committee, Sage, is expected to publish further papers on Monday setting out its advice that the previous tiers were not strong enough, and that a tougher regional approach is now required.





No.3 article:
Proposals include plans to limit self-isolation and to allow household mixing at Christmas

A programme of mass, instant coronavirus testing is to be rolled out to areas of England with the highest infection rates after lockdown is lifted next month, the prime minister has announced, as the government faces an unprecedented internal rebellion over Covid measures.

Among the plans, which will rely on the ability to massively expand rapid testing systems across the country, is a scheme to stop people who have come into close contact with someone who has coronavirus from having to isolate for 14 days, if tests show they have not contracted it.

Contacts will have the chance to be tested every day for a week, and will not need to isolate during that period if the tests remain negative. This would be trialled in Liverpool, and potentially rolled out nationally from January. 

Boris Johnson will on Monday outline plans for a tougher three-tiered set of restrictions to come into force once current measures lift on 2 December. He is also expected to unveil proposals for a temporary UK-wide relaxation to allow mixing between households over Christmas.

It is understood that all the new tiers will allow nonessential shops and gyms to remain open. Rules for pubs and restaurants will vary between tiers, but will be tougher overall than under the previous system, addressing a well-identified source of infection but dismaying the hospitality industry. 

In a bid to “offer communities in tier 3 alert areas a direct route out of the toughest restrictions”, Downing Street announced there would be a significant expansion of the mass testing regime currently being trialled in Liverpool.

In a plan endorsed by a cabinet meeting on Sunday afternoon, areas placed into the strictest tier will be offered “extensive community testing”, with assistance from the military.

A pilot scheme, in which residents of care homes can have up to two visitors tested twice a week, will also be extended. 

The bold promises have echoes of earlier plans, which have ended up taking notably longer to fulfil than initially billed. While the Liverpool trial appears to be running well, an initial attempt at mass testing in Salford was halted early amid limited success.

In comments released by No 10, Johnson said people’s efforts meant the increase in new cases “is flattening off”.

He said: “We are not out of the woods yet. The virus is still present in communities across the country, and remains both far more infectious and far more deadly than seasonal flu. But with expansion in testing and vaccines edging closer to deployment, the regional tiered system will help get the virus back under control and keep it there.”

Downing Street was keen to bill the new schemes as purely a way to assist the hardest-hit communities. However, the announcement could also prove potentially significant in swaying dozens of rebel Conservative MPs who are objecting to the return of the regional tiers.

In a starkly worded letter to the prime minister, 70 Tory MPs from the newly formed Covid Recovery Group said the government must prove the new restrictions “will save more lives than they cost”.

The letter, also signed by 14 Conservative peers, told Johnson that a tiered system “infringes deeply upon people’s lives with huge health and economic costs”.

They wrote: “We cannot support this approach further unless the government demonstrates the restrictions proposed for after 2 December will have an impact on slowing the transmission of Covid, and will save more lives than they cost.

“To this end, [the] government must publish a full cost-benefit analysis of the proposed restrictions on a regional basis so that MPs can assess responsibly the non-Covid health impact of restrictions, as well as the undoubted impact on livelihoods.”

The chancellor, Rishi Sunak, played down the idea of producing such a document. “It’s very hard to be precise in estimating the particular impact of a one-week restriction,” he told Sky’s Sophy Ridge on Sunday.

While a failure to win round the discontented MPs could leave Johnson with the uncomfortable prospect of having to rely on Labour when the plan is voted on in the Commons next week, there is increasing scientific pressure for the new tiers to be tougher than those in place before the current four-week England-wide lockdown.

A new study led by academics from the University of East Anglia has concluded that the previous tier 1 had “little impact” on the transmission of coronavirus locally.

The study, which has not yet undergone peer review, examined infection rates over 14 days in regions placed into the three tiers. It found that the top tier, which barred all household mixing, had the most impact, while the impact in tier 2 was mixed. 

Prof Paul Hunter, who led the study, said: “Our conclusion is that the problem with the tier system was not actually the tiers, but the inability of the government in England to allocate local authorities to their most appropriate tier quickly enough.”

On Sunday, a further 398 people died of coronavirus, according to the government’s daily UK figures, up from 168 the same day the previous week. A total of 18,662 people tested positive for the virus, down from 24,962.

Johnson is also due to outline what is expected to be a period of a few days over Christmas in which limited mixing will be allowed between households across the UK.

Michael Gove, the Cabinet Office minister, met leaders of the devolved administrations over the weekend, at which, according to his department, they “endorsed a shared objective of facilitating some limited additional household bubbling for a small number of days”.

The public will be “advised to remain cautious” and told that “wherever possible people should avoid travelling and minimise social contact” under the plans, which are expected to be finalised this week, the statement said.

One element of the previous tiers that is expected to be ditched is the forced 10pm closing time for pubs and restaurants, with people given an extra hour to finish the drinks and food they have already purchased.





No.4 article:
Heiko Maas criticises young protester who compared herself to Sophie Scholl, a German student executed by the Nazis 

German foreign minister, Heiko Maas, on Sunday lashed out at anti-mask protesters comparing themselves to Nazi victims, accusing them of trivialising the Holocaust and “making a mockery” of the courage shown by resistance fighters.

The harsh words came after a young woman took to the stage at a protest against coronavirus restrictions in Hanover on Saturday saying she felt “just like Sophie Scholl”, the German student executed by the Nazis in 1943 for her role in the resistance.

A video of the speech has already been viewed more than 1m times on social media, with many sharply condemning the speaker.

“Anyone today comparing themselves to Sophie Scholl or Anne Frank is making a mockery of the courage it took to stand up to the Nazis,” Maas tweeted.

“It trivialises the Holocaust and shows an unbearable forgetting of history. Nothing connects the corona protests with the resistance fighters. Nothing!”

In the clip, a steward is seen interrupting the woman on stage to hand over his orange high-visibility vest, saying her words amounted to “minimising the Holocaust”.

“I’m not working security for such nonsense,” he is heard saying before being escorted away.

The young woman, who identified herself as 22-year-old Jana, then bursts into tears before dropping her microphone and leaving the stage.

In another incident last week, an 11-year-old girl addressed an anti-mask demo in the western city of Karlsruhe, likening herself to Jewish teenager Anne Frank because she had had to celebrate her birthday quietly to avoid the neighbours hearing that they had invited friends over.

Frank, whose diary written while in hiding in the Netherlands has been read by millions, died in Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in 1945.

The comparison drew outrage, with Karlsruhe police calling it “inappropriate and tasteless”.

Germany has long prided itself on confronting its Nazi past and acknowledging its “eternal responsibility” for the Holocaust, in which 6 million Jews were murdered.

The far-right AfD party has in recent years however challenged Germany’s remembrance culture, with senior figures openly calling for the country to stop atoning for Nazi crimes.

Government measures introduced to halt the spread of the coronavirus have triggered large protests in Germany, drawing in people from the far-left, conspiracy theorists and rightwing extremists who claim the curbs infringe on their civil rights.

Several hundred people gathered in Berlin on Sunday for another protest, a smaller turnout than expected.

Germany’s restaurants, bars, leisure and cultural centres have been ordered to close for the month of November to halt a rapid rise in infections, while schools and shops have been allowed to stay open.

With case numbers still hovering at record highs, Chancellor Angela Merkel and the leaders of Germany’s 16 states are expected to extend the shutdown or announce even tougher measures at a meeting on Wednesday.

“We’ve not come as far as we would have liked,” Merkel told reporters on Sunday. “We certainly have more left to do” to bring the pandemic under control, she added.





No.5 article:
Millions of Americans set to ignore warnings against Thanksgiving travel

Ominous warnings came as Donald Trump appeared to admit that coronavirus is “running wild” across the US, in contrast with his statements throughout the election campaign that the virus would simply “go away” or “disappear” and, more recently, that the country was “rounding the turn” on the pandemic.

As new Covid-19 infections in the US approached 200,000 a day, Trump tweeted on Saturday night to insist things were bad outside the United States as well, posting: “The Fake News is not talking about the fact that ‘Covid’ is running wild all over the world, not just in the US.”

On Sunday, Dr Anthony Fauci, the leading infectious disease expert in the US and top public health official on the White House coronavirus taskforce, said the country was in “a very, very difficult situation at all levels” with infections rising dramatically.

He followed up official government advice on Friday from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to Americans not to travel and gather with relatives and friends at the Thanksgiving holiday this coming Thursday.

Fauci said that, more than the risk of flying itself, it was busy airports that made him more concerned.

“You are at a crowded airport, you are lining up, not everybody is wearing masks. That puts yourself at risk … that’s what’s going to get us into even more trouble,” he said.

Fauci warned of “seemingly innocent get-togethers” indoors with family and friends.

As many as 50 million people are expected to travel by various means this week to celebrate Thanksgiving, potentially producing a new surge in infections that will manifest a couple of weeks later and threaten the Christmas holidays, too, Fauci warned.

Maryland’s Republican governor, Larry Hogan, said “we are pretty worried” about Americans planning to defy advice from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and travel for Thanksgiving and gather in unsafe circumstances.

“Family gathering is the number one transmission event,” he said, warning that people let their guard down at such events, failing to wear masks properly and breaking social distancing rules.

The US has recorded a million new cases of coronavirus a week for the past two weeks and now has 12.1m cases and a death toll of 256,000, the highest numbers in the world, as tracked by the Johns Hopkins coronavirus research center.

Fauci added that he understood the public was weary of restrictions, staying away from others and holding back on travel but he reiterated that mitigation measures such as mask-wearing, hand-washing and social distancing are effective.

And limiting people in restaurants and avoiding or closing bars “can blunt the curve”, he said.

As Moncef Slaoui, chief scientific adviser of the government’s Operation Warp Speed vaccine development and distribution program, said on Sunday that if the first coronavirus vaccine is approved for use next month, the first Americans outside of clinical trials will be vaccinated by December 11 or 12.

And if 70% of the US population can be vaccinated by May then that was approximately when American could return to normal and put the pandemic behind it.

Fauci urged Americans not to travel and gather and to make sure they took the right measures, saying: “If you can hang in there, we can get out of this.”

With successful vaccines in the wings, he said: “Help is on the way, so you should not look at this as a hopeless situation.”





No.6 article:
G20 leaders pledge to distribute Covid vaccines fairly around world

Virtual summit an awkward swan song for Trump who skipped some sessions to play golf

G20 leaders meeting remotely pledged on Sunday to “spare no effort” to ensure the fair distribution of coronavirus vaccines worldwide, but offered no specific new funding to meet that goal. 

The virtual summit hosted by Saudi Arabia was an awkward swan song for Donald Trump, who skipped some sessions on Saturday to play golf, paid little attention to other leaders’ speeches and claimed the Paris climate agreement was designed not to save the planet but to the kill the US economy.

Joe Biden has promised to rejoin the accord on day one of his presidency, giving other world leaders hope that the UN climate change conference at the end of next year will see more ambitious pledges, including from China, to cut carbon emissions by 2050.

Trump’s isolationist diplomacy has allowed China to escape some scrutiny both on its climate and debt forgiveness measures. “To protect American workers, I withdrew the country from the unjust Paris agreement,” Trump told the G20. 

“I refuse to surrender millions of American jobs and send trillions of American dollars to the world’s worst polluters and environmental offenders, and that’s what would have happened.”

The bulk of the summit focused on ensuring that the coronavirus vaccines expected to hit the market imminently are available for distribution at affordable prices in poorer countries.

The EU and the UN say there is a £4.5bn funding shortfall this year that the G20 nations should fill. Countries have so far invested $10bn in the Access to Covid-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator and its vaccine pillar, the Covax Facility. The two schemes are designed to ensure the vaccines do not remain the preserve of the wealthiest economies.

The UN secretary general, António Guterres, said: “The recent breakthroughs on Covid-19 vaccines offer a ray of hope. But that ray of hope needs to reach everyone. That means ensuring that vaccines are treated as a global public good, a people’s vaccine accessible and affordable to everyone, everywhere,” he said.

“This is not a ‘do-good’ exercise. It is the only way to stop the pandemic dead in its tracks. Solidarity is indeed survival.”

The final G20 communique simply said: “We have mobilised resources to address the immediate financing needs in global health to support the research, development, manufacturing and distribution of safe and effective Covid-19 diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines.

“We will spare no effort to ensure their affordable and equitable access for all people, consistent with members’ commitments to incentivise innovation.” It gave no supporting evidence or statistics.

In a sign of the competition for access to vaccines and national prestige, Russia said its Sputnik V would be much cheaper than those offered by Pfizer and Moderna.

Russia said a single dose of Pfizer’s vaccinewould cost $19.50 (£14.70) and Modena’s between $25 and $37, and noted that two doses would be needed.

The summit also discussed how to help stave off possible credit defaults among developing nations as their debt soars in the economic upheaval the virus has unleashed. The G20 had already extended a debt service suspension initiative (DSSI) for developing countries until June next year, but Guterres had pushed for a commitment to extend it until the end of 2021.

The draft communique did not offer a firm commitment, as countries wait to see the scale of the international debt crisis. G20 finance ministers will instead examine the recommendation when the IMF and World Bank meet next spring and see “if the economic and financial situation requires” another six-month extension. Italy will chair the G20 in 2021.

The president of the World Bank, David Malpass, had told the G20 creditors at the meeting: “We have to avoid doing too little now and then suffering disorderly defaults and repeated debt restructurings like in the 1980s.”

Saudi Arabia, as the summit host, had come under assault from human rights groups in advance, but largely escaped any public criticism from world leaders.

Saudi leaders hit back at those urging them to release female detainees and said it would not take no notice of those trying to interfere in its internal affairs. Investors were less concerned by such issues than journalists, they said.

The Saudi foreign minister, Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud, also insisted Riyadh be consulted before the US returns to the Iran nuclear deal and welcomed Trump administration plans to designate the Houthi movement in Yemen as a terrorist organisation. Yemen is on the brink of famine, the UN said on Friday.





No.7 article:
AA to provide online road safety lessons for e-scooter riders

Users will be taught how to operate and park the vehicle and share the road safely

The AA is to give road safety lessons to e-scooter riders, as operators launch what is billed as the first theory test for the latest form of transport on Britain’s streets.

Under the scheme, e-scooter riders will be taught how to operate and park the vehicles and share the road safely with cars, pedestrians and vulnerable users.

Complaints of antisocial behaviour have been recorded in areas around the UK where pilot rental schemes have been introduced this year under the government’s 12-month trial period. The AA’s DriveTech division, which more usually re-educates driving offenders on police referral, will deliver the online lessons.

A theory test will ask riders questions such as “why is it important to park responsibly?” and “what is the preferred route to use scooters?”

The first UK test and course is being designed by Tier, one of the biggest European operators, which hopes to win a contract with Transport for London after the capital issued a tender last week for potentially the most lucrative market in Britain.

TfL said it would prioritise safety and require any operator to start the scheme cautiously, with features including geofencing to limit speeds or stop vehicles entirely in no-go areas.

The president of the AA, Edmund King, said he was excited about e-scooters but that training was vital. “There’s been a degree of ignorance – can I use it on a pavement? should I be in a bus lane ?– but hopefully the trials will sort out those problems,” he said.

“Ultimately, with the remnants of Covid, whether we like it or not, people are going to be avoiding public transport in our big cities and this e-mobility is going to be a big part of the mix. For responsible e-scooter companies to get involved and offer training is really important, and that’s why we’re trying to offer our road safety experience.”

Safety concerns have led Tier and others to introduce features including built-in helmets and indicator lights, along with pledges to add sounds to alert blind and visually-impaired people. Fred Jones, Tier’s general manager for the UK and Ireland, said the company had “raised the standards for responsible e-scooter use”.

The rollout of e-scooters across the north-east of England was paused this year after the first trials in Middlesbrough included incidents such as users riding them on a dual carriageway. Another scheme in the West Midlands was quickly suspended after a barrage of complaints from shoppers about antisocial behaviour.

MPs have called for the full legalisation of e-scooters in the UK. Privately owned e-scooters are prohibited on public roads despite their widespread use.





No.8 article:
Analysis: why ‘final’ offensive may not end Ethiopian conflict

PM Abiy Ahmed has implied operation will soon be over, but many leaders have found their planned short wars will not end quickly

Within days, the conflict in the north-western Ethiopian region of Tigray may reach a bloody climax.

The fighting between federal forces and those loyal to the ruling party of the unsettled province has been chaotic and bitter. Hundreds have been killed – both combatants and civilians – and many thousands forced to flee their homes. Regional and international powers have looked on with increasing anxiety as violence threatens the stability of one of Africa’s most fragile regions.

Abiy Ahmed, the Ethiopian prime minister, told his 110 million countrymen and women five days ago that “a final and crucial” offensive was imminent. This aimed to secure Mekelle, the highland capital of Tigray. Then, it was implied, what Abiy and other senior Ethiopian officials call a “law enforcement operation” would be over.

Abiy’s strategic aim is to oust Tigray’s ruling party, the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), which went ahead with elections this year after national polls had been postponed due to Covid-19. The move followed a long series of increasingly acrimonious disputes between the TPLF, which says it has been unfairly marginalised since Abiy took power two years ago, and the central government. Abiy has repeatedly said he has no grudge against Tigrayans, only their “criminal” leadership, and that he sees them all as equal citizens of a federal Ethiopia.

Many – though not all – Tigrayans doubt this. They claim Abiy is set on a brutal reimposition of central government’s authority, with implications for all of Ethiopia’s regions and ethnicities. The violence of recent weeks – as well as some of the measures and rhetoric that have accompanied it – may not have convinced them otherwise. Nor will the stark ultimatum issued by senior military officials on Sunday to half a million civilians in Mekelle: disassociate yourselves from the TPLF or risk death under bombardment and airstrikes when the federal forces move on the city. In other words, support the rebels and you could pay a very high price.

The threats against the population of Mekelle may simply be a blunt form of “psy ops”, designed to isolate the TPLF leadership so they can be somehow picked up – or picked off – without an inevitably costly offensive into a sizeable city. Ethiopian regular forces have so far avoided such battles, advancing swiftly towards Mekelle by bypassing many population centres. They need to keep the momentum of their advance brisk for political reasons. A long war may get very unpopular with Ethiopians, regional powers, investors and other important international friends.

But as countless political leaders have found, even a quick war may easily turn into a long one. There are reliable reports that fighting is continuing in territory that should have been swiftly secured as the first wave of troops breached Tigrayan defences and moved on. Militia and paramilitaries appear to be suffering from hit-and-run attacks by lightly armed, experienced and motivated Tigrayan fighters. This must be worrying for Ethiopian military planners. Above all, it suggests that any declaration of mission accomplished would be premature, whatever the outcome when their troops reach Mekelle.















No.9 article:
Seventy MPs say PM must prove new Covid curbs ‘will save more lives than they cost’

Boris Johnson is facing a significant challenge to his plan to replace the current lockdown in England with a stricter three-tiered system of Covid restrictions, with 70 Conservative MPs saying they would not back the new regime without first seeing a cost-benefit analysis.

In a letter to the prime minister illustrating the scale of unrest among Tory ranks, MPs from the newly formed Covid Recovery Group said the government must prove the new restrictions “will save more lives than they cost”.

On Monday, Johnson is expected to tell MPs what will replace the lockdown in England when it comes to an end on 2 December, including how families can mix with different households at Christmas.

Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove met leaders of the devolved administrations over the weekend to agree “a shared objective of facilitating some limited additional household bubbling for a small number of days”. But the public will be “advised to remain cautious” and told that “wherever possible people should avoid travelling and minimise social contact”, a statement from his department said.

As part of the Covid winter plan, more areas are expected to be placed into the highest tiers of measures in an attempt to keep the virus under control. Some tiers will be strengthened to safeguard the progress made during the lockdown, although No 10 has not yet detailed how these measures will change.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

It is understood the 10pm forced closing time for pubs and restaurants will be extended but that people will given an extra hour to finish the drinks and food they have already purchased.

Asked about this on BBC1’s Andrew Marr Show on Sunday, the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, said this was “definitely something that we’re looking at”. He said: “One of the things that we’ve been able to do as we’ve learned is get data, see what works and see where we can improve things.”

The cabinet is expected to discuss and finalise the plan on Sunday before Johnson announces it to parliament.

Before this, the letter from the 70 MPs, also signed by 14 Conservative peers, told Johnson that a tiered system “infringes deeply upon people’s lives with huge health and economic costs”.

They wrote: “We cannot support this approach further unless the government demonstrates the restrictions proposed for after 2 December will have an impact on slowing the transmission of Covid, and will save more lives than they cost.

“To this end, government must publish a full cost-benefit analysis of the proposed restrictions on a regional basis so that MPs can assess responsibly the non-Covid health impact of restrictions, as well as the undoubted impact on livelihoods.”

The demand leaves Johnson with the uncomfortable prospect of having to rely on Labour votes when the plan is voted on by MPs next week.

Asked about the idea of a cost-benefit analysis, Sunak said this was unlikely. “It’s very hard to be precise in estimating the particular impact of a one-week restriction,” he told Sky’s Sophy Ridge on Sunday.

“What you will see next week when we have the spending review, alongside that will be a set of forecasts from the Office for Budget Responsibility … which will show the enormous strain and stress our economy is experiencing, the job losses that you mention, the forecasts of what will happen, and it’s right that we consider those in the round as we consider the best way to fight the virus.”

Ministers have already signalled that some restrictions are expected to remain in place during the festive period. The government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) is due to publish research on Monday suggesting that measures in the previous tiered system were not strong enough.

Calum Semple, a professor of child health and outbreak medicine at Liverpool University, told the Ridge show that there was some good news on the rate of infection and the number of cases coming down.

He said: “Nationally we are seeing cases in the community fall and in those areas that went into tier 3 before lockdown we are already seeing the tide turning with the number of hospital admissions and we will shortly see the deaths reduce as well.”

Reports have suggested that under the plan, several families may be allowed to join one “bubble” in order to see loved ones over the Christmas period between 22 and 28 December.

On Thursday, the government will set out which tier each area will be placed into, with MPs due to vote on whether to approve the new system in the days before it comes into force on 2 December.

It is optimistic that restrictions could be eased gradually in the run-up to spring if Covid vaccines are approved by regulators, allowing for the rollout to begin next month before a wider vaccination programme begins in the new year.

The plans emerged as the government announced a further 341 people had died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 as of Saturday, bringing the UK death tally to 54,626.





No.10 article:
Despite the depth of the well, the water inside was shallow and was pumped out to make it easier to access the 25-year-old male&nbsp;elephant. Two excavators, trucks and a crane were used in the operation, which brought the&nbsp;elephant&nbsp;out unharmed.&nbsp;

The&nbsp;elephant&nbsp;will be released in the nearby Hosur forest area





No.11 article:
Criminalise public sexual harassment in UK, charities say

A fifth of girls and women aged between 14 and 21 experienced street harassment during spring lockdown, poll finds

Girls’ rights groups are calling for public sexual harassment to be criminalised in the UK after research suggested more than half of young women and girls were harassed on the street during the summer.

A fifth (19%) of young women and girls aged between 14 and 21 experienced being catcalled, followed, groped, flashed or upskirted during the spring lockdown, according to polling by children’s charity Plan International and campaign group Our Streets Now.

This rose to 51% during the summer as coronavirus restrictions were eased and more people returned to public life, the groups said. They are calling for all forms of public sexual harassment to be made a specific criminal offence to acknowledge it is “a crime, not a compliment”.

Plan International and Our Streets Now polled 1,000 parents of girls and women aged between 14 and 21 and 1,010 girls and women in the age group between 23 September and 1 October.

The research found that a third of parents (32%) had been told by their daughters that they had experienced harassment in public. Three-quarters of the girls and young women surveyed (76%) did not report the incident to the police.

Of the parents who took part in the study, 80% said they worried their daughters would experience public sexual harassment during their lifetime, with one in 10 believing their daughters younger than 11 years old would be targeted.

Four in 10 parents said they had asked their daughters not to go out after dark or take certain routes, while two-thirds said they had instructed them not to walk home alone after a certain time.

But, amid widespread concern, a third (37%) of parents would not know where to report street harassment of their daughters. Half of the girls and young women polled believed a clear law making it a specific crime would help prevent it, and that being able to report harassment by text or online would also help.

Rose Caldwell, the chief executive of Plan International UK, said: “Listening to the girls we work with, alongside the experiences of my two teenage daughters, has made it all too clear to me, as the pandemic rages on, that public sexual harassment can no longer be ignored.

“This persistent and pervasive harassment of girls across the UK is completely unacceptable, but sadly not surprising. And this is something that affects not only girls, but their families, with parents worrying from a young age about the abuse their daughters face in public.”





No.12 article:
US vaccine expert predicts life could be back to normal around May

Operation Warp Speed chief says if immunization plan goes well enough Americans should be vaccinated by May

As the number of Covid-19 cases in the United States passed 12 million, the Trump administration’s vaccine program adviser predicted that life in America could be back to normal around May of 2021 as immunization is set to begin.

The note of optimism came even as millions of Americans were expected to travel for the upcoming Thanksgiving holiday this week and many appeared to be ignoring warnings from health officials about furthering the spread of the infectious disease.

Moncef Slaoui, chief scientific adviser of the government’s Operation Warp Speed vaccine development and distribution program, which involves the military and the private sector as well as government health experts, said that pending regulatory approval for the first vaccine means the first Americans could be vaccinated outside of clinical trial by mid-December.

And Slaoui said that if the vaccination distribution and immunization plan goes well, enough Americans should be vaccinated by “May or something like that” of 2021 to allow life to go back to normal.

The first application to the US government for vaccine approval was made on Friday by the pharmaceutical team of Pfizer and its partner BioNTech.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulatory body is scheduled to hold a key meeting on December 10 that could award the team emergency authorization for the vaccine.

“By December 11 or 12 I’m hopeful the first people will be immunized across the US, in all states,” Slaoui told CNN’s State of the Union politics show on Sunday morning.

The administration plans to vaccinate 20 million people in December and another 30 million per month thereafter. Healthcare workers and the most vulnerable populations, such as residents of nursing homes, are expected to be first in line.

Slaoui said that with the first vaccines – the US pharmaceutical firm Moderna is expected to apply for regulatory authorization soon on its vaccine – need to be given to at least 70% of the US population “for true herd immunity to take place”.

He added: “That is likely to happen somewhere in the month of May, or something like that based on our plans. I really hope and look forward to seeing … people’s acceptance of the vaccine increasing. That’s critical.”

As Donald Trump continues to refuse to concede his election defeat by Joe Biden or cooperate with the Biden transition efforts, Slaoui told ABC’s George Stephanopoulos that he had had no contact with Biden’s team.

Meanwhile, Maryland’s Republican governor Larry Hogan said “we are pretty worried” about American planning to defy advice from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and travel for Thanksgiving and gather in unsafe circumstances.

“Family gathering is the number one transmission event,” he said, warning that people let their guard down at such events, failing to wear masks properly and breaking social distancing rules.





No.13 article:
WHO says Europe faces third wave early in 2021 if nations repeat their failures to prepare

France is preparing to ease its Covid-19 lockdown rules in the weeks leading up to Christmas with new daily caseloads falling and pressure building from retailers to allow the annual shopping season to go ahead.

But parts of east Asia that were thought to be controlling the disease have raised the possibility of new restrictions.

The moves came as the World Health Organization warned that Europe would be hit by a third wave of the pandemic in early 2021 if governments still failed to build the necessary systems to curb new infections.

“They missed building up the necessary infrastructure during the summer months, after they brought the first wave under the control,” WHO special envoy David Nabarro, who is British, said in an interview with Swiss newspapers. “Now we have the second wave. If they don’t build the necessary infrastructure, we’ll have a third wave early next year.”

He singled out Switzerland’s move to allow skiing while other Alpine nations have closed resorts, warning that the country could reach a “very high level of sicknesses and deaths”.

Praising the response of Asian countries, he told Solothurner Zeitung: “People are fully engaged, they take on behaviours that make it difficult for the virus. They keep their distance, wear masks, isolate when they’re sick, wash hands and surfaces. They protect the most endangered groups.”

In contrast, “Europe’s reaction was incomplete”, he said. “You must wait until case numbers are low and stay low,” he said regarding lifting restrictions.

The French president, Emmanuel Macron, will on Tuesday address the country and is expected to announce a three-stage pathway out of a stringent lockdown that has been in place since 30 October.

“There will be three steps to easing in view of the health situation and of risks tied to some businesses: a first step around 1 December, then before the year-end holidays, and then from January 2021,” the government spokesman Gabriel Attal told Le Journal du Dimanche.

He flagged that retailers would be permitted to reopen in time for Christmas, when many make the bulk of their annual turnover. “We had committed to allow them to reopen around 1 December if the health situation improved, which seems to be the case,” Attal said.

Bars and restaurants, however, “will continue to experience restrictions”, he added.

The number of new coronavirus infections in France rose by 17,881 on Saturday, lower than the 22,882 reported on Friday, while the number of people in hospital with Covid-19 dropped for the fifth day in a row to 31,365.

South Korea, which has employed an aggressive tracing, testing and quarantine effort to stamp down on outbreaks without imposing lockdowns, warned that social distancing rules may need to be tightened in the light of a small but persistent increase in new cases over the past week.

The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency reported 330 new daily coronavirus cases as of midnight on Saturday, a drop from 386 reported the day before, a level not reached since August.

Bars, nightclubs, religious services and sports events continue to be permitted with attendance restrictions, but that could change if officials impose stricter social distancing measures.

Japan may also reimpose attendance limits for sports and other large events to curb a rise in Covid-19 infections, the economy minister, Yasutoshi Nishimura, said on Sunday.The limits would be applied in areas of the country reporting a sharp increase in cases, Nishimura said on a talkshow on the public broadcaster NHK. The government imposed attendance limits earlier in the year but relaxed them in recent months.

The government is also considering how to refund cancellation fees for customers who booked trips via a domestic tourism campaign that was partly suspended on Saturday, Nishimura said.

New coronavirus cases across Japan climbed to a record 2,596 on Saturday, according to NHK. In Tokyo, the daily infection rate was an all-time high of 539 cases.

Iran has recorded 13,053 new cases of coronavirus and 475 related deaths over the past 24 hours to Sunday, after tougher coronavirus restrictions came into force in the country.

The health ministry figures take the total death toll to 44,802 and the tally of cases to 854,361 in the Middle East’s worst-hit state.

On Saturday, Iran introduced stricter measures for two weeks to stem a third wave of coronavirus infections, including closing nonessential businesses and travel curbs.

Some Iranian authorities have warned that the number of daily coronavirus deaths could reach 1,200 if the country failed to respect health protocols, including mask-wearing and social distancing.

A sharp rise in coronavirus infections in the Gaza Strip could overwhelm the Palestinian enclave’s meagre medical system by next week, public health advisers said on Sunday.

Gaza, where the dense and poor population of 2 million is vulnerable to contagions, has logged 14,000 coronavirus cases and 65 deaths, mostly since August.

Seventy-nine of Gaza’s 100 ventilators have been taken up by Covid-19 patients, said Abdelraouf Elmanama, a microbiologist who is part of the enclave’s pandemic taskforce.

“In 10 days the health system will become unable to absorb such a hike in cases and there might be cases that will not find a place at intensive care units,” he said, adding that the current 0.05% mortality rate among Covid-19 patients could rise.

Gaza’s Islamist Hamas government has so far imposed one lockdown. A longstanding Israeli blockade, which is supported by neighbouring Egypt, has crippled Gaza’s economy and undermined its public health apparatus. Israel claims it is trying to keep weapons from reaching Hamas.





No.14 article:
Is this the beginning of an mRNA vaccine revolution?

No one knew whether mRNA technology would work against this virus – but it does. It’s an extraordinary moment for science

The past few months have brought a number of scientific terms to public attention. We’ve had to digest R (a virus’s reproduction number) and PCR (the polymerase chain reaction method of testing). And now there’s mRNA. This last one has featured heavily in recent news reports because of the spectacular results of two new mRNA vaccines against coronavirus. It stands for “messenger ribonucleic acid”, a label familiar enough if you studied biology at O-level or GCSE, but otherwise hardly a household name. Even in the field of vaccine research, if you had said as recently as 10 years ago that you could protect people from infections by injecting them with mRNA, you would have provoked some puzzled looks.

Essentially, mRNA is a molecule used by living cells to turn the gene sequences in DNA into the proteins that are the building blocks of all their fundamental structures. A segment of DNA gets copied (“transcribed”) into a piece of mRNA, which in turn gets “read” by the cell’s tools for synthesising proteins. In the case of an mRNA vaccine, the virus’s mRNA is injected into the muscle, and our own cells then read it and synthesise the viral protein. The immune system reacts to these proteins – which can’t by themselves cause disease – just as if they’d been carried in on the whole virus. This generates a protective response that, we hope, lasts for some time. It’s so beautifully simple it almost seems like science fiction. But last week we learned that it was true.

It’s extraordinary that observations originally made in cell cultures in a petri dish have been translated into real life. At the same time, it’s not entirely surprising that the two first Covid-19 vaccines to announce phase 3 results were mRNA-based. They were first off the blocks because, as soon as the genetic code of Sars-CoV-2 was known (it was published by the Chinese in January 2020), companies that had been working on this technology were able to start producing the virus’s mRNA. Making conventional vaccines takes much longer.

It’s possible that the impressive performance of these new vaccines will eclipse that of the others currently in development. It depends on how effective those alternative approaches turn out to be – and results are going to start coming thick and fast. Beyond that, however, there’s the question of whether mRNA could represent the future of all vaccines. If a coronavirus vaccine can be created this fast and this well with mRNA, why not use this approach across the board? In short: will mRNA become the default platform for vaccines from now on? That would mark a huge breakthrough in disease prevention.

We’ll just have to wait and see if it happens. Even if we assume that the full detail of the results, when they come through, corroborates the headline figures, there are things that only time can reveal. How long will protection last, especially in those who are at greatest risk? Are these vaccines efficient enough not only to stop the recipients falling ill when exposed, but also to stop them getting infected altogether – or, failing that, to reduce the transmission of the virus to others?

The other key yardstick by which we judge any new vaccine technology is safety. Unlike drugs, which are given to treat people who are sick, vaccines are offered to everyone. Side-effects are only tolerable if they are pretty mild and short-lived – most people will accept a second of sharp pain followed by a tender upper arm and feeling a bit off-colour for a day or two, but that’s all. Severe illness caused by vaccines should preferably be nonexistent, or at least vanishingly rare.

On the face of it, mRNA ought to be safe. After all, it is found in abundance in all the cells in our bodies all the time. It is also a very fragile molecule. It falls apart very easily and is rapidly broken down by proteins designed to do that, which seem to be everywhere. Working with mRNA in the lab is a nightmare because it keeps disappearing. On this basis, it should not hang around in the body for very long after it is injected.

The fact that mRNA is genetic material might lead you to think there’s some risk of genetic side-effects. However, in human cells, while DNA is regularly transcribed into RNA, the reverse doesn’t happen – RNA can’t make it back into DNA and alter our genes. (In fact, making DNA from RNA – so called reverse transcription – is something that only a certain kind of virus, like HIV, can do). Ultimately though, confidence in the safety of vaccines is something that comes from experience, and it will be the same with mRNA. The reassuring thing is that they have been tested for safety in tens of thousands of study subjects already. Within a short time, that will become millions, and – assuming no unexpected problems appear – the sense of reassurance will grow.

Whether or not mRNA now becomes the preferred way to make novel vaccines, it is clear that a global disaster on the scale of the pandemic spurs innovation at a much faster rate. This is not just the consequence of all the resources and funding made available to those with solutions that might usually be regarded with more scepticism; it is also driven by the remarkable things that humans can achieve when thrust together by circumstances and given a common purpose. While we like to lionise individual heroes and leaders, scientific advances like mRNA vaccines are always the product of the collaborative efforts of many people with diverse skills and backgrounds. Bringing vaccines to the clinic also requires large numbers of brave and altruistic volunteers to take part in clinical trials.

Stepping back, one fact stands out. At the beginning of November, we still did not know whether or not any vaccine would be able to help us overcome this terrible disease. As the month draws to its close, we’re certain that they can. However mRNA vaccines go down in the history books, that in itself is something to marvel at. Human ingenuity, invention and sheer hard work mean we are finally on the road out of this disaster.

Adam Finn is professor of paediatrics at the Bristol Children’s Vaccine Centre, University of Bristol





No.15 article:
Animal fell into well covered with bushes in village in Tamil Nadu’s Dharmapuri district

Forest officials in India’s southern Tamil Nadu state said they used a crane to pull an elephant from a well after working for more than 12 hours to rescue the animal.

The elephant, which strayed into a village bordering a forest in Tamil Nadu’s Dharmapuri district, fell into the well that was covered with bushes and did not have a fence or wall around it, Rajkumar, the district forest officer, said.

Two other elephants have fallen into such wells in the past year in the area.

Destruction of forests, rapid urbanisation and rising village populations have led animals to venture close to human settlements in India.

“It was a deep and narrow well,” said Rajkumar, who goes by one name. “We were informed by locals early on Thursday and were able to retrieve the elephant only late in the night.”

Forest officials first started by clearing the bushes around the well and then tried to pump water out. But the elephant attacked the pipes pumping out the water, according to Rajkumar.

“Eventually, we sedated the animal with the help of doctors and used a crane to lift it out of the well,” Rajkumar said.

“It was found to be healthy and active when we monitored it for three hours after the rescue.” 





No.16 article:
Agencies point finger at state-sponsored hackers from China, Russia, Iran and North Korea

State-sponsored hackers from China, Russia, Iran and North Korea are engaged in concerted attempts to steal coronavirus vaccine secrets in what security experts describe as “an intellectual property war”.

They accuse hostile-state hackers of trying to obtain trial results early and seize sensitive information about mass production of drugs, at a time when a range of vaccines are close to being approved for the public.

Previously the hackers’ primary intention was to steal the secrets behind the design of a vaccine, with hundreds of drug companies, research labs and health organisations from around the world targeted at any one time.

The cyber struggle involves western intelligence agencies, including Britain’s National Cyber Security Centre, who say they are committed to protecting “our most critical assets”. But they discuss only a fraction of their work in public.

Instead they work behind the scenes with drug companies, research labs and cybersecurity specialists, who are more easily able to describe the everyday hacking attempts in what amounts to a worldwide battle.

Adam Meyers, senior vice-president at the IT security specialists Crowdstrike, said countries including Russia and China had been engaged in hacking western companies and agencies “for the past 20 years”, but since March had “become focused on one topic”, referring to Covid-19.

“What you are seeing here is the latest stage in a long-running intellectual property war, but one where there is much more at stake to those involved. This has become a matter of national pride – who can develop vaccines first.”

Yet, western governments remain reluctant to point the finger of blame in all cases of hacking attacks for fear of diplomatic repercussions, with the UK, for example, particularly cautious about accusing China.

All of the countries accused deny involvement in hacking. Russia has said it has “no knowledge” of hacking attempts, while China has argued its vaccine research is so far ahead it has “no need to steal what others are doing”. Iran denies engaging in cyberwarfare.

Experts in the private and public sector argue otherwise, saying that state-sponsored hacker groups typically have links to spy or defence agencies. This year, the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre said Covid vaccine research labs were being targeted in the UK, US and Canada by Cozy Bear Russian state hackers linked to the FSB internal security agency.

Western experts add that attacks come as frequently from China, Iran and North Korea. In September, Chinese hackers were accused by Spain of stealing Covid research secrets from labs in a “particularly virulent” campaign.

Hackers linked to Iran were accused of trying to steal secrets from US drugmaker Gilead Research in May, in one instance using a fake email log-in page to try to lure a senior executive into giving access to company systems.

British sources indicate they do not believe there has been a successful hack against UK targets – although the assertion is impossible to prove – but it is acknowledged that some cyber-attacks have been successful around the world.

The trend has, however, changed, with hostile-state hackers increasingly targeting production methods and data around the success of trials. It is the kind of information considered of huge importance to nation states as a number of vaccines are poised for global rollout.

Drug companies are typically well-resourced and defended, but some academic institutions less so and researchers have to be educated about the risks, security experts said. “Sometimes researchers are quite surprised when you tell them what can go on,” one IT security specialist added.

Typical attacks include “password spraying” – a simple method used particularly by Russian actors – where generic passwords such as “password123” or “2020” followed by a common word are tried out on a large numbers of accounts.

More sophisticated is the use of “spear phishing” – creating personally targeted emails that invite a person to click a link that installs malware into a company system. It could come in the guise of a Covid-related news item or a message from a would-be recruiter.

At the end of last week, Microsoft said it had detected cyber-attacks from “three nation-state actors targeting seven prominent companies” who were directly involved in researching vaccines and treatments for Covid-19.

Two were judged to have come from North Korea, which used spear phishing lures. One sent “fabricated job descriptions pretending to be recruiters” while the second tried to lure researchers “while masquerading as a World Health Organization representative” according to Tom Burt, a corporate vice-president.

Actors linked to China have also tried to recruit people via LinkedIn, typically posing as an Anglicised young woman with a western first name and a Chinese surname, targeting older men. The hackers pose as a recruiter and try to start a dialogue, eliciting further information that could lead to a phishing attack.

The tactics employed by criminal gangs, who typically threaten to cripple a company’s systems or who encrypt corporate data and demand money for it to be restored in a ransomware attack, have not been used. There is also no evidence of a black market in vaccine secrets.

Jamie Collier, a cyberthreat intelligence consultant at IT security firm FireEye Mandiant, said at state level the focus is “information theft, data exfiltration” in attacks that develop gradually over several phases once entry to a system is achieved. “We don’t see state actors exhibiting a destructive element,” he added.

Martin McKee, a professor of public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said he wondered why some states tried to steal vaccine secrets given that so much information about Covid research was put into the public domain.

But he acknowledged that some countries placed a high value on developing hacking capabilities and liked to deploy them. “One plausible interpretation is that these people are doing it simply because they can,” he added.





No.17 article:
Which countries and hackers are targeting Covid vaccine developers?

The states and their hackers that security experts believe are targeting vaccine developers

Russia’s best-known hacker groups – Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear – are considered to be linked to the country’s intelligence organisations, according to western security agencies.

Fancy Bear, the better known of the two, is linked to GRU military intelligence and is accused of being behind the hack of US Democratic party computers in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election, the product of which was widely leaked.

Microsoft, which calls the group Strontium, last week accused Fancy Bear of targeting Covid-19 vaccine makers by using “password spray and brute force login attempts” – attacks that use “thousands or millions” of rapid attempts to obtain network access by guessing the password.

Cozy Bear, linked variously to Russia’s domestic FSB and foreign SVR agencies, was accused by Britain’s NCSC agency of targeting drug research labs in the UK, the US and Canada in July. Its goal, NCSC said, was likely to be “stealing information and intellectual property relating to the development and testing of Covid-19 vaccines”.

Hackers in the group sought to gain entry to a wide variety of systems relating to medical research, often by trying to exploit known vulnerabilities left unfixed to try to gain long-term access.

China has been accused of being engaged in hacking activities by the west for many years, with units tied to the country’s People’s Liberation Army formerly in the lead.

In 2015, China’s president, Xi Jinping, and the then US president, Barack Obama, struck an agreement promising not to “knowingly support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property” for commercial advantage – which prompted a partial retreat and then a restructuring.

As US-China relations deteriorated, particularly after Donald Trump became president, Chinese activity restarted, this time linked to the country’s ministry of state security (MSS), the country’s principal civilian spy agency.

Chinese groups tend to be more focused on economic rather than political gain, according to researchers at Mandiant FireEye, which last year identified one group known as APT41, whose “espionage targeting has generally aligned with China’s five-year economic development plans”.

Despite the pandemic, APT41, sometimes known as Wicked Panda, began the year with substantial campaigns trying to exploit security vulnerabilities in internet-facing corporate IT networks, including UK government systems.

In September, the US FBI filed charges against what it said were five key figures in APT41, in which it said one of whom had told a colleague he was “very close” to the MSS. China denies it is engaged in hacking-related espionage.

Iran, one of the countries worst affected by coronavirus, was accused of targeting the World Health Organization in early April by using phishing techniques, in which emails were sent trying to encourage staff members to click on a link containing malware in an attempt to steal passwords and gain access to systems.

A similar type of Iranian attack on Gilead Research, the US maker of the antiviral drug remdesivir, thought to be a potential Covid-19 treatment, was detected by researchers at the Israeli cybersecurity firm ClearSky. In one case, a senior executive responsible for legal and corporate affairs was on the receiving end of a phishing email.

Cybersecurity researchers say several hacker groups operate from Iran, engaged in both political and economically focused attacks. One researcher said the targeting of Gilead bore similarities to methods used by the Charming Kitten group, previously accused of targeting journalists, academics and human rights activists in Iran, sometimes by posing as journalists themselves.

North Korean hacker groups are linked by western governments to the country’s Reconnaissance General Bureau. Microsoft accused the best-known group, known generally as Lazarus but by the US software company as Zinc, as engaged in spear phishing, or targeted email attacks, against people working at Covid-19 related research organisations.

It said techniques used by Lazarus or Zinc included “spear-phishing lures for credential theft, sending messages with fabricated job descriptions pretending to be recruiters”. Another group, called Cerium by Microsoft, used the same email spear phishing methods, but this time posed as WHO representatives.

Lazarus first emerged in about 2014 in the consciousness of Western cybersecurity groups and before Covid-19 was accused of being involved in a broad range of activities.

Last year, the US Treasury, announcing sanctions against the group, said it had been involved in the destructive WannaCry ransomware attack in 2017, which particularly affected the NHS in the UK, compromising systems in a third of hospitals and 8% of GP practices. British agencies have made a similar attribution.

Other countries have also been named as pursuing Covid-19 secrets via hacking. In Aprl, FireEye said it had detected an operation conducted by a Vietnamese group, carrying out intrusion campaigns against China in the early phases of the pandemic crisis between January and April.

Spear phishing messages were sent to public authorities in Wuhan, the site of the first significant outbreak of the disease, with concealed malware under the guise of a New York Times live blog with latest news from the crisis.





No.18 article:
&#x27;We need to be honest&#x27;: the PHE expert shining light on Covid and inequality

Kevin Fenton has been named second most influential black person in UK in 2020’s Powerlist

Prof Kevin Fenton, Public Health England’s regional director for London, has lived in a lot of places over the past five decades. Born in Glasgow in 1966, he went to school and university in Jamaica, and worked in public health in the US for 10 years. But it’s the UK, where he gained his PhD, that he calls home.

He was particularly moved and humbled to be named the second most influential black Briton in this year’s Powerlist, behind the Formula One driver Lewis Hamilton, and followed by the grime artist Stormzy, the actor and screenwriter Michaela Coel, the editor-in-chief of British Vogue, Edward Enninful OBE, and the chief executive and general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing, Dame Donna Kinnair.

This year’s list honoured people who have spoken truth to power at a time of increased debate about racial injustice, the list’s publisher, Powerful Media, said.

“It’s nice to be recognised, but more importantly, it’s nice to be represented in this group because it’s not just sports people or people who are cultural icons. We have people in the health service, we have people from other walks of life, and I think that shows the rich diversity of black leadership within our society,” Fenton said.

He was recognised for his work in tackling the coronavirus pandemic, and particularly its devastating impact on black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) communities. Fenton has authored two reports on Covid-19 and inequality, the second of which included evidence from about 4,000 people, including Britain’s BAME groups and academics. “Somebody said to me in one of our interviews: ‘You’re one of the first people from government to ask us why and to listen to our stories’,” he said.

The report concluded that racism and discrimination suffered by people of colour contributed to the high death rates from Covid-19 in those communities.

“The reports came out at the same time as the Black Lives Matter movement … So I think the conversations were real, they were authentic and it provided us with a way to say there are economic disparities, there are disparities in living conditions, but also people of colour are tackling other issues, including risks which influence their outcomes and we need to be honest about that as well,” Fenton said.

Fenton was not surprised by the evidence that showed deprived areas were more likely to be affected by the coronavirus. “Having worked in infectious diseases for 25 years, I knew very well that those diseases and infections are not randomly distributed in the population. They find themselves concentrated – especially in those who have poor access to services, those who are socially and economically disadvantaged, or those not able to take full advantage of some of the preventive measures that we may have,” he said.

Fenton added: “What we didn’t appreciate was that the inequalities would have been so stark, so quickly.” During the first wave of the pandemic, a disproportionate number of people from minority ethnic background who were key workers and consultants died from the virus. “So you had both ends of the economic spectrum being involved.”

This is not the first pandemic Fenton has dealt with. While in the US, he led the Act Against Aids initiative with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, between 2004 to 2008. At the time the focus was largely on developing countries, but Fenton pointed out that the US had a domestic epidemic of Aids, disproportionately impacting the African American community, which also needed attention.

While the links between inequalities, race and health were well-established in the US at the time, Fenton did pioneering work in engaging with the black community to raise awareness and improve access to healthcare.

“[The initiative] really brought together the pillars of African American communities to say, ‘listen, there’s a crisis in our midst and we need now for you to take on the banner to help us to talk about HIV, to address stigma, to improve diagnosis and linkage to care, and to improve outcomes.’” This meant working with historically black colleges, religious institutions and local businesses to develop programmes with and by black Americans.

After a decade in the US, he could no longer ignore the call to return to London. “The longer I was in the US, the more I realised that my values, my sense of self, what I wanted to accomplish, was going to be back here in London,” he said.

Fenton was particularly keen to bring back some new thinking and energy from the US to the UK. He waited for the right opportunity and that came with the development of a new public health body, PHE. He has been working at the body since 2012.

His focus now is on protecting vulnerable communities during the second wave and preparing for the roll-out of vaccine, when one becomes available. He is particularly keen to work with local communities to build up trust and ensure they take full advantage of it when it becomes available.

He describes the inclusion of healthcare workers in the power list as a huge triumph in a particularly difficult year.

As well as his colleagues, his parents are especially proud. “I’m sure they must think, ‘How can this be the same Kevin we had on our knees a few years ago?’”





No.19 article:
Appearing on BBC One's The Andrew Marr Show, Sunak was questioned on the government's purchase of 50 million face masks&nbsp;from Ayanda Capital that were later deemed unusable for NHS workers.&nbsp;&nbsp;

'It was right to try to do everything we can, and I'm not going to apologise for us reacting in that way,' Sunak said.&nbsp;





No.20 article:
Renowned artist Esther Mahlangu urges Africans to hold on to their traditions

Pioneering Ndebele artist fears young people are losing a sense of their roots

One of Africa’s best-known artists has made an impassioned appeal for governments and communities across the continent to preserve their traditions and culture in the face of globalisation.

Esther Mahlangu, 85, said that she was worried young people in Africa were losing a sense of their roots.

“I am surprised that people are running away from their own culture. Our culture is good,” she told the Guardian. “The importance of our culture is to know where they are coming from. The children, the grandchildren must know which roots they are coming from. If the young children don’t learn from the elders, then everything will vanish.”

Mahlangu’s pioneering use of the crafts of her Ndebele people of south-eastern Africa has brought her huge success on the world’s art markets, shown and sold from Australia to New York, and she continues to travel and exhibit widely. Her work has been seen by millions of people on British Airways planes, vodka bottles and billboards.

Musicians including Usher, Alicia Keys and John Legend as well as Oprah Winfrey are among collectors.

Born in 1935 on a farm in Middelburg, a small town in the South African province of Mpumalanga, Mahlangu learned to paint at the age of 10, taught by her mother and grandmother.

Traditionally, Ndebele women painted colourful geometric patterns on the outside of their homes, often representing important events such as weddings.

Mahlangu began painting other objects and canvas, and used bright acrylic paints in place of muted, monochromatic traditional natural colours.

“She was the first person to reimagine Ndebele designs on different platforms. She has been painting now for 70 years and has had a major impact globally. Ninety-five per cent of her work is with international collectors,” said Craig Mark, the director of the Melrose Gallery in Johannesburg, where Mahlangu has a rare solo show this month.

“For a long time she was seen in South Africa as a traditional Ndebele artist. It is only recently that she has been recognised here for her real importance as a global contemporary artist … She is almost a global pop icon brand in her own right,” Mark said.

After years working in provincial cultural museums in South Africa under the repressive and racist apartheid regime, Mahlangu’s breakthrough came when her work was shown in Paris at the Pompidou Centre in 1989. Two years later she was commissioned to repaint a BMW car in Germany. Accolades and honours have piled up ever since. She has represented South Africa overseas as a cultural ambassador, and received commissions varying from the inside of the Market Theatre in Johannesburg to the interior décor for a Rolls-Royce Phantom.

Art from across the African continent has enjoyed a surge of international interest in recent years, with works newly visible in art shows, featured in the specialist media and sought after by major institutions.

The boom has fuelled a wave of new institution. In Cape Town, on one of the world’s most recognisable waterfronts, a vast new art museum, the biggest in Africa, opened in 2017. The Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa has already been described as “Africa’s Tate Modern”. There are also new museums in Marrakech and Lagos.

But there is limited public funding for artists or the cultural sector from governments, and the Covid-19 pandemic has reduced support for artists still further.

Mahlangu returns frequently to her home in Mpumalanga where she has founded a school where girls and young women from the local community are taught to paint in the traditional way.

“I have taught them and I love to do that. But there should be more support for artists from governments. They need to promote African art and culture around the world. That would be a very good thing. That way it won’t vanish,” she said.

Mahlangu, who always appears in public in traditional Ndebele clothes and jewellery, said that she intended to carry on working and travelling despite her age.

“All the cities I visit, I love them all equally. I am going to carry on working and going around the world,” she said.









No.21 article:
 Public anger targets President Alejandro Giammattei over cuts to education and health

Hundreds of protesters broke into Guatemala’s congress and burned part of the building amid growing demonstrations against President Alejandro Giammattei and the legislature for approving a budget that cut educational and health spending.

The incident on Saturday came as about 10,000 people were protesting in front of the National Palace in Guatemala City against corruption and the budget, which protesters say was negotiated and passed by legislators in secret while the Central American country was distracted by the fallout of back-to-back hurricanes and the Covid-19 pandemic.

About 1,000 protesters were demonstrating outside the congress building.

Video on social media showed flames coming out of a window in the legislative building. Police fired teargas at protesters, and about a dozen people were reported injured.

“We are outraged by poverty, injustice, the way they have stolen the public’s money,” said Rosa de Chavarría, a psychology professor.

“I feel like the future is being stolen from us. We don’t see any changes. This cannot continue like this,” added Mauricio Ramírez, a 20-year-old university student.

The amount of damage to the building was unclear, but the fire appears to have affected legislative offices rather than the main hall of congress. Protesters also set bus stations on fire.

Giammattei condemned the incidents via Twitter on Saturday, saying: “Anyone who is proven to have participated in the criminal acts will be punished with the full force of the law.”

He said he defended people’s right to protest, “but neither can we allow people to vandalise public or private property”.

The president said he had been meeting various groups to present changes to the controversial budget.

Discontent had been building on social media over the 2021 budget and clashes erupted during demonstrations on Friday. Guatemalans were angered because legislators approved almost £50,000 to pay for meals for themselves, but cut funding for coronavirus patients and human rights agencies.

Protesters were also upset by recent moves by the supreme court and attorney general they saw as attempts to undermine the fight against corruption.

The vice-president, Guillermo Castillo, has offered to step down, telling Giammattei that both men should resign “for the good of the country”. He also suggested vetoing the approved budget, firing government officials and reaching out more to various sectors around the country.

Giammattei had not responded publicly to that proposal and Castillo did not share the president’s reaction to his proposal. Castillo said he would not resign alone.

The spending plan was negotiated in secret and approved by congress before dawn on Wednesday. It also passed while the country was recovering from hurricanes Eta and Iota, which brought torrential rains to much of Central America.

The Roman Catholic church leadership in Guatemala called on Friday for Giammattei to veto the budget.

Jordán Rodas, the country’s human rights prosecutor, said: “It was a devious blow to the people because Guatemala was between natural disasters; there are signs of government corruption, clientelism in the humanitarian aid.”

He said the budget appeared to favour ministries that have historically been hotspots of corruption.

In 2015, mass streets protests against corruption led to the resignation of President Otto Pérez Molina, his vice-president, Roxana Baldetti, and members of his cabinet. The former president and Baldetti are in jail awaiting trials in various corruption cases.





No.22 article:
What do we know about the planned new Covid tier system for England?

Boris Johnson is expected to announce post-lockdown restrictions on Monday

Boris Johnson is expected to announce proposals on Monday for how the lifting of England’s coronavirus lockdown will work.

Downing Street has announced that once England comes out of its latest lockdown, the country will enter a three-tiered system of coronavirus restrictions, in an effort to keep infections down.

Yes and no. As before, the tiers will represent different degrees of restrictions, with different parts of England in each tier. But it is expected that some tiers will feature tighter restrictions than before, with more areas in the highest tier. In addition, there will be changes to the 10pm curfew on pubs and restaurants to give people more time to finish their drinks.

In many ways, this is not surprising. The health secretary, Matt Hancock, has previously said that he expected England to return to a tiered system, while experts have been warning for weeks that the earlier approach had problems. The old tier 1 restrictions – which applied to the majority of England and included working from home where possible, the “rule of six”, and a 10pm curfew on the hospitality sector – had little effect.

Speaking at a Downing Street press briefing on 16 November, Dr Susan Hopkins, an epidemiologist and medical adviser on the Covid-19 response, added that the impact of tier 2 restrictions varied in different places, but that measures under tier 3 and the so-called “tier 3-plus” appeared to be effective at reducing coronavirus cases.

“We see very little effect from tier 1, and I think when we look at what tiers may be there in the future, we will have to think about strengthening them in order to get us through the winter months until the vaccine is available for everyone,” she said.

Dr Michael Head, senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton, said strengthening the tiers was sensible, not least as it would be expected to keep cases lower and hence reduce pressure on healthcare services.

“That is one of the key points of it, to make sure the healthcare is accessible both in terms of infection control and beds for Covid patients, and to ensure healthcare services are free for non-Covid patients as well, so that we don’t see cancer wards and stroke services and mental health services closed because staff are off sick or isolating because of Covid,” he said.

Details of which of the new tiers each area is to be placed into are expected to be released on Thursday.

Details of how yuletide celebrations are to fit into the government’s new system have yet to be released, although more information is expected on Monday. That said, the government appears to be committed to allowing families to get together over Christmas.

Speaking at a Downing Street press briefing on Friday, Hancock said: “I think it would be such a boost to the whole of the UK if the four nations, each responsible for healthcare in a devolved way, can come together and agree a set of arrangements that’s both safe and careful and sensible, but also allows families to see each other at Christmas.”

Among the possibilities is that a small number of different households could be allowed to form a “bubble” for the several days over Christmas.

Some have suggested a relaxation of restrictions is a favoured policy because many people will otherwise simply break the rules to see their family and friends.

The British Medical Association has published a blueprint of its own for how to come out of lockdown safely, which supports the idea of tighter restrictions within a tiered system.

“Upon exiting lockdown, should there be local outbreaks or surges of infection, there should be a revised tiered system of local lockdowns, with clear “triggers” for when areas move up or down a tier; greater clarity and guidance to the public and clinically extremely vulnerable groups what the different tiers mean for them; and, crucially, stricter rules within the system, including greater restrictions on social mixing and travel between tiers,” the report states.

However, the document also stresses the need for a revamped testing and contact-tracing system, financial and practical support for vulnerable people, and improvements to the NHS Covid-19 app, among other measures.

Many scientists have warned that relaxation of restrictions for Christmas to allow households to mix will result in a surge of infections, and subsequently deaths, in the weeks that follow, with some urging that families who want to meet up opt for a walk outside rather than gathering indoors. However, some have also noted that if restrictions are not relaxed, people might break the rules anyway, while meeting over Christmas could boost people’s mental health.

Prof Brendan Wren, professor of vaccinology at the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine is among those cautioning that relaxing restrictions over the festive season could come at a heavy price. “The best Christmas present ever is the promise of a new effective Covid-19 vaccine for everyone. It would be foolish to spoil this by relaxing measures too far and causing unnecessary deaths,” he has said.

According to Public Health England, modelling by the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies found that “for every one day of relaxation, five days of tighter restrictions would potentially be needed”.

An Opinium poll for the Observer found that the public would prefer a locked-down Christmas over new January restrictions by a margin of 54% to 33%.





No.23 article:
How to fight &#x27;Covid fatigue&#x27; as America heads for a deadly winter

Polls suggest Americans are exhausted after months of restrictions, so we asked experts for advice on how to convince loved ones to stay safe ahead of the holidays

Fatigue with pandemic restrictions has hit many Americans at a time when it’s more important than ever that people take the virus seriously and stay home.

While the US contends with a huge surge in cases and record hospitalizations, federal inaction has forced local officials to adopt their own rules and messaging, creating a patchwork of confusing regulations that differ across the country, and are constantly changing. Polls suggest Americans are exhausted.

The Guardian talked to experts in psychology, public health and communications to get advice on how to convince their weary or misinformed loved ones to stay safe as we head into a deadly holiday season. The interviews have been edited and condensed for clarity.

Dr Seema Yasmin, the director of the Stanford Health Communication Initiative, says it’s useful to convey that the risk of dying right now from Covid is increasing because hospitals across the US are already overrun with patients: “We’re talking about the whole country in some regards being a hotspot. There are 25 states facing a critical shortage of nurses, doctors and other staff. That means you really do not want to get Covid-19 right now. The chances of getting good treatment or getting a hospital bed are far less than earlier in the year.

“We’ve tried to share some hopeful messages – that the likelihood of dying from Covid-19 in the US had decreased, because we’ve learned how to treat patients,” she adds. “But all of that goes out the window if you can’t get people into a hospital bed.” 

“People should talk about why they have made the decision to stay home, to wear a mask and to socially distance,” says Emma Frances Bloomfield, an assistant professor of communication studies at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and an expert in science misinformation. “Frame it as a gain: ‘This is what I’m doing, and this is why I’m doing it,’ as opposed to a loss: ‘You’re not doing these things, and you’re wrong for not doing them.’

“And be a model – model wearing a mask, doing a Zoom hangout. Explain that people are dying and that you’re concerned about friends and family members you have in common getting sick. You can say, ‘I want all of my family members to be here for next Thanksgiving when we can have it in person.’”

Bloomfield: “I think of it as running a race. It doesn’t matter if in the first three-quarters of the race you’ve done everything perfectly and you’re in the lead. If you bungle the last bit right at the finish line, you’re not going to win. At the beginning of the pandemic, there was so much uncertainty, we had no idea how long it was going to last. But now, the vaccines are on the horizon. There is a finish line. So we have to just keep going just a little bit longer, and then we will have all of the in-person activities and travel back soon.”

Yasmin: “It can help to acknowledge that this sucks and is terrible. Acknowledge that Covid fatigue is real, that we should not be in this mess, we should not be having to have lockdowns in November, and that this is happening because of government failure. So I point to other countries that have handled this better and show us how things could be different – and they can still be different starting from 20 January when we have a new president. On a personal level, that’s how I remind myself that we will get out of this, because eventually we will have grown-ups in charge. And there are models and best practices that end transmission. Look at New Zealand or Taiwan or Vietnam. I point to a picture of folks from New Zealand in May at the farmers’ market, hugging each other. We will get out of this.”

Celeste Kidd, an assistant professor of psychology at University of California, Berkeley, says it’s helpful to make clear the potential ripple effects of individual choices: “Older people tend to only be considering the risks to themselves. But it’s important to emphasize that risks are shared. Maybe you personally are willing to take on the risk of possibly dying. But if you are seeing grandkids who attend daycare or school, contact could result in kids transmitting Covid to others there, like teachers. Point out that small indoor gatherings are a major source of transmission, and that hosting one involves risk to many other people outside of those who attend. Also, for grandparents willing to take on the risk of infection from grandkids, point out how horrible the grandkids would feel if that happened.

“It’s also worth noting that due to systemic inequities, some people are forced to take more risks than they should have to at work, so they can keep their health insurance or keep a roof over their head. They sometimes think, ‘I take more risk at my job, and it would be less risky to see my grandkids’. In that case, it’s helpful to remind people that this is not how risk works. Every chance for exposure that you’re adding, your risk is increasing.”

Bloomfield: “Find common authorities. If the person who is a skeptic is of a certain political party or a certain faith or in a certain community, you might find common authorities that they trust who can give them information, if they’re not going to listen to it directly from you. That can help support you in your argument. And engage in a dialogue. Don’t be condescending or patronizing, don’t treat them like an inferior.”

Yasmin: “It’s helpful to take a breath and take a step back from these difficult conversations and do a reset. You do not want to get aggravated or frustrated with someone. You don’t want them to feel like you’re nagging. Research also shows that when there is a particularly polarized conversation, adding facts, evidence and data is like sprinkling kerosene onto a fire. It doesn’t help. Instead, it’s good to start with a discussion point that is more about common ground you share. Like, we are both worried about Auntie Khadija who has asthma. And from there we reach a point of agreeing that not traveling might be a really good thing for Auntie Khadija, that might protect her.”

Bloomfield “Concretize these abstract statistics of hundreds of thousands of deaths with examples and personal stories, especially of people who have contracted Covid and passed when they had previously thought it was a hoax. Make it more personal. People who accept misinformation are often in these echo chambers. Encourage them to read media outside of their current media environment. Trading resources can be helpful – you send me an article, and I’ll send you one. Part of what makes misinformation so persuasive is that it gets there first, and there’s an anchoring bias. So anything you can do to repeat information and share resources early and often, you can work to combat some of the misinformation that they’ve already had.”

Kidd points out that it’s most important to help people change their behavior, not their fundamental beliefs: “Don’t jump into attacking people. Ask people where they are coming from and show genuine interest, and listen. Believing that Covid is a hoax is not inherently a public policy or health risk. But refusing to wear a mask is. The real problem is the behavior that’s coming out of their pseudo-scientific beliefs.”

Kidd: “As humans, we need changes, we need variety. I tried out one of those subscription snack boxes where you don’t know what you’re going to get. We’ve rediscovered pen palling. With my three-year-old, we made a list of all the things we can do now that we wouldn’t have normally done that we found time to do. He was very interested in anatomy, so we did a frog dissection. You can order them prepped to your house.”

Bloomfield: “Some of the in-person things I miss the most are traditions, like going out to a nice restaurant to celebrate something nice that happened. Instead we do a stay-at-home cooking night. Some restaurants have a cook-at-home kit. So we recreate that tradition. My family does a weekly Zoom and catch-up – in a way we talk more than we did pre-Covid.”

Yasmin: “I’m in the Bay Area and I’ve essentially been in lockdown mode since March. We’re not really going to do anything differently. In the early months, I was really diligent about entering a grocery store only once every two weeks. Now I slip up and go more. So now I’m doing a reset and being more diligent because things are so much worse now.”





No.24 article:
Why the race to find Covid-19 vaccines is far from over

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

Despite the promising news from Pfizer and Moderna, other efforts – which may be even more effective – continue around the world

Despite the promising news from Pfizer and Moderna, other efforts – which may be even more effective – continue around the world

While everyone celebrated this month’s news that not one but two experimental vaccines against Covid-19 have proved at least 90% effective at preventing disease in late-stage clinical trials, research into understanding how the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, interacts with the human immune system never paused.

There are plenty of questions still to answer about the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna vaccines: how well will they protect the elderly, for example, and how long for? Which aspects of the immune response that they elicit are protective and which aren’t? Can even better results be achieved, with vaccines that target different parts of the immune system?

We are likely to need several Covid-19 vaccines to cover everyone and as a contingency, in case the virus mutates and “escapes” the ability of one vaccine to neutralise it, a real possibility in light of the discovery of an altered form of Sars-CoV-2 infecting European mink. But we also need better methods of diagnosing and treating the disease. The recent suspension of two major vaccine trials due to serious adverse events is a salutary reminder that there’s much still to learn and a pandemic, while no one would wish for one, provides scientists with a golden opportunity for learning.

Like most Covid-19 vaccine candidates, the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are injected into the muscle, from where they enter the bloodstream and stimulate the production of antibodies to Sars-CoV-2 (specifically to the protein that forms the spikes covering its surface). But antibodies are only one component of the body’s adaptive immune response, which develops over time, in response to invasion by a virus or other pathogen. There is also innate immunity, which we are born with and that is mobilised instantly upon infection, but is not tailored to any specific pathogen. “There are a lot of moving parts to this,” says immunopharmacologist Stephen Holgate, of the University of Southampton in the UK, who wonders why scientists have focused on so few of them.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

Holgate is one of the founders of Synairgen, a University of Southampton spin-off company that has been testing inhaled interferon-beta, an important innate defence that works by shutting down viral replication, as a treatment for Covid-19. A major international study backed by the World Health Organization, called Solidarity, showed that interferon-beta was not effective in treating hospitalised patients, but more recently Synairgen has published the results of a small pilot study suggesting that given in patients with milder disease – and inhaled rather than injected under the skin – it enhanced recovery.

“The reason bats are able to harbour these viruses in such large numbers is that they have such a strong interferon response,” Holgate says. “That is why they don’t develop disease.” Synairgen is now testing whether interferon-beta can prevent hospitalisation in patients who inhale it soon after testing positive, at home. If the approach works, he says, the advantage is that it will continue to do so even if the virus mutates, since interferon’s action does not depend on the structure of the virus.

Another immune response that has received a lot of attention in the context of Covid-19 is that of T-cells. Along with B-cells, which generate antibodies, T-cells form part of the adaptive immune system and they perform two main functions: they help B-cells do their job and they kill infected cells. Both B- and T-cells retain a memory of past infections, meaning they are mobilised more quickly when a pathogen appears for a second or subsequent time.

In May, US researchers reported that T-cells extracted from human blood samples taken before 2019, and exposed to Sars-CoV-2, showed a memory for coronavirus infection. This suggested that previous exposure to different coronaviruses, such as those that cause the common cold, might be sufficient to prime T-cells and raised hopes that they could protect against Covid-19. Those hopes were bolstered by a report of people fighting off infection even though they developed only a T-cell response and no antibodies, though the number of patients in that study was small and the evidence therefore hard to interpret. Lockdown sceptics pointed to these studies as evidence that more of the population was protected against Covid-19 than was thought, but some immunologists say they did so prematurely.

As Akiko Iwasaki of Yale University in the US explains: “T-cells cannot prevent infection, they can only respond when there is an infection.” So although they could potentially reduce the severity of the disease, they can’t stop its transmission between people. Also, there is still no proof that the T-cell response is helpful. “It’s likely that both antibodies and T-cells are important in protection, but we have zero evidence so far for protection of any kind,” says immunologist Zania Stamataki of the University of Birmingham in the UK.

Obtaining that evidence will involve seeing how people either exposed to the virus naturally or vaccinated against it respond upon reinfection. Vaccine trials could provide such evidence, as could a number of studies of the correlates of protection in natural infection. Iwasaki’s group, for example, is comparing the immune responses of unexposed, sick and recovered individuals, while virologist Florian Krammer of the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York City, and colleagues are tracking those responses longitudinally, in thousands of people exposed naturally over time. Then there are the so-called challenge trials that are due to be launched by Chris Chiu of Imperial College London and colleagues in January.

In the first stage of these trials, about 30 young, healthy individuals will have their immune status measured before and after deliberate exposure to Sars-CoV-2. The trials will generate data on immune responses in the blood, but also, because the virus will be delivered via the nose, on any local immune response that develops there. Both antibodies and T-cells are made at the body’s mucosal membranes, including those lining the airways, as well as in the blood, and this mucosal immunity is causing excitement among some scientists, though vaccine makers have so far paid it scant attention.

“The virus comes in and it lands on your mucosal surfaces,” explains Krammer. “If it’s neutralised right there, it’s game over.” Unable to replicate and penetrate deeper into the body’s tissues, the virus is prevented from causing not only disease but also infection, meaning the person can transmit it no further. It’s not yet clear if the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines block transmission, as well as preventing disease, but a vaccine that did so could bring the pandemic to an end sooner. And it could do it without the need for an injection – just by using a nasal spray or inhaler.

Antibodies come in different forms that vary according to their biological properties and the tissues in which they are expressed. Like the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, most Covid-19 vaccines in development elicit IgG antibodies in the blood, but the main antibody secreted in the upper respiratory tract, essentially the nose and throat, is IgA.

In June, in a study that has now been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal, a French group detected IgA antibodies in the blood of Covid-19 patients as early as a day after the onset of their symptoms. IgA levels peaked three weeks later, a week before IgG peaked. Then in August, a Canadian group reported the same finding in saliva. “The IgA response comes up early and dissipates quickly, whereas the IgG response persists,” says immunologist Jennifer Gommerman of the University of Toronto, one of the lead authors on that study.

The short duration of that IgA response might not matter as much as the fact that it peaks early – within a day or two of the innate response. The adaptive immune system kicks in if that innate response fails – it’s the second line of defence – but if you could enhance that early IgA response you could still block infection and prevent the person from feeling ill at all. Researchers have some reason to hope this may be possible.

IgA occurs in different forms at the mucosal membranes and in the blood. In the blood, it circulates singly, while at the membranes lining the airways it is secreted in pairs or even clusters. There is some evidence that doubled up, IgA antibodies’ capacity to neutralise the virus increases significantly, probably because each pair has twice as many binding sites at which to capture the invader. “If you have an antibody on its own, it works pretty well,” says Guy Gorochov of the Sorbonne University in Paris, who led the French study of IgA. “If you have a pair of them, it is far more effective.”

An inhaled vaccine against flu that elicits a local immune response in the airways already exists and there are Covid-19 vaccines in development that do the same, though they are a long way from clinical trials. Researchers are intrigued by the possibility that, besides antibodies, such a vaccine could also stimulate a kind of T-cell that is produced in the lining of the respiratory tract, called tissue-resident memory T-cells, and that these could contribute to shutting down infection rapidly. What’s more, measuring this local response could give an early and accurate indication of a person’s capacity to fight off the disease. “The work we’ve done in the past, with other respiratory viruses, suggests that IgA in the nose is often a much better correlate of protection than circulating antibodies,” says Chiu.

There’s a lot more work to be done before the human immune response is fully leveraged to fight Covid-19 and what is learned in the context of this disease could be applied to others, especially when it comes to therapies that modify the human immune response rather than the virus. For now, though, most experimental vaccines and therapies target antibodies, which are virus-specific and one type of antibody, IgG, in particular. One piece of good news, where these are concerned, is that several studies, including Gommerman’s and Krammer’s, have now demonstrated that IgG levels remain high for up to eight months after infection. The same durability of antibody response has yet to be demonstrated for any vaccine, but these findings bode well.

The best news of all is that at least two vaccines now exist that seem to protect us against Covid-19 and that the chances are high that some of the most vulnerable people in the world will benefit from them within months. It remains an extraordinary and unprecedented feat to have built such a vaccine, and shown it to be safe and effective, before the disease they protect against is one year old – and before the pandemic is over.





No.25 article:
‘Let us disobey’: Churches defy lockdown with secret meetings

Gathering in barns, cafes and bookshops, worshippers are flocking to illegal services around the country

It sounds like the build-up to an illegal rave. Invitations are passed by word of mouth to trusted people. Minimal information – time, directions – is quietly given with pleas for discretion. Once everyone is assembled in a barn on a remote farm – “away from prying eyes,” says the organiser – it begins.

This is no rave, but an English church service under lockdown, and the organiser is a Protestant pastor. The Christians who will gather illegally in the west of England on Sunday morning – as they have for the past two Sundays – will pray, read from the scriptures, sing hymns and listen to a sermon.

“We’ve been holding clandestine services since this lockdown began,” the pastor told the Observer, speaking on condition of anonymity. “It feels weird for us to act this way. People have said it feels more like an underground church in China.

“The fact that we have to sneak around to worship God, in fear of criminal prosecution, is alarming. But we do what we have to do.”

According to church leaders the Observer has spoken to, an increasing number of congregations are breaking the law in order to worship together, an activity banned under current restrictions. Some are moving to different premises, others meeting covertly in regular church buildings.

Last Sunday police intervened at the Angel evangelical church in Clerkenwell, north London, after its pastor publicly announced his intention to hold a service. In Gedling, Nottinghamshire, two arrests were made at the Mustard Seed Christian bookshop and cafe after a gathering of up to 50 people last weekend.

“I never thought I’d say this in Britain, but churches are going underground. These are not isolated cases – and the longer it goes on, more churches will join the movement,” said Andrea Williams, chief executive of Christian Concern, a conservative evangelical group, and a member of the Church of England’s ruling body, the general synod.

Andrew, a minister at a London church, said: “We’ve carried on as normal [during the current lockdown]. We’re holding a couple of services each Sunday, with about 160 people attending in total.

“We’ve asked people to be discreet. This is not a stunt we’re pulling, we’re not seeking publicity. It was a big decision – I’ve never practised civil disobedience before.”

The government had overreached itself, he added. “I don’t believe the government has the authority to tell the church of Jesus Christ that it can’t gather for worship. They have provided no evidence, they just classed us as non-essential. But we believe worship is the most essential thing in life.

“We answer to a higher authority. When there is a contradiction between the laws of the country and God’s command, the Bible is very clear that God’s command must win out.”

Regan King, the pastor of the Angel church, plans to hold further services with up to 15 people on Sunday despite police intervening to prevent a larger service last weekend. “We’re not law breakers, we want to comply with the law as much as possible,” he said. But, he added, there was a “greater law” than that made by the state.

“Since I went public, I have been contacted by many preachers, pastors and leaders who are continuing to hold services – and many others who wish they could. Every church takes its own decision.”

Earlier this month the Metropolitan police wrote to faith leaders in London reminding them of lockdown restrictions, which say places of worship can open for “individual prayer”. It adds: “This is prayer that is not congregational or communal and so these cannot be led by a religious leader.”

The ban on communal worship in England has been challenged by the leaders of the Church of England, the Catholic church and Orthodox Judaism, along with Muslim, Hindu, Sikh and Pentecostal representatives.

They wrote a joint letter to Boris Johnson saying there was “no scientific justification for the wholesale suspension of public worship”. Despite their opposition, most faith leaders are urging compliance.

A legal challenge has been launched by more than 120 church leaders who claim the ban breaches article 9 of the European convention on human rights, which protects the right to freedom of religion. An application for judicial review, backed by Christian Concern, is due to have an initial hearing before a high court judge on Monday.

“Never before have churches been forced to comply [with closure orders] or be criminalised,” said Williams.

Church leaders told the Observer they followed guidelines on social distancing and the wearing of face masks during illegal services. They acknowledged it would be distressing if anyone became ill with Covid following a service. But, said Andrew, “the virus is not within our control. Coming to our church building is safer than going to a supermarket.”

Graham Nicholls, director of Affinity, a network which represents more than 100,000 Christians, said: “In evangelical circles, some believe closure [of churches] is a wise move to help protect the NHS and public health, while others are convinced that the closures are unlawful and unreasonable, yet seek to obey the restrictions.

“Some go further and suggest Christians meet regardless, particularly as there has been no evidence presented to suggest that places of worship are responsible for virus spreading.”

It was encouraging to see church leaders who were “willing to take a stand, irrespective of the consequences”, he added.

According to the west of England pastor, “as Christians, we want to be the best citizens we can. We don’t want to be disobedient, but we’re being forced into a position where we either have to go with our religious convictions or go against our consciences and beliefs and submit to the state. That’s the situation we’re in.”





No.26 article:
Thousands of students continue to take to streets of Bangkok to demand reform of monarchy, government and education

Outside one of Bangkok’s busy shopping arcades, crowds of young protesters bounce balloons – coloured grey with patches of molten orange – above their heads.

“We will act as a meteorite and hit the outdated ways of the older generations in this country,” the protest organisers explained. “We will talk about all the topics that the dinosaurs don’t want to hear.” Inflatable dinosaurs wobbled in the afternoon heat, representing the Thai government. The symbols are playful, but the message is clear: teenagers want change.

A student-led protest movement has shaken Thailand over the past five months. Young people have taken to the streets to call for a true democracy, and have risked jail to shatter a taboo that has long prevented frank, public discussion of the monarchy. Their protests, attended by tens of thousands, present one of the boldest challenges that the Thai royal family has faced in living memory.

Demonstrators say they are not calling for the monarchy to be abolished, but for it to be reformed, accountable to the people and not above the law. They have also called for the prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, a former army general who came to power in a 2014 coup, to stand down, and for changes to the constitution to make the political system more democratic.

Few topics have been left untouched by the movement. At Saturday’s rally, organised by Bad Student, a group that represents school pupils, protesters called not only for monarchy and government reform, but also an overhaul of the education system.

The students want investment in schools, and an end to the military influence and rigid hierarchies that continue to dominate classrooms, stifling freedom of expression. Bad Students has shone a spotlight on abusive behaviour by teachers – from the use of humiliating punishments such as cutting students’ hair if it is considered inappropriate, to the continued use of corporal punishment, despite it being banned. The group has also campaigned for greater protections for female and LGBT students. Yesterday, one student, dressed in school uniform and her mouth taped shut, held a sign that read: “I have been sexually abused by teachers. School is not a safe place.”

“Authoritarianism doesn’t only manifest through the manipulation of elections, it is exercised in everyday life,” said Janjira Sombatpoonsiri, assistant professor at the Institute of Asian Studies, Chulalongkorn University.

Students say they want room for freedom of thought, and a curriculum that allows for different interpretations of Thailand’s past. “History always mentions the good side of Thailand – changing the story, framing others, admiring someone in the sky,” said a speaker at yesterday’s rally, referring to the king.

The current syllabus glorifies the role of the royal family but includes very little on the more sensitive episodes in Thailand’s history - including the massacre of pro-democracy university students in the 1970s.

“The monarchy should be on the curriculum, but it should be the truth,” said a 15-year-old, who, like all protesters, asked not to be named. Her parents, she added, didn’t know she had come to protest.

On her wrist, she wore a pink band to show she is aged under 18. Amnesty International, and other rights groups at the rally, handed out orange and pink wristbands to indicate whether a protester was aged under 18 or 15. They hoped it would remind the authorities to protect the safety of young demonstrators.

On Tuesday, at a much larger rally organised by university students, water cannon containing chemical irritants were fired at protesters, as well as teargas and pepper spray grenades. Despite a huge police presence, opposing groups of royalist “yellow shirts” and pro-democracy students were allowed to confront one another, leading to violent clashes. By the end of the night, six people had been shot and dozens treated for other injuries.

Students accused the police of unfair treatment and of failing to protect them. At a rally the next day, they pelted police headquarters with paint.

There is the risk of further clashes between royalists and protesters, said Matthew Wheeler, a senior analyst for the International Crisis Group, who fears such violence “could be a pretext for a coup d’etat to ‘restore order’”.

“What comes after any future coup is also worrying. If it were to presage a severe clampdown on dissent, it could spark a broader conflict,” he added.

Prayuth said last week that “all laws, all articles” would be used to take action against protesters, suggesting that charges could be filed under harsh lèse-majesté law. Authorities have so far stopped short of using the law, which carries a 15-year sentence for anyone who “defames, insults or threatens the king, queen, heir-apparent or regent”.

Other charges have been used widely. So far, 175 people have been charged with sedition, which carries a maximum seven-year sentence, or public assembly offences. This includes two of the teenage organisers behind Bad Students – Benjamaporn Nivas, 15, and Lopnaphat Wangsit, 17.

Yet, as the authorities hint at a further a crackdown, protesters have vowed to escalate their rallies.

They are driven not only by renewed anger at the response of the police, but also over parliament’s recent decision to refuse one of their key demands – to change the constitution so that the monarchy is accountable, and so that military-appointed senators are replaced with elected officials.

Instead, MPs and senators agreed to set up a committee to draft reforms. Even this will take months, and no changes will be made in relation to the monarchy – an institution that, according to the current charter, must be “enthroned in a position of revered worship”.

“In the past, at least you pretended to listen to protesters and there is a pseudo-negotiation round,” said Janjira, who added that the authorities may be attempting to push pro-democracy protesters into being aggressive on the streets in order to justify a crackdown. “We are reaching a very dangerous point,” she said.

At rallies, protesters hold signs mocking recent comments from King Maha Vajiralongkorn who, asked about the protests, described Thailand as the “land of compromise”.

“How dare he lie about that. The system is not like that at all,” said a 17-year-old. “They don’t listen to our voices. They didn’t listen to us because it is not to their benefit.”

• This article was amended on 30 November 2020. Janjira Sombatpoonsiri is assistant professor at the Institute of Asian Studies, Chulalongkorn University. An earlier version gave her previous role of assistant professor of political science at Thammasat University.





No.27 article:
Israel strikes Hamas targets in Gaza

Defence forces say Israel’s air force hit two rocket ammunition manufacturing sites

Israel says its military struck Hamas targets in Gaza in response to a rocket attack launched from the Palestinian enclave.

The Israeli air force struck two rocket ammunition manufacturing sites, a military compound and “underground infrastructures”, the Israel Defence Forces said on Sunday.

A rocket was fired at Israel from the Gaza Strip on Saturday evening, according to the army, shortly after warning sirens sounded in the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon.

The army statement gave no further details, but emergency services said they had no notification of anyone wounded and Israeli media said the projectile fell on open ground.

The latest reported fire from the Hamas-ruled Palestinian enclave came after two rockets were fired from the coastal strip into neighbouring Israel in the early hours of last Sunday.

There were no casualties or damage in that attack. Israel struck back with fighter planes, helicopters and tanks, hitting what the army said were Hamas targets.

There was no claim of responsibility for the 15 November rocket fire, but Israel routinely holds Islamist group Hamas responsible for all attacks originating from its territory.

In August, Hamas announced they had reached a Qatari-mediated deal with Israel to end more weeks of cross-border exchanges of fire.

Hamas, considered a terrorist group by Israel, seized control of Gaza from the rival Palestinian movement Fatah in 2007. Since then Hamas has fought three devastating wars with Israel in the coastal territory where about two million Palestinians live.

Israel has since maintained a crippling blockade on the Gaza Strip, to isolate Hamas.






