No.1 article:
‘It’s Traumatizing’: Coronavirus Deaths Are Climbing Once Again

By the time Doug Raysby’s wife was allowed to enter his hospital room, it was too late to be sure whether he even knew she was there. After a feverish fight with the coronavirus, he lay unconscious on the bed. His wife cried through an N95 mask, while a computer tablet flashed a video stream of his children saying goodbye.

For weeks, as coronavirus cases spiked across the United States, deaths rose far more slowly, staying significantly lower than in the early, deadliest weeks of the nation’s outbreak in the spring. New treatments, many hoped, might slow a new wave of funerals.

But now, signs are shifting: More than 1,000 Americans are dying of the coronavirus every day on average, a 50 percent increase in the last month. Iowa, Minnesota, New Mexico, Tennessee and Wisconsin have recorded more deaths over the last seven days than in any other week of the pandemic. Twice this past week, there have been more than 1,400 deaths reported in a single day.

“It’s getting bad and it’s potentially going to get a lot worse,” said Jennifer Nuzzo, an epidemiologist and senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. “The months ahead are looking quite horrifying.”

For families like Mr. Raysby’s, the pain of personal loss has combined with a sense of anger that the nation, exhausted after nine months of the pandemic, has grown inured to the death toll, even as its pace is now quickening once more.

“Do you see this human being? Do you realize?” said Kathy James, the mother-in-law of Mr. Raysby, a 57-year-old factory supervisor in Sioux Falls, S.D., who liked to hunt pheasants on the weekends. In the weeks since Mr. Raysby died of the virus, Ms. James said she had wanted to wave a photo of him — a quiet, bespectacled man who once wooed her daughter with purple roses — at the world.

“Do you see Doug?” she said. “Because he should be alive and he should be with us right now.”

More than 244,000 people have died from the coronavirus in the United States, more than any other country, and experts say the pace of new deaths is likely to accelerate in the coming weeks.

Deaths lag several weeks behind infections, so the toll being recorded now reflects transmission that happened several weeks ago, before the country began logging more than 140,000 new cases per day and hospitalizations reached their highest levels of the pandemic. On Friday, public health officials reported more than 181,000 new cases across the country, more than ever before.

The country remains far below the death toll of the spring, when as many as 2,200 people were perishing each day, but some estimates suggest that the United States may soon be on track to reach or even exceed those levels.

From the Midwest to the Sun Belt, officials are bracing for a mounting death toll.

In Marathon County, Wis., a sprawling community in the grip of a Covid-19 surge, a refrigerated morgue truck is now cooled and ready in case it is needed. The medical examiner’s office has stocked extra body bags. A smaller, walk-in cooler was also brought in.

Two hours southeast, in Fond du Lac County, Wis., Dr. Adam Covach, the chief medical examiner, said the system had been strained by the uptick in deaths. Funeral homes are exceedingly busy. Dr. Covach has looked at his own storage capacity and wondered: How soon could his office be overwhelmed? “If things continue increasing at the rate they’re going, it’s going to start getting pretty scary pretty fast,” he said.

In El Paso, there have been so many coronavirus deaths in recent days that the county medical examiner parked five mobile morgue units — the size of trucks — outside its doors. Legacy Mortuary Service, a company that transports bodies from hospitals to funeral homes, is busier than ever, carrying 40 to 50 bodies most days now, its owner, Pilar Contreras, said.

German Alvarado said he had to wait nearly two weeks to hold a funeral for his father-in-law, Antonio Sierra Macias, a professional mechanic who died of the virus.

Mr. Alvarado said his wife and three children under the age of 12 first showed symptoms, then he got it, too. By mid-October, Mr. Sierra Macias also fell sick and was admitted to a hospital, where he learned he had diabetes, in addition to high blood pressure.

Things seemed to be improving, but Mr. Sierra Macias took a turn for the worse. He was 49.

Mr. Alvarado said it was difficult to contend with such loss even as people around him seemed not to be taking the virus seriously, believing it was being overhyped or thinking, somehow, that it was not dangerous.

“It seems like people think the news are overthinking, overtalking,” said Mr. Alvarado, who said he was waiting for paperwork to send his father-in-law’s body for burial in Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, where cemeteries are running out of room. “You don’t realize the situation until you live through it.”

Improved medical treatments for the virus have emerged in the months since it first arrived in the United States, offering hope that even if cases soared before a vaccine was available, deaths might be held off.

A steroid, dexamethasone, has been shown to help the seriously ill; a new antibody treatment, similar to a therapy given to President Trump shortly after he contracted the coronavirus, just won emergency approval from the Food and Drug Administration; and doctors now know to turn patients on their stomachs to improve oxygen flow, one of the many best practices that have emerged over months of contending with Covid-19. The case fatality rate — a crude measure that looks at the share of people who die out of those who are known to have tested positive — has fallen throughout the pandemic, according to public health experts.  That is in part because the country is conducting far more tests, and also because the age demographics have changed, with more cases among young people, who are less likely to get seriously ill.

Still, hospitals are now filling with patients, threatening the limits of medical systems in some regions. More than 68,000 people are in the hospital with the virus, greater than two earlier peaks in the spring and summer. Even the best medicines and techniques lose their usefulness if too many people get sick at the same time, taxing staffing and supplies.

“When you’ve overwhelmed the health care system, nobody is going to get optimal care,” said Dr. Jessica Justman, an epidemiologist at Columbia University.

The rising case numbers — and the threat of mounting deaths — have led some experts to call for a coordinated national shutdown for four to six weeks. Other experts have advocated for a combination of masks, increased testing, paid support for people in quarantine and targeted shutdowns focused on high-risk indoor spaces as a way to slow the toll.

“We can expect the case and death count to continue to rise exponentially unless we take serious measures to mitigate the virus,” said Dr. Howard Markel, a historian of epidemics at the University of Michigan. “All of this is terrible news.”

But with no announcements from the White House for new measures to respond to the soaring outbreak, most of the country is open for business, even as a few governors began calling for new restrictions on Friday.

Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico issued the most sweeping statewide mandate this fall, returning to a “stay at home” order on Monday that will last two weeks. In Oregon, Gov. Kate Brown plans to put the state in a partial lockdown for two weeks starting Wednesday, shuttering gyms, halting restaurant dining and mandating that social gatherings have no more than six people.

A visibly angry Gov. Mark Gordon of Wyoming, speaking at a news conference, said that hospitals have set up tents because they are overrun, that patients from crowded facilities in South Dakota have been sent into Wyoming, and that misinformation about the virus was running rampant. He said he was considering a mask mandate and other restrictions after months of hesitation. People in Wyoming have been “knuckleheads” about the virus, he said.

“We’ve relied on people to be responsible and they’re being irresponsible,” Mr. Gordon said. “If I can’t rely on you, we’re going to have to do something else.”

Particularly painful to those who are part of a growing group who have lost relatives is a sense of indifference about the outbreak, they say, by the public.

The family of Tagan Drone, a 5-year-old girl with a toothy smile and big, colorful bows in her hair, said she had just started kindergarten in Amarillo, Texas. She loved Peppa Pig, nail polish and everything purple and pink. She was learning how to spell her name. For Halloween, she was going to dress up as a mermaid.

But a few days before, she grew sluggish and started throwing up. Her mother took her to get medical treatment, where her family says she tested positive for the coronavirus.

Tagan’s parents offered her soup and ginger ale for dinner, and gave her a bath before bed. Hours later, they found her unresponsive.

Children rarely need to be hospitalized with the virus, and very few die, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. No autopsy was conducted, her parents say, but Amarillo city officials said she was one of two young people in the area whose deaths have been attributed to Covid-19.

“It’s traumatizing,” her father, Quincy Drone, 30, said, speaking from a hotel room where he and Tagan’s mother, Lastassija White, have been staying because they cannot bear to return home, where Tagan used to swing from her bed like on monkey bars. They watched numbly as families they knew went trick-or-treating on Halloween, and as other children filed into school in their neighborhood.

“It scared our community, but it scared them for maybe 12 to 20 hours and then everybody went back to normal life,” Mr. Drone said. “And that’s really how the world is.”





No.2 article:
A Watchdog Accused Officers of Serious Misconduct. Few Were Punished.

An analysis by The New York Times found that the N.Y.P.D. has reduced or rejected recommendations for stiff discipline of officers in about 71 percent of 6,900 serious misconduct charges.

One New York City police officer was accused of pepper-spraying a woman, then denying her medical treatment while she was handcuffed in a Bronx holding cell.

Another officer slammed a 51-year-old man who had been arguing with some restaurant workers onto the floor, knocking him unconscious, the man said. A third officer was accused of tackling a gay man during a pride parade and using a homophobic slur.

The city’s independent oversight agency that investigates police misconduct found enough evidence in all three cases to conclude that the officers should face the most severe discipline available, including suspension or dismissal from the force.

But in the end, senior police officials downgraded or outright rejected those charges, and the officers were given lesser punishments or none at all — the kind of routine outcome that has left the Police Department facing a crisis of trust in its ability to discipline its own.

“It’s a very raw thing,” recalled Zakariyya Amin, who said he was left deeply disillusioned by how the Police Department handled his case involving the incident in the restaurant. “I wake up, still seeing this guy throwing me around, pushing me around.”

This pattern of lenient punishment holds true for about 71 percent of the 6,900 misconduct charges over the last two decades in which the agency, the Civilian Complaint Review Board, recommended the highest level of discipline and a final outcome was recorded, according to an analysis of recently released data by The New York Times.

In case after case, the records show that the Police Department often used its power over the disciplinary process to nullify the review board’s determination that serious misconduct had occurred and that the stiffest punishment should be meted out.

The department regularly ignored the board’s recommendations, overruled them or downgraded the punishments, even when police officials confirmed that the officers had violated department regulations, The Times found. All the while, the city paid millions of dollars to resolve lawsuits from people filing complaints in some of those very same cases.

Mayor Bill de Blasio was elected on a platform that included reining in police misconduct, but these trends have gone largely unchanged during his stewardship of the department.

The analysis shows that since Mr. de Blasio took office in 2014, the department has overruled the board’s recommendation in more than half of the cases in which the board sought the most severe discipline.

In the first half of 2019, the police commissioner at the time, James P. O’Neill, imposed the penalty recommended by the review board in just three out of the 14 cases the panel prosecuted.

In one of the remaining cases, the Police Department decided to allow an officer to go unpunished after the review board concluded that he had used excessive force in punching a 14-year-old boy. In another case, the department chose not to take action against an officer found to have used a chokehold to lift a handcuffed man off his feet and slam him into a car.

The release of the Civilian Complaint Review Board records comes as police departments across the country are under mounting pressure to remove problematic officers from their forces after the death of George Floyd.

As protests swept the city and nation this summer, both Mayor de Blasio and Police Commissioner Dermot F. Shea urged the public to have confidence in the city’s ability to hold officers accountable. But the data offers further evidence of the challenges that outside oversight agencies face in going up against police forces.

Mr. Shea, who was appointed a year ago, has imposed the board’s recommended penalty in only two of the 28 cases in which charges were brought, records show.

After learning that The Times had inquired about how Mr. Shea has handled misconduct, the Police Department issued a news release last week promoting his record on discipline. It said that under Mr. Shea, the department had made several changes, including adopting disciplinary guidelines that standardize penalties.

“We ask for the public’s trust — and the public must know we are worthy of it,” Mr. Shea said.

Still, the handling of police misconduct cases continues to roil the city government: On Wednesday, four senior officials at the Civilian Complaint Review Board were laid off abruptly.

The agency described the move as a restructuring meant to expand its investigative muscle, but some employees said the layoffs amounted to retaliation against officials who criticized how the agency responds when the Police Department refuses to cooperate with its inquiries.

The Civilian Complaint Review Board was established in 1993 by Mayor David N. Dinkins and the City Council to address widespread complaints that police officers were operating with impunity, rarely facing consequences for harassment and brutality, particularly in Black and Hispanic neighborhoods. Residents who believed that they had been subjected to misconduct often felt they had no recourse, which led to a growing resentment of the police.

The Dinkins administration envisioned that the board would be independent of the Police Department, with its own investigators and subpoena power, and would give the public confidence that abusive officers would be held accountable.

But the data, released for the first time in the agency’s history, instead suggests that the board has become all but toothless. The public can file complaints, but the board, often referred to as the C.C.R.B., has little ability to ensure that officers deemed troublesome or worse will face serious consequences.

“What is the C.C.R.B. there for, if they’re recommending stuff and the N.Y.P.D.’s not listening?” said Jacob Alejandro, the gay man who said a lieutenant had knocked him to the ground during a Gay Pride parade, in 2014.

The Police Department declined to comment on the instances of misconduct described in this article, citing an ongoing lawsuit challenging the city’s authority to release additional records. The department would not make individual officers cited in the complaints available to be interviewed.

Assistant Chief Matthew V. Pontillo, who oversees disciplinary policies, disputed the Times analysis and said it was difficult to draw conclusions from the released data.

There were “unique factors that make each case different, that you don’t see in the data, that you would only see if you read the trial decisions,” he said.

But the Rev. Fred Davie, chairman of the review board, said the Police Department’s internal disciplinary system had been in “disarray” for years.

The review board investigates civilian complaints that allege that officers used excessive force, abused their authority or used offensive language and gestures. And in recent years, the panel gained the power to investigate allegations of sexual misconduct and false statements by officers.

The board has no power to impose discipline itself and must present its evidence to an administrative judge employed by the Police Department.

Neither does the board have the power to bring criminal charges. That remains the job of state and federal prosecutors, who are empowered to investigate crimes by officers, such as corruption, assault or unjustified killings.

Since 2015, the review board has published statistics in its annual report showing that the Police Department chose not to follow its recommendations in most cases in which the board brought charges.

But with rare exceptions, the names of officers and other details remained secret until this year, when the State Legislature, responding to the nationwide protests against police brutality, repealed a law that had sealed police disciplinary records.

As a result, the review board released a database of civilian complaints that identifies officers and lists allegations against them, as well as the outcomes of cases.

The data is not comprehensive, especially for complaints filed before 2001. What’s more, information about people who filed complaints, as well as about pending cases, remains largely secret. The Times was able to determine details of cases through other means, including by reviewing lawsuits.

The data provide the most detailed portrait to date of allegations of serious police misconduct resulting in charges since 2001. Some of The Times’s findings include:

The board is considered to be so weak that some lawyers said they discouraged their clients from filing a complaint. The lack of a finding or punishment against the police officers involved could be used to undercut a lawsuit.

Mr. Amin, who said he was body-slammed by a police officer in 2012, received just that advice from his lawyer.

“He said that, ‘All you’re going to be doing is wasting your time,’” Mr. Amin recalled. He proceeded anyway.

Mr. Amin, then 51, said he had been trying to buy a meal for a homeless man at a Coney Island restaurant when he got into an argument with workers, who refused to serve the other man.

According to the complaint, police officers arrived and accused Mr. Amin of disorderly conduct, twisted his arm behind his back, threw him to the ground and briefly knocked him unconscious.

The review board identified the officer as Andrew Schmitt and, based on its investigation, recommended that the department charge him with using excessive force.

But an administrative judge in the Police Department found Officer Schmitt not guilty of the charge after a departmental trial. The city later settled a lawsuit with Mr. Amin for $150,001.

Priscilla Colon was 50 when she watched police officers arrest a friend of hers on a street corner in the Bronx in 2009. According to her lawsuit, she was handcuffed after asking why her friend was being detained.

Later, in a holding cell at a Bronx precinct, Officer Kevin Carney pepper-sprayed Ms. Colon and told her to “fellate” him, according to court documents.

The C.C.R.B. recommended Officer Carney be brought up on charges of excessive force for his use of pepper spray and abuse of authority for refusing to seek medical attention for Ms. Colon.

He was not disciplined on the force charge. For abuse of authority, the records indicate he was given command discipline, meaning his punishment was decided by his commanding officer.

It is not clear what sanction he received, but at the time, the penalty for command discipline ranged from a verbal warning to 10 lost vacation days. The city later settled a lawsuit and paid Ms. Colon $50,000.

In some cases, the records appear to show the police upholding the review board’s findings. But in reality, the penalty imposed by the commissioner was still less than the one that the review board requested.

For instance, the review board wanted Officer James Frascatore to forfeit 10 vacation days for tackling James Blake, a prominent retired professional tennis player, in a case of mistaken identity that received significant attention in 2015.

The officer was found guilty at an administrative trial of using unnecessary physical force, but Police Commissioner O’Neill cut the penalty to five days.

In 2017, a Bronx sergeant used a Taser stun gun on a pregnant 17-year-old girl who refused to allow officers responding to a call about an argument to enter her family’s apartment, according to video and court papers.

The department’s policy says the devices should not be used on “obviously pregnant women,” but a witness recorded the officer using it on the girl, Dailene Rosario, who screamed she was pregnant as several officers attempted to restrain her.

The sergeant, Robert Durst, pleaded guilty to charges brought by the review board and agreed to forfeit 25 vacation days. But Mr. O’Neill docked him just 15. The city later paid $250,000 to settle Ms. Rosario’s lawsuit.

Scott Rynecki, who represented the teenager, said the evidence could not have been clearer — and yet, the officer received a penalty that was hardly enough to deter brutal misconduct, a pattern he has seen with other clients.

“You’re not exactly sending them a message not to do this again by hitting them with such minimal penalties,” he said.

Assistant Chief Pontillo, who helps to develop disciplinary policies, said one reason the two agencies seldom agreed was that the review board’s investigations were uneven.

When the Police Department declined to follow the panel’s recommendations, he said, it was often because the review board had overcharged an officer, failed to produce enough evidence or did not take into account all the circumstances.

He said the department was more likely to follow the board’s recommendations when it recommended lesser discipline, partly because harsher discipline could hinder police officers’ careers.

“The mere fact of having a substantiated civilian complaint, that can be more significant than any penalty actually imposed,” Chief Pontillo said.

Andrew C. Quinn, a lawyer who defends police sergeants in misconduct and criminal cases, said he had not been impressed with the review board’s evidence gathering.

“It’s a feel-good agency to say, ‘Hey, look, we’ve got some oversight of the department, a bunch of politically appointed board members and a bunch of inexperienced and incompetent investigators,’” he said.

Mr. Davie, the board chairman, acknowledged that the board could improve the quality of some of its investigations but said the Police Department could also do a better job at punishing officers.

The department’s system has long been haphazard and too dependent on the whim of senior police officials, he said. For those reasons, the department recently proposed a disciplinary matrix to standardize penalties.

“The system was nowhere close to what it needed to be, and it still needs a lot of work,” he said.

The release of the records has renewed a long-running debate about whether the police commissioner should have sole authority over officer discipline and whether the review board should be able to overrule him.

Chief Pontillo said the commissioner’s authority is crucial for maintaining control of the force, but Mr. Davie said the entire trial process should be scrutinized.

Civil rights lawyers, elected officials and community activists agreed, saying the department’s willingness to depart from the review board’s findings has weakened civilian oversight.

“The N.Y.P.D. has been looking the other way and condoning police abuse routinely and stunningly for decades,” said Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, which filed a public records request to get the data and make it public. “But I think nobody had any idea how massive and pervasive the failures of accountability were.”





No.3 article:
Missing From State Plans to Distribute the Coronavirus Vaccine: Money to Do It

The government has sent billions to drug companies to develop a coronavirus shot but a tiny fraction of that to localities for training, record-keeping and other costs for vaccinating citizens.

With the prospect that a coronavirus vaccine will become available for emergency use as soon as next month, states and cities are warning that distributing the shots to an anxious public could be hindered by inadequate technology, severe funding shortfalls and a lack of trained personnel.

While the Trump administration has showered billions of dollars on the companies developing the vaccines, it has left the logistics of inoculating and tracking as many as 20 million people by year’s end — and many tens of millions more next year — largely to local governments without providing enough money, officials in several localities and public health experts involved in the preparations said in interviews.

Public health departments, already strained by a pandemic that has overrun hospitals and drained budgets, are racing to expand online systems to track and share information about who has been vaccinated; to recruit and train hundreds of thousands of doctors, nurses and pharmacists to give people the shot and collect data about everyone who gets it; to find safe locations for mass vaccination events; and to convince the public of the importance of getting immunized.

The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have sent $200 million to the states for the effort, with another $140 million promised in December, but state and local officials said that was billions of dollars short of what would be needed to carry out their complex plans.

“We absolutely do not have enough to pull this off successfully,” said Dr. Thomas E. Dobbs III, the state health officer of Mississippi. “This is going to be a phenomenal logistical feat, to vaccinate everybody in the country. We absolutely have zero margin for failure. We really have to get this right.”

Health departments have asked Congress for at least $8.4 billion more for “a timely, comprehensive, and equitable vaccine distribution campaign”; the C.D.C. director, Dr. Robert R. Redfield, has said that at least $6 billion is needed. But negotiations for further funding are caught up in the stalemate between House Democrats and the Trump administration over the coronavirus stimulus bill.

“There’s a lot of anxiety,” said Rebecca Coyle, executive director of the American Immunization Registry Association, which has been helping states prepare. “I don’t think we are ready today.”

Congress has allocated $10 billion to Operation Warp Speed, the federal effort subsidizing vaccine companies’ clinical trials and manufacturing costs. Dr. Mandy K. Cohen, the secretary of health and human services in North Carolina, said her state had received just $6 million for distributing and promoting the shot. She expects $3 million more by the end of the year and called the money “a down payment” for what is likely to be $30 million worth of work over the first year of vaccine distribution.

Dr. Nirav Shah, director of the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said that more than anything, insufficient funding would slow the rate of vaccination, particularly among disadvantaged populations that are harder to reach.

“The speed at which we vaccinate the population in Maine is directly dependent on the funding,” he said. “We will still get the job done, but it will take longer if I can’t train the people to give it.”

There are myriad other costs too — including, Dr. Shah noted, paying for secure convoys to transport the vaccine once it gets to states. “We can’t just throw it into Bob’s pickup truck and drive it down the road.”

One official working on distribution plans at the C.D.C., who did not have authorization to speak publicly, said the slow drip of money had made it difficult for states to carry out plans and to hire for vaccine-related jobs.

“It’s unfortunate and inefficient to do it this way,” the official said.

Preliminary plans that almost every state has shared with the C.D.C. offer a glimpse of urgent preparations for a mass vaccination campaign larger than the United States has never seen. Although the vaccine will be available to only a very small slice of Americans at first, probably starting with health care workers, access could expand rapidly over the first half of 2021.

Michigan is enlisting pharmacies to tell their customers with chronic conditions — like diabetes, asthma and high blood pressure — about the vaccine, as they will be prioritized to get it. Tennessee is recruiting more than 1,000 volunteer doctors and nurses to help administer the vaccine initially. Nebraska is making plans to promote it on gas station video screens and in robocalls. New Hampshire — the only state without an online immunization registry — is scrambling to build one to track which residents have received the shot and to report the information to the C.D.C.

The first vaccine that is likely to be authorized by the Food and Drug Administration, made by Pfizer, comes with especially daunting logistical challenges, including the fact that every recipient will need a booster shot three weeks after the initial dose. Keeping track of which people need the follow-up dose, and getting them to return for it, are among the steepest hurdles public health officials face. So is a requirement that providers report, for every dose administered, demographic and other data to their state within 24 hours; states, in turn, will quickly report it to the C.D.C.

A new federal platform, called the Immunization Gateway, aims to connect state vaccine registries so they can share information with one another — for example, if someone gets an initial coronavirus vaccine in New York and then goes to Florida for the winter, a doctor there can look up that person’s first dose information in order to give the correct second dose. But most registries have not yet connected to the platform. Between that and another new federal platform to track vaccines, public health officials are haunted by the spectacular crash of HealthCare.gov, the federal online insurance marketplace set up under the Affordable Care Act, when it went live in 2013 after being finished in a rush.

“A month before the vaccine is about to become available is not the time to think about making systems across 3,000 health departments in 50 states interoperable,” said Lori Freeman, chief executive of the National Association of County and City Health Officials. “It just doesn’t work.”

Addressing Americans’ wariness toward the vaccine — recent polls show that between a third and half of Americans would be reluctant to get it — is also hard, some state officials said, given that none has been approved yet and comprehensive safety data from the ongoing clinical trials has not been released.

“We don’t really have the safety studies available to quote from,” said Dr. Jennifer Dillaha, the Arkansas state epidemiologist and medical director for immunizations. “What we’re trying to do is develop relationships with people and organizations that can help us with messaging when the time comes.”

Other unknowns include how many doses of vaccine each state will initially receive, which groups will the C.D.C. will recommend to get it first and even whether states need to worry about building the ultracold storage capacity needed for the Pfizer vaccine.

The C.D.C. has told states and localities not to buy ultracold freezers for now, since the Pfizer vaccine will be shipped in coolers with dry ice that can keep it viable for up to 15 days with re-icing; it can then last five additional days in a conventional freezer. But many academic medical centers and other hospitals that can afford it are acquiring colder freezers anyway, setting up a have and have-not scenario.

Record-keeping requirements will also be an overwhelming task, officials said. The C.D.C. wants to track, in real time, the age, sex, race and ethnicity of everyone who is vaccinated — states usually provide such data quarterly, at best — so it can analyze how well the vaccination campaign is going among different demographic groups day by day and make adjustments if certain populations or regions have low vaccination rates. The C.D.C., which holds frequent planning calls with state and local health officials, is also still working on persuading states to hand over the personal data of their citizens. The agency has requested each vaccine recipient’s name, date of birth, address, race, ethnicity and certain medical history.

As soon as the F.D.A. approves a vaccine, the C.D.C.’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices will meet to issue recommendations, already in the works, on how it should be distributed. It will almost certainly say that health care workers should be the group with the highest priority for vaccination, followed by essential service workers, people with high-risk medical conditions and those older than 65.

But states will be allowed flexibility within those guidelines; Maryland, for example, plans to include its prison and jail populations in its “Phase 1” priority group. State officials also have to figure out whom to focus on within priority populations if they get less vaccine than they need.

During the C.D.C. advisory committee’s meeting last month, some members said they wanted to ensure that information about any safety problems would be made public quickly.  Until now, the F.D.A. and the C.D.C. have maintained one data system for patients or providers to report bad reactions to vaccines. They plan to supplement that system with a smartphone-based tool that checks in with individuals who have been vaccinated to see whether they have had any health problems.

The C.D.C. advisory group has also stressed the importance of a campaign to persuade the public to take the vaccine, noting that messages were likely to be more effective if they came from community leaders than from the federal government. North Carolina says its campaign will use “photos, video, and personal testimony of celebrities, leaders of historically marginalized populations, and other trusted messengers receiving vaccine as early adopters.”

To ease the burden on health departments, the federal government is contracting with CVS and Walgreens pharmacies to vaccinate residents of nursing homes and other long-term-care centers around the country. But it could be difficult to reach those in isolated regions, and some might opt out of the program. Last week, the administration announced the federal government would contract with pharmacies to provide the vaccine generally, as they do with flu shots, once supplies of it increase next year.

Christine Finley, the immunization program manager at the Vermont Department of Health, said her focus right now was enrolling hospitals to provide the first doses to health care workers and preparing a communications strategy. 

“There are so many questions we’ve received,” she said, “and so much interest, with the disease rate soaring — people saying, ‘We need a vaccine, now.’”





No.4 article:
Biden Asked Republicans to Give Him a Chance. They’re Not Interested.

MASON, Texas — The change at the Sunday prayer service was so subtle it went unnoticed by several congregants. Tucked in between calls for divine health and wisdom, the Rev. Fred Krebs of St. Paul Lutheran Church, who rarely brings up politics, fleetingly mentioned this month’s presidential election.

“We pray for a peaceful transition,” he told his congregation of 50 people. The carefully chosen words underscored the political reality in Mason, a rural, conservative town of roughly 2,000 people, after Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory over President Trump. Not everyone thought the election was over, and not everyone said they would respect the results.

“My Democratic friends think Biden is going to heal everything and unify everyone,” said Jeanie Smith, who attends the more conservative Spring Street Gospel Church in Mason, which is about 100 miles west of Austin. “They are deceived.”

“Now you want healing,” she added. “Now you want to come together. You have not earned it.”

That is the hard reality Mr. Biden is facing, even after winning a race in which he secured a larger share of the popular vote than any challenger since 1932. Towering before him is a wall of Republican resistance, starting with Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede, extending to G.O.P. lawmakers’ reluctance to acknowledge his victory and stretching, perhaps most significantly for American politics in the long term, to ordinary voters who steadfastly deny the election’s outcome.

It is all a far cry from how Mr. Biden framed this election, from the Democratic primary race through his victory speech last weekend. He cast the moment as a chance for the country to excise the political division Mr. Trump has stoked, promising to repair the ideological, racial and geographic fissures that have grown into chasms since 2016. Announcing his campaign, he called it an opportunity to restore “the soul of the nation.” Last weekend, he declared, “Let this grim era of demonization in America begin to end here and now.”

But on Election Day, Republican turnout surged across the country — particularly in rural areas like Mason, which along with its surrounding county had among the largest percentage increases in voter participation in Texas. Democratic dreams of a landslide were thwarted as Republicans notched surprise victories in the House and emerged as the favorite to retain control of the Senate. In the days since, thousands of Mr. Trump’s most fervent supporters have gathered across the country, including in Texas, to protest Mr. Biden’s triumph as illegitimate.

“We’re willing to accept the results, as long as it’s fair and done correctly and certified correctly,” said Sherrie Strong, another supporter of the president’s. She, like others, took Mr. Trump’s position that it was strange that he had been leading in numerous places because of in-person votes on Election Day, only to be overtaken once mail-in ballots were counted on election night and over the days that followed. (The delay in counting mail-in ballots in several states was because of restrictions imposed by Republican state legislatures.)

“It’s just a little upsetting when you go to bed at night, and all of a sudden, four days later, these votes are magically appearing,” Ms. Strong said.

Mr. Biden’s message did have political appeal, motivating a crucial slice of voters who helped him lead Democrats back into power.

Ann Mahnken, a 72-year-old lifelong conservative who attends the Lutheran church, said the prospect of his bringing the country together was why, after voting for Mr. Trump in 2016, she chose the Democratic candidate this time.

“I could not stand the way our country is,” she said. “I didn’t want to go through four more years of that, not in my senior citizen lifetime. I didn’t want to go through four more years of the chaos and the division.”

Mark Lehmberg, a fellow parishioner who voted for Mr. Trump this year after sitting out 2016, said he had given up on the concept of unity — and he advised Ms. Mahnken to do the same. He backed the president because he did not want the economy to shut down over the coronavirus.

“The relationships have already been jeopardized,” Mr. Lehmberg said. “It’s going be hard — impossible — to get people to come together.”

On Monday in Dallas, hundreds of Mr. Trump’s supporters gathered outside the city’s election office in a “Stop the Steal” protest promoted by the state Republican Party. The message from speakers and attendees went further than expressing fears of election fraud, amounting to a wholesale rejection of a Biden presidency and of the Republican elected officials who acknowledged it. One speaker said of the Republican lawmakers who had called Mr. Biden the president-elect, “Remember who they are when you go to the polls next.”

“This is contempt of half of the country by the other half of the country,” said Paul Feeser, 61, who attended the protest in Dallas. “So if the conclusion was for Biden, I would look at it as illegitimate, and I and many others expect to be part of the so-called resistance — as Trump resisted.”

Karen Bell, who was also at the rally, said her distrust centered on mail voting.

“In these swing states, he was ahead, and then all of a sudden in Wisconsin and Michigan and Pennsylvania, they stopped counting,” Ms. Bell said, echoing conspiracy theories about vote counting. “And then we wake up and suddenly Biden is ahead. These mystery votes all came in for Biden and zero for Trump. Something is definitely fishy there.”

Asked for any evidence of widespread election fraud, in light of the fact that election officials including Republicans have consistently dismissed such claims, Ms. Bell cited conspiratorial right-wing sites like Infowars. Election officials have made it clear: There is no evidence of widespread election fraud.

No matter what happens next, “I will not believe that the election was fair,” Ms. Bell said. “I will not believe that he is a legitimate winner.”

The feeling that Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede is justified, and that Mr. Biden’s rise to the presidency should not be recognized, is not universal for Republicans. A recent Reuters/Ipsos poll found that nearly 80 percent of Americans believe Mr. Biden won, including about 60 percent of Republicans.

But other polling has provided mixed results, including a survey from Politico/Morning Consult showing that the number of Republicans who do not believe this year’s election was free and fair has doubled, from 35 percent before Election Day to 70 percent.

In Texas, conservatives have been crowing after Democratic hopes of flipping the state blue and winning control of the Legislature failed to materialize. Even so, state leaders have also fallen in line with the president’s baseless attempts to paint the election as unfair — and the state’s Republican lieutenant governor, Dan Patrick, has offered $1 million for anyone who produces evidence of voter fraud.

But even in Mason, some who supported the president urged the party to move on. “This is over — it’s just what it is,” said Jay Curry, 44, who was arriving to eat at the Willow Creek Cafe and Club with his wife and two children.

The president’s refusal to concede “just means more turmoil and more division,” Mr. Curry said. “We’re divided. It’s red and blue. And they’re against each other more than they’re trying to help anybody.”

His wife, Andrea, was more optimistic.

“I think every president that we’ve had has never intentionally hurt our country,” she said. “They’re going to do their best and that’s all we can hope for.”

Mr. Biden, she added, “is not going to do some intentional crash of our country.”

Her hopefulness stood out in a landscape of dread. Pastor Krebs, the Lutheran minister, said the reason the election felt existential to some was that it represented a referendum on more than just politics.

As a community leader who arrived in Mason shortly before the 2016 election, he said, he has seen how the city’s views of the president are wrapped up in other issues, including the white majority’s relationship with Latino residents and a backlash to Black Lives Matter protesters striving for political power.

At the same time, Pastor Krebs said, sweeping generalities don’t do justice to the complexity of the community.

“Defining people strictly by their parties is not a good thing,” he said. “And I’ve learned that sometimes people think more deeply when they get into a conversation than when we just start labeling one another.”

Ms. Smith, 67, and her husband, Dennis, 69, tied their unequivocal support for the president — even in defeat — to larger cultural concerns.

Like Mr. Biden and his supporters, the Smiths saw this election as a battle for the country’s soul. To unify with Mr. Biden would be an admission that the battle is lost, and that the multicultural tide powering his victory will continue its ascension.

“Everything I worked for, Biden wants to give to the immigrants to help them live, when they don’t do nothing but sit on their butts,” Mr. Smith said.

“And if those protesters come here, if they go tearing up stuff, I guarantee you they won’t be in this town very long,” he added. “We’ll string them up and send them out of here — and it won’t be the same way they came in.”





No.5 article:
Masters Mentorship Puts Tournament Rookies on Top

On Saturday, 14 first-timers made the rain-delayed cut, a Masters record. Many of them benefited from pretournament sessions with seasoned Masters veterans.

AUGUSTA, Ga. — By the time he reached Augusta National Golf Club’s 17th tee during Monday’s practice round, Cameron Champ had talked with his stand-in coach and tour guide about his upcoming wedding and how to navigate the course’s greens.

Now Phil Mickelson, 50 years old and a three-time Masters winner, had more advice for the man half his age who was making his first Masters appearance.

“If you’re going to miss this fairway,” Mickelson counseled, “miss it right, because you have an angle into the green.”

More than two dozen players made their Masters debuts this year under extraordinary circumstances because of the coronavirus pandemic — mandatory testing, a course largely emptied of spectators, the ritual springtime tournament being played in November. But the informal tradition of Augusta tutelage did not ebb. And at least some of the advice, conspicuous to any passer-by thanks to the absence of crowd noise, may have helped: On Saturday, 14 first-timers made the rain-delayed cut, a Masters record.

At day’s end, the top of the leaderboard was crowded with players in their inaugural appearances. The first-timers Abraham Ancer and Sungjae Im were tied with Cameron Smith for second at 12 under par, four strokes behind Dustin Johnson. Sebastián Muñoz finished Saturday tied for seventh at nine under par.

Champ, who shot a 68 on Saturday, will be at six under and tied for 15th as he starts the tournament’s final day, less than a week after his crash course with one of the most celebrated golfers of the era.

“I wanted to play with him and pick his brain and ask him questions,” Champ said after his practice with Mickelson. “He’s fun to be around, super talkative, and obviously, he’s a Masters champ.”

Augusta National has not crowned a Masters champion in his debut since 1979, when Fuzzy Zoeller won the green jacket. The course is among the most challenging in golf for a rookie to unlock, in part because access to it is so rare outside the tournament. Ancer played it for the first time just last week. Im went through all 18 holes alone on Monday, his first day on the course.

“I watched the Masters growing up so many times that I feel like I’m used to playing this course, even though this is my first time,” Im said through an interpreter on Saturday.

Still, advice is often welcomed. Im said he had spoken with K.J. Choi, who finished in the top 10 at the Masters on three occasions, about how to approach the course and had ended the conversation feeling encouraged. On the fairways and the greens this past week, other veterans proved eager to offer counsel about Augusta National, but still stopped far short of spilling every secret of the par-72 course.

“Ray Floyd, Crenshaw, Nicklaus, Palmer — they would all talk about putts, shots, things to watch out for,” Mickelson said, naming winners of a combined 13 Masters tournaments.

But for all the wisdom available to early-career players, there is only so much that can prepare a Masters rookie for the rigors of a course that is far more challenging, Ancer said Friday, than it appears in televised splendor. Besides, there was no guarantee that the tricks devised from successes and regrettable plays in Aprils past would hold up in November.

Tiger Woods, the defending champion, recalled that he had received advice from figures like Jack Nicklaus and Seve Ballesteros. But he said that they — and, later, he — had not shared all. Instead, Woods, a five-time Masters winner who is tied for 20th at five under, suggested there was no substitute for raw experience at Augusta.

“That’s just something also that you have to go through,” he said.

Woods’s approach may still represent something of an advancement for rookie-veteran relations.

Bob Goalby, the 1968 champion, recalled on Wednesday that players like Doug Ford and Sam Snead, both of them Masters winners, had offered him advice. Those exchanges, though, were often based in friendships, not necessarily pay-it-forward sensibilities, he said.

“Most people are more helpful today than they used to be — they used to try to trick you,” Goalby, 91, said, laughing. “We didn’t play for a lot of money, and you had to get the best little edge you could get, no matter how it was. You’d try to beat that guy by a stroke. Playing for the kind of money they play for today, they can gamble, and the next week they’re playing for $9 million instead of playing for $15,000, total.”

These days, some of the advice that the old lions dispensed is obsolete because Augusta National has evolved.

“I remember Palmer saying on seven that if he was playing well enough to win, he was playing well enough to hit a driver in that fairway and then he’d have a little sand wedge in,” Mickelson said. “But that has gone from a birdie hole to one of the hardest pars, so little things like that don’t really fly anymore.”

Muñoz figured that out when he practiced alongside the past champions Vijay Singh and José María Olazábal. He summed up their assessment as, “Man, it’s completely different from what we’re used to.”

“I think that kind of helped me because I didn’t try to play it the way it usually plays and just the way I perceive it right now,” Muñoz said.

Indeed, a barrage of advice carries its own perils.

Adam Scott, the 2013 winner, recalled practicing alongside Greg Norman in 2002, his first Masters entry, and Norman advising him simply to play the game. Scott finished ninth that year.

“In the years after that, I started asking people more and more things, and I found out where all the trouble was and never played good for about eight years here,” Scott said.

So on Monday when Scott practiced with Erik van Rooyen, who ultimately withdrew because of injury, he tried not to unnerve him.

“I told him the story of my first time here,” he said, “and I didn’t know anything and I did fine.”





No.6 article:
Au Revoir but Not Adieu

For 12 years as a columnist I wore my “heart out after the unattainable.”

When I was a younger man, a quarter-century ago, I clambered into the armored Land Rover provided by this newspaper to cover the Bosnian war. It was, at the best of times, an unbalanced vehicle. At the worst, it would shudder as if possessed. I was headed from Sarajevo back to Paris to see my third child born. There was no other way home. The airport, under fire from Serbian artillery, was closed.

Over Mount Igman, out of range of those Serbian guns, on the paved highway to Split, I exhaled. The blast from a shell as I walked through the old town had blown me off my feet a few days earlier. Now I was out of suffocating Sarajevo, home free. Until the steering wheel, spinning in my hands, lost all connection to the wheels. I was helpless. The car slalomed across the oncoming lane, tumbled several feet down an embankment, flipped over and over across a field, to settle at last on its side. The first thing I saw was a small red ax. To smash the bulletproof windows.

If, unlike several dear colleagues, I walked away from the war, it was to say something. Otherwise life was wasted breath. Something about crazed nationalism, how it giddies people with myth, how it gets their blood up building walls, how it births loony ideas like turning the east-west crossroads of Sarajevo into an ethnically pure Serbian preserve, how its endpoint may be 100,000 dead or more in the rubble and the ashes. How it quashes tolerance, destroys civilization, enables dictators, and devours freedom.

To say something, also, to my four children, whose lives I was lucky to see unfold, about engagement in the great causes of the world, about the pursuit of justice, about what Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes called “the bitter cup of heroism,” and about his advice to wear the “heart out after the unattainable.”

In Sarajevo, a man, half-Serb, who’d just had both legs blown off by Serbian shelling, told me a child needs his father even if he’s just sitting in the corner. Life is a struggle but we must seize it, for hope is the last to die. I like the spirit of Shakespeare’s Henry V: “We would not seek a battle, as we are; Nor, as we are, we say we will not shun it.”

This, dear readers, is goodbye, my last column for The New York Times. I have tried to defend the causes I believe in — freedom, decency, pluralism, the importance of dissent in an open society, above all. Uniformity of thought is the death of thought. It paves the road to hell.

I’ve learned a lesson or two. I can say, after a dozen years, that the best columns write themselves. They come, all of a piece, fully formed, a gift from some deep place. They enfold the subject just so, like a halter on a horse’s face.

Such inspiration is rare. Most columns resemble exquisite torture. Having an idea is not something you can order up, like breakfast. The battle between form and subject is ferocious. Eight hundred words constitute a rigid carapace resistant to descriptive writing and narrative.

Lincoln did all right with 272 words at Gettysburg. When the cutting began, I tried to console myself with that. But shed no tears for the columnist’s lot. I always wanted to witness what I wrote about. Armchair pontification too often turns to bloviation. Travel the world, see desperation in the eye of a raped Yazidi girl or a refugee dumped by Australia in Papua New Guinea, and battle to render the unimaginable in a few words. Brevity is a bitter stimulant to pithiness.

It is hard to go at this moment. I did not expect the lessons of Bosnia to come home to the United States of Donald Trump’s “America First” nationalism. Because each vote still counts, because no state has seceded yet, because a “gunned-up” population has not taken up those guns, the country I love appears to be emerging from the Trump nightmare. It is not yet free of the tentacles of his derangement. To beat back the defeated president’s ongoing assault on truth, the rule of law, and the institutions of democracy has been the absolute moral imperative of our times.

The American idea freed me, a British Jew from the land of “trembling Israelites,” as it has freed countless others in various ways. Naturalization is a rite of passage to responsibility. “Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness” depend on the engagement of citizens. The fight to defend America’s openness, renewal and unity against Trump’s walls, retrogression and fracture is inseparable from the struggle to save the world from the creeping autocracy of the 21st century. On lies is tyranny built.

But to everything there is a season. I have tried not only to say what I think but also to reveal who I am. That work is done. You know me, unfiltered, for better or worse. Wisdom is also knowing when to go. Persist too long and, like all those armies bent on reaching Moscow, you may face the Russian winter.

Nobody ever told me what subject to choose, much less what to say about it. “You write and you are free,” a Saudi friend once said in Jeddah. He could scarcely imagine to what degree. Free and solitary, like a runner on the beach in the early morning at low tide. Such freedom is rare.

The thing is to use it. To listen through the silences for a clue. To see the intersection of personal and national psyches, the richest point of journalistic inquiry. To marry the head and the heart. To make a difference. To know, and it’s enough, that a column saved a life. To suggest, in the name of a child’s innocent gaze, that putting food on the table beats an eye for an eye, for then soon enough everyone is blind. To hold power to account.

Having spent my infancy in South Africa, grown up and been educated in England, and then, after a peripatetic life as a foreign correspondent, found my home in New York (the place that took me in), I have been concerned with belonging.

It could scarcely be otherwise. From Lithuania to Johannesburg, from South Africa to Israel and Britain, from London to New York, my family has been on the move since the 1890s. Trees have roots. Jews have legs. Displacement is hard. A new land is also the loss of the old. The mental toll, as on my intermittently suicidal late mother, may be severe.

Exclusion precludes belonging. I learned that young. The beach at Muizenberg, near Cape Town, was full of white people. The surf leapt. Bathers frolicked. Blacks waded into the filthy harbor at Kalk Bay. They slept in concrete-floored outbuildings with little windows like baleful eyes. Or in distant townships of dust and drudgery, where the stale stench of urine filled the alleys.

But I stray into descriptive writing, anathema to the columnist. Suffice to say Bosnia redoubled the lessons of South Africa. Racism is a close cousin to nationalism, as America has been reminded. They both depend on scapegoating or persecuting “the other”; on the idea, as Kipling put it, that: “All nice people, like us, are We, and everyone else is They.”

There is no place, on this small interconnected vulnerable depleted planet, for the ideologies that took tens of millions of lives in 20th century. So, dear readers, fight on for an American democracy freed at last of racism, for a borderless federal Europe, and for a sustainable world.

I am off to head our bureau in Paris, the city I miraculously reached after that Land Rover somersaulted, the city where I started in journalism more than 40 years ago. I may even indulge in some narrative writing, possibly also a good meal, conceivably a decent glass of wine. I will set opinion aside, as I did in Bosnia, where everyone knew what I thought, for we are human after all.

I hope this is au revoir, not adieu. And muchibus thankibus, as Joyce put it in Ulysses, for bearing with me down the years. It’s the voyage that counts, they say, but so does the ever-flickering destination, that promised land where the unquenchable quest of every human being to be free and live with dignity is honored and safeguarded in perpetuity.





No.7 article:
The New Rules of Virtual Wedding Gifting

Do you still have to give a gift at a Zoom wedding? Experts say yes, but it doesn’t have to break the bank.

There may be no Champagne, no breaking of the glass and no first dance. So do virtual wedding guests still need to give the happy couple an expensive wedding gift? After all, you didn’t even get treated to a meal, let alone a single glass of wine.

If you can afford it, you should still give a wedding gift, said Keith Willard, who owns an event planning business based in South Florida. But he cautions couples to keep their expectations low. “I’ve warned couples that they might not get a gift at all, and if they do, expect it to be about 25 percent of the original amount,” he said, referring to pre-Covid times when weddings were in person.

Michael Apuada, 43, a physical therapist, and Brian Tremont, 46, who works in finance, kept their gift expectations low when they married this past June in their Chicago condo, with 200 people watching via Zoom.

“Originally, we felt people would have given less because it was a Zoom wedding, and there was not a dinner and celebration party,” Mr. Apuada said. But he was surprised when most people gave a generous gift, averaging $150 per couple.

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

Not everyone will be so lucky.

Mr. Willard attributes the change in gift giving in part to coronavirus-related financial issues, which also give wedding guests an excuse not to abide by what was normal and customary before the pandemic, where he saw gifts ranging in price from $150 to $500 per person. In addition, while checks were common for in-person weddings, today’s Zoom couples are receiving monetary contributions for their online registries, which tend to include options to contribute to the honeymoon, plane tickets or dinners, Mr. Willard said.

Elaine Swann, a lifestyle and etiquette consultant based in the San Diego area, suggested that guests continue to choose their gifts depending on how close they are to a couple.

“Despite the fact that it’s virtual rather than in-person, the gift should be the same,” Ms. Swann said.

The adage that you should gift the couple the same amount that they’re spending on you as a guest hasn’t applied in decades, and it shouldn’t apply to Zoom weddings, said Jacqueline Whitmore, the founder of the Protocol School of Palm Beach in Florida. The wedding cost and style, she said, should have nothing to do with your gift. Whitmore likes to gift from the registry; if the couple isn’t registered, she sends a gift card.

But how about the virtual bridal shower? While etiquette experts agreed that it should remain the same cost-wise, the type of gifts have changed, said Kurt Perschke, the chief executive of Web Baby Shower, an online baby and bridal shower service based in Asheville, N.C.

“Virtual shower gifts tend to be more on the practical side of the gift spectrum,” Mr. Perschke said. “Sentimental and keepsake gifts are more common at in-person events, where seeing a gift received is part of the experience.”

Popular in-person bridal shower gifts tend to include framed photos, scrapbooks and even gag gifts like massive wine glasses and adult games, Mr. Perschke said. Today, he’s seeing many more linens, China and flatware, in addition to digital gifts such as universal spa e-gift cards and adventure weekend experience gifts.

The costs of these shower gifts have stayed the same, he said, ranging, on average, from $25 to $75.

But don’t expect to spend as much — or even anything at all — on engagement gifts. Melissa Imberman, the owner of the New York-based event planning company the Event of A Lifetime, said engagement parties — and the gifts to accompany the parties — were becoming less popular even before the pandemic.

What if someone happens to have a virtual engagement party?

“Skip engagement gifts altogether and just send a heartfelt congratulations via video chat,” said Marie Kubin, the chief executive of Rent My Wedding, a rental company based in Miami.

So the engagement gift may be one to mark off your list, but you still need to be cognizant of the timeline for sending the other presents.

Etiquette says you have two months post events to send your gift, though if the event is postponed, it’s still encouraged to give a gift based on the original date, said Brittny Drye, editor in chief of Love Inc. magazine, which is based in New York. With postal delays, it’s best to send earlier rather than later.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.8 article:
Do I Really Have to Quarantine if I Visit Family for Thanksgiving?

Indoor gatherings with family and friends are still considered a high-risk activity, but there are ways to reduce your quarantine time.

Q: I’m planning to visit family in Arlington, Va., over Thanksgiving. It’s a nonstop drive, and I’ll be staying with relatives who have been very careful. Do I really need to quarantine when I return to my Manhattan co-op? I can’t imagine it’s any riskier than having dinner with family in Brooklyn or New Jersey.

A: As Thanksgiving approaches and people prepare to travel around the country (albeit less than usual), Covid-19 cases are rising in a large majority of states, including Virginia and New York. The U.S. is now averaging more than 100,000 new cases a day, and we have entered what Dr. Deborah L. Birx called a “deadly phase of the pandemic.”

In New York, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo has expressed concern about holiday travel, telling NY1 on Nov. 6, “If you love someone, say, ‘I love you so much that I’m not going to see you this Thanksgiving.’”

Your plan to reduce points of contact with other people along your holiday route will certainly reduce your risk of contracting the virus, or spreading it to others. But an indoor gathering with family is still considered a high-risk activity. So yes, you should take precautions and follow state rules to protect your neighbors upon your return.

Ahead of the holiday, Gov. Cuomo revised New York’s quarantine rules, giving travelers an option to test out of the two-week quarantine period. Under the new guidelines, anyone traveling into New York from a noncontiguous state should take a Covid-19 test three days before departing for New York. Upon arrival, they must quarantine in New York for three days. On the fourth day, they can take another test. If both tests are negative, they no longer have to quarantine. (Travelers from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont are exempt, as those states are considered contiguous. More state guidelines can be found here.)

Travelers who have been out of New York for less than 24 hours do not need to quarantine, so you could keep the visit short. But if you do need to quarantine, you shouldn’t leave your apartment for the duration. Have food delivered and leave trash outside your door for building staff to collect.

“Quarantines have generally been self imposed,” said Steven D. Sladkus, a real estate lawyer and partner at the Manhattan law firm Schwartz Sladkus Reich Greenberg Atlas, adding that most buildings have been operating on an honor system. “But if a building finds out that you’re not quarantining, they could take action or register a complaint with the state.”





No.9 article:
I’m Tired of Babysitting Man-Babies at Work

Send questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com. Include your name and location, or a request to remain anonymous. Letters may be edited.

First, who cares if your male colleague agrees with your assessment of his behavior? Get it together! He does not get to dictate reality in ways that enable his nonsense. Moving along. Research has long shown that in collaborative work settings, women shoulder the most responsibility. It’s frustrating, it’s complicated, and it absolutely contributes to burnout and women not having enough time or energy to do the work they need and/or want to prioritize. You have to work actively to make sure that you and the women you work with are not disproportionately responsible for administrative and emotional labor. You have to be willing to be perceived as “difficult” even though there is nothing difficult about establishing firm boundaries and sticking to them.

You do not have to let this go. You should not let this go. I teach, and because I am sensitive to women generally being relegated to note-taking and so on, I rotate the responsibility among all students, regardless of gender. You can do something similar. And you can also let these men fail. They are adults, and they can clean up their own professional messes. Secondary work responsibilities should be shared by everyone. If a natural, equitable system isn’t manifesting, assign people specific responsibilities. Stop assuming everything will fall apart if you don’t hold it together. Stop coddling grown men. Prioritize your own work and ambition more than you prioritize the man-babies you work with.

You are being undervalued. Your frustration is understandable. Explain to your boss what you do, and how your expertise enables that work. Make clear that you are a professional and you and your work product deserve to be respected as such. If that doesn’t work, ask him if a student or an intern can do his job. One probably could, but that’s neither here nor there.

We will have finally evolved as a species when people stop replying all unnecessarily. Reply to the sender if you need to communicate only with that person, or reply all to everyone if you need to communicate to the group. It’s not that hard.

I wish I knew why this was so elusive a skill. I guess most people are overwhelmed by professional emails, try to respond to them quickly and perfunctorily, and don’t take the time to reply carefully. That’s how you get trapped in endless email chains about topics irrelevant to your work, and just when you think you’re free from its clutches, someone who was on vacation will return and add to the conversation, triggering a new wave of replies, none of which should have ever arrived in your inbox.

Long story short, your sentiment here is not extremely petty. It’s only moderately petty. You are not crazy. This is one of those minor grievances that irritate most people, and there’s really nothing you can do about it but complain. Embrace that.

As I’ve discussed previously, mandatory fun in person is unbearable. Mandatory fun via Zoom is even worse. But I also think we need to extend a little generosity to H.R. departments. They are doing their best to maintain collegial work environments with everyone working remotely. If this state of affairs goes on much longer, H.R. will adapt and, hopefully, realize that the kind of warm, fun work environment you can create in person might not be possible in a distributed, virtual workplace. And that’s probably OK.

If you’re going to suggest anything, ask for these events to be optional. You might also suggest they deploy a survey to ask employees their opinions on how to support strong connections and what kinds of activities would be more enjoyable. For better or worse, lots of activities have moved online. On a recent date night, my wife and I attended “Inside the Box,” a virtual magic show featuring David Kwong. It was so fun, and we enjoyed it far more than we expected to.

H.R. might look beyond your company for group activities the staff can enjoy. There are all kinds of shows and concerts and the like. It’s not all sweater contests out there. Treat yourself.





No.10 article:
Riz Ahmed Finds the Beat Between Qawwali and House Music

The actor and rapper, who is shooting the sci-fi thriller “Invasion” with Octavia Spencer, talked about the things that he turned to “at different moments to recalibrate or go back to the well,” he said.

Riz Ahmed, the British actor, rapper and activist, tends to speak in paragraphs filled with vivid details. But in his latest role, as a punk-metal drummer who loses his hearing, he learned a different way to express himself.

“As someone who plays a lot with words — spoken word and poetry and other stuff — it really forced me to step out of my comfort zone,” Ahmed said of “Sound of Metal,” which premieres in theaters Nov. 20 and on Amazon Prime Video Dec. 4. “I think it opened me up physically in subtle but also quite profound ways.”

When they first met to discuss the movie, the director Darius Marder laid out the terms: Nothing would be faked — not the drumming or the American Sign Language central to Ahmed’s character, Ruben. After some initial trepidation, Ahmed decided he was up for the challenge.

“Suddenly these two things that were quite daunting got me excited,” he said. So for seven and a half months he “stopped the rest of my life,” he said, and diligently studied both.

His life now resumed, Ahmed — an Oxford grad whose résumé includes “Rogue One,” “Jason Bourne” and “Venom,” as well as a lead actor Emmy for HBO’s “The Night Of” — spent lockdown in London this spring. In March, his conceptual album, “The Long Goodbye,” addressed his “feeling like your country’s breaking up with you” in the wake of Brexit.

In a Zoom interview from Twentynine Palms, Calif., where he has been shooting “Invasion” with Octavia Spencer, Ahmed elaborated on his cultural essentials — “things that I turn to at different moments to recalibrate or go back to the well,” he said. “Things that speak to my identity.”

These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

1. Mathieu Kassovitz’s “La Haine”

It’s a film that I stumbled across when I was a teenager. It was showing late night, a subtitled black-and-white movie. Normally I would have changed the channel. But it was so stylish in how it was shot and edited, and these characters that would jump bursting out of the screen were characters that I felt I recognized. It opened me up to a different kind of cinema.

I feel like it’s a timeless movie, sadly. It’s about riots in the wake of a police-brutality killing in Paris, and it’s something that resonates today. It’s a story of adolescent malaise and marginalization and what that combination can do. But it’s also a hilarious film. It’s a very youthful film. It gives me an indescribable feeling.

2. Short stories by Saadat Hasan Manto

He was a master of the dark satirical short story. He was put on trial for indecency, purely because he chose to portray lives that were not considered worthy of being portrayed. I’ve never been able to sit still for very long, so I’ve always had a tormented relationship with reading. Some of his stories are under a page, but they cut so deep.

He has written about the horrors of partition. He has written about displacement, about how these labels of nationality and identity are fluid. It’s like building a hut on quicksand, and that speaks to my own experience as a child of immigrants and someone who travels a lot. One short story, “Toba Tek Singh,” was particularly an inspiration to me on “The Long Goodbye.” Toba Tek Singh is someone who refuses to pick a side, who decides to build his home in no man’s land. That idea is something that I’m trying to do with my work.

3. Rainer Maria Rilke’s “Go to the Limits of Your Longing”

It speaks to a spirituality that I can just get down with — this idea that divinity lives in the shadow of our actions. It resonates with the verse from the Quran about God’s light being described as a lamp in a niche. And it’s a metaphor I’ve returned to on “Can I Live.”

I also loved this line, “Let everything happen to you: beauty and terror.” That’s an incredible invitation, and something that brings me back to part of why I choose to act. It’s about a desire to want to experience it all, and to not make everything happen but to let everything happen to you. There’s an element of surrender in there.

4. ’90s Multiculturalism

In the ’90s there was this moment of celebrating multiculturalism in the U.K. Sanjeev Bhaskar and Meera Syal created “Goodness Gracious Me,” this groundbreaking sitcom like “Key &amp; Peele” or “Chappelle’s Show.” With hits like “Bend It Like Beckham” or “Bhaji on the Beach,” suddenly we were on the screen. And it wasn’t actors browned up doing Apu accents. This was us. Similarly, in music, Bally Sagoo coming up with these remix cassettes where you’d take hip-hop beats and Bollywood beats, and you’d buy them at a local paan store. I pay homage to this in a short film called “Daytimer.” A big part of this culture was daytime raves, because South Asian girls with strict conservative families weren’t allowed out at night. So we would do all of our parties in the daytime. And you could go and then put back your school uniform, and no one would know any better.

5. Aziz Mian’s “Main Sharabi”

Aziz Mian was a qawwali singer. And qawwali is a genre that I’ve been increasingly taking an interest in as I think about how I can pull from my own cultural heritage and contribute to hip-hop, which I’m so cognizant is a Black art form. Qawwali is an amazing template to create within authentically, in that it’s a mixture of a kind of rap and spoken word and singing. It’s a Sufi tradition of gospel jazz. It’s improvised and quite punk, but it’s also quite devotional.

Aziz Mian was iconoclastic. He was deeply controversial. “Sharabi” means alcoholic, and what he says in the song is, “I’m an alcoholic, I’m an alcoholic.” And what he’s talking about is the intoxication of divine energy. It was mind-blowing for me, because it’s this tightrope of the sacred and the profane that you often have in qawwali, and that Aziz Mian took to its limit.

6. Mos Def’s “Black on Both Sides”

It’s an album that keeps on giving. I revisited the track “Love” the other day. When I first came to this album I was a teenager. When I’ve returned to it now in my mid-30s, I’m recognizing like, oh, wow, he’s referencing bell hooks when he talks about, “Is this the pain of too much tenderness?” You know, when bell hooks talks about how men might run from love because of the pain of making yourself vulnerable. But what he’s talking about is writing and the idea of losing yourself within the ink that spills onto the page.

7. British Rave Music

We have this very proud tradition of sound-system culture that comes from the Jamaican influence in London, which is huge. And from that, we put it through our blender to create these new genres of music every few years. It’s drum and bass, it’s jungle, then it’s garage, then it’s grind, then it’s dubstep, then it’s drill. There’s something just so restlessly creative in London’s concrete. Whenever I finished a film in America, I used to give people USB sticks of a playlist that would educate them on U.K. rave music. U.K. Apache’s “Original Nuttah” is a great primer into what jungle music is. You’ve got a British-Iraqi guy who has named himself Apache Indian, rapping in a mixture of cockney slang and Jamaican patois. I grew up speaking Jamaican slang. I was 20 before I understood they were Jamaican words.

Roy Davis Jr.’s “Gabriel,” sung by Peven Everett, is actually a U.S. garage track, but it takes places in that transition between [U.K.] house and garage. It’s an anthem, really. I think a lot of people in my generation would be like, “Play it at my funeral.”

But the most recent manifestation that’s close to my heart is Jai Paul’s 2013 leaked album, because it blends together all that amazing U.K. music and Black music with Bollywood music and Indian music. He’s created a language that really resonates with me.

8. South Asian Art

A couple of years ago, I decided to start buying small bits of art. The piece that really means a lot to me is a print by Raghu Rai. He took a photo in the late ’70s or early ’80s called “Life Outside Jama Masjid,” which is one of the main mosques in Delhi. It’s a guy who looks a little bit down on his luck — he might be drunk or stoned — and there’s a woman holding him by the cheeks to cheer him up. And there’s a crowd of people who are possibly more on the fringes of society that are gathered outside this mosque to cheer each other up. It struck me as what religion can be about at its best, providing a space of dignity for people who may not feel like they’re afforded dignity elsewhere.

I started buying Mughal miniatures under the tutelage of Navina Haidar, the curator of Islamic art at the Met museum. It’s so crazy that as brown creatives, we don’t know about our heritage. How are we going to move forward unless we know where we’re coming from? I’ve got quite a morbid piece called “Thief in the Night,” from like the 1400s. It’s a miniature of a thief breaking into someone’s house and killing him. But it’s painted so beautifully. I also got to know Salman Toor’s work when I was preparing for “Sound of Metal.” There’s this amazing piece called “East Village Apartment.” It’s this Pakistani guy who’s in his apartment, and he’s got all these books on his table about Indian painting and Pakistani history. He’s trying to do his best to understand where he comes from. But he’s got his head tilted back in exasperation with a glass of wine in his hand, and out the window you see a downtown mosque. And he can’t bear to look at the mosque and he can’t bear to look at the books. I thought it was a beautiful depiction of this busy limbo that so many of us live in.

9. Alocasia Zebrina

So I bought plants during lockdown. Changed my life. I love them — they’re my babies. Alocasia zebrina is a beautiful plant because it’s like the elephant ear, but it’s stripy like a zebra on the stems. And what’s crazy about it is how much they arch toward the sun. They’re so cheeky. They’ll go all the way to try and hit the window. I didn’t know what I was doing for a while and I only had one leaf left. And it snapped, and I was mortified. I thought it was done. But it was so resilient, and I managed to stake the plant and to fertilize it and now it’s sprouting babies. It’s just so satisfying. As someone who has grown up in a city, I never thought the countryside was really for me. It’s connecting me to nature in quite a personal way.

10. His Mum’s Do Pyaaza Recipe

“Do pyaaza” means from two onions. It’s a very simple curry dish that during lockdown my mum taught me, like, “Here’s something you can make and not screw up.” The onions caramelize, so it’s a cheap way of having a sweet curry. Quick to make, very fresh, not too oily, not too much of a sherva to it. My mouth is watering as I’m talking about it. It just tastes like home to me.





No.11 article:
Inside the Mystery of a Country Moonshine Bunker

Distilleries are trendy in rural New York. But this one was open 88 years ago, during Prohibition.

About 30 miles north of Poughkeepsie, in the small town of Pine Plains, is Ryan Road. Quiet and flanked by farmland, it has a discreet turnoff onto a long, gravelly driveway.

At the end of that is a large, new-looking barn, with revelers sitting outside at picnic tables, sipping cocktails and eating pizza and s’mores. Inside the barn is a state-of-the-art distillery, bar, and tasting room.

But take away the picnic tables, food trucks and day drinkers, and the distillery looks like any other farm in Dutchess County, just the way it did during Prohibition, when it was one of the largest producers of moonshine in New York State.

All that came to an end in October 1932, when federal agents raided it. According to a local paper of the time, the distillery at Ryan Farm “was one of the most extensive and elaborate layouts ever found in this part of the country.”

This fall, the curious site, revamped for modern day trippers, reopened as Dutch’s Spirits. It is part of a growing trend of distilleries that have cropped up across the state since Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo introduced the Craft New York Act in 2014, easing regulations on farm distillers. These days, with well over 100 craft distillers across the state, New York trails only California, according to a 2018 report by the Craft Spirits Association.

Many farm distilleries have met the moment with pandemic-friendly and rustic-chic outdoor seating. One has an art gallery and an adjoining farm-to-table restaurant; another was built in and around an old firehouse from 1929. But Dutch’s claim to fame is the very thing that caused its demise 88 years ago: It used to be illegal. To that end, its house spirit is moonshine, and its owner hopes to cash in on the farm’s gangster lore.

Bunkers and a tunnel system — for storage and escape routes — are still on the property, said Brendan McAlpine, the current owner of Dutch’s Spirits. He plans to open them up for tours. According to newspaper accounts from the 1930s, only two Polish immigrants were arrested in the raid; it is believed the rest of the workers escaped through the tunnel system.

Dutch’s Spirits is named after the New York gangster and bootlegger Dutch Schultz, who is believed to have been the mastermind behind the expansive underground moonshine distillery, although some local historians stop short of giving him credit. (The property that was used as a front — a turkey farm— was owned by a retired policeman, Patrick Ryan, who was not arrested during the raid and was rumored to be in cahoots with Mr. Schultz.)

Stacey Demar, who moved to Dutchess County from New York City two years ago, discovered the distillery on Instagram, and recently visited with her girlfriend and puppy. But when she heard about the place’s possible connection to a famous gangster, she thought her mother might be interested.

“My mom is an old Jew from the Lower East Side, so I thought, maybe she knows Dutch Schultz,” Ms. Demar said. “So I brought my parents here and they loved it. My mom’s 85 and she said, ‘Of course, we knew of him.’”

Mr. Schultz, whose real name was Arthur Flegenheimer, had gotten into the crime circuit before Prohibition, but when alcohol became illegal in 1920, he quickly realized he could make a lot of money in booze. He became known as the Bronx beer baron, becoming the boss of a significant organized crime circuit.

In the 1920s and ’30s, several gangsters set up shop in the Catskills and Hudson Valley, including Mr. Schultz, and his rival, Jack (Legs) Diamond, who ran the Irish mob and operated out of Kingston and Albany.

Mr. Schultz’s connection to the Catskills area is well known, especially because of a rumor that he buried a metal box with diamonds, gold, and $1,000 bills somewhere around Phoenicia, about 50 miles west of Pine Plains, right before he died. But his connection to the distillery off Ryan Road is a little more tenuous. Although the Pine Plains raid was well-documented in local newspapers in 1932, Mr. Schultz’s name was never mentioned in connection to it at the time.

Sullivan County Historian John Conway, in his book “Dutch Schultz and His Lost Catskills’ Treasure,” wrote, “Like many other bootleggers of the day, he appreciated the privacy the remote, desolate area offered, and he recognized the value of controlling a piece of land on a direct route from Canada to New York City.” But Mr. Conway was referring to Mr. Schultz’s fondness for Phoenicia.

Bruce Alterman, a private investigator and the author of the novel “Fear in Phoenicia: the Deadly Hunt for Dutch Schultz’s Treasure,” said that he has spoken with locals who remember seeing Mr. Schultz around the town. “There were many eyewitness accounts of him buying everyone dinner at the Phoenicia Hotel and staying at this lodge around the corner,” Mr. Alterman said.

Both men agree that there are no eyewitness accounts of Mr. Schultz in Pine Plains. And Dan Adams, the current owner of the farm where Dutch’s Spirits is based, said he had only heard stories about people seeing Legs Diamond, Mr. Schultz’s rival, in Pine Plains. “The story I heard is that Legs had a little shack in Stanfordville, 10 miles south of us,” said Mr. Adams, 72, who has lived on the farm since the 1970s.

“My understanding always was that Schultz was primarily in Ulster County and that Legs Diamond controlled most of the booze distribution in Dutchess,” Mr. Conway said. But he allows that after Mr. Diamond was killed in 1931 — a murder some believe was ordered by Mr. Schultz — things could have shifted. “It’s possible that after he had Diamond killed, Schultz moved in and took over his territory.”

After all, the distillery wasn’t raided until 1932 and probably didn’t begin operations until that year as well, according to local newspaper coverage at the time. So it seems impossible that Legs Diamond was behind the distillery, since he was already dead.

Schultz was killed four years after Diamond, in 1935 at the Palace Chop House in Newark, New Jersey. His murder was believed to have been orchestrated by the infamous mobster Charles (Lucky) Luciano.

Mr. Adams, the farm’s current owner, inherited the property from his mother. But his knowledge of the farm’s history, including the construction of its underground network, comes from his father, who as a teenager had worked on Mr. Ryan’s turkey farm during Prohibition.

“My dad, he told me this story of how they would dig a hole and then pour some cement and fill it back in,” Mr. Adams said. “Then three or four weeks later, they would go back, dig it back up again, add to the cement — well, they were building the tunnel.”

The tunnels, he said, ran under the original farmhouse, for about 400 feet. One point of entry was a hole in a rock wall on the property, which was covered up by a lean-to.

The 100-foot-long house had a few unique features, including two kitchens, one of which was a front for the distillery, Mr. Adams said. “Outdoors, there was a pipe going into the kitchen from underground with a tree next to it, a pine tree to block it. And they were cooking the booze in a barn behind the house but it looked like it was coming from the house, like they were just cooking in the house.” The bunker chimneys are still visible today, rising out of the ground on the side of the new barn.

Throughout the years, Mr. Adams had tried growing mushrooms in one of the bunkers, but didn’t have much success. Six years ago, however, when New York State encouraged farms to start distilleries, he discussed the idea of reviving the old moonshine effort — this time legally — with his nephew, Alex Adams.

Alex brought on his friend Ariel Schlein, who spent years building a new barn and distillery, both of which Mr. Schlein still owns. They introduced Dutch’s Spirits Sugar Wash Moonshine, which was produced at a different distillery while they continued construction on theirs.

Around 2017, Mr. McAlpine, who is known for restoring and running several properties in nearby Beacon, including a hotel and movie theater, entered the picture.

“When I came here and I learned about the history of the property, that sold it for me,” Mr. McAlpine said. “The property is beautiful, the building’s beautiful, but there’s a lot of beautiful farms in Dutchess County, why is this one special? Oh, it has probably what was the largest illegal bootlegging distillery on the East Coast. And it’s — wait, it’s still here?”

Dutch’s Spirits opened to the public in September. The Sugar Wash Moonshine, soon to be made fully on the premises (they are currently blending and bottling there), is back on the menu.

In the Prohibition era, moonshine could be any illegal hooch that was clandestinely produced. It was very strong and could make people sick, according to Patricia Smith, a sommelier and mixologist based in Charleston, S.C. But today, she said, it’s known as a white, or unaged whiskey.

Mr. McAlpine worked with a distiller to refine the Sugar Wash recipe Mr. Schlein had developed while honoring the ingredients uncovered in the 1932 raid (which included 10,000 pounds of sugar, 25 gallons of sulfuric acid and over 3,000 gallons of mash, according to a local newspaper). One item not in the recipe is corn, a common ingredient in modern moonshines.

“In the days of Prohibition, corn would have been harder to come by, less practical, and more expensive, so sugar was often used instead and became a typical base for many moonshines,” said Nima Ansari, a buyer at Astor Wines &amp; Spirits in NoHo.

Next in development at Dutch’s Spirits is a rye whiskey. Mr. McAlpine also wants to use the land around the farm to grow herbs for cocktails and produce for the restaurant. There are also plans for a museum, a farm store, and another bar built around Patrick Ryan’s original turkey coops.

“If Dutch was around, I think if he has a sense of humor, he’s probably laughing a little bit,” said Mr. McAlpine, who received his federal distilling permit on the anniversary of the F.B.I. raid.

“Eighty-eight years later, we’re walking people down into these bunkers and using it as a selling point,” Mr. McAlpine continued. “I’m literally licensed by the federal government to produce alcohol, not 20 feet from where they were doing it illegally.”





No.12 article:
The Rainbow Man Brings His Mishmash Appeal to TikTok

Need a hit of serotonin right about now?

The dancer Mark Kanemura’s lip-sync videos aim straight for our neglected pleasure receptors. In these rainbow-hued, dollar-store fantasias, Mr. Kanemura accents pop beats with runway struts and hair whips. He can swirl a pride flag with a matador’s panache. A gown, jury-rigged from black tarp, might conceal large quantities of balloons. When he removes one wig it tends to reveal another (and another, and another).

Though his videos feature canny pairings of movement and music — he favors Carly Rae Jepsen’s fizzy singles — Mr. Kanemura doesn’t call them dance, exactly. “They’re a mishmash of all these different things I love,” he said in a video interview. “Obviously dance, but also theater and drag and costuming.”

Addictive and meme-worthy, they seem made for TikTok, where Mr. Kanemura (@markkanemura) has amassed more than 175,000 followers. But he didn’t start out making them for TikTok.

In 2017, when he uploaded the first in his series, Mr. Kanemura’s posts lived on Instagram, where dance and dancers have thrived. (His handle there is @mkik808.) The lip-sync clips played to an audience that might already have been familiar with his dance talent, thanks to his appearances on “So You Think You Can Dance” and his years spent performing with Lady Gaga. But these videos offered something different: a peek into his creative mind. Soon, they earned the devotion of a large Instagram community.

Now Mr. Kanemura, 37, is building an audience on TikTok, as are many professional dancers who find themselves with more free time than usual. In his case, however, it seems less like an experiment and more like a homecoming. He was creating TikTok content before TikTok arrived.

Mr. Kanemura is far from the biggest star on the app. But what’s appealing about his work is also what makes TikTok appealing in this particular moment. Both offer escapism, on a scale that feels appropriate to a society stuck at home. (Like many TikTok creators, Mr. Kanemura sets most of his videos in the bedroom, that pandemic prison and refuge.) And both highlight refreshing originality, rather than exhausting perfection.

To go viral on TikTok, “you have to hit a cultural mood,” said Shauna Pomerantz, an associate professor at Brock University in Ontario who is studying TikTok creativity. “And I think right now TikTok is viral as a platform because of this state we’re all in.”

Many of Mr. Kanemura’s fans are children, who seem to relate to his playfulness. (My 4-year-old, an ardent admirer, calls him “the rainbow man.”) Perhaps that’s because Mr. Kanemura’s videos are versions of the living-room shows he would put on as a music video- and theater-obsessed child growing up in Oahu, Hawaii.

“I was the kid who would save money not for toys, but for props,” Mr. Kanemura said. “Touring shows would come down to Hawaii, ‘Phantom of the Opera’ and ‘Cats,’ and I would go home and try to recreate them, using the resources that I had — cardboard boxes or sheets.”

The scale was small, but these were prodigious productions. “He taught me what it is to be ‘extra,’” as in over-the-top, said Marissa Kanemura-Morin, his younger sister and childhood collaborator. “He’d use cardboard to make a ‘Phantom’ chandelier, and somehow, everyone believed it.”

In high school, Mr. Kanemura began training intensively in dance. He also started sneaking into clubs to see drag shows. “I was anxious to get into the gay scene,” said Mr. Kanemura, adding that he admired the drag queens’ resourcefulness and brash theatricality. “They didn’t have a ton of money to spend on costumes or looks, so they were constructing it all themselves,” he said. “I realized that drag is theater, and theater is drag.”

After early dance jobs on cruise ships and at Tokyo Disney, Mr. Kanemura earned a spot on the fourth season of “So You Think You Can Dance,” in 2008. In its early seasons, the show was casually homophobic; the executive producer and judge Nigel Lythgoe wanted the men to dance like “dudes.” Mr. Kanemura didn’t fit that role, but he became a fan favorite anyway, progressing to the final six. The choreographer Sonya Tayeh showcased him in her routine “The Garden,” which still makes best-of lists from the series.

The show introduced Mr. Kanemura to the work of Lady Gaga, who made one of her first television appearances during a Season 4 episode. In her work, Mr. Kanemura said, he recognized all of his favorite things — theater, drag, fantasy — and a model for artistic freedom. “I saw her being this wonderful, beautiful, creative creature in the world, and it gave me the courage to be myself,” he said. Lady Gaga hired Mr. Kanemura for her 2009 MTV Video Music Awards performance, and soon he was a fixture on her tours and in her music videos.

Even the dreamiest dance job can turn into a grind. After four and a half years of near-constant travel with Lady Gaga, Mr. Kanemura was exhausted, injured and ready to try something else. What, he wasn’t sure.

He did some choreography (including a routine for “So You Think You Can Dance” set to RuPaul’s “Call Me Mother,” which the website Decider called “a triumph of the show’s evolved queerness”), taught for dance conventions, and experimented with short films. “It was a bit terrifying,” he said. “You feel like you’re starting from zero, which was essentially what I had to do.”

It was at a low point — after a difficult breakup, he was crashing at a friend’s apartment — that Mr. Kanemura made his first lip-sync video, to Ms. Jepsen’s “Cut to the Feeling.” His props were a blond wig, a rainbow flag and a few handfuls of rose petals. It was tame by his current standards, but the video’s exuberance caught the internet’s attention.

“It was bringing me joy, and then the feedback I was getting was that it was bringing joy to a lot of people,” he said. It also felt “liberating and fun and free,” he added, true to himself in a way that his previous social posts had not been. A Pride month version of the video earned Ms. Jepsen’s approval; she invited Mr. Kanemura to recreate the clip live during her 2018 performance at the Outside Lands festival.

So began Mr. Kanemura’s third act as an Instagram and, now, TikTok influencer. A prominent face of the gay community, he uses the power of his internet celebrity to promote self-acceptance. Bullied as a middle-schooler (and again more recently as his social following grew), he has hosted online fund-raisers for the Trevor Project, which supports lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer youth in crisis.

Last year, Todrick Hall — the “American Idol” standout turned YouTube and TikTok star — featured Mr. Kanemura in the music video for his “Wig,” which Mr. Hall wrote as an L.G.B.T.Q. anthem. “He has a beard and he’s wearing a wig and you can’t really define who he is or what he is and you don’t feel the need to try, because it just makes you happy,” Mr. Hall said.

Though Mr. Kanemura’s videos resonate on TikTok, his Instagram community remains much larger, and zealous. In March, Mr. Kanemura began leading quarantine dance parties on Instagram Live, hosted from his Los Angeles apartment, familiar to viewers of his lip-sync videos. Other dance artists, including the Hollywood choreographer Ryan Heffington, soon began streaming similar sessions.

But Mr. Kanemura’s buoyant parties were, in the spirit of his signature videos, more likely to involve disco balls and pink fruit-printed onesies. They attracted thousands of participants, including the supermodel Heidi Klum. Mr. Kanemura cheered all of them on.

Maintaining a relentlessly positive persona, especially during periods of national and global emergency, can be difficult. Mr. Kanemura doesn’t hide his feelings of depression and burnout from his followers. “I always want to make sure that I’m really showing up for people, in the sense of being a source of light,” he said, “and sometimes I’m just not in that head space for weeks or even months.”

In May, after the killing of George Floyd, he stopped hosting his dance parties. His social feeds went quiet, save for the posting of Black Lives Matter resources. “It was clear that my energy and time needed to be spent elsewhere,” he said. He left his apartment and joined demonstrations in Los Angeles. In that moment, he said, physical communing felt urgently necessary. But as coronavirus caseloads escalated in July, so did the need for virtual community. Later in the summer, Mr. Kanemura re-emerged online — in a pair of roller skates — and his videos began to connect with a TikTok audience.

Though quick to express gratitude for his web-based career, which has allowed him to earn income (via sponsored posts) safely during shutdowns, Mr. Kanemura has goals that extend beyond the screen. Once the world reopens, he said he wants to recreate his quarantine dance parties in the flesh, with a live D.J.

“I would love to make a safe space for people that are not necessarily dancers to come together, dance and express themselves in a way that’s not what you would find in a traditional dance class,” he said.

Until then, whenever you need a break from doomscrolling, you know where to find him. As Ms. Pomerantz noted, continuity provides comfort in a crisis. The world may be falling apart, but TikTok is, as ever, serving up distraction. And Mr. Kanemura is, as ever, dancing in his confetti-strewn apartment.





No.13 article:
A Vibrant Screen That Resurrects an Artist’s Vision

The Turin, Italy-born artist Giacomo Balla was among the great early 20th-century Futurists — radical thinkers who venerated the automobile, the airplane and the kinetic, sometimes violent power of modern life. Influenced by Cubism’s fractured light and geometry, as well as the motion of Étienne-Jules Marey’s pioneering chronophotography, Balla captured the era’s dynamism with such paintings as his 1912 “Girl Running on a Balcony” but also turned his brightly hued abstractions into furniture, lampshades and avant-garde clothing. In 1917, he flipped over a couple of discarded photographs and sketched a folding screen, coloring it with tempera and pencil. The drawing remained unpublished until it appeared in a 1968 Balla monograph, but now Cassina has produced the partition, silk-screened on both sides of an asymmetrically cut wooden armature with satin-brass hinges. The colors pictured here are those that Balla himself specified: a smoldering combination of cinnabar, citron and deep forest. (Another iteration is available in blues and sage green on a white background.) The future, it seems, with all its vivid contradictions, has arrived at last.

Cassina Paravento Balla, $9,800, cassina.com.





No.14 article:
Abby Phillip Is Next-Gen CNN

“Black women did that,” said Abby Phillip, a CNN political correspondent.

It was Friday, Nov. 6, and Ms. Phillip, 31, was sitting screen-left of Jake Tapper, CNN’s chief Washington correspondent, and Dana Bash, the network’s chief political correspondent, narrating for America what the vote tallies coming in from Georgia and Pennsylvania were indicating and, perhaps more important, what they were signifying.

“For Black women, this has been really a proving moment for their political strength, in carrying Joe Biden to the Democratic nomination through the primary,” she said.

It was the day before victory would be declared for Mr. Biden and Senator Kamala Harris, and three long days after Election Day, this year more of a capstone to a voting season. It was a year in which the treatment of Black women (Breonna Taylor) and the political capital of Black women (Stacey Abrams and voters) had dominated news cycles. Along with a health pandemic that has disproportionately affected people of color, punctuated by a sweeping movement for racial justice.

In the 52 hours over five days that the trio would hold court at that desk, there had been plenty of hot takes to fill the airtime. But as Ms. Phillip took command of this particular moment, pablum gave way to prose — or to a “historical poetry,” as she called it: recited in a slow, deliberate cadence distinct from the rat-tat-tat verbal spray that has typified cable news for a generation.

“Not only would Black women put Joe Biden in the White House,” Ms. Phillip said on air, predicting the finish, “but they would also put a Black woman in the White House as well.” And while “Donald Trump’s political career began with the racist birther lie,” she continued, “it may very well end with a Black woman in the White House.”

Clips of Ms. Phillip were widely circulated on social media, and her Instagram followers quadrupled. Viewers like Bernice King, the chief executive officer of Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta and the youngest child of Dr. King and Coretta Scott King, shared their appreciation.

“I celebrate @abbydphillip,” Ms. King tweeted, posting Ms. Phillip’s CNN headshot.

At a network that draws top viewership at such moments, a star was being born. “Abby has an intellect that is unmatched, and she has a pretty unique ability to synthesize information quickly both in her reporting and her analysis, and deliver it in a way that meets the viewers where they are,” said David Chalian, CNN’s political director.

Ms. Phillip said the goal of her coverage was to include what she was hearing from friends and relatives, as well as political sources. “The ways that I contribute to the conversation come from both the years I have worked as a reporter but also what happens to be my own lived experience,” she said.

Her upbringing, she said, is “a typical immigrant story.” She was born in Virginia to parents from Trinidad and Tobago, and raised with five siblings. Their father, Carlos Phillip, was a teacher and then an educational psychologist in Washington, D.C. Their mother, June Phillip, is now a realtor. The family returned to Trinidad and Tobago for a few years when Abby was a child, and she had an accent when she returned to America at 9. “For a lot of years I was very quiet,” Ms. Phillip said. Teachers would send home notes to her parents that said “Abby needs to speak up.”

Ms. Phillip enrolled at Harvard College in 2006 with plans to study medicine. She joined the staff of the Crimson, the student newspaper, and began to consider journalism as a career after she went on a school-sponsored public service trip through Tennessee and Mississippi, tracing events of the civil rights movement, and after Barack Obama’s election her junior year.

After graduating in 2010 with a bachelor’s degree in government, Ms. Phillip went to blog at Politico. “Fast and furious,” she said. Two years later, she moved on to a news fellowship at ABC News, working mostly on “This Week” with George Stephanopoulos. Unsure about TV journalism (“I had a lot of concerns about the show business part of it”) she joined The Washington Post as a reporter and helped cover Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. After frequent appearances as a political news analyst on CNN, the network hired her in 2017.

In a field crowded with fast-talking bros, Ms. Phillip stands out for her reserve. She has always been “very quiet and ambitious, but she doesn’t present in a flamboyant way like some ambitious people do,” said John Harris, a founder of Politico. “When I see her on TV, she conveys that sense of poise and self-possession that I remember. What’s the next decade going to be like for this exceptional person?”

Nia-Malika Henderson, a senior political reporter at CNN, has an answer. “I hope when she has her own show she’ll have me on it,” she said.

Like many female reporters, Ms. Phillip has suffered particular public ridicule by the president. In November 2018, after Mr. Trump fired the attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and installed Matthew Whitaker to temporarily lead the Department of Justice, Ms. Phillip was in a gaggle of reporters outside of the White House and asked Mr. Trump if he hoped Mr. Whitaker would tamp down on the special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. “What a stupid question that is,” he said. “What a stupid question. I watch you a lot, you ask a lot of stupid questions.”

In the same time period, President Trump had also castigated two other Black female reporters, saying that a question posed to him by Yamiche Alcindor of PBS was “racist” and calling April Ryan of American Urban Radio Networks “a loser.”

This made his rebuke of Ms. Phillip into a bigger story. But “I didn’t feel offended in any way,” she said. “I felt like he was lashing out because he didn’t like the question, but sometimes the questions he doesn’t like are the most important ones.”

She added, “He insults a lot of people and a lot of the time, the insults aren’t true.”

Ms. Alcindor said her friendship with Ms. Phillip has been crucial in weathering the challenges of covering the Trump administration. “She has your back. She’s a really, really good person,” she said, as her voice caught. “It’s getting me a little emotional. A rough year like this it puts a lot in perspective.”

Ms. Phillip sees an upside. “In some ways, Donald Trump has made a lot of reporters better reporters,” she said. “The relentless fact-checking you have to do with this president is unlike anything I have experienced before. It has done away with the practice of giving figures in Washington the benefit of the doubt when it comes to truthfulness, and that’s OK, in a bipartisan way.”

In January, Ms. Phillip came under fire when she moderated a debate between the Democratic presidential candidates. At one point, she turned to Senator Bernie Sanders and asked him to address a recent CNN report that he had told Senator Elizabeth Warren that he did not believe a woman could win the presidency, a scoop that Ms. Warren had confirmed.

“Why did you say that?” Ms. Phillip asked. “Well, as a matter of fact, I didn’t say it,” he replied. Ms. Phillip then turned to Ms. Warren. “What did you think when Senator Sanders told you a woman could not win the election?” she asked.

Many commentators felt Ms. Phillip should have dropped the matter after Mr. Sanders’s denial. The way she saw it, the perception of the electability of women was an important topic of inquiry and she had the two key figures involved in the conversation on a stage in front of her. Why wouldn’t she ask them both about it? Why would she accept one person’s denial as more valid than another’s confirmation?

“If we reported something about Donald Trump, confirmed by multiple sources,” she said, “we would stand by that reporting. I don’t think it’s any different when it’s Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders. I think about this a lot. Democrats, in particular, will have to figure this out. If Democrats will believe reporting from us about Donald Trump, they should believe our reporting about Bernie Sanders.”

In June, Ms. Phillip traveled to Tulsa, Okla., where Mr. Trump was holding his first campaign rally since the nation went into lockdown. Before reporting on the rally, with its much-smaller-than-anticipated turnout, Ms. Phillip filed two pieces about the 1921 destruction of the once-affluent Tulsa neighborhood once known as “Black Wall Street,” and the massacre of hundreds of Black Tulsa residents, which came after a white woman accused a Black man of assault. For many supporters of Black Lives Matter in Tulsa, this was an important rejoinder to sentiments Mr. Trump has expressed in a Fox interview that the inequities being protested since the death of George Floyd could be addressed with economic prosperity.

Two months later, Ms. Phillip was chosen to help anchor coverage of the Democratic National Convention and the Republican National Convention. And then, in October, she got a call from Eric Sherling, one of CNN’s executive producers. “I want to walk you through our election night plans,” he said.

“I was excited, but I was stressed,” Ms. Phillip said. “I knew it was a big deal.”

She didn’t tell her parents. “I’m a really superstitious person,” she said. Then a few days before Election Day, her mother called. “Did you see that election night promo?” she asked her daughter. “You’re in it!”

On Monday, Nov. 2, she was up late with her husband, Marcus Richardson, reading and worrying. “I turned to Marcus and said, ‘I feel like this is a test and I’m worried I’m going to fail.’”

Mr. Richardson, a cybersecurity consultant, and Ms. Phillip have been married for two years and together for nearly a decade. “I think most individuals who are in a relationship and see their significant other go through important moments and you continually see them succeed, you just have to remind them, ‘baby, you’ve got this,’” he said.

Her colleague Ms. Bash praised Ms. Phillip’s political knowledge and “natural gravitas,” and added: “It’s also so great to have another woman to riff with and bounce things off of. I don’t have anything against the dudes, I love the dudes,” she said — but the dudes have dominated anchor desks, including CNN’s.

It was, in fact, Ms. Bash’s on-air comments about the history being made by Vice President-elect Harris that teed Ms. Phillip up to make her comments about the voting power of Black women. As Ms. Phillip spoke, said Ms. Bash, “I was recognizing that something special was happening.”

At home with their dog, Booker T., Mr. Richardson pumped his fists, knowing his wife was defining a key point of this election. “Yeah baby, you let them know!’” he said to himself.

Though still busy covering the continued drama over an election that Mr. Trump has yet to concede, Ms. Phillip is now able to get a decent night’s sleep and think, free of superstition, about how she performed on the biggest stage of her career thus far.

“Mostly I feel like I did what I wanted to do, which was to be honest and straightforward and knowledgeable and present and to tell the truth,” she said. “I didn’t go into things wanting to stand out. I went in thinking I want to be a valuable member of the team and I feel good that I did that.”





No.15 article:
Democrats Work to Defy History in Georgia Runoffs That Have Favored G.O.P.

The special elections were devised by white lawmakers to dilute the power of Black voters. But those involved in earlier contests say demographic change and Democratic energy could allow the party to finally beat the odds.

WASHINGTON — A first-term senator in Georgia narrowly bested his opponent, outrunning his party’s standard-bearer only to face voters again a few weeks later under a quirky system that briefly made the state the center of the political universe after a hard-fought presidential election.

The year was 1992, and Senator Wyche Fowler Jr., a Democrat, had amassed more votes than his Republican opponent on Election Day. But he lost his seat three weeks later.

“Yes, I was disappointed, running six points ahead of the president and being the only state in the country that had this kind of crazy system,” said Mr. Fowler, now 80, looking back on a storied runoff election 28 years ago after Bill Clinton won the presidency.

Now that same “crazy system” that overturned Mr. Fowler’s lead, defeating a popular member of Congress known for his folksy stories, has once again seized the attention of both parties. This time, the scenario is playing out in double: Not one but two incumbents, Senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, both Republicans, are facing runoffs to keep their seats. This time, the ramifications are even more consequential.

Georgia’s runoffs, the vestige of segregationist efforts to dilute Black voting power, will determine control of the Senate in races to be decided on Jan. 5. In the past, such contests have heavily favored Republicans because of a drop-off among Democratic voters, particularly African-Americans, after the general election.

But those intimately involved in the two previous Senate showdowns say what happened before is not necessarily predictive of the future. Demographic and cultural change has led to rapid shifts in the state, and Democrats have made concerted efforts to energize and turn out their voters, work that paved the way for President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s strong showing in the state.

“Both times before, Republicans really turned out and the Democrats didn’t,” said Saxby Chambliss, the former Republican senator of Georgia who won a second term in a 2008 runoff weeks after Barack Obama won the presidency. “This time around, I’m not so sure that is going to be the case. I have told my Republican colleagues that Democrats are fired up going into the race, and with Biden winning Georgia, I assume that gives them momentum.”

Both parties and their allied outside groups are already making huge investments in advertising and grass-roots efforts and a panoply of voter-stirring surrogates — perhaps including Mr. Biden and President Trump — will visit the state over the next two months in an intense effort to win. Vice President Mike Pence is making the trip next week.

If Republicans can hold only one of the two seats, they will retain the Senate majority and control much of Mr. Biden’s agenda. If Democrats win both, they will gain a working majority in a 50-50 Senate, with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris empowered to break ties. The difference between a Republican-controlled Senate or a Democratic-run chamber is immense when it comes to what legislation would be considered and how nominations would be handled.

“I can’t ever recall a time when the difference between a 50-50 Senate and a 51-49 Senate was so stark,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat.

Mr. Perdue, like Mr. Fowler, finished first in his re-election bid, with a narrow lead over his Democratic challenger, Jon Ossoff. Ms. Loeffler, appointed last year to fill a vacancy, trailed her Democratic opponent, the Rev. Dr. Raphael G. Warnock, a Black minister.

The twin runoffs amount to an extraordinary accident of timing that came about because Mr. Perdue’s regularly scheduled re-election race coincided with a special election to finish the term of former Senator Johnny Isakson, who retired in 2019 for health reasons, creating the opening Ms. Loeffler was tapped to temporarily fill.

But the unusual runoff rules in Georgia — which require a candidate to gain a majority of the vote to win, and automatically prompt a second contest between the top two vote-getters if no one does — are very much by design. They grew out of efforts by some white Georgians in the 1960s to keep control of the state’s political apparatus after the Supreme Court struck down a system that gave sparsely populated, heavily white rural counties more voting weight than dense urban areas that had large numbers of Black voters.

A federal study published in 2007 on the fight for voting rights described how segregationist state legislators then turned to runoffs, which many believed would reduce the likelihood that Black voters would unite behind one candidate to deliver a plurality victory while other candidates split the white vote. By requiring the winner to square off in a head-to-head race, backers of the plan were confident they could better control the outcomes.

“It was just another form of gerrymandering,” Mr. Fowler said.

The special election offers a textbook example of why Republicans have wanted to retain the system. Mr. Warnock drew just under 33 percent of the vote, while Ms. Loeffler received just under 26 percent, and another Republican, Representative Doug Collins, captured just under 20 percent. With Mr. Collins now out of the picture, Ms. Loeffler has the potential to consolidate the Republican vote in a one-on-one contest.

The racist origins of the runoff have faded into the background over the years, and defenders argue that it is only fair to require a candidate to win at least half the state’s voters to be elected.

In 1992, Mr. Fowler, a former city councilman for Atlanta and congressman considered an up-and-coming force in the Senate, was seeking his second term. He had won in 1986 by surprising a Republican, Mack Mattingly, who had been swept in on Ronald Reagan’s coattails in 1980. Mr. Fowler’s opponent this time was Paul Coverdell, a Republican and a low-key Atlanta businessman, state legislator and ally of the elder George Bush, who had named him head of the Peace Corps.

Mr. Clinton’s Southern roots helped him carry Georgia with 43 percent of the vote — the last Democrat to win Georgia before this year — while Mr. Fowler surpassed Mr. Coverdell with 49.2 percent, besting him by 35,000 votes. But under Georgia’s unique law, it was not enough.

The runoff rapidly escalated into a bitter clash. As Mr. Clinton prepared to move into the White House, Republicans saw an opportunity to deliver him a quick blow by defeating Mr. Fowler. They pulled out the stops, pouring in money and sending Republican luminaries into Georgia by the planeload, including Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, who promised to turn over his Agriculture Committee seat to Mr. Coverdell if he won.

Mr. Fowler drew his own big-name visitor when the president-elect popped over from Little Rock, Ark., for joint appearances in Albany and Macon, where he played the saxophone with a high school band. He and Mr. Fowler raised clasped hands to celebrate what they anticipated as a coming victory.

But Mr. Fowler had problems. It was going to be hard to re-create the enthusiasm of the presidential election with the voting finished and Mr. Clinton victorious. Mr. Fowler was also facing backlash for his vote the year before to place Clarence Thomas on the Supreme Court. Mr. Fowler remembered Justice Thomas, a Georgia native, had strong support from the state’s Black community, but was opposed by leading women’s groups because of his anti-abortion stance and accusations of sexual harassment. He said he believed that opposition cost him.

In the runoff, held two days before Thanksgiving, almost one million fewer votes were cast than three weeks earlier and Mr. Fowler saw his initial lead vanish, losing to Mr. Coverdell by 16,000 votes — 50.6 percent to 49.4. It was a stinging defeat for Mr. Fowler but a welcome consolation prize for Republicans.

“We were more successful in getting our people back than the other side was in getting their people back without a presidential race at the top of the ticket,” said Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster who was a consultant to Mr. Coverdell. But he cautioned that the dynamic could be vastly different this time around, given that Mr. Warnock, an African-American, is on the ballot.

“Democrats have never had an African-American candidate to vote for at a time when control of the Senate is hanging in the balance,” he said. “The circumstances are clearly different. I don’t know if the outcome will be different.”

Mr. Fowler agreed, noting that Black voters now make up a significantly larger share of Georgia’s electorate than they did when he ran.

“Whether or not the Democrats can win this thing in the runoff, the demographics are much, much better now they were in 1992,” he said. “The numbers make it more likely than it would have been even six years ago. Either way, it is going to be whisper close.”

Mr. Fowler said he shook off the loss fairly quickly, and in 1996, he became ambassador to Saudi Arabia, serving for five years until the election of George W. Bush.

“I’ve had a good, adventurous life,” he said.

He said he had steered clear of politics over the years but was changing course in this election, relaying knowledge and ideas to Mr. Warnock and his campaign.

“I have dusted off my campaign shoes,” Mr. Fowler said. “I think it is that important.”





No.16 article:
Where Energy-Efficient Homes Are Being Built

The Energy Star rating is not just for refrigerators; homes are certified for energy efficiency too.

The Energy Star symbol, commonly found on home appliances, is familiar to many. The program behind it was created by the Environmental Protection Agency in 1992 to provide consumers a standardized measure of energy efficiency. But Energy Star is not only about air-conditioners; it includes partnerships with industry that extend to promoting energy efficiency in commercial buildings, industrial plants and homes. To date, it has helped reduce greenhouse gas by more than 3.5 billion metric tons, about what 750 million cars would produce in a year. In 2018 the program reduced energy costs to Americans by $35 billion.

If you want your home to function in a way that serves the environment (and saves you money), this week’s chart may be of interest. It’s drawn from the latest annual report (2019) examining the share of new single-family homes built achieving Energy Star certification in the 50 states and the Washington, D.C.

In 2019, 73,445 such homes were built in the U.S. — though not a single one in North Dakota, Montana or Alaska (Hawaii managed a single house). Arizona had the highest share, 54 percent, or 18,224 homes. Besides Arizona, only Maryland and the District of Columbia surpassed a 25 percent share of new homes meeting certification standards.

To achieve Energy Star certification — which can come with tax credits for builders and homeowners — a new home must do more than just use certain appliances. It must be built, tested and inspected to meet strict E.P.A. guidelines for heating, ventilation, cooling, water management and insulation. Certified homes built in 2019 saved over $20.3 million in electric bills and reduced CO2 emissions by 107,303 metric tons, the equivalent of 23,209 cars, 249,713 barrels of oil, or the CO2 captured by 1.77 million trees grown from seedlings for 10 years.





No.17 article:
Corrections: Nov. 15, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Sunday, Nov. 15, 2020.

An article last Sunday about the musical “Lone Star Love,” relying on information from one of the show’s producers, described incorrectly the timing and purpose of an $81,000 payment. The producers Ed and Eleanor Burke made the payment as severance to members of the show’s company before it closed, not to pay a fine by Actors’ Equity against Randy Quaid.

An article last Sunday about voter support for drug decriminalization ballot initiatives referred imprecisely to a statistic in a recent report by the American Civil Liberties Union. Black people are over three and a half times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than white people, not three and a half times.

A picture caption with an article last Sunday about co-ops that are increasing residential fees to make up for lost commercial rent misidentified the woman shown with Fernando Andrade at Andrade Shoe Repair. She is Nilda Andrade, his wife, not Carolina Conigliaro, his daughter.

An article on page 44 about the artist Senga Nengudi misstates the title of one of her works. It is “Ceremony for Freeway Fets,” not “Ceremony for Freeway Fetes.”

A calendar item last Sunday misstated the name of a lecturer on the history of X-rays at the Mütter Museum on Nov. 11. He was David J. Allard, not David J. Ballard.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.18 article:
Why Do Pianists Know So Little About Pianos?

Unlike violinists or trumpeters, piano players rarely get to perform on their own instruments and must be adaptable.

My piano was overdue for a tuning in March, when my apartment building and the rest of New York City entered lockdown. All work by “outside parties” like housekeepers was not allowed, except for emergencies. An out-of-tune piano hardly seemed an emergency.

Professional pianists across the city faced the same predicament. “My piano was in horrible condition,” Conrad Tao recalled recently.

“I finally went out in March and bought a tuning hammer,” he added, referring to the standard tuning tool that is actually a wrench-like lever. By tightening various strings, he tried his best to make the worst intervals between pitches, he said, a “little better.”

Jeremy Denk — who, like many pianists, doesn’t know “the first thing about piano technology,” as he admitted in an interview — summoned his skills of personal persuasion. “I got my super on board, though it was dicey at the beginning,” he said. “I explained that this was my work — that my technician was essential.”

Why are pianists at such a loss when it comes to understanding the mechanics of their own instrument? This lack of knowledge separates them from almost all other instrumentalists. Not only can violinists, clarinetists, harpists or flutists tune their instruments, and even bend pitches in performance, they also, by and large, know much more about how their instruments work. In music school, I used to marvel at oboe players who would sit at lunch talking about different kinds of cane wood and the various knives and such they used to make their own reeds.

Most musicians own, maintain and perform on their own instruments. If you’re a gifted young violinist, you may not have a priceless 17th-century violin, but you likely have a good instrument you can bond and travel with.

When serious pianists tour, though, they almost never bring their own instruments, which require professional movers to transport. From their student days, pianists are compelled to develop adaptability. After practicing a piece at home, a Conrad Tao or Jeremy Denk must perform on whatever instrument a hall has to offer. And some can be pretty bad. Young pianists at the Juilliard School have long traded battle stories of having to play on a “real PSO” — a “piano-shaped object.” Very fine pianos vary enormously in terms of sound, action and responsiveness to touch. Even a superb Steinway in a concert hall may take adjusting to, and may not suit a particular pianist’s preferences.

“A lot of my job involves working with pianists on this very problem,” Joel Bernache, a technician with Steinway &amp; Sons in New York, said in an interview. Steinway has long held a contract to provide and maintain concert grand pianos for Carnegie Hall. There are currently two at the ready at Stern Auditorium, Carnegie’s main stage: an American Steinway, from New York, and a German Steinway, from the company’s factory in Hamburg. Though Mr. Bernache said both are “clear and bright,” the New York piano is a bit louder and produces more of a fundamental tone, or “bottom.” The Hamburg one has “a cleaner and more transparent sound. You could say it’s more ‘direct.’” (These instruments, by the way, only last about five or six years, and in some cases 10; today’s pianists aren’t hitting the same keys Rubinstein touched.)

The keyboard mechanism of a grand piano is a complex system of interconnected parts, starting from the plastic-covered wooden key and ending with the shank with a felt-covered “hammer” that lifts to strike the strings. There are three dozen adjustable components for each key mechanism, and 88 total keys. Many pianists who come to Carnegie to try out the pianos ask for subtle adjustments to be made before a concert. That task often falls to Mr. Bernache.

“As a technician, I’m kind of all that’s between pianists and their performance,” he said. Some soloists complain even about Carnegie’s pianos.

“They’ll say, ‘The action is too stiff,’” Mr. Bernache said. But that criticism can mean different things to different pianists. Mr. Bernache can make adjustments by lubricating the internal parts, or slightly changing the key dip — that is, the level the key goes up or down. Often, this can give a pianist the impression that an instrument is easier to play, the sense that more sound is coming out. Mr. Bernache emphasized that “sound and touch are inextricable.”

He mentioned Daniil Trifonov as an example of a pianist who has such tremendous technique that adjusting to an unfamiliar instrument is seldom an issue; fine points of touch matter “far less to him than the overall playability of the piano and the sound it produces, the volume and lingering quality.” But in the case of a famous pianist Mr. Bernache did not want to identify, every selection is “a crisis of decision.” At one point when Carnegie offered three pianos for this artist to choose from, Mr. Bernache recalled, “he couldn’t decide which one he hated the least.”

Mr. Denk said he has worked with some “amazing” piano technicians, but remains a little confused by what they do. “Sometimes they’re mystified by me when what I express doesn’t translate into any specific measurement,” he added. A keyboard can feel “spongy” or “alert,” he said. But those imprecise physical sensations are completely affected by his impression of the sound coming from the instrument.

And yet, Mr. Denk said, he has not been tempted to gain more knowledge about the mechanics of the piano. “It would just be something else to worry about” before a performance, he explained. “When I arrive, I try not to panic. You let the piano speak to you; you get acquainted and adjust.”

Gilbert Kalish, a longtime professor of piano performance at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, said he finds the necessity of adjusting to quite different pianos an “interesting challenge.” He emphasizes to his students: “You don’t play by feel; you don’t play by habit; you play by sound, by listening to what’s being produced. You have to learn to trust yourself, not to depend on someone out there listening.”

Many people might assume that a pianist would prefer the piano with the least resistance in the action. Not necessarily. “Some resistance allows for more contrast,” Mr. Kalish said. With a lighter action, he has found, it’s “harder to be subtle with dynamics, to create greater contrasts.”

Among the leading pianists of our time, Mitsuko Uchida is known for her unusually detailed knowledge of the piano’s mechanics and her high standards. She has worked with some of the top technicians in the world, but since 1993 has relied mostly on Steinway’s Georg Ammann, who in an interview she called the “so-called ‘travel technician’ from the Hamburg factory.” He has been with her for many important concerts and all her recordings. Regarding the action, she said, “I like the response to be fast and light, and don’t like it if it’s stodgy and it rubs against everything.”

As she described her preferences, Ms. Uchida’s intimate knowledge of piano technology came through vividly. With many instruments, she said, “you get stuck when the weight is different key to key, the piano has been sloppily prepared, and the dampers have not been adjusted — or the spring in the pedal.” Problems can emerge when “the pin underneath the key is dirty, or the other pin in the middle of the mechanism is dirty, or rubbing, or slurping,” she said.

Whenever possible, Ms. Uchida brings her own piano, which is unusual among pianists, even major ones. (Vladimir Horowitz, in his later years, often played his own piano, or one reserved specifically for him by Steinway; more recently, Krystian Zimerman has almost always traveled with his instrument, and understands its mechanics thoroughly.) At her home in London, Ms. Uchida has three concert grands, and keeps another “parked in Germany,” she said, making it easier to transport it to halls and recording studios in continental Europe. Obviously, the logistical challenges of moving a piano long distances are considerable — not to mention the expense. Do institutions cover the cost? While it’s “case by case,” Ms. Uchida said, usually not.

But she put this expense in context. “I have no excess otherwise,” she said. “I don’t need country houses, expensive jewelry, expensive cars, special collections of whatever.”

She does avoid shipping to the United States, however — except once, some years ago, when she went on tour with the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra of Munich to South America and New York. “The South American pianos were not to be recommended,” she said. So she brought her own, which she also used for a concert at Carnegie Hall.

It’s not hard to imagine why pianists might long for this luxury of always being able to perform on their own instruments. Still, Mr. Tao made an affecting argument on behalf of adaptability.

“I see the reality of being a pianist as a gift, an opportunity that expands the idea of what technique in music can be,” he said. The notion that you practice a performance to perfection at home and then repeat it in a concert is “taken off the table,” he added. “With every new instrument, you have to be humbled a bit, and develop a connection to the logic within your playing.”

Back at my apartment, the technician finally dropped by, tuned my piano and made mechanical tweaks to a few of the keys. Afterward it felt and sounded vastly better. I have no idea what was involved.





No.19 article:
Her Abuse Was a ‘Family Matter,’ Until It Went Live

Lhamo, a Tibetan farmer in southwestern China, lived her life mostly outdoors and shared it online, posting videos of herself cooking, singing and picking herbs in the mountains around her village. By this fall, she had about 200,000 followers, many of whom praised her as cheerful and hardworking.

Over 400 of them were watching one evening in mid-September as Ms. Lhamo, 30, streamed a video live from her kitchen on Douyin, the Chinese version of the TikTok app. Suddenly, a man stormed in and Ms. Lhamo screamed. Then the screen went dark.

When Ms. Lhamo’s sister Dolma arrived at the hospital a few hours later, she found Ms. Lhamo struggling to breathe, her body covered with burns. The police in Jinchuan County, where she lived, are investigating Ms. Lhamo’s ex-husband on suspicion that he doused her with gasoline and set her on fire.

“She looked like a piece of charcoal,” said Ms. Dolma, who, along with her sister and many other Tibetans, goes by one name. “He burned almost all her skin off.”

Ms. Lhamo died two weeks later.

Her case, one of several that have gained national attention this year, reflects the shortcomings of China’s legal system in protecting women from domestic violence — even when they repeatedly seek help, as Ms. Lhamo did.

Public outrage has helped some get justice, including a woman in Henan Province who was denied a divorce until she posted video evidence of her abuse. But for many women like Ms. Lhamo it comes too late.

In July, a man in the eastern city of Hangzhou was arrested on suspicion of murdering his wife after her dismembered remains were found in a communal septic tank. Late last month, video footage went viral that appeared to show a man in Shanxi Province beating his wife to death in front of bystanders.

More than 900 women have died at the hands of their husbands or partners since China’s law against domestic violence was enacted in 2016, according to Beijing Equality, a women’s rights group.

The domestic violence law promised police investigations and easier access to restraining orders, but enforcement is spotty and punishments are light in a society that stigmatizes divorce and pressures victims of abuse to keep silent. Activists say many police officers are not properly trained to handle domestic violence cases. In the countryside, where Ms. Lhamo was from, victims often lack social support networks and are less educated about their rights.

Just one day after Ms. Lhamo’s death, Xi Jinping, China’s top leader, told a United Nations conference on women that the “protection of women’s rights and interests must become a national commitment.”

The Chinese internet seized on the speech. And soon, people were calling for stronger enforcement of the domestic violence law using the hashtag #LhamoAct. Within a day, the hashtag had been censored on Weibo, one of China’s most popular social media platforms. Other hashtags condemned the failure of the police to prevent Ms. Lhamo’s murder, including #StopNotActing and #PunishNotActing. 

Wan Miaoyan, a women’s rights lawyer in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province, said she hoped the backlash from Ms. Lhamo’s case would result in better enforcement of the law.

“But why does it take a tragedy and a victim to sacrifice herself in such a bloody way before we make progress on law enforcement?” she said.

Ms. Lhamo was from a remote village in the region of Aba, called Ngaba by Tibetans. Born into poverty, she made a living picking herbs in the mountains. As a child, she was kind and optimistic, her sister said. When Ms. Lhamo was 18, she met a man named Tang Lu from a nearby village. Before long they were married, and Ms. Lhamo moved in with his family and gave birth to two boys, who are now 3 and 12.

Ms. Dolma said she had seen bruises on her sister’s face and body many times over the years. Ms. Lhamo often fled to their father’s house to recover from her injuries, which Ms. Dolma said included a dislocated elbow.

Mr. Tang did not respond to multiple messages on his Douyin account asking for comment. Ms. Dolma said she did not have phone numbers for him or his relatives.

Ms. Lhamo divorced Mr. Tang in March. But he immediately pushed her to remarry, Ms. Dolma said, threatening to kill their children if she refused. Ms. Lhamo called the police twice but they ignored her pleas for help, her sister said. The couple remarried.

Two weeks later, when Ms. Lhamo went to the police again after Mr. Tang tried to hurt her and Ms. Dolma, the authorities said that since she had chosen to remarry him, “this is your personal family matter.” The officer said there was nothing they could do, according to Ms. Dolma.

The Jinchuan County police department did not respond to a request for comment.

In May, Ms. Dolma said, Mr. Tang tried to choke Ms. Lhamo and threatened her with a knife.

She sought help from the local chapter of the All-China Women’s Federation, the government agency in charge of protecting women’s rights. Ms. Dolma said her sister cried later as she recounted when an official dismissed her injuries, saying other women were worse off.

An employee at the Jinchuan County Women’s Federation confirmed that Ms. Lhamo had visited the office and said there was an investigation underway.

Ms. Lhamo refused to give up, Ms. Dolma said. She filed for divorce again and hid with relatives as she waited for court approval.

In early June, Mr. Tang went looking for Ms. Lhamo at Ms. Dolma’s house. When Ms. Dolma wouldn’t tell him where her sister was, he hit her in her left eye. Ms. Dolma was hospitalized for almost two weeks for bone fractures, according to a copy of the medical report viewed by The New York Times. She said she reported the incident to the police but they only briefly questioned Mr. Tang and let him go.

A court granted the couple’s second divorce a few weeks later, awarding Mr. Tang full custody of their two sons. Ms. Lhamo spent most of the summer deep in the mountains picking herbs. On Sept. 12, two days before the attack that would kill her, she posted a video saying she was going home.

Mr. Tang, who was also severely burned, is being investigated on suspicion of homicide. That is cold comfort for Ms. Dolma.

“It’s too late to talk about these things now,” she said. “If they had taken it seriously at that time and disciplined or punished him, we wouldn’t be in this situation today.”





No.20 article:
In ‘Small Axe,’ Steve McQueen Explores Britain’s Caribbean Heritage

The director’s ambitious anthology series for Amazon and the BBC is his first film work about Black life in Britain. “I needed to understand myself, where I came from,” he said.

It took Steve McQueen a long time to make a film about Black life in Britain.

“I needed to understand myself, where I came from,” the director said of his new project, “Small Axe.” “Sometimes, you’ve got to have a certain maturity, and I wouldn’t have had that 10, 15 years ago.”

McQueen, who was born in West London to Grenadian and Trinidadian parents, is one of Britain’s most gifted and garlanded Black filmmakers. He’s best known to American audiences as the director of the star-studded “Widows” from 2018 and “12 Years a Slave,” in 2013, for which he became the first Black director of a best picture Oscar winner. When he collected that trophy, McQueen was already developing the drama project with the BBC that would become “Small Axe.”

Six years later, McQueen is debuting not one, but five films about various aspects of London’s West Indian community, set between the late 1960s and the mid-1980s, airing in the U.S. as an anthology series on Amazon Prime Video, starting Nov. 20.

When “Small Axe” began development, the project was pitched to the BBC as conventional television, telling one story over six hours or so (Amazon signed on as a producing partner last year.) “To get my foot in the door, it started off as a sort of episodic situation,” McQueen said in a phone interview from Amsterdam, where he’s lived since 1997. “But then I realized they had to be individual films because there’s too much interesting material.”

Today, the finished product comprises five discrete works of varying lengths (the shortest is 70 minutes; the longest 128 minutes), all directed and co-written by McQueen. (Courttia Newland co-wrote two episodes and Alastair Siddons co-wrote three.)

The installments were shot in a variety of formats (including 16mm and 35mm film) by the emerging Antiguan cinematographer Shabier Kirchner — the first three premiered at this year’s New York Film Festival. The films include an epic scale, fact-based courtroom drama (“Mangrove”), a delicate semi-autobiographical portrait (“Education”) and an intimate dance-party mood piece (“Lovers Rock”), with myriad tones and textures in between.

The series will air in Britain on BBC One, which is a matter of significance for McQueen. “It was important for me that these films were broadcast on the BBC, because it has accessibility to everyone in the country,” he said. “These are national histories.”

“Mangrove,” the series opener, focuses on the sensational trial of a group of Black activists in 1971. They were accused of inciting a riot during a protest against the targeted police harassment of patrons at The Mangrove, a Caribbean restaurant in London’s Notting Hill district that was a thriving hub for Black intellectuals and artists. (The film offers a corrective to the whitewashed fantasia of “Notting Hill,” Richard Curtis’s 1999 romantic comedy.) Not only did the nine — including the Trinidadian-British activists Darcus Howe and Altheia Jones-LeCointe, key members of the British Black Panther Party — beat the rioting charge, they forced the first ever judicial acknowledgment of racism from British police.

This installment is particularly resonant in the light of Britain’s recent Windrush scandal, which saw hundreds of Commonwealth citizens detained, deported and denied legal rights as a result of a 2012 government policy to create a “hostile environment” for immigrants.

The majority of victims of the scandal were part of the “Windrush generation” of largely Caribbean people who were invited by the colonial British government to help rebuild the economy in the aftermath of World War II. (The name comes from the Empire Windrush, a ship that brought an early group from the Caribbean to Britain in 1948.) After arriving in Britain, many members of this cohort faced hostility, discrimination in employment and housing, and police harassment. Yet, as “Small Axe” demonstrates, they found ways to organize and resist.

In “Mangrove”’s climactic sequence, Darcus Howe (a magnetic Malachi Kirby), representing himself in court, declares that the case “has seared the consciousness of the Black community to an extent that the history of Britain cannot now be written without it.” It’s a rousing line that left me feeling rueful: In reality, mainstream histories of Britain have largely excluded the story of the Mangrove defendants, as well as the stories of other pioneering Black figures.

The actress Letitia Wright, who was born in Guyana and moved to London at 7, said in a phone interview she was unaware of the Mangrove story before researching the project, for which she was cast by McQueen and the casting director Gary Davy after one meeting, and no conventional audition.

“To be honest, I had no clue — it’s not in the textbooks at school. The stronghold of Black History Month [October] in the U.K. is American history,” said Wright, who plays Altheia Jones-LeCointe, a leader of the Black Panther Movement in the U.K. “You have mostly — and I honor and respect them always — Martin Luther King and Malcolm X on the posters, but you don’t have the Altheias.”

The role allows Wright, who rose to blockbuster-level fame as Shuri in “Black Panther,” to play a real-life Black Panther. Jones-LeCointe, who was born in Trinidad and moved to England in 1965 to study for a Ph.D. in biochemistry, has been described as “the most remarkable woman I’ve ever met” by the poet Linton Kwesi Johnson.

Caribbean pride underpins “Small Axe” and an animated McQueen rattled off a roll call of resistance icons with West Indian heritage that have informed his life and work: “Stokely Carmichael, from Trinidad, coined the phrase ‘Black Power.’ Look at Marcus Garvey. Malcolm X’s mother was from Grenada. C.L.R. James,” he said. “This is nothing new, people from the West Indies and our influence. That’s where we come from: rebel country.”

The anthology’s title comes from an African proverb popularized in Jamaica by Bob Marley’s eponymous 1973 song (“If you are the big tree, we are the small ax”), and the British-Guyanese scholar Paul Gilroy — who developed the idea of “Transatlantic Blackness,” a culture that is at once African, American, Caribbean and British — was series consultant. For me, a grandson of the Caribbean whose paternal grandparents were part of the Windrush generation, the latticework of respect and representation for the islands offered by “Small Axe,” on such a grand scale, at times felt overwhelming.

Equally overwhelming, however, are the more harrowing aspects of “Small Axe,” especially in the wake of the killing of George Floyd in Minnesota and the protests and intensified public conversations around police brutality and police abolition that followed. The third film in the series, the early 1980s-set “Red, White and Blue,” stars John Boyega as the real-life figure Leroy Logan who, following the vicious police beating of his father, abandoned a career in research science to join the London police force. Logan believed the force could be reformed from within at a time when tensions between the police and Britain’s Black communities had never been higher.

It’s arresting — and slightly surreal — to watch this earnest, arguably naïve character being portrayed by an actor who made headlines in June for delivering a fierce speech in London’s Hyde Park condemning police brutality. “It’s been crazy,” Boyega said in a phone interview, adding that people have asked him if he was cast in “Small Axe” because of his role in the Black Lives Matter movement, even though the project wrapped before the protests.

“People talk about the different types of racism Black people deal with, and often expect that the racism in America is quite outward and in-your-face, whereas in the U.K. there’s subtlety, layers to it,” Boyega said. “To explore that conversation in a healthy way is kind of cool.”

When asked about George Floyd and the protests, McQueen replied wearily. “I’m just tired,” he said. In Britain “it took a long time for people to believe the West Indian community about what was going on. All of a sudden we’re being believed. It’s taken a man to die in the most horrible way. It’s taken a pandemic. And it’s taken millions of people marching in the streets for the broader public to think ‘possibly there’s something about this racism thing.’”

“If you don’t laugh, you’d cry,” he added. “That’s how we deal.”

Near the end of “Mangrove,” Jones-LeCointe and a fellow defendant, Barbara Beese (Rochenda Sandall), collapse into exhausted laughter at the absurdity of their trial. McQueen acknowledged that making “Small Axe,” too, has been an emotional roller coaster, one he’s still processing.

“I just cried the other day thinking of my father,” he said. “My father is not here to see this — a lot of West Indian men of that generation lived and died without having that acknowledgment. And it’s heavy still.”

“But we have a future!” he exclaimed, brightening. “That’s the main thing.” In the beautiful “Small Axe,” the past is the future, and that future is now.





No.21 article:
David Easton, Architect for an American Gentry, Dies at 83

He was noted in the ’80s for his English-style manors, catering to an opulent clientele with a taste for grandeur.

David Easton, an architect and interior designer who created English-style palaces for an American aristocracy, died on Oct. 29 at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 83.

James Steinmeyer, his husband and only immediate survivor, said the cause was complications of dementia.

In 1981, Mr. Easton was already an established architect and decorator when Alistair Stair, a principal of Stair &amp; Company, an antiques dealer, suggested to Patricia Kluge, who had just married John Kluge, the much older billionaire head of MetroMedia, that Mr. Easton was the man to design the estate the couple wanted to build in Charlottesville, Va.

Mr. Easton and Ms. Kluge met at the Carlyle hotel in Manhattan, and, as was his habit, he used a cocktail napkin to sketch his design for a 45-room brick manor that the Kluges would name Albemarle House.

There were formal English gardens, five lakes carved into the estate’s 6,000 acres, a carriage house and stables, a grotto, a helicopter landing pad, an 850-acre game preserve and a chapel, for which Mr. Easton designed the vestments of the clergy who would preside there, as well as the crypt below. (Mr. Easton researched just what was required to store embalmed bodies.) The house itself was more than 23,000 square feet, and Mr. Easton filled it with European and English antiques.

Even for its time, at the height of the go-go Reagan years, Albemarle House was considered over the top.

“Albemarle House really threw down the gauntlet during the roaring ’80s,” said Stephen Drucker, former editor in chief of House Beautiful and Town &amp; Country magazines. Gossip columnists fell all over themselves describing the excesses of the Kluges, like a private disco, a golf course and liveried footmen.

The Kluges certainly weren’t the only high-wattage clients in Mr. Easton’s portfolio. He designed an apartment in the Pierre hotel in Manhattan for Phyllis and Sumner Redstone, the media mogul who died in August. For Paula Zahn, the former CNN anchor, he built a contemporary house in Aspen, Colo. And for Herbert Black, the Canadian businessman who exposed the Sotheby’s and Christie’s price-fixing scandal in 2000, he created a Georgian-style house in Montreal.

Yet Mr. Easton, who had a deep knowledge of and abiding love for Regency furniture, Roman statuary, Delft pottery and Chinese antiquities, was not really an impresario of glitz and bling. His tastes were disciplined, and he did not seek the spotlight.

“He certainly did the grand houses of the 1980s, and nobody did it better,” said Bunny Williams, the interior designer who, like Mr. Easton, is an alumna of Parish-Hadley, the Kennedy- and post-Kennedy-era design firm that taught new money to look old and old money to look fresh. “But most of his work wasn’t published, because he worked for very private people. It was a totally different time, and he wasn’t interested in fame. He was confident about what he was doing, and he never had to be pretentious.”

David Anthony Easton was born on April 9, 1937, in Louisville, Ky., and grew up in York, Pa., the eldest of three children. His father, David Allen Easton, worked for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as an accountant; his mother, Elizabeth (Scheidt) Easton, was a homemaker.

Mr. Easton spent summers with a grandmother in Chicago, and he knew he wanted to be an architect after visiting the Trend House at the Marshall Field’s department store there and becoming transfixed by its model rooms. He studied architecture at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, and after graduation received a scholarship to study architecture at a school in Fontainebleau, France.

When Mr. Easton returned to New York City in 1964, he went to work for Edward Wormley, the modernist furniture designer. But he was a classicist at heart. In 1967, Parish-Hadley hired him as a senior designer. He started his own firm in 1972, and by the next decade, his work, along with that of Mark Hampton and Mario Buatta, would become emblematic of the English-style opulence that defined the 1980s.

In the wake of that decade, Albemarle House floundered, along with the fortunes of its former inhabitants. In 1990, the Kluges divorced and Ms. Kluge kept the place, leveraging it heavily to finance a winery. When the mortgage crisis hit in the late 2000s, she first listed Albemarle House for $100 million, and then lost it to Bank of America, which sold it to Donald Trump for $6.5 million, after much litigation from the Trump Organization to secure a deep discount. It is now a hotel and vineyard called the Albemarle Estate and Trump Winery.

Speaking of his former client, Ms. Kluge, Mr. Easton told Town &amp; Country in 2011: “I think she was searching for pleasure in life. The old Roman carpe diem. She was having a good time. I’m not protecting her. I’m just saying she has a view like that, and I think it’s a good and healthy one.”

Mr. Easton and Mr. Steinmeyer married in 2014, after 39 years together. Mr. Steinmeyer said he had been engaged to a woman back home in Oklahoma when he and Mr. Easton met in 1975. “David said: “I’m not going to tell you what to do, but you can’t have your life two different ways. Either way, you’re going to make somebody very unhappy. If you want to screw up your life, that’s fine. But don’t screw up somebody else’s.”

In 1992, Mr. Easton was named to Interior Design magazine’s Hall of Fame.

Despite his very proper interiors, Mr. Easton had a mischievous streak. He drank red wine with all his meals, even breakfast, declaring, like W.C. Fields, that he didn’t like water because fish mated in it (although both he and Fields used a different verb). Former employees recall Mr. Easton asking for a ham sandwich on the Concorde, the supersonic jet that used to ferry the wealthy across the Atlantic at record speeds, instead of the lobster thermidor they were serving. At dinner parties he liked to say that he was a sex therapist, so that he didn’t have to talk about his work.

But he was very serious about that design work, and its implications.

In an interview with New York Social Diary in 2007, Mr. Easton said it was no longer appropriate to be building enormous houses.

“I’ve built all these Georgian houses, we’re talking about 15-to-25,000-square-foot houses,” he said. “Young people are not going to build that way. They still are up in Greenwich, but that’s the last blast. We can’t afford to. No, I think in the day and age when people are starving and dying, the earth can’t afford it.”





No.22 article:
The Pandemic’s Future — and Ours

APOLLO’S ARROWThe Profound and Enduring Impact of Coronavirus on the Way We LiveBy Nicholas A. Christakis

THE WAVES COME AT US. We are now being hit with the third wave of case numbers in the Covid-19 tsunami and the first wave of books about it. There will be more, much more, of both.

The story changes daily and so do the prognostications about where this pandemic is going, how it will end (insofar as it ever does end), what toll it will take and whether it will serve as a critical inflection point, or not, for how we humans live on this planet. Will it deliver a deeply absorbed lesson, not just on disease preparedness but also on climate change and vanishing biological diversity, the three greatest problems we are facing and causing? Or will it drain away and be forgotten, as the 1918 influenza pandemic largely drained away, its lessons ignored and its grim particulars seemingly blocked from public memory

for decades? Along with the prognostications we’re also getting postgnostications (it’s not my neologism), efforts to understand the past by predicting what happened: Where did this virus come from? A wild animal? Which animal? How did it manage to be so nefariously well adapted for human infection? How did it get into us at the start? Has it evolved since? Scientists are at work on those questions, trapping wildlife in China, taking fecal samples and blood, culturing viruses, sequencing genomes from bats, pangolins and humans, and comparing them, as the clock ticks.

“Apollo’s Arrow,” by Nicholas Christakis, is a useful contribution to this initial wave of Covid books, sensible and comprehensive, intelligent and well sourced, albeit a little programmatic and dull. (Touching on past pandemics and epidemics, as well as our current crisis, the book takes its title from those terrible arrows, representing plague, that Apollo rained down on the Greeks in Book 1 of the “Iliad.”) It’s a broad survey, not a deep dive, and sweeps across most of the signal topics: the inept early responses to the outbreak, first in China and then in the United States; the back story of modern pandemics and pandemic threats, notably the 1918 influenza and SARS in 2003; the social shutdowns, the mask issue and the tension between civil liberties and public health; the grief, fear and lies that make a pandemic emotionally as well as medically punishing; the social and economic changes, forced by this virus, that may become permanent; the general question of how plagues end and the specific, more speculative question of how this one might.

Given that Christakis is a physician and sociologist, the co-author of an earlier book about social networks and how they shape lives, the co-author also of an influential paper on “social contagion theory” and the co-director of the Institute for Network Science at Yale, one naturally expects that “network science” might afford him special insight into Covid-19. This book delivers on that expectation moderately, with a short section on the superspreader phenomenon and such disease-math variables as the basic reproduction number (the average number of persons infected by each infected person in a naïve population), the case fatality rate, the threshold for herd immunity and a few others that have become familiar in recent months.

There’s also dispersion, less familiar, which is the variation in actual (not average) reproduction number from one infected person to another. If some people cause few secondary infections and some cause many, the dispersion is high. (The dispersion of Covid-19 is high.) Why? Although part of the answer may be that some individuals simply shed more virus, or wash their hands less, or refuse to wear masks or cough more, another contributor to superspreading, Christakis explains, is that certain people have many more social contacts than the average. He calls those “popular people,” and notes that they “are more likely to become infected themselves as well as more likely to infect numerous others.”

He illustrates this with some dots-and-lines network figures, showing who might have contact with whom. (These figures are weirdly resonant, resembling a similar graphic in an epidemiology paper from 1984 that depicted sexual connectivity among 40 early AIDS patients, which led to one man at the center, labelled “Patient O” by the researchers, to be demonized in a popular book as “Patient Zero.”) Although superspreader events — in a choir, at a funeral, during a White House reception — seem alarming, the existence of high variation in reproduction number for Covid-19 may actually have an ameliorating effect. According to Christakis, it may reduce the threshold for herd immunity. How so? Because “popular people” are more likely to get infected early in the pandemic, and most of them will survive, presumably with some immunity. “And if all the popular people became immune early, relatively more paths for the virus to spread through society would be cut off.”

That’s the good news. But because of its capacity to spread from asymptomatic cases and its relatively low case fatality rate, Christakis estimates, Covid-19 may still infect 40 percent of the global human population, and possibly as much as 60 percent, unless a vaccine becomes available soon. And what about when it does? Do we vaccinate the “popular people” first?

Another fascinating and controversial idea that Christakis examines is that the virus may become less virulent. He notes that “one way a pandemic … can come to an end is that the virus mutates over a period of years to get much milder.” But to say that this virus might mutate is a misleading truism; viruses continually mutate as they replicate, introducing small random errors into their genomes; and coronaviruses mutate more abundantly than many others. The mutations are raw material on which Darwinian natural selection may act, or not, to produce new adaptations. This is Evolution 101. If an increase in transmissibility or a decrease in virulence was adaptive for the virus, it would probably change in that way. Viruses do sometimes — not always — evolve toward lesser virulence within their hosts, if it allows them to spread more widely. But so far there’s very little evidence that either a reduction in virulence or an increase in transmissibility has occurred. Maybe this virus doesn’t need to evolve much because it’s already so damn successful.

Christakis describes an intriguing precedent, though, with some circumstantial evidence to support it. The virus called OC43 is a human coronavirus that causes nothing more severe than the common cold. In fact, along with one other coronavirus, it accounts for as much as 30 percent of all colds. Christakis cites research suggesting that OC43 spilled into people, from cattle, around 1890, which happened to coincide with the beginning of a severe pandemic that was known as the “Russian flu,” because its first major outbreak occurred in St. Petersburg, in December 1889. This “flu” swept out of Russia, across Europe, to the United States and much of the rest of the world, as fast as trains and ships could carry it, killing about a million people. Was it truly influenza? No one knows, because the concept “virus” hadn’t yet been defined, because viruses couldn’t be seen through a light microscope and because no modern scientific team has yet found a frozen victim of that 1890 pandemic, awakened a virus and identified it by genome sequencing.

There are hints. The lethality of the 1890 bug was low among children and especially high among people over 70. In addition to causing respiratory illness, it sometimes attacked the gastrointestinal tract or produced blazing headaches and body aches, symptoms that Christakis calls less typical of influenza. He suggests that the 1890 event was a pandemic of OC43, a coronavirus passed to humans from some Russian cow. “After being among us for a century, this virus would have further evolved to be a mild pathogen that just causes the common cold today.” Routine exposure to OC43 during childhood, he posits, would give a person some acquired immunity.

“It is still too early to know,” Christakis writes, how the Covid-19 virus might mutate. It is indeed early, and many more books will offer to help us understand the pandemic. But “Apollo’s Arrow” is a good start. Another volume, a useful addition to the same shelf, was published in 1859: “On the Origin of Species.” Infectious disease is all about evolution. If you don’t believe in that, you may as well not hold your breath for rescue by modern medicine. And there will always be another virus going around.





No.23 article:
Using the Bible in an Apocalypse and Other Letters to the Editor

To the Editor:

I enjoyed all the uses that books could have at the end of the world, as imagined in Kristen Radtke’s back-page Sketchbook (Nov. 1), but didn’t she leave out the most obvious book of all — the Bible?

I also wonder about the appropriateness of the authors. James Joyce for zombie defense? A Kurt Vonnegut tray for serving Spam? Herman Melville as a peace offering? At least the books fueling the campfire are untitled, although I could name quite a few that should be used that way.

J. R. Solonche Blooming Grove, N.Y.

To the Editor:

Observers who didn’t know Christopher Hitchens will have to take Tom Bissell’s word for it, in his review of Martin Amis’s “Inside Story” (Nov. 1), that Hitchens was a friend of humanity, as well as Amis’s assurance that Hitchens felt pangs of remorse.

Many of us confined to seeing Hitchens’s TV appearances and reading his literary output during the Clinton impeachment farce and Iraq war debacle may have been misled by his truculent manner, refusal to engage in real argument and reliance on ad hominem to make his cases.

Terry BenoitPort Chester, N.Y.

♦

To the Editor:

Am I the only reader of the Book Review who often wonders, “Is this reviewer seeing his or her task at hand as an opportunity for self-promotion?”

As an example, I cite Bissell’s review, where “I” and “my” frequently appear, and where we are treated to his recounting of another review he wrote 20 years ago, making it clear for us that he is an experienced reviewer!

Perhaps careful editing is in order so readers can get a more uncluttered review of the book at hand.

Richard E. Hurley Walnut Creek, Calif.

♦

To the Editor:

I thought I was just sitting down to some words to accompany my breakfast as I began to read Bissell’s review of “Inside Story.” Instead I was treated to an astonishing piece of writing.

What a pleasure to read a review — the fourth I’ve read of Amis’s book — that showed the writer to be so deeply perceptive, generous and humorous in the most elevated sense of that word.

To my shame the review was my first contact with Tom Bissell, but it won’t be the last. Thank you for your continued excellence, Book Review. Long may you wave.

Polly ConeSan Diego

Advertisement





No.24 article:
How a Designer of Outdoor Spaces Spends His Sundays

Todd Haiman will often go for a hike outside of the city or visit the Brooklyn Botanic Garden for inspiration.

Since the onset of the pandemic, the landscape designer Todd Haiman has received “a ton” of calls from New Yorkers with terraces, yards and balconies and the means to transform them into wondrous fresh-air escapes.

“We’re trying to create an atmosphere that can be their sanctuary, whether they want to read a book out there or have cocktails,” he said. Once a project has been completed, he and his team of gardeners maintain it through the seasons and years to provide a sense of continuity and stability.

Mr. Haiman, 60, grew up in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, and lives in Lower Manhattan’s South Street Seaport area with his wife, Elyssa Rubin, a chief financial officer who is between jobs.

COFFEE, BOOK I wake up at 7, take a shower and have some muesli and fruit and a cup of black coffee. I’m quiet because my wife loves to sleep late. First thing is one of my favorite times to read, because my mind is pretty blank, pretty relaxed. Is absorptive a word? That’s how my mind is. Right now I’m reading “Caste” by Isabel Wilkerson, which, I’m really into that book. When I want something less stressful I’ll read about plant materials, more natural things.

THE CONSULT I’ll go check out a property or a design site and analyze it. Sometimes the client is there, sometimes they’re not. Basically what I’m going to do is give them an idea of how to make the most of their space. I’m getting a sense of who are going to be the users of this space, and how can I create something that works for them? One client is 30 Warren, a building in TriBeCa. They understand that the outdoors is a sanctuary, and that if you’re generous about bringing in extensions of nature, people are more relaxed. It affects them psychologically.

RESULTS I have one client who, as soon as his space was done, he started taking his calls and doing deals out there. He told me how happy he was to be in a place he actually wanted to spend time, and I felt so good hearing that. Several years ago I did a brownstone in Park Slope for a husband and wife who wanted their space to feel like a walk through the French countryside. Well, I know Brooklyn, and it’s not the French countryside. But I was able to bring in the colors and create water features to get them that atmosphere.

SUBWAY DIVERSIONS When I’m not at a site visit sometimes I’m managing gardeners. I take the subway. I listen to podcasts. There’s one called “Wind of Change.” It’s where there’s a rock song that was supposedly written by the C.I.A. that may have led to bringing down the Berlin Wall and communism falling. I don’t know if it’s true, but it’s cool. I’m also looking at the family group chat. There’s about 20 people on it. We do a lot of sharing of political jokes and accomplishments throughout the day.

DATE WITH NATURE When I get home I’ll make my wife brunch, and we might watch clips from “Saturday Night Live” from the night before together. Then we take off for nature. We might go see my daughter in Connecticut and hike some trails there. It helps me with work. If you see what’s going on in nature, the cycles, you can plan better. Right now I’m seeing maple leaves and viburnum and asters and a lot of things blooming purple.

FORESTS IN THE CITY Sometimes I’ll run over to the Brooklyn Botanic Garden with a plant nerd friend. The New York Botanical Garden is awesome, but the BBG is like different rooms. To me it’s a completely transportive place to walk through. There are acres of original forests there. It feels primeval, like bathing in nature.

LOVE CODA Depending on who I’m with, we might go out for dinner. Some people are OK with eating out at a restaurant with an outdoor space, but some are not. We all need to be respectful. Then my wife and I will watch something on Netflix, maybe an old black and white movie. I’m big on Orson Welles. Before bedtime, one of us will go on the Peloton bike and the other one will do yoga. Yoga’s important to me, and I always do it late because it’s a nice way to end the day. Midnight is my bedtime. I do have a ritual: Before we go to bed, we have to kiss each other good night and say, ‘I love you.’ My wife is incredibly special. Every day she makes me feel blessed.





No.25 article:
New &amp; Noteworthy, From Fake News to American Essays

THE GLORIOUS AMERICAN ESSAY: One Hundred Essays From Colonial Times to the Present, edited by Phillip Lopate. (Pantheon, $40.) In 900-plus pages, with writers from Cotton Mather to Rachel Carson and beyond, this anthology marshals a quintessentially American vision.

LAUGHING TO KEEP FROM DYING: African American Satire in the Twenty-First Century, by Danielle Fuentes Morgan. (University of Illinois, cloth, $110; paper, $24.95.) Morgan explores a radical impulse in recent Black comedy, arguing that performers like Dave Chappelle or films like “Get Out” aim to highlight racial boundaries.

AFTER THE FACT? The Truth About Fake News, by Marcus Gilroy-Ware. (Repeater Books, paper, $16.95.) Gilroy-Ware, a British journalist and media scholar, evaluates why expanded access to information has instead led to a glut of disinformation and mistrust just when we need consensus on matters of grave import.

THE DECAMERON PROJECT: 29 New Stories From the Pandemic, selected by the editors of The New York Times Magazine. (Scribner, $25.) Life in lockdown, as imagined by fiction writers including Margaret Atwood, Charles Yu and Karen Russell for The Times Magazine.

AGAINST AMAZON: And Other Essays, by Jorge Carrión. Translated by Peter Bush. (Biblioasis, paper, $16.95.) The Spanish author’s essays on reading are anchored by his title manifesto, which enjoyed prior success as a pamphlet.

If you grew up in Texas in the late 1960s and early ’70s, as I did, a course in Texas history was a requirement. Yet I’ve learned more from Volumes I and II of Robert Caro’s “The Years of Lyndon Johnson” than I ever did in school. The second volume, MEANS OF ASCENT, contains a biography-within-a-biography of Gov. Coke Stevenson, the original ranch-owning, brush-clearing Texas politician, now mostly forgotten. But it’s Caro’s retelling of the Stevenson-Johnson Democratic primary race for a Senate seat in 1948 that made for gripping reading in the fall of 2020. The 1948 Election Day was chaotic, and the vote count even more so, with pro-Johnson ballots seeming to appear out of nowhere to overturn Stevenson’s significant lead. The results ended up in court, and the race wasn’t settled for more than a month. As with this year’s election, the story of that Texas vote in 1948 was better than fiction.

—Steve Kenny, senior editor for nights





No.26 article:
How to Give Guests an Active Role in Your Virtual Wedding

Here are a few creative ways to connect with your remote guests and integrate them into your celebration during the pandemic.

As couples continue to look for ways to move forward with their wedding plans during the coronavirus pandemic, guests are also looking for ways to feel more involved, connected and present.

“Guests want a deeper experience, especially because many can’t be there,” said Jason Mitchell Kahn, the owner of Jason Mitchell Kahn and Company, an event planning company in New York. “They want to offer something of themselves rather then just witnessing something online.”

Couples are missing that bond as well. “They’re looking for a deeper way to include everyone, whom they want to feel special and remembered,” he added.

Event planners, wedding party members, and couples are coming up with creative ways for guests to have a more integrated and elevated role. Here are a few ideas.

On Sept. 5, Daliya Karnofsky, 36, an independent dating coach, married Matt Lutsky, 32, a creator and writer of the Showtime comedy series “On Becoming a God in Central Florida,” at a lakeside Airbnb in Malibu, Calif. Sixteen family members and friends attended, while another 200 watched via Zoom. When the couple stood under the huppah, they were embraced by more than 120 paper flowers, each as distinctive as the guest who sent it to the floral designer beforehand. The paper art was then woven into the canopy along with real flowers.

“It was Matt’s idea, we wanted to feel everyone’s personal touch, and for everyone to feel like they were there,” said Ms. Karnofsky, who lives with her husband in Los Angeles. Standout materials included chocolate wrappers, a baseball with the couple’s names stitched on it, seashells, macaroni, even a bag of flour.

“We planned this during early pandemic when everyone was into crafting,” she added. “We have so many creative friends. It was fun and connective for people to see their flowers when they Zoomed. It was beautiful and special.”

Mr. Kahn, who was the couple’s wedding planner, noted that many of these experiential projects, can double as keepsakes. “They can be turned into pieces of art, framed into shadow displays, or put in a book that they’ll have forever,” he said.

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

Ben Baur, 34, an actor, and Craig Gates, 30, an equity derivative salesman for J.P. Morgan, were married Sept. 12, on a friend’s rooftop in New York’s TriBeCa neighborhood. To improve the feeling of guest inclusion, they sent “raise a drink” gift boxes to guests that included a monogrammed shot glass, koozie, wine stopper and a self-addressed stamped envelope and card. The New York couple collected the 70-plus notes from guests and read them together for the first time before their ceremony.

“It was a very intimate moment to have, and an opportunity for our guests to feel like part of the day,” Mr. Baur said. “That was really important to us.”

The cards were wrapped in a ribbon and placed on a silver tray, which resided next to them at their ceremony. “They were also referenced by the officiant who talked about how we had read them that morning and how we felt their love in that moment,” he said.

Mr. Baur said he was grateful and touched by what guests, specifically family members, had written. “These were so personal and heartfelt,” he said. “I don’t know if we would have gotten that moment, or connected this deeply with them if we had a regular wedding like we planned.”

With entertainment acts temporarily on hold, guests are doubling as the talent. While on Zoom, Kyle Harmon, 33, performed “Amazing Grace” at Nic Shackleton and Eric Johnson’s March 20 wedding in Salt Lake City from his living room in Seattle.

Mr. Harmon, who created a new arrangement and wrote an additional chorus, sang and played guitar before 100 Zoom guests. “As best man, I really wanted to contribute something memorable and expressive,” he said. “Performing something I wrote at their wedding was an opportunity to create a meaningful moment about their love and relationship.”

He added that for now this was the new norm. “Hiring a virtual band is odd,” he said. “This gave all of us an intimate connection to one another since we couldn’t be there in person.”

Couples who want a memento of who attended their wedding are collecting photos, warm wishes and signatures through customized digital guest books or reaching out to services like Miss Design Berry that will create a customized guest book for you.

Planners, too, are spearheading these projects by creating displays of cards sent in advance of events. Kate Reavey, a wedding planner and the owner of Chicago Vintage Weddings, requested Zoom participants at an August wedding at a private home in Lake Forest, Ill., send postcards.

“A lot of people did drawings or offered advice to the couple, it felt very personal,” said Ms. Reavey, who is based in Chicago. “This was our version of a Covid guest book which we repurposed into an album afterward. We wanted everyone to feel physically present.”

Ms. Reavey said the project proved successful, but she also offered some advice: “Be careful with requesting too much from guests. You don’t want anyone to feel like you’re giving them homework.”

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.27 article:
Economic Demands Test Biden Even Before Inauguration

With the recovery slowing and coronavirus cases surging, Democrats must decide whether quick action on federal aid is more important than its scale.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s first economic test is coming months before Inauguration Day, as a slowing recovery and accelerating coronavirus infections give new urgency to talks on government aid to struggling households and businesses.

With a short window for action in the lame-duck congressional session, Mr. Biden must decide whether to push Democratic leaders to cut a quick deal on a package much smaller than they say is needed or to hold out hope for a larger one after he takes office.

A continued standoff over aid could set the stage for sluggish growth that persists long into Mr. Biden’s presidency. Republican and Democratic leaders remain far apart on the size and contents of a rescue package, though both sides say lawmakers should act quickly.

Mr. Biden has until now sided with top Democrats in Congress. A Biden transition adviser said Friday that he had begun to have conversations with lawmakers about what a lame-duck package should look like.

The shifting dynamics of both the pandemic and the recovery are complicating the debate. Even as it has slowed, the economy has proved more resilient than many experts expected early in the coronavirus outbreak, leading Republicans, in particular, to resist a big new dose of federal aid. But the recent surge in hospitalizations and deaths from the virus has increased the risk that the economy could slow further.

Last spring, economists were nearly unanimous in urging Congress to provide as much money as possible, as quickly as it could. Now, many conservative economists say a much smaller follow-up package would suffice. Even as progressives point to slowing job creation and soaring long-term unemployment rates to argue for trillions of dollars in aid, a growing number of liberal economists are urging Democrats to compromise and accept a smaller package to get money flowing quickly.

“A meaningful something is a lot better than nothing,” said Jason Furman, who was a top economic adviser to former President Barack Obama. “Preventing damage to the economy today puts it in a better position a year from now.”

But others with ties to Mr. Biden’s team see the economic and political trade-offs differently. William E. Spriggs, a Labor Department official under Mr. Obama, agreed that it was vital for Congress to act quickly. But he urged Democrats not to accept too small a deal because it might prove insufficient and make it harder to win support for more aid later on.

“You will get people saying it didn’t work, so we don’t need to do it again,” said Mr. Spriggs, whom prominent Democrats have pushed for a role in the Biden administration. “You make it harder to go to the well again.”

Polls continue to show strong bipartisan support for more spending, including another round of direct payments to households. But it appears increasingly likely that if Congress reaches a deal by the end of the year, it will be for a package that is far smaller than the deal that Democrats and the White House were discussing before the election, which called for an outlay of more than $1.5 trillion.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said relatively strong employment numbers for October showed that the economy was “really moving to get back on its feet” without much government aid.

Mr. Biden will almost certainly propose a broader stimulus effort, but unless Democrats take control of the Senate — which would require them to win two runoff elections in Georgia in January — his ability to push a deal through Congress will be limited. Republicans have cited concerns about the record budget deficit in opposing another large round of government spending.

Prospects for a new relief bill have been further clouded by ambiguous economic readings that can support seemingly any policy preferences.

To those pushing for a smaller package, recent data suggests the economy is on firmer footing. The trillions of dollars that Congress provided in the spring largely succeeded in buoying the economy, and while progress has slowed, it has not stopped: Employers have added almost three million jobs in the last three months, and the unemployment rate — nearly 15 percent in April — has fallen by more than half.

“We have an unemployment rate below 7 percent right now,” said Michael R. Strain, an economist at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. “That calls for a very different amount of stimulus than if the unemployment rate were in the range of 10 percent, which is where we all thought it would be.”

Many progressives, however, argue those aggregate figures obscure more severe harm beneath the surface. White-collar professionals, many of whom can work from home and have benefited from the strong stock market, have done relatively well during the pandemic, and some industries, like construction and automaking, have bounced back. But service businesses, like restaurants and hotels, are still suffering, with little chance of revival before a vaccine is widely available.

“Things have improved more quickly than I expected, but we still have an enormous gap,” said Heidi Shierholz, a Labor Department economist in the Obama administration who is the policy director for the liberal Economic Policy Institute in Washington. She said the economy still needed trillions of dollars of support over the next two years.

The need is particularly acute among historically disadvantaged groups that have been hit hardest by the recession. The unemployment rate for Black Americans remains in the double digits, and hundreds of thousands of women are no longer working or seeking work, often because they must care for children who are home from school. More than 3.5 million Americans have been unemployed for more than six months.

“To say we don’t need as much aid is ridiculous,” said Olugbenga Ajilore, an economist at the Center for American Progress, a liberal group. “What that signals is all we care about is white men and no one else matters.”

Then, there is the pandemic itself. Many epidemiologists warn that infection rates are likely to keep rising as people gather indoors and travel for the holidays. That could bring a wave of new layoffs as consumers pull back on activity and businesses face new restrictions.

“We do see the economy continuing on a solid path of recovery, but the main risk we see to that is clearly the further spread of the disease here in the United States,” Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, said Thursday. “People may lose confidence that it is safe to go out.”

Some forecasters are skeptical that the latest rise in cases will be as damaging, at least economically, as earlier waves. Businesses and consumers have learned to adapt to the virus — or, in some cases, have chosen to ignore the risks — and states have generally resisted reimposing the strict lockdown policies that were common last spring.

“I had really not appreciated how much economic activity we would keep doing in the face of a pandemic,” said Wendy Edelberg, director of the Hamilton Project, an economic policy arm of the Brookings Institution. “It could well be that the economy can continue to muddle along despite a surge in the virus this winter.”

But muddling along could have long-term consequences. After the last recession, the federal government pulled back on aid before the economy had fully recovered, leading to a slog that was particularly hard on Black and Hispanic households.

And without aid, the virus may push more businesses over the edge, setting off ripples through the entire economy.

“You’re never quite sure if you’re near to some kind of tipping point where the stimulus might be just enough to keep you from tipping,” said Chris Varvares, co-head of U.S. economics at IHS Markit, a forecasting firm. “Especially for those affected families that are about to be evicted or about to have foreclosure proceedings brought against them, or for small-business owners that are about to throw in the towel, the stimulus could provide that lifeline.”

Economists broadly agree that Congress should focus on aid to state and local governments, support for small businesses and an extension of the expanded unemployment benefit programs that are set to expire at the end of the year. Mr. Biden discussed a similar list of priorities on Thursday with the top congressional Democrats, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, according to a summary from the participants.

On Friday, a transition adviser to Mr. Biden, Jen Psaki, brushed aside several questions from reporters about the president-elect’s views on the size and timing of a stimulus package, other than to say that on Capitol Hill “there have been conversations started that he’s engaged with.”

“You should expect that he will continue to be engaged in those discussions,” Ms. Psaki said, “and certainly wants to see the American people receive the relief they need.”

The most important thing, many economists agree, is speed. Karen Dynan, a Harvard economist and a Treasury Department official in the Obama administration, said the better-than-expected economic data was no excuse to delay assistance. Rather, she said, it is evidence that the aid so far has been effective — and that as it fades, Congress needs to do more.

“We need to recognize that the economy has only done as well as it has because we had such aggressive fiscal stimulus early on,” she said.





No.28 article:
Sainted Too Soon? Vatican Report Cast John Paul II in Harsh New Light

The former pope was fast-tracked for canonization immediately after his death. But a tarnished legacy in dealing with the church’s sex abuse scandals has left critics to wonder whether it was too fast.

ROME — At the funeral of Pope John Paul II at St. Peter’s Square, banners rose from the sea of mourners reading “Santo Subito,” or “Saint at Once.” He was a giant of the church in the 20th century, spanning the globe, inspiring generations of believers with his youthful magnetism, then aged infirmity, and, as the Polish pope, he helped bring down Communism over his more than 26-year reign.

Days after his death in 2005, cardinals eager to uphold his conservative policies had already begun discussing putting him on a fast track to sainthood while devotees in Rome and beyond clamored for his immediate canonization, drowning out notes of caution from survivors of sexual abuse and historians that John Paul had persistently turned a blind eye to the crimes in his church.

Now, after more than a decade of doubts, his reputation has fallen under its darkest cloud yet, after the very Vatican that rushed to canonize him released an extraordinary report this week that laid at the saint’s feet the blame for the advancement of the disgraced former prelate Theodore E. McCarrick.

The investigation, commissioned by Pope Francis, who canonized John Paul in 2014, revealed how John Paul chose not to believe longstanding accusations of sexual abuse against Mr. McCarrick, including pedophilia, allowing him to climb the hierarchy’s ladder.

The findings detailed decades of bureaucratic obfuscation and lack of accountability by a host of top prelates and threatened to sully the white robes of three popes. But most of all, critics say, it provides searing proof that the church moved with reckless speed to canonize John Paul and now it is caught in its own wreckage.

“He was canonized too fast,” said Kathleen Cummings, author of “A Saint of Our Own” and the head of a center on U.S. Catholicism at the University of Notre Dame. She said that given the “really damning evidence,” in the report, had the church waited at least five years, and not mere days, to begin the canonization process “it would probably not begin for John Paul II because of his complicity in the clergy sex abuse scandal.”

A reversal of the canonization, which historians struggle to recall ever happening, is implausible. Some historians say the McCarrick report is more likely to put back some brakes on a process that John Paul II himself sped up. But the report may complicate the canonization chances of others at the top of the church hierarchy during the late 20th century and early 21st century, when the scourge of sex abuse exploded in the church.

The Vatican report shows that Pope Benedict XVI told Mr. McCarrick to keep a low profile when more allegations of abuse emerged in 2005. Pope Francis, despite hearing rumors of the abuse from his top lieutenants, trusted that his predecessors had properly vetted the case and left it alone, the report found.

Francis has acknowledged his own failures in believing bishops over victims. He removed Mr. McCarrick from the priesthood and has in recent years instituted new church policies to increase accountability.

Many church experts consider those new rules corrections to the abuses and almost willful ignorance of church leaders that occurred under John Paul II.

John Paul II’s defenders say the report only demonstrated that Mr. McCarrick deceived the pope, as he did many others over his half-century rise to the highest ranks of the Catholic Church, and that it has no bearing on the heroic Christian virtue that made the pontiff a saint.

John Paul had been “cynically deceived” by Mr. McCarrick and other American bishops, Stanislaw Gadecki, the head of the Polish bishops conference said in a statement.

“Saints make errors of judgment, this was clearly an error of judgment,” said George Weigel, a biographer of Pope John Paul II and an official witness during his beatification process. “McCarrick was a pathological liar. And pathological liars fool people including saints.”

Mr. Weigel said that if perfection were a prerequisite for sainthood, St. Peter himself would not have made the cut. Indeed, infallibility, which is sometimes attributed to popes, is not a necessary saintly attribute, and history is full of saints who were not exactly saints during their lifetimes.

There has been a satanic priest, prostitutes, thieves and much else on the road to redemption and sainthood. In 1969, Pope Paul VI removed 93 saints from the church’s universal liturgical calendar, but mostly because they might not have existed, such as St. Christopher, who carried on his shoulders an infant who with each step grew heavier with the weight of the world.

But much is known about John Paul II, and some critics are arguing that it is enough cause not to celebrate him.

Citing John Paul’s “calamitous, callous decision-making,” which it said put children around the world at risk, an editorial Friday in the National Catholic Reporter urged American bishops meeting next week for their annual conference to “discuss requesting that the Vatican formally suppress John Paul’s cult,” or cease celebrating him. “Abuse victims deserve no less.”

That is a tremendous irony for a pope who turned the church into an efficient canonization factory. John Paul knocked down the criteria for beatification from two miracles to one, and did the same for canonization. In 1983, he reduced the amount of time required between a person’s death and the start of their canonization process to five years from 50.

He produced more than 480 saints, and put enough into the pipeline that Benedict XVI was able to canonize scores more. Pope Francis has followed suit, but has chosen to canonize people closer to his more pastoral, and less doctrinaire, vision of the church, such as Pope Paul VI and the martyred Salvadoran Archbishop Óscar Romero.

All three of the popes embraced the canonization process as a tool to fortify the faithful with the notion that saints are still among us, but also as mission statements for who merits emulation. Given the ideological divisions in the church, that approach puts a premium on speed.

“A process normally begins after five years of the death of the Servant of God and not later than 30 years after his death,” the Rev. Pascual Cebollada, the postulator, or person who presents a case for canonization, for the Jesuit order, explained. “For the last condition there are, of course, many exceptions that must be justified. For the first,” he added, “there have been less exceptions.”

John Paul was one of them. Benedict XVI waived the five-year requirement, allowing his canonization case to begin only days after his death. Even before the McCarrick report’s release on Tuesday, there was a growing sense that might have been a mistake.

In May, reporters asked Msgr. Slawomir Oder, the promoter of the cause for John Paul’s sainthood, whether it would have been wiser to hold off on the canonization. Already by that time, a cloud had grown over John Paul’s relationship with Mr. McCarrick and his close ties to the Rev. Marcial Maciel Degollado, the Mexican founder of the wealthy and powerful religious order Legionaries of Christ, who was later found to have fathered several children and been a serial abuser.

“All questions were faced, even the ones you are talking about” concerning abuse, Monsignor Oder said. He added that “John Paul II did not cover up any pedophile.” 

But Monsignor Oder, who did not return a request for comment after the report’s publication, also said at the time that the Vatican did not grant direct access to the archives to those investigating the case for John Paul’s canonization, and that the Secretariat of State researched their questions and provided answers.

Archbishop Carlo Maria Viganò, a former official in the Secretariat of State who became the Vatican’s ambassador to the United States, in part prompted the report by publishing a remarkable letter in 2018 that accused Pope Francis of having covered up Mr. McCarrick’s abuse.

To shield John Paul II, who was actually in power at the time of Mr. McCarrick’s promotions, Archbishop Viganò argued that the ailing pontiff was too sick with Parkinson’s in 2000 to be held accountable.

But the Vatican investigation, which Archbishop Viganò said did not interview him, says that John Paul was of sound mind when he personally made the decision to reject the accusations and appoint Mr. McCarrick.

“The record unequivocally shows that Pope John Paul II made the decision personally,” the report says, and quotes the testimony of the former prefect of the papal household, James Harvey, saying John Paul was “fully capable to make all of his own decisions in 2000.”

The more frequent defense of John Paul, expressed also in the report, is that his experience facing Communism in Poland led him to believe that false accusations against priests and bishops were a political weapon against the faith. 

But the reports give a rare glimpse at other, less noble, factors that led the pope to believe Mr. McCarrick, namely that the Vatican operated like an old boys network where bishops always got the benefit of the doubt.

John Paul first met Mr. McCarrick in 1976. Mr. McCarrick, the report says, “was on a fishing trip in the Bahamas with teenagers from some of the Catholic families” when a telegram told him to come back immediately to help translate for Pope John Paul II, then known as Karol Jozef Wojtyla, a rising star in the church. Mr. McCarrick joked that Cardinal Wojtyła had ruined his vacation and they struck up a friendship.

A quarter of a century later, Mr. McCarrick urged John Paul in a letter not to believe the accusations against him. 

Pope John Paul II became “convinced of the truth” of McCarrick’s denial, the report notes, adding that Stanislaw Dziwisz, now a Cardinal, recalled that Pope John Paul II also believed it would be “useful to nominate McCarrick to Washington because he has a good relationship with the White House.”

Those events, as well as others in the report, have led some historians to suggest that the church redirect its canonization energies away from the top of the hierarchy.

“You are pope,”  Professor Cummings said. “That should be good enough.”





No.29 article:
In Strange Times, Eerie Stories Confront the Unknown

Every traveler knows that some of the most moving and profound encounters she has in a foreign land aren’t with the living, but the dead. There’s something about having your equilibrium upset that makes the past seem closer, more accessible, and understanding that you’re walking atop the same ramparts, or down the same medina alleys, or over the same packed-earth streets as travelers from a century, two centuries, millennia ago, makes you feel both less consequential and, at the same time, less alone. Here I am, you think, one person of countless millions, and although my time here is brief, I too will have joined the others by leaving my footfall on this earth.

In the months since we assigned this issue, in the summer of 2019, we’ve all had to reconsider our relationship with death. But if death itself is scary to many of us, the dead themselves shouldn’t be. Ghost stories, like folk tales and fairy tales, are one of the first ways we learn about another culture’s values and concerns, and as such, they aren’t necessarily meant to frighten — often, they’re ways to explain to ourselves the living’s unresolved matters of the heart: old ambitions, old loves, old hatreds. What happens to those feelings? Where do they go? As the three fiction writers who created an original short story for this issue suggest, a ghost is not so much a person as a personal or historical legacy, one we can’t quite make sense of but know must be addressed.

By that definition, we all live with phantoms, and some of us are even brave enough to confront them. When the artist Senga Nengudi began making her now-iconic “R.S.V.P.” sculptures in 1975, she was a new mother, fascinated by the changes pregnancy had wrought on her body. That experience inspired her series of works made from pantyhose — a humble material, but as flexible and expandable, and therefore as miraculous, as flesh — that she activated with choreography. Forty-five years later, Nengudi, who is now 77 and is finally receiving credit as a leader of both the Black Arts and performance art movements, sees the sculptures differently, as an exorcism of abuse inflicted upon her as a child. It’s not only the body, she says, but the psyche that can “stretch and come back into shape.” History lives alongside the present, always — but if we’re willing to face it, we can sometimes remap what it means, and even, yes, its very shape.





No.30 article:
Quotation of the Day: States Aren’t Ready to Distribute Shots

“This is going to be a phenomenal logistical feat, to vaccinate everybody in the country. We absolutely have zero margin for failure. We really have to get this right.”

DR. THOMAS E. DOBBS III, the state health officer of Mississippi.





No.31 article:
In ‘A Promised Land,’ Barack Obama Thinks — and Thinks Some More — Over His First Term

[The Best Books of 2020: View our full list.]

The most audacious thing about Barack Obama’s new memoir, “A Promised Land,” is the beaming portrait on its cover: There he is, the 44th president, looking so serenely confident that it’s as if the book weren’t arriving on the heels of a bitter election, amid a cratering economy and a raging pandemic.

The ebullient image also stands at odds with the narrative inside — 700 pages that are as deliberative, measured and methodical as the author himself. Obama says that he initially planned to write a 500-page memoir and be done in a year; what he ended up with instead is a hefty volume (now the first of an anticipated two) that stops in May 2011, shortly after his roasting of Donald Trump at the White House Correspondents’ Dinner on April 30 and the killing of Osama bin Laden the day after.

Obama’s extraordinary first book, “Dreams From My Father,” was published in 1995, a year before he was elected to the Illinois senate, and traced his family history alongside his own coming-of-age. “A Promised Land” is necessarily less intimate and more political, offering close-up views of the major issues that Obama faced during his first term, including the economic stimulus, health care, immigration, the environment and the forever war in Afghanistan.

Presumably left for the future volume are, among other fraught subjects: the 2016 election, his abdication of his own “red line” in Syria, the entrenchment of the surveillance state and a discussion of drone strikes. This isn’t to say that “A Promised Land” reads like a dodge; if anything, its length testifies to what seems to be a consistently held faith on the part of the former president — that if he just describes his thinking in sufficient detail, and clearly lays out the constellation of obstacles and constraints he faced, any reasonable American would have to understand why he governed as he did.

[ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of November. See the full list. ]

Nearly every president since Theodore Roosevelt has written a memoir that covers his years in office; this one contains some inevitable moments of reputation-burnishing and legacy-shaping, though the narrative hews so closely to Obama’s own discursive habits of thought that any victories he depicts feel both hard-won and tenuous. An adverb he likes to use is “still” — placed at the beginning of a sentence, to qualify and counter whatever he said just before. Another favorite is “maybe,” as he reflects on alternatives to what happened, offering frank confessions of his own uncertainties and doubts. At a time of grandiose mythologizing, he marshals his considerable storytelling skills to demythologize himself. He addresses the book to the “next generation,” to young people who seek to “remake the world,” but the story he tells is less about unbridled possibility and more about the forces that inhibit it.

He periodically reminds us how he inherited a state of emergency. As one of his friends said after Obama’s historic win in 2008, when the economy was getting devoured by the Great Recession: “Two hundred and thirty-two years and they wait until the country’s falling apart before they turn it over to the brother!”

Once in office, Obama sought the help of experienced insiders instead of “fresh talent,” deciding that the dire circumstances “demanded it.” Obama says he had ambitious ideas for structural change, but that his team insisted that any attempts to mete out some “Old Testament justice” to the banks whose avarice and recklessness had pushed the financial system to the brink would send skittish markets into a full-blown panic.

But quelling markets did little to quell anger and fear — something that conservatives, Obama noticed, were quick to seize on and use to their advantage, while the president deemed it perilous to tap into such incendiary emotions. (This seemed to be an ingrained sensibility: David Maraniss’s 2012 biography of Obama has one of his mentors recalling with a touch of exasperation how even when they were doing community organizing in Chicago, Obama was “reluctant to do confrontation, to push the other side because it might blow up.”) What could have been politically beneficial to him, Obama takes pains to spell out, would have risked degrading the institutions that needed to be repaired, not demolished.

There’s a dynamic that Obama describes again and again in “A Promised Land”: establishment Republicans shrewdly finding ways to appropriate and exploit the feelings of helplessness and resentment that their own deregulatory policies had helped to bring about in the first place. “If all this seems obvious to me now, it wasn’t at the time,” Obama writes. “My team and I were too busy.” He recalls a Republican senator telling him, “I hate to say it, but the worse people feel right now, the better it is for us.” (This senator may have hated to say it, but he loved to see it.) The result was a drubbing in the 2010 midterms, when Democrats lost an astounding 63 seats in the House.

About the substance of those first two years in office, Obama expresses few regrets. “We had saved the economy,” he writes. “We had stabilized the global financial system and yanked the U.S. auto industry from the brink of collapse.” The Affordable Care Act made health care available to another 20 million Americans. The midterms “didn’t prove that our agenda had been wrong. It just proved that — whether for lack of talent, cunning, charm or good fortune — I’d failed to rally the nation, as F.D.R. had once done, behind what I knew to be right.”

The tone that Obama strikes in lines like these is almost mournful. He shows how a certain kind of blunt candor seemed all but unavailable to him as the first Black president. After he offered the mildest rebuke of the police officer who arrested the scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr. on his own front porch, saying that the officer acted “stupidly,” his support among white voters plunged. In public, Obama was unfailingly conciliatory, telling reporters he “could have calibrated my original comments more carefully,” even as he began to realize that the issue of Black people and the police was a reminder “that the basis of our nation’s social order had never been simply about consent; that it was also about centuries of state-sponsored violence by whites against Black and brown people.”

As much as he knew this, he couldn’t say it. His almost zealous commitment to moderation rankled some progressives, who had assumed that his soaring campaign rhetoric meant he was a visionary bent on overturning the status quo. Whenever he felt stuck, he fell back on empathy and “process.” They sound like incommensurate traits — one is inventive and literary, the other is bland and technocratic. But for Obama — who in this book demonstrates an almost compulsive tendency to imagine himself into the lives of others (whether it’s Hillary Clinton, John McCain, or, in one passage, a Somali pirate) — a sound process “was born of necessity.” Decisions that were made after taking into account a variety of perspectives reassured him that he wasn’t blinkered by his own.

“A Promised Land” isn’t entirely about the presidency. The first 200 pages move (comparatively) briskly through Obama’s early years to his life in Chicago, when his burgeoning political career put a strain on his marriage to Michelle, who had curtailed some of her own ambitions so that one of them would be present for the couple’s daughters. Of course, becoming president didn’t yield anything that resembled a work-life balance, though it did mean that rather than commute between Chicago and Springfield, Ill., or between Chicago and Washington, he could usually be home for dinner by 6:30 before returning to the Oval Office. He would receive his President’s Daily Brief (or as Michelle called it, “The Death, Destruction and Horrible Things Book”) at the breakfast table.

He happened to be at home in April 2010 when he first got word that an explosion had torn through the Deepwater Horizon, a drilling rig off the Louisiana coast, belching fire and smoke and gushing oil — the worst oil spill in the country’s history. An underwater video feed showed “the oil pulsing in thick columns from the surrounding wreckage,” Obama writes, “like emanations from hell.”

The novelty and enormity of the disaster shook him. (The technology for ultradeep underwater drilling made the Exxon Valdez look like a Tinkertoy by comparison.) Until then, Obama had maintained a “fundamental confidence” that he “could always come up with a solution through sound process and smart choices.” But those “plumes of oil rushing out of a cracked earth and into the sea’s ghostly depths” seemed of another order, unassimilable to his generally imperturbable worldview. Even after the hole was plugged and the cleanup was proceeding apace, something awful had been unleashed, with the true extent of the poisoning not yet known.

A hundred pages later, Obama remembers how Republicans seemed to get increasingly petulant at the prospect of working with his administration. “It was as if my very presence in the White House had triggered a deep-seated panic,” he writes, “a sense that the natural order had been disrupted.” Trump had been peddling a birtherist conspiracy theory that some conservatives seemed eager to accept.

Obama doesn’t force the metaphor, but the events described in “A Promised Land” suggest that something very old and toxic in American politics had been unleashed too. It was as if the Republican Party, having sidled up to the jagged shores of white grievance, was starting to founder on them. As he writes of the Deepwater disaster: “Where the rest of the oil ended up, what gruesome toll it took on wildlife, how much oil would eventually settle back onto the ocean floor, and what long-term effect that might have on the entire Gulf ecosystem — it would be years before we’d have the full picture.”





No.32 article:
Staying Apart, But Praying Together

Emilio Arteaga, the beloved longtime deacon at St. Agatha’s, a Roman Catholic church in Brooklyn, died from Covid-19 on Good Friday this year. It was not until 10 days later that just a handful of priests and nuns were able to mark the occasion by reciting a single prayer over his casket, in the middle of 49th Street.

“It was so painful,” said Rev. Vincentius Do, the church’s pastor. “They brought the hearse in front of the church, we came out, said a prayer, sprinkled holy water and off he went.”

Like many other houses of worship in New York, St. Agatha’s has reopened, with clergy and congregants a bit battered. They’ve adapted their centuries-old traditions in order to worship safely.

Religious services were shut down by the state at the end of March and weren’t allowed to resume until June. Since reopening, churches, synagogues and mosques throughout the city have mandated masks, limited the number of people in each service, employed strict cleaning regimens and abbreviated the length of services.

Those efforts, however, may no longer be enough. As the infection rate in the city rises, new restrictions may soon be put in place.

At St. Agatha’s, parishioners recite prayers by memory because all the prayer books — Spanish, English and Mandarin — have been removed from the pews. There are no processions or recessions, and during Holy Communion priests do not serve sacramental wine. Congregants no longer hold hands during the Lord’s Prayer or greet each other during the Exchange of Peace.

St. Agatha’s closed again after the March shutdown, on Oct. 9. The governor placed it in an “orange zone” because of an increase in coronavirus cases in nearby neighborhoods — although there had been only one known case in the parish in the previous month. The building reopened two weeks later.

“It has been like riding a roller-coaster with a blindfold on,” said Father Do.

The congregants of this predominately Latino parish struggled at times to get used to the openings and closings and safety measures, said Father Do, but the church has been able to provide its members solace and support.

At least for now. As the infection rate climbs in the city, the church’s members fear more restrictions and closings are still to come.

This modern Orthodox synagogue didn’t wait for the state — they closed down a week before the March shutdown went into effect, and didn’t restart services until August.

“In Judaism, the preservation of life is of the highest priority, and that has to come before all other considerations,” said Rabbi Yosie Levine, who has served at the synagogue since 2004.

The sanctuary at The Jewish Center accommodates more than 500 people but only 60 are now allowed inside at a time. Attendees must preregister online, answer a coronavirus exposure survey and have their temperature taken at the door.

When weather permits, shortened services are held outside on the rooftop.

While individual prayer is important, Judaism elevates worshiping with others, said Dr. Michael Wolfe, a gastroenterologist who attends the daily morning minyan at the Jewish Center.

“I missed the communal aspect of praying together,” Dr. Wolfe said. “Reopening enabled me to continue the activity that I have been doing every morning for the last 30 years.”

Attendance has been limited to 64 people at this Queens mosque, and attendees bring their own prayer rugs that they set up in designated spots, six feet apart.

Since June, the mosque has added extra sessions on Friday of jummah, the most important prayer of the week, so that all who want to can pray in person.

At the door, temperatures are checked and hand sanitizer is dispensed to the congregants, who must also wear masks.

Muslims pray five times a day, and they can do so at home, said Sheikh Akram Kassab, Dar Al-Dawah’s imam. Being closed in March was difficult, he said, but safety came first.

“In our religion, we have to keep our soul and our body healthy,” Sheikh Kassab said. “We have to respect the religion and we have to respect our neighbors and keep them safe, whether they are Muslim or not.”

Priests wearing white robes, surgical masks and plastic face guards continue to perform services, ceremonies and rituals at the Hindu Temple Society of North America, also known as the Ganesh Temple. Only 30 people are allowed inside at a time, and only for 15 minutes each. At the door they are scanned by a wall-mounted infrared scanner that checks their temperature and whether they are wearing masks.

Worshipers are no longer allowed to touch the shrines of deities, and offerings cannot be directly handed to the priest. Since March, services have been also live-streamed daily.

Though the digital experience is better than nothing, said Dr. Uma Mysorekar, the president of the temple, it is lacking. And the current in-person restrictions — while essential for safety — are not ideal for worship, she added. But at least people are able “to see the deities, have their services done and experience the energy that happens in the temple.”

Nineteen members of this Brooklyn megachurch have died from Covid, and hundreds more were infected, including the pastor, Dr. A.R. Bernard, who said he spent a week in the hospital in March “with every symptom imaginable.”

After a month of quarantining at home, Dr. Bernard returned to work, broadcasting services on YouTube and Facebook that are viewed by tens of thousands of congregants.

Like many other large, predominantly Black churches in New York City, the Christian Cultural Center has not reopened its building since March because of deep concerns for the safety of congregants, Dr. Bernard said.

The virus has hit Black and Latino people in the city particularly hard, with their rate of death twice as high as it is for white people.

“We witnessed the inefficiencies and inequities in health care when it came to certain communities,” he said.

The church plans to broadcast services through the end of the year, Dr. Bernard said. And, since it first began the giving recorded services, they have evolved into “a much better interpretation of our worship experience,” he said.

Different parts of the Sunday service are recorded during the week, with four cameras and even sometimes a smoke machine. Instead of a sermon, Dr. Bernard holds a conversation with his son Jamaal Bernard, connecting biblical passages to current events. The edited service is then streamed three times on Sunday and participants can ask questions or comment and exchange greetings in a live chat room.

An additional daily prayer conference call attracts about 1,300 people every morning.

“We are still doing community,” Dr. Bernard said. “Isolation is antithetical to our sense of purpose. The building is closed, but church is open.”





No.33 article:
It’s Time to Tackle the Garage

There is supposed to be room for cars and you’re probably never going to use that old paint. Here’s how to bring order to your home’s last messy place.

Days spent at home have moved even the most muddled people to organize. The spice rack now displays alphabetically ordered bottles in neat rows. The closet has sections for formal and informal wear, subdivided by season. Pots and pans are arranged by type, the silverware drawer is a model of organizational excellence. But the garage is still overflowing with who-knows-what, piled here, there and everywhere. Time to organize.

It’s best to attack the garage early in the day, so you can temporarily store things outdoors while you work. Arm yourself with a number of empty trash cans and trash bags and get to work. After moving vehicles out onto the driveway, dig into the piles of junk and valuables. Weigh the worth of each item ruthlessly. If your garage is overflowing with years of accumulated stuff, you can assume much of it is useless. (Not having used something for years qualifies it as useless.) Discard things no one could possibly want and bag things someone else might want for a later garage sale or donation.

Containers of garden supplies and automotive chemicals that are near empty or whose expiration date has passed should be discarded, as should paint cans containing remnants left over from a remodel of years ago. Most of this will have to go to a hazardous-products waste site. Ditto old tires and car batteries. Some municipalities host hazardous waste days for drop off, while most metro areas have at least some waste-disposal sites that are accessible year round.

Before you begin returning your keepers to the garage, do a thorough cleanup of the briefly empty space. For the floor, use a product meant for cleaning oil-stained concrete and work it in well. If you have a power washer put it to use here. If not, work in the cleaning solution  using an old broom and rinse with a garden hose.

An epoxy garage floor coating can dress up your space, and now would be time to apply it if you choose. It looks good, wears well and resist stains. However, shiny coatings can be slippery when wet. Most require 24 hours of drying time before they can withstand foot traffic, and vehicles will have to remain outside for several days. Figure several hundred dollars in materials if you epoxy-coat a two-car garage floor yourself. Having it done professionally costs about $1,500.

Because vehicles occupy the center of most garages, look to the walls, ceiling and perimeter to store the things you decide to keep. Shelving is a good place to start. If some of the things you’ll be storing on shelves are heavy, a sturdy steel unit is a good choice. This type of shelving is available from many online suppliers in a range of sizes. A heavy-duty four-shelf unit, 77-inches high by 72-inches wide, runs about $200. For that price, makers claim that the shelves will hold up to 2,000 pounds. If you don’t plan to store heavy equipment, lighter-duty shelving can be found for less than $100. (And used is even cheaper.)

Store products on the shelves in an orderly manner. For example, you might designate one section for garden products, another for automotive needs, a third for electrical parts, a fourth for painting supplies and a fifth for cleaning products.

Many of your tools and toys can be stored out of the way on the walls and ceiling. A variety of hooks, racks and shelves meant to be installed in garages are available.

Hooks installed in ceiling rafters are great for hanging bicycles, particularly those that are rarely used, but getting the bikes up there is no easy task for all but the young and strong. Use two hooks, one for each wheel if you want the bikes to hang high and out of the way. You can hang a bike with its front wheel on a sturdy single hook, but if it’s not right next to a wall it will be in the way.

Wall-mounted bicycle racks are easy to install and may allow for locking of the bike, but they don’t conserve as much space as a ceiling mount. Typical wall racks sell for about $90. A sturdy wall-mounted hook and a bungee cord or cable looped through the front wheel gets the job done for peanuts.

Rails meant to store large tools can be screwed into the garage’s wall studs. Some are fitted with clamps that hold a broom, spade, hoe or rake. Other rails are equipped with hooks that surround the tool’s handle, keeping it in place against the wall. Odd-shaped tools like lopping shears can also be hung from the rails.

Ladders and light garden appliances like fertilizer spreaders can also be hung on the wall using stout brackets or hooks.

Garages are typically built with one or two ceiling-mounted light fixtures meant for single incandescent bulbs. They provide little light, rendering the space dark and gloomy.

Until just a few years ago, garage owners desiring better illumination would install a multi-bulb fluorescent fixture in place of each single-bulb lamp. That provided much better lighting. But fluorescent bulbs are not a sound environmental or financial choice and some are no longer available.

You could replace them with an LED-tube light fixture, which would provide more light and use much less energy. LED tubes usually last 20 years or more. They are more expensive than fluorescent tubes but pay for themselves in energy savings.

But an LED cluster fixture is a simpler solution, because it can be screwed into an existing single-bulb socket.

The fixtures are fitted with hundreds of tiny LED bulbs on three or four cast-aluminum heat-sink panels. Each panel can be adjusted to direct the light (they are often known as deformable fixtures). You can buy them in versions from 60 watts up to 160 watts, and makers say a 60-watt LED fixture is four times brighter than a 60-watt incandescent bulb but uses no more energy.

The fixtures sell for about $15 to slightly more than $50. The most powerful and expensive models come with a motion sensor that can detect movement and switch the lights on and off.

All the better to show off your newly organized garage.





No.34 article:
Here’s How Trump’s Stalling Risks Our National Security

I’ve seen my share of presidential transitions. The administration hurts the country by not cooperating with President-elect Biden.

Transitions? I’ve seen a few.

Since 2000, I have participated in three presidential transitions from the vantage points of both the departing and the incoming administration. This year, although I serve on the Biden-Harris transition advisory board, I am not a member of the transition team and, as always, these views are my own.

Each transition I experienced was different, but what they shared was a recognition that our country’s national security is best served when both sides endeavor to have a responsible handoff of power. Conversely, it is undermined when either side refuses to engage the other seriously.

In the week since Joe Biden’s victory became clear, President Trump and his administration have taken no steps toward starting the process of transition. The risks to our national security are mounting.

My first transition began in December 2000, soon after a Supreme Court ruling made George W. Bush the winner of the disputed election. As the assistant secretary of state for African affairs, I was the first bureau chief to meet with the incoming secretary of state, Gen. Colin Powell.

President-elect Bush and his senior national security team had begun receiving the president’s daily intelligence briefing and had access to critical information. But the normal process that follows after a president-elect has been chosen — the incoming administration sends teams to each department to receive detailed information on policy, budget, personnel and other matters — had awaited the Supreme Court’s Dec. 12 Bush v. Gore decision.

I was struck immediately by Secretary-designate Powell’s unique style. He came alone to the State Department — cool, confident, casually dressed and without staff members, bag-carriers or pretense of any sort. He asked to meet with me and the Africa bureau first, presumably to send the message that he would treat this sometimes-under-appreciated region of the world with the seriousness it deserves.

Mr. Powell asked thoughtful, probing questions and brought his signature dignity and professionalism to every encounter with the departing administration. Despite the abbreviated transition timetable and the controversy surrounding the election, we on the exiting Clinton team did our utmost to provide Mr. Powell with everything that he might want in terms of information and support.

In 2008, I was a co-leader of President-elect Barack Obama’s national security transition team and was named United Nations ambassador-designate. I had started working with the General Services Administration before the election to ensure that the office space allotted to the president-elect’s team would be suitable for all of our needs, including the handling of classified information.

Swiftly granted a top-secret security clearance, I received access to the president’s intelligence briefing in order to help facilitate the smooth transfer of sensitive security information from one team to the next. Later, I was provided full support by my predecessor at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, and his team, as I sought to prepare for confirmation and quickly get up to speed.

Mr. Obama often speaks of how much he valued the stellar efforts of Mr. Bush and his administration to conduct a thorough and seamless transition. At each agency and in almost every respect, the 2008 transition was a model for its thoroughness, collegiality and efficacy.

Finally, I was national security adviser in 2016 during the handoff from Mr. Obama to President-elect Trump. Under strict instructions from Mr. Obama to provide his successor, whoever it may be, with a quality start that matched or exceeded that which he had received from Mr. Bush, the National Security Council staff worked for months in advance of the election to prepare more than 100 briefing papers.

I personally reviewed every memo on subjects that ranged from staffing, budget and the most complicated policy issues, to numerous potentially dire national security contingencies that might arise early in a new administration, along with recommended steps for how to deal with them.

Shortly after my successor, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, was named, I called to congratulate him and pledged to give him as much of my time until the Trump inauguration as he wanted. It took a couple weeks for General Flynn to take me up on my repeated offers to meet but, ultimately, we met on four occasions, spending more than 12 hours together.

I answered all of his questions on how to approach the job of national security adviser and laid out in depth the numerous challenges he would confront immediately — from the campaign to defeat the Islamic State to threats posed by Russia, China, Iran and North Korea. I also stressed the need to be prepared for less obvious threats, like the potentially catastrophic collapse of the Mosul Dam in Iraq and pandemic disease.

At the conclusion of our last meeting, I wished General Flynn well and offered to be of assistance, if needed, after he took office. Following our goodbyes, but before he left my office, General Flynn surprised me by asking for a hug. It was a collegial and respectful, if slightly awkward, request, and I obliged.

As it turns out, my hours with General Flynn and those of other White House officials with their incoming counterparts, plus President Obama’s two-hour meeting with President-elect Trump, proved to be the sum total of the 2016 national security transition at the highest levels. That’s because the incoming Trump cabinet was apparently told not to meet with their Obama counterparts in their respective departments and most did not do so. The exception was one three-hour tabletop exercise in January, which is mandated by law, during which cabinet officials on both teams sat together to review mock threat scenarios relating to terrorism, cybersecurity and pandemic disease.

It was far from the optimal transition that Mr. Obama had wanted.

In 2020, as the days tick by and Mr. Trump shows no signs of starting a transition, the risks increase.

Mr. Biden and his top national security team have not been provided the daily intelligence briefings to which they are entitled. Mr. Biden’s team is not receiving classified information. The Biden-Harris agency review teams are constituted but have been denied access to every element of the executive branch. Vital exchanges of information and expertise that would help combat Covid-19 and jump-start the economy remain stalled.

While we are extremely fortunate that Mr. Biden may be the most experienced president-elect ever to take office and brings with him a deep bench of highly qualified, knowledgeable experts, the Trump administration’s continued refusal to execute a responsible transition puts our national security at risk. Without access to critical threat information, no incoming team can counter what it can’t see coming.

If, today, the Trump administration is tracking potential or actual threats — for instance, Russian bounties on American soldiers, a planned terrorist attack on an embassy, a dangerously mutated coronavirus, or Iranian and North Korean provocations — but fails to share this information in a timely fashion with the Biden-Harris team, it could cost us dearly in terms of American lives.

Indeed, the 9/11 Commission, which investigated the 2001 Qaeda terrorist attacks on U.S. soil that killed some 3,000 Americans, found that the truncated 2000 transition slowed the installation of key national security officials and stressed the importance of complete and thorough presidential transitions to U.S. national security.

Instead of acting in the national interest to orchestrate a responsible, democratic transition, Mr. Trump and many Republicans are spending time sowing false doubts about the legitimacy of Mr. Biden’s election.

Tragically, but not surprisingly, Mr. Trump appears determined to take a final wrecking ball to our democracy and  national security on his inevitable way out the door.





No.35 article:
Cook Up Some Scallion Pancakes or Horror Stories

Spend the week getting swept up in classic dance, admiring a sloth or listening to Soccer Mommy.

Here is a sampling of the week’s events and how to tune in (all times are Eastern). Note that events are subject to change after publication.

Hear how Carmen Maria Machado and Laura Marks wrote their first graphic novels during a free, virtual conversation from Brooklyn’s Greenlight Bookstore. Ms. Machado is an author and memoirist, and Ms. Marks is a playwright and screenwriter.

When 7:30 p.m.Where greenlightbookstore.com/event

Stream a free performance by the Martha Graham Dance Company. First is “Appalachian Spring,” a classic by Graham from 1944; then, “The Auditions,” new last year.

When AnytimeWhere allarts.org/programs/peak-hd

Take notes as Margaret Atwood ruminates on love, loss and … zombies, in a virtual discussion through the Portland Book Festival. These topics are part of her newest collection of poetry, “Dearly,” which was released last week. The author Karen Russell joins Ms. Atwood in conversation. A purchase of “Dearly” from Powell’s is required to join the event and tickets must be purchased by 8 p.m. on Monday.

When 8:30 p.m.Where powells.com/eventsupdate

Meet six furry and scaly creatures from the Staten Island Zoo with the New York Adventure Club. You’ll learn about each animal  and may even catch glimpses of Dunkin the sloth and Diamond the carpet python. Zoo keepers will be available to answer questions throughout the experience. The event will be available to streamfor a week after the broadcast. Tickets are $10.

When 3 p.m.Where nyadventureclub.com

Raise a glass to the artist Georgia O’Keeffe, whose birthday was Sunday. You’ll learn to make a drink inspired by her art and about her life. Reservation required and a donation is recommended.When 6:30 p.m.Where nmwa.org

Listen to Sophie Allison, a.k.a. Soccer Mommy, during a free virtual concert, with the City Parks Foundation’s SummerStage program. Ms. Allison’s album, “Color Theory,” came out in February, but the performance is her first with a full band since then.

When 7 p.m.Where cityparksfoundation.org/events/soccer-mommy

Be swept away by “Chaconne,” a performance that kicks off the season of the American Classical Orchestra with Claudio Monteverdi, Barbara Strozzi and Henry Purcell. Recorded at the Harlem Parish, the project can be streamed until Dec. 1. Suggested donation is $25.When 7:30 p.m. until Dec. 1Where aconyc.org/2021-season/chaconne

Dive into music history with the “Lost Notes” podcast. This season, the critic Hanif Abdurraqib digs into 1980, when Joy Division’s Ian Curtis died and Grace Jones moved into New Wave.

When AnytimeWhere kcrw.com/culture/shows/lost-notes

Learn to make scallion pancakes with the chef and food blogger Lisa Lin during a 90-minute seminar. After registration, participants will gain access to the recipe for the pancakes and their sauce, so they can source ingredients in advance. The virtual cooking class costs $25 and is a fundraiser for the Food Literacy Center, a Sacramento-based nonprofit that instructs elementary school-aged children in low-income communities about cooking and nutrition.

When 3 p.m.Where cookwithchibo.com/foodliteracycenter

Revel in the work of the West African choreographer and dancer Omari Wiles, founder and artistic director of Les Ballet Afrik. As homage to the 30th anniversary of the documentary “Paris is Burning,” Works and Process at the Guggenheim and Lincoln Center co-present  Mr. Wiles’s premiere video of “New York Is Burning.” The work, which is free to watch,  combines traditional African and Afrobeat styles with house dance, vogueing (imitating models in fashion magazines and on runways) and ballroom.

When Will be available to stream after 7:30 p.m.Where lincolncenter.org





No.36 article:
Savannah Guthrie Is Feeling Lucky

“Nobody’s sorry to see someone say something nice,” said Savannah Guthrie, the 48-year-old co-host of the “Today” show. “But I also see people say things that aren’t nice. I try not to let any of it in. It’s not reality.”

This was a week after Ms. Guthrie moderated a hastily scheduled Oct. 15 conversation with President Trump. During an event that many argued shouldn’t have taken place, in a manner that was both disarming and hard-charging, she had done what many thought impossible: humbled, even humiliated, a man who had steamrollered his way to power, belittling journalists along the way.

In an impersonation, Kate McKinnon, in-house master mimic at “Saturday Night Live,” labeled Ms. Guthrie a “surprise badass.” In the weeks that followed, few have argued with that assessment.

“They were actually really simple,” Ms. Guthrie said of her questions that night, sitting outside a Le Pain Quotidien in TriBeCa, not far from the home she shares with her second husband, the communications consultant Michael Feldman, and their two children. “I’m just really grateful and relieved that it was OK because it could have gone the other way so easily.”

Looking back on the crucial turning points of this dizzying election, voters — and historians — will surely remember Ms. Guthrie in a hot-pink pantsuit sitting 12 feet away from a president, not settling for his stock answers on the Supreme Court or QAnon or health care, demanding to know why Mr. Trump insisted on retweeting conspiracy theories.

“I don’t get that,” she said that night. “You’re the president. You’re not like someone’s crazy uncle who can retweet whatever.”

(Reflecting on the line, Ms. Guthrie said: “I’m shocked at myself. I don’t even know if it’s a good thing that I said it. That just came out.”)

And as President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. prepares to move into the White House, Ms. Guthrie promises to be a bolder name on her network’s main marquee.

“She’s front and center, critical to everything NBC News will be doing, hopefully for a long time to come,” said Noah Oppenheim, the president of the division. “She does have this extraordinary expertise and aptitude for the political stuff. But her range is broader than anyone’s. There isn’t a story I wouldn’t feel comfortable in saying that she could dominate covering.”

This is hardly Ms. Guthrie’s big break. She already hosts one of television’s last remaining tent poles, watched by more than 3.6 million people. She has served as a White House correspondent, filled in on “Meet the Press,” anchored “NBC Nightly News.” But that can be lost to the casual viewer watching her in the morning show madness, in the celebrity interviews and in food segments in which Ms. Guthrie, by all accounts a terrible cook, does her best to keep up.

“When people see you on morning shows, they see you not only doing the tough stuff but also doing the fun stuff that we do and maybe that overshadows that,” said Hoda Kotb, her “Today” co-host. “I think some people forget that’s who she is.”

The spin cycle of yore having accelerated to a centrifuge’s speed, viewers had perhaps already forgotten a similar event with Hillary Clinton, in which Ms. Guthrie pressed the former secretary of state over her email server. Or her interview with the United Nations ambassador Nikki Haley that left Ms. Haley genuinely stunned, even speechless, as Ms. Guthrie took her to task over that “perfect phone call” Mr. Trump made to President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine. Or her 2020 talk with Mr. Biden on his son Hunter. Or even her 2011 sit-down with Mr. Trump as he mulled a presidential run, in which he angrily answered (or failed to answer) her questions about his finances, his tax returns, his defiant stance on President Barack Obama’s birth certificate.

“Believe it or not, I don’t like confrontation,” Ms. Guthrie said. “In fact, I kind of would like to avoid it. But I also don’t like talking points. I believe that the viewers expect us to ask the questions.”

That sense of obligation to others has long been with Ms. Guthrie. She has no memories of her birthplace, Melbourne, Australia, where her father was posted while working in the oil business. It was Tucson, Ariz., where her family settled and where she and her two siblings sometimes faced financial hardship when her father went long stretches without work.

In 1988, at 16, Ms. Guthrie returned from being out with friends to a house that, at a late hour, was fully lit inside. Her father, a lifelong smoker, had died of a heart attack.

“Every kid who’s lost a parent has inside them a certain knowledge that you can’t even put into words,” she said. “And whenever you meet someone else who also has lost a parent, you know, and they know. You carry it with you.”

Her parents had walked away from religion but took the family to a Baptist church when she was a child. She has held on to her faith through college at the University of Arizona (where she lived at home in order to save money), the local anchor jobs in Missouri and Tucson, law school at Georgetown and the “Today” job.

“It’s probably one of the most exciting things to me,” said Ms. Guthrie, who attends a nondenominational church in Manhattan, while raising her children in both her Christian faith and in the Jewish traditions of her husband. “It’s far more interesting to me than anything else.

“I’m always so fundamentally aware of not being the center of the universe,” she continued. “Having a faith really helps you know your place in the world. And I really value that. And I find it endlessly fascinating. Believing in God, loving God, believing in a compassionate God, just absolutely spreads through everything I feel and the way I look at the world.”

She shares this outlook with her “Today” colleague Jenna Bush Hager, whose 2008 wedding she covered. After the death of former President George H.W. Bush, Ms. Bush Hager’s grandfather, Ms. Guthrie lent her a black dress for the service at the National Cathedral. They attend the same church, hang out together with their husbands. Their children are in and out of one another’s homes. Ms. Guthrie is the godmother to Ms. Bush Hager’s third child, Hal.

“We both talk a lot about faith and about, what holds us, what centers us, where our North Star is, how we want to raise our children,” Ms. Bush Hager said. “She and I both have had this tie. When things have happened in our lives, when I’ve lost my grandfather, having her next to me, sitting in the pew with our kids, there was something that very much comforted me and grounded me.”

By 1999 Ms. Guthrie had quit local news and traveled east to law school at Georgetown. She settled into Washington group house life, doing freelance reporting on air for the local NBC station. During these years, roommates got used to hearing their friend wake up at 4 a.m. While others slept, Ms. Guthrie would not only study but also spend time reading the Bible, sitting in a green leather chair of her father’s.

In 2002, she earned the highest score of all applicants on the Arizona bar exam and had started a well-paying associate job with Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &amp; Feld, working for John Dowd, who later served as Mr. Trump’s personal attorney. But when offered a federal clerkship, Ms. Guthrie did something her friends still find unfathomable: she turned it down. She said she wanted to return to television.

She began as a correspondent at Court TV, in the post-O. J. Simpson era, when drawn-out celebrity trials were viewed as entertainment. Martha Stewart, Michael Jackson and Kobe Bryant were all characters on her beat. She also got spots talking about cases on broadcast network shows, which caught the eye of higher-ups at NBC, including Tim Russert, who hired her in 2007. She went from general assignment coverage to Sarah Palin’s vice-presidential campaign and finally to the White House, from which she reported until 2011.

“I really didn’t have any sources at all,” Ms. Guthrie said. “I didn’t know people and they didn’t know me.” So she wonked out on policy. “And if you do, No. 1, you’ll find stories. And No. 2, when you get on the phone with one of these officials, they’ll immediately recognize that you’re serious and that you’re tough.”

Then came “Today,” which, despite the general froth of morning television, has long been a showcase for more serious media stars, from Barbara Walters to Tom Brokaw to Katie Couric. In her first role as co-host of show’s third hour, Ms. Guthrie quickly established the expected light, familial rapport with Al Roker and Natalie Morales. Meanwhile, she tried her best not to engage with the rumors regarding Ann Curry, whom NBC wanted to force out as co-host of its first two hours.

But on June 28, 2012, Ms. Curry, sobbing, told viewers that she “couldn’t carry the ball over the finish line,” as her colleagues, including her co-host Matt Lauer, tried to comfort her. That was a Thursday. More than a week later, Ms. Guthrie replaced her. There were no balloons. No welcome banners. This was it.

“Anyone would dream to get to host the ‘Today’ show one day,” Ms. Guthrie said. “But not like that. I knew it was not a good situation, and potentially it’d be end of my career. When my boss asked me, ‘Would you want to do this job?’ I said ‘I don’t know.’ Not because I was being coy. I truly didn’t know! I wondered, ‘If I do this, and if it’s such a controversy, it would be so easy to fail and never work in this business again.’”

Executives had reportedly felt Ms. Guthrie’s “girl-next-door” presence would endear her to viewers. While praising her news instincts, then-NBC News president Steve Capus also deemed Ms. Guthrie “approachable,” a woman with the on-air presence of Mary Tyler Moore.

“She’s an ultimate team player,&quot; Mr. Capus told The Hollywood Reporter at the time.

Then after more than five years sitting next to Mr. Lauer, Ms. Guthrie was woken up on the morning of Nov. 29, 2017 and told that she had to tell the world that his television career was effectively over. Trying, and failing, to control her anguish, at 7 a.m. she read the announcement that NBC had fired Mr. Lauer over allegations of sexual misconduct.

“That broke my heart,” she said. “That broke our hearts. That broke viewers’ hearts. And we all had to process it at the same time.”

Before walking downstairs to the set, she and Ms. Kotb had held hands in Ms. Guthrie’s dressing room. They prayed. In the weeks that followed, the two would steer the show beyond the scandal, with Ms. Kotb officially getting her own co-host title in January 2018 — the first time two women have helmed the prestigious slot.

Asked to compare Ms. Guthrie with Kathie Lee Gifford, her co-conspirator on the boozy, comically chaotic fourth hour of “Today,” for over a decade, Ms. Kotb said, “with Kathie Lee, you know the funny and then learn just how smart she is,” while “with Savannah you know the smart and you learn the funny.”

Many chose to ignore the smart leading into the night of what was supposed to be the second presidential debate, which Mr. Trump backed out of after the debate commission planned to stage it virtually because of his bout with Covid-19.

Democrats were furious when NBC gave Mr. Trump his own forum at the same time slot as Mr. Biden’s own event over at ABC. There were social-media meltdowns and petitions, including one signed by a couple of the network’s own prime-time stars.

“Having dueling town halls is bad for democracy — voters should be able to watch both and I don’t think many will,” tweeted Ms. Couric, who left NBC in 2006.

Ms. Guthrie had traveled to Miami, uncertain if the occasion would even happen, waiting for clearance from the National Institutes of Health. She shut herself in her hotel room, reading through research binders, subsisting on Diet Coke and nuts from the minibar.

Once the dialogue started, she would not offer Mr. Trump a chance to riff as he had in his rallies, and she peppered him with rapid, well-informed follow-ups. When he demeaned Ms. Guthrie’s approach, calling it, “so cute,” she refused to acknowledge the slight.

“My 15-year-old turned to me at one point and said, ‘I almost feel bad for Trump,’” said Meridith Webster, the chief communications officer for Vox Media, Ms. Guthrie’s longtime roommate and best friend.

Though the event finished second in overall Nielsen ratings, the praise for Ms. Guthrie, excluding conservative outlets and Mr. Trump, who called her “crazy,” came in from all over.

“I was thinking, ‘Oh, my God, you know, who would have the guts to say that to Donald Trump?’” said her NBC News colleague Andrea Mitchell of the “crazy uncle” line. “And Savannah Guthrie could because of the manner in which she does it.”

On the cold open of the “S.N.L.” that followed, Alec Baldwin’s President Trump seemed even more disoriented than usual. When Ms. McKinnon’s Savannah Guthrie — the actress even having borrowed the pink suit — pretended to beat him up with a folding chair, à la WrestleMania, she showed no mercy.

Ms. Guthrie’s heightened status was evident weeks later on Nov. 7. She had left her home at 4:30 a.m. on Nov. 3 and not returned to it since. During that time, as Election Day stretched to days, she spent 29 hours on air, 19 of which came in the first 40 hours.

But there was only one minute that actually mattered. Ms. Guthrie had been part of the network’s election coverage in previous years, but this was different. She had never announced the winner of a presidential contest. Sitting socially distant with her network colleague Lester Holt, it was left to her, at 11:25 a.m., to finally say that NBC could project Mr. Biden would be the next president of the United States.

“People say the country is so divided,” she said later. “And it is divided. But they were united in anxiety awaiting this result.”

Two days later, she returned to “Today,” to the chilly social distance of Studio 1A.

Noticeably absent now are the tourists who usually throng there, not for New York, but for them — for Savannah and Hoda and Al — lining the street behind their ground-level studio, straining to make their way into the screen. For them, Ms. Guthrie remains the woman Bradley Cooper delivered flowers to when Mr. Feldman finally proposed. She’s the “older parent,” sharing her day-to-day domestic drama on air. And she makes clear that she’ll be there when they return, even if she isn’t quite sure she deserves it.

“I’ve interviewed Tom Hanks five times now,” Ms. Guthrie said. “He calls me ‘Savvy.’ What are you talking about? I’m Savannah from Tucson. There’s no reason I should be here. I didn’t work any harder than anybody else. I’m just in on the joke. I know how lucky I am.”





No.37 article:
Navy Research Confirms Need for Strict Coronavirus Testing Protocols

Two new studies clarify how Covid-19 spreads among young adults and expose the limits of quarantine measures.

Young, healthy people who contract the coronavirus are often asymptomatic, very rarely need hospital care and can transmit the virus to a roommate unwittingly even when following strict quarantine orders, according to two new studies from the U.S. Navy. The findings support the need for strong measures, like daily testing, that go beyond the temperature checks and symptom reporting now commonly deployed to prevent transmission in offices, dormitories and other group settings, the authors said.

“These findings all point to the need for ongoing testing strategies,” said Dr. Andrew Letizia, a commander and infectious disease specialist at the Naval Medical Research Center, in Silver Spring, Md., and lead author of one of the studies. “We need to augment public health measures and reinforce them with regular testing” in such settings, he said.

The new reports, both posted Wednesday by The New England Journal of Medicine, clarify much of what is known or suspected about Covid-19’s effect on young adults, while also exposing the limits of quarantine measures. One study, led by Dr. Letizia, detailed the rate of new infections detected among nearly 2,000 recruits under quarantine near Parris Island Marine Corps Recruit Depot, in South Carolina, over the summer. It was conducted in collaboration with researchers at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York.

The other described an outbreak on the U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt, an aircraft carrier on which nearly a quarter of the crew — more than 1,200 seamen and women — tested positive in the spring.

Numerous studies in the past year have documented that Covid-19 is often asymptomatic in young people, and that symptoms that do appear are usually mild. And reports of outbreaks on cruise ships, particularly the one on the Diamond Princess in January and February, had found that the virus moves readily through the air between people who are quarantined together in small rooms.

The two new studies are distinct, in that they describe situations in which officials had the resources and the authority to enact comprehensive measures and, in the case of the Marine command in South Carolina, were thoroughly prepared from the outset. The 1,848 recruits who volunteered for that study agreed to remain in quarantine for two weeks at home before reporting for duty; after arrival, they entered quarantine for two more weeks, at the Citadel, the military college in Charleston, which the Marine Corps took over for that purpose. They were tested for the virus on arrival, one week later, and again at two weeks.

The containment measures were extensive on campus. Recruits were under orders to wear masks at all times, except when sleeping; to keep six feet of distance from others; and to sanitize toilets after using them. Most had a single roommate, and all training was outdoors.

“Still, despite very strict procedures that were monitored 24 hours a day by Marine instructors, we identified six transmission clusters,” said Dr. Stuart Sealfon, a professor of neurology at the Icahn School of Medicine, the senior author of the study. Those clusters resulted from one recruit infecting a roommate, or multiple others in the same platoon, which have 50 to 60 members.

The researchers determined that about 1 percent of the recruits had arrived infected with the coronavirus, almost all of them without knowing it. An additional 2 percent became infected during the quarantine period. By the end of the study, the team had identified 77 recruits with positive tests, each of whom was moved to another dorm room, to be quarantined alone.

The outbreak on the Theodore Roosevelt, which began in late March and spread through May, provides a clearer picture of exactly how the virus can spread invisibly among young people. Of 4,779 crew members, 1,271 ultimately tested positive, of whom 77 percent were asymptomatic at the time. Almost half of those who tested positive, 43 percent, never experienced Covid-19 symptoms; a total of 23 individuals were hospitalized, with four admitted to intensive care. One died.

“It really speaks to the stealthy nature of the virus, and how it can move around asymptomatically in such a population,” said Cmdr. Matthew Kasper, the Navy microbiologist who led the study. “And I think the unique situation here — we had everyone get tested. This was not based on any subjective sense or memory recall. They’re hard numbers.”

Outside experts said that the two studies, taken together, demonstrated not only how infectious the virus is but what measures must ideally be put in place to contain it, whether in military or civilian populations.

“The approaches learned from the U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt and Parris Island can be applied, with varying degrees of relevance, to land-based shared living situations,” Dr. Nelson Michael, of the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, wrote in an accompanying editorial, “such as college dormitories, prisons, and residential care facilities, as well as sports training environments, meat-processing facilities, and isolated energy plants.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.38 article:
20,000 Ballots an Hour, With Paper and Ink by the Ton





No.39 article:
Mold, Possums and Pools of Sewage: No One Should Have to Live Like This

My story starts in Lowndes County, Ala., a place that’s been called Bloody Lowndes because of its violent, racist history. It’s part of Alabama’s Black Belt, a broad strip of rich, dark soil worked and inhabited largely by poor Black people who, like me, are descendants of slaves. Our ancestors were ripped from their homes and brought here to pick the cotton that thrived in the fertile earth.

I grew up here, left to get an education and followed a range of professional opportunities. But something about that soil gets in your blood. I came back hoping to help good, hard-working people rise up out of the poverty that bogs them down like Alabama mud.

A big part of my work now is educating people about rural poverty and environmental injustice — about how poor people around the United States are trapped in conditions no one else would put up with. Those conditions — polluted air, tainted water, untreated sewage — make people sick.

I take activists, donors and politicians to see such conditions for themselves. We visit families crowded into run-down homes that lack heat in the winter and plumbing in all seasons. We visit homes with no means of wastewater treatment, because septic systems cost more than most people earn in a year and tend to fail anyway in the impervious clay soil. Families cope the best they can, mainly by jury-rigging PVC pipe to drain their toilet’s sewage into cesspools in the woods or yard outside, where they breed parasites and disease right by where children and pets play.

An estimated 90 percent of Lowndes households have failing or inadequate wastewater systems, although no one took the time to count until my organization, the Center for Rural Enterprise and Environmental Justice, conducted a door-to-door survey in 2011 and 2012.

The head of one of those households for years was Pamela Rush. Pam, who was a 42-year-old mother with a cautious smile when I met her in 2018, greeted visitors at the door of the faded blue, single-wide trailer she shared with her two children. Senator Bernie Sanders, as well as famous activists like Jane Fonda and the Rev. Dr. William Barber II of the Poor People’s Campaign, traveled down the dusty road to Pam’s home, where they saw a picture that was hard to shake.

In 2018, I described her living conditions in an essay for The Times. The trailer barely protected Pam and her children, now 11 and 16, from the elements. Gaps in the walls had let opossums and other wild animals squeeze in, so Pam had stuffed rags in the holes and set traps outside the front door. She cautioned visitors to watch their step on the sloping, flimsy floors, which were soft underfoot.

Her monthly checks — less than $1,000 a month from disability and child support payments — didn’t stretch far enough to cover repairs. Still, Pam did her best to make a comfortable home for her children, shopping secondhand at the Salvation Army stores. The trailer was musty, poorly ventilated and dimly lit, with water-stained popcorn ceilings and exposed electrical wiring. But Pam had arranged an old sofa and chairs in a cozy semicircle around the television set and hung framed prints on the mildew-streaked walls. A mobile of three brown-skinned angels, bearing the words “Angels live here,” hung from the wall.

She shared a bed with her daughter, whose bedroom was uninhabitable because of mold that thrived in the damp environment. The child suffered from asthma and needed a CPAP machine to breathe at night. Her son slept on the couch.

At the rear of the home, overlooking a small yard and dense woods, was a collapsed deck. Beside the deck a pipe spewed raw sewage onto the ground. The toilet paper and feces told a story of the lost American dream much more clearly than Pam ever could. The pride and independence of homeownership came to rest there, in that stinking pool.

Why didn’t she move, people sometimes asked me. A look at her mortgage papers provided one reason. She had paid about $113,000 for the trailer in 1995, with an interest rate of 10 percent. Twenty-four years later, she still owed $13,000, but the trailer was worthless. Despite this, payments came due each month. A septic system was out of the question. New ones in Lowndes, with its impermeable soil, can easily cost more than $15,000. That’s an example of the structural poverty that traps good, hard-working people where they are.

This year, Covid-19 has swept through Lowndes County like a brush fire. Poor people, and especially poor Black people, fell victim in alarming numbers. Brazen politicians have actually called for people to die to protect the economy. In Lowndes County, that’s exactly what has happened. Poor essential workers are dying to save the very economic and social structures that trap them in poverty.

It wasn’t long before Lowndes County had the highest rate of coronavirus cases in Alabama. Many people were infected at the factories, warehouses, nursing homes or stores where they worked. They didn’t have the luxury of telecommuting.

Others caught it from family members who didn’t know they had the virus or had no means of social distancing. They couldn’t afford to check into a motel. They had no second homes to retreat to. In the absence of coherent public policy, people did what they could to help one another, leaving food and other supplies on the front porches of those who were infected. In one of our last conversations this spring, Pam told me she was fixing some greens for a sick relative.

After two years of working with Pam, my nonprofit had finally raised the money to help her buy a new mobile home. We were all anticipating her move with joy, but the pandemic had put it on hold.

Then, like a heat-seeking missile, the coronavirus zeroed in on Pam. When she developed breathing problems in June, she was admitted to a Selma hospital, and then transferred to the University of Alabama Medical Center in Birmingham. That’s where she fought for her life for a few days before she lost her battle on July 3. The official cause of death was Covid-19, but the underlying causes of her suffering were poverty, environmental injustice, climate change, race, and health disparities. They would never be listed on a death certificate.

I felt powerless, unable even to visit Pam in the hospital in Birmingham where she’d been taken. My heart ached for her and for her family. At one point the hospital asked for a picture of Pam, maybe so the staff could see her as she was before Covid. I sent pictures of her with Mr. Sanders and Dr. Barber. I wanted them to know that this struggling patient was an important woman.

Before Covid-19, we thought we had a solution to Pam’s plight. After years of living in horrible conditions, Pam and her children would finally have a livable home with a working septic system. Sadly, Pam never got to live there.

In the end, it didn’t matter that Pam had opened her life and shown the world what inequality looks like, or that influential Americans had walked through her home and left in disbelief. Senator Doug Jones, Democrat of Alabama, had climbed her rickety front steps. Senator Sanders had told her story in a video shown across the nation. He’d promised to work on policies to address her problems. But that would take time that Pam didn’t have. It didn’t even matter that Pam had testified before Congress. The forces of structural poverty were too strong.

I’m still hoping Pam’s children will live in the home and enjoy the better life she envisioned for them.





No.40 article:
Dustin Johnson Widens Masters Lead and Eyes Scoring Record

The No. 1-ranked golfer played in one lead-up event before the Masters after a positive coronavirus test felled him in October. Despite the rust, he leads the field by four strokes after three rounds.

AUGUSTA, Ga. — Perhaps it is fitting that the player leading the biggest golf tournament of 2020 prepared for the event last month by self-isolating in a hotel room for 11 days after a positive coronavirus test result.

“Just laying around, kind of doing nothing,” Dustin Johnson said of his mandated respite in late October.

But what of his conditioning, putting and driving-range practice for the all-important Masters tournament?

“The most movement I made was to the shower,” said Johnson, whose symptoms were minimal.

Johnson’s understated regimen appears to be working. With five birdies, an eagle and no bogeys, Johnson shot a seven-under-par 65 in Saturday’s third round to take an authoritative four-stroke lead over the field entering Sunday’s final round.

While most of the pretournament attention was focused on the hard-swinging Bryson DeChambeau and the defending champion Tiger Woods, Johnson, the world’s top-ranked golfer, was quietly, even idly, getting himself prepped for his latest run at the Masters title. He played in only one event in early November after his layoff, and with top-10 finishes in his last four Masters tournaments, Johnson was hardly an underdog, but he has now pieced together three sub-par rounds that have left him at 16 under for the 2020 tournament.

That is rarefied air, as the record for the lowest four-round Masters score is 270, or 18 under par, set by Tiger Woods in 1997 and tied by Jordan Spieth in 2015.

There is, however, another relevant historical perspective, and it does not favor Johnson’s prospects. While he came from behind to win the 2016 United States Open, four times in his career Johnson has held the 54-hole lead in a major championship and failed to win. It happened most recently at the P.G.A. Championship in August, when he tied for second behind Collin Morikawa.

Reminded of those disappointments after his round Saturday, Johnson said, “If I can play like I did today, I think it will break that streak.”

Some of his rivals are almost expecting as much. Tommy Fleetwood, who trails Johnson by eight strokes, was asked if thought he was still in the mix for this year’s Masters title.

“Well, yeah,” Fleetwood said with a laugh, and then added, using Johnson’s nickname, “Unfortunately, D.J.’s playing.”

Three golfers are tied for second behind Johnson at 12 under par: the Masters rookies Abraham Ancer of Mexico and Sungjae Im of South Korea, along with Australia’s Cameron Smith.

With softer-than-usual greens in this year’s Masters, a byproduct of heavy rainfall on Thursday and of varied November turf conditions, scores have been substantially lower. Each of the golfers in second place, for instance, has posted nothing but below-par rounds. When the delayed second round was finally completed early Saturday morning, the cut line to trim the field was 144 strokes, the lowest in Masters history.

“With the conditions being soft, you can be really aggressive no matter what club you have in your hand,” Johnson said. “You’ve got to be aggressive, and you’ve got to attack the flags.”

Not every golfer was as confident, or as fit, as Johnson.

Woods, who began the third round five under par, was clearly hobbled on Saturday by his unpredictable and surgically repaired back. He moved stiffly and did not swing with the same fluidity he had exhibited in the first two rounds. His condition was particularly noticeable when Woods went to retrieve his ball from holes, which he did gingerly and by bending only his knees to limit strain on his back. Finishing his round at even par, he was 11 strokes behind Johnson, which all but eliminates him from contention for a sixth green jacket.

DeChambeau, the pretournament favorite, revealed Saturday that he had not been feeling well and went for a Covid-19 test Friday night. Although the test result was negative, DeChambeau, who is 13 strokes behind Johnson, said he still felt under the weather and had been having bouts of dizziness.

“Yeah, I’m not good, unfortunately,” DeChambeau, who shot his best score of the event, 69, on Saturday, said. “I don’t know what it is. I just feel kind of dull and numb out there — just not fully aware of everything and making some silly, silly mistakes.”

Johnson was the PGA Tour’s hottest golfer until the coronavirus interrupted his season, and as formidable as he and his lead are, the final round of the Masters has traditionally been volatile. Johnson’s closest pursuers have notable credentials. Im, who won the Honda Classic in March, was the 2019 rookie of the year on the PGA Tour and has four other top-three finishes since September 2019. Ancer is ranked 21st in the world and was second in two PGA Tour events this year. Smith’s recent record is not as impressive but he did finish tied for fifth at the 2018 Masters.

Lurking six strokes back is Justin Thomas, who like Johnson has one major championship victory, and who was tied for second behind Johnson at the Tour Championship, the final event of the FedEx Cup playoffs.

Johnson, who grew up in South Carolina, about an hour’s drive from Augusta National, was asked how he intended to spend Saturday night with a career-defining victory perhaps 24 hours away. His answer was in line with his quarantine routine.

“What am I going to do? When I get back to the house, I’ll play with my kids,” he said.

His fiancée, Paulina Gretzky and her family are in town as well.

Johnson shrugged and grinned.

“Just going to have some dinner and hang out at the house,” he said.





No.41 article:
The Pandemic Is Showing Us How Capitalism Is Amazing, and Inadequate

The bananas news cycle of November 2020 included a fascinating public spat that is essential for understanding modern capitalism.

After Pfizer announced highly successful preliminary results for its coronavirus vaccine, Trump administration officials said the good news reflected the success of their Operation Warp Speed program to accelerate vaccine development. Pfizer executives stressed the opposite, noting the company had developed the vaccine with its own resources, not government grants.

That was true, but not the whole story. Over the summer, Pfizer had reached a $1.95 billion “advance purchase” agreement with the United States government, ensuring it would be well compensated for eventually delivering 100 million doses of vaccine. In other words, though the government did not directly fund the drug development, it created the groundwork in which the pharmaceutical company could spend research dollars with abandon, knowing that success would be financially rewarded.

It may seem like a trivial case of a company and an administration each claiming credit for some happy news. But it speaks to a deeper reality the pandemic has revealed — both what is amazing about capitalism, and how the free market alone comes up short in solving enormous problems.

The nine months of the pandemic have shown that in a modern state, capitalism can save the day — but only when the government exercises its power to guide the economy and act as the ultimate absorber of risk. The lesson of Covid capitalism is that big business needs big government, and vice versa.

With astonishing nimbleness and speed, businesses in the United States and worldwide have accomplished remarkable feats — most notably the biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies trying to fight the virus. (The German drugmaker BioNTech developed the vaccine with Pfizer.) But the list includes other important achievements: keeping grocery store shelves stocked even as much of the capacity to process and distribute food was disrupted, and redeploying factories to make ventilators and personal protective equipment.

In many cities, when a sudden rainstorm arrives, street vendors of cheap umbrellas will appear as if out of nowhere, driven not by some central authority but responding to the invisible hand of the marketplace. If you substitute masks for umbrellas, and substitute apparel companies for street hawkers, you have a fair description of the magic of the marketplace in 2020.

But those private-sector achievements have been matched by efforts on a scale that only the public sector can manage — to channel resources to the places most in need and to protect the economy from huge risk.

Operation Warp Speed has used a mix of financial incentives to coax the private sector to invest in vaccine development on a scale and at a speed it couldn’t have on its own. Congress enacted legislation to support millions of small businesses, many of which would have closed otherwise, and funneled money to ordinary Americans to help prevent a collapse in spending. The Federal Reserve announced it would stand ready to buy hundreds of billions of dollars in bonds and other assets, ensuring that large companies would have access to capital even amid a market collapse.

Big business and big government both play vital roles in making the modern economy work. The pandemic has showed how these two can’t really be disentangled — they rely on each other more than partisans may care to acknowledge.

Seven months ago, although it now seems seven years ago, Tyson Foods placed a full-page advertisement in major newspapers with a dire warning.

“The food supply chain is breaking,” the chairman, John H. Tyson, wrote. “We have a responsibility to feed our country. It is as essential as health care.”

A series of coronavirus outbreaks in meatpacking facilities was leading to shutdowns and other disruptions. With some pork processing plants closed, millions of pigs on farms grew too big to be slaughtered and processed in the equipment used to produce the nation’s supplies of pork chops and sausages. Many were euthanized instead.

But the remarkable thing is that, despite Mr. Tyson’s warnings, the food supply chain mostly remained intact. There were occasional scattered shortages of pork or other meats, but mostly the market worked as it is supposed to.

Prices rose, as Economics 101 would predict. From March to June, the retail price of pork chops rose 21 percent, and the price of fresh whole chickens rose 9 percent. Higher prices led consumers to seek alternatives to the foods in short supply, and producers and supply chain managers worked overtime to ensure any shortages were short-lived. Restaurant suppliers reoriented their businesses to sell to home cooks at a time their normal customers were closed.

Although grocery stores had some empty shelves, there were no widespread food shortages. And while many food prices were higher than before the pandemic, they have since moderated. Pork chops are now only 7 percent above March levels, and fresh whole chickens are up 3 percent.

“People assume you press a button and things show up, that when you go to a grocery store food magically appears,” said Nada Sanders, a professor of supply chain management at Northeastern University. “It’s much more complicated. There has been a sense of absolute urgency in making sure products are there.”

People involved in the food supply chain don’t mess around; they are aware that humanity depends on them for sustenance. But the creativity of the effort wasn’t confined to food.

“How many distilleries do we know that stopped producing their high-margin items like vodka, and began converting to produce hand sanitizer, which is a low-margin item?” Professor Sanders said. “There was a reshuffling of supply chains across the economy to respond urgently to what consumers wanted and needed.”

The metaphorical umbrellas arrived when Americans needed them most. But nowhere is that more apparent than in the remarkable mobilization to find treatments and vaccines for Covid-19.

“A billion dollars is not going to break us,” Albert Bourla, the chief executive of Pfizer, was quoted as saying in a profile published in May. In other words, the company, with its $179 billion balance sheet, could deploy that much toward trying to create a vaccine without fear that failure would doom the company.

Deep pockets were one key to the rapid escalation of efforts to fight the virus, which over a mere few weeks went from unknown to a profound threat to lives worldwide and to the global economy.

“We’ve watched physicians, scientists and technologists completely step up to the charge here and promote information sharing, promote good practices, promote messaging around what’s effective, what’s safe, and what’s possible,” said Rena Conti, who studies the pharmaceutical industry at Boston University’s Questrom School of Business.

But the ability of big pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop new drugs and bring them to market — at possibly record speed in the case of Covid vaccines — is not just about money. Rather, these companies have deep expertise and the ability to channel the efforts of thousands of workers with specialized skills.

A lone genius or a handful of medical researchers working in a lab can come up with an idea for a molecule that might form the basis of a helpful drug. But it takes a cast of thousands — typically employees or contractors of a large pharmaceutical company — to get that drug through multiple rounds of clinical trials, to crunch the data to prove it will work and be safe to the satisfaction of regulators, and to manufacture the product and distribute it onto pharmacists’ shelves.

“The standards are so high by design,” said Stacie Dusetzina, a professor of health policy at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. “Redundancies are built into the system that require an incredibly high level of oversight and making sure everything is absolutely as clean as possible so that when you get the final answer about whether or not the drug has met safety and efficacy goals, you feel rock solid about that.”

The achievements of such industries at combating the virus make it easy to forget all the ways that their efforts rely on work by a powerful government.

The bedrock of the pharmaceutical industry, for example, is patent protection. Companies are willing to invest billions developing a drug because the federal government will grant them 20 years of exclusive ownership. (The actual length of the company’s monopoly on the drug varies depending on the time lags for F.D.A. approval.)

The F.D.A. also grants periods of exclusivity to companies that develop a new drug. And while its approval process can be onerous, it helps the pharmaceutical industry as well — by assuring doctors and ordinary Americans that an approved drug is safe.

Moreover, innovation itself rests heavily on basic research in biology and chemistry, for which there is not a similar profit incentive. Pfizer’s vaccine is based on insights into chemistry and molecular biology developed in government and university labs worldwide over a long period of time.

“No pharmaceutical company would have the incentive to do the basic scientific discovery, because it’s not patentable,” said Amitabh Chandra, a health economist at Harvard. “A lot of basic science is not profitable. It’s just knowledge. At some point basic science becomes useful, and then the private sector can come in. But who’s going to unlock the fact that there is a 3-D printer in the cell called a ribosome, or a naturally occurring messenger RNA that is read by the ribosome to produce another protein?” he said, describing the mechanism by which the Pfizer vaccine works.

He estimates that the coronavirus crisis has cost the United States at least $16 trillion in terms of lost lives, lost quality of life, and lost economic activity. If a pandemic happens even once a century, spending something like $160 billion a year in basic research to prevent it could be justified. The National Institutes of Health budget, devoted to medical research of all types, is about a quarter of that.

The private sector’s capacity to develop innovative drugs is not necessarily something that happens because bold business executives manage their companies better than the less commercially minded public sector.

Rather, in the United States and Europe, the progress toward virus treatment and prevention reflects an interlocking set of institutions: from the state, funding for basic research, patent enforcement and safety regulation; and from industry, the ability to turn raw ideas into a marketable product.

To get safe and effective drugs, it takes both.

Supply chain managers in the auto industry take their responsibilities seriously. One supplier’s inability to deliver a crucial part can stop an entire assembly line and cause millions of dollars in losses to the “original equipment” manufacturers, as industry insiders call carmakers.

“It is a mortal sin to shut down an O.E., and the supply base has been hardened to that,” said Jeoff Burris, an auto industry supply chain consultant based in Plymouth, Mich. “No expense is spared to keep that from happening.”

Once when a hurricane prevented trucks from getting to a supplier’s factory, he said, his clients rented helicopters to ferry workers in — and auto parts out — rather than risk a shutdown of the main assembly line.

But helicopters can’t help if the suppliers go out of business entirely. And for a few scary months this year, that appeared possible in the automobile supply chain.

Sales of cars and trucks plunged in March and April, as Americans stayed home. Automakers slowed or ceased production. There was a real risk, Mr. Burris said, that some of their suppliers — smaller companies without big cushions of cash — would shutter permanently and blow a hole in auto production. That’s what happened in the 2008-09 recession.

It didn’t happen this time. A big part of why: the Paycheck Protection Program, included in the huge Covid aid package passed by Congress and the Trump administration in March, which provided forgivable loans to companies that kept their doors open.

“In 2008 and 2009, parts stopped showing up at the plant, and it turned out the factory was padlocked,” Mr. Burris said. “Those stories have not existed this time, and to me a big reason for that is the government intervention. And I’m not a fan of government intervention, so I don’t like to say that.”

 Ultimately, there are profound society-wide risks for which only the collective action of the state can provide a form of insurance.

After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, for example, private insurers would not write terrorism insurance policies to owners of commercial buildings for practically any price; the government stepped in and provided it. In the 2008 financial crisis, the collapse of the banking system created the risk of a broader economic collapse, and so the government stepped in.

That is the role the government has played in the pandemic as well. It’s certainly true of public health: Federal power and money are being used to ensure that vaccines are widely available. It is true in the P.P.P. small-business program, and in programs for ordinary Americans.

“We say private people can make provisions, but a lot of risks are too big to insure against privately,” said J.W. Mason, an economist with John Jay College and the Roosevelt Institute. “There are risks in the world we can’t adapt to, make some transaction to insulate ourselves from, and that is where the state steps in.”

He has written about the economics of World War II, when a huge mobilization of private industry created a formidable war machine that defeated the Axis powers. One can celebrate the work of private companies that achieved new heights of innovation and productivity to supply the military in that era. But industry succeeded only because the government deployed  its power and resources to, in effect, provide Americans with insurance against a world dominated by Nazis.

When big risks appear on the horizon, whether it is a pandemic or a global security threat, it can bring out the best in private industry, worthy of celebration and applause. But the history, both distant and contemporary, shows that business can’t do it alone.





No.42 article:
‘You Cannot Say No’: The Reign of Terror That Sustains Belarus’s Leader

Despite hundreds of thousands protesting against him for months, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko has been able to cling to power thanks to an all-pervasive security system.

MINSK, Belarus — Appalled by savage police violence at the start of Belarus’s would-be revolution, the host of a popular morning show on state television quit his job in protest and declared that his country’s veteran leader, no matter how brutal, would never “force Belarusians back into the box they existed in for these 26 years.”

Arrested soon afterward and held in a grimy prison, the broadcaster, Denis Dudinsky, reappeared a few days later — this time with a video message calling on opponents of President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko to stop protesting.

Asked what made him change his mind, Mr. Dudinsky declined to go into details, just remarking obliquely that “these people know how to formulate their requests in such a way that you cannot say no.”

After nearly three months of protests that began with widespread anger over a rigged election, Mr. Lukashenko seems to be surviving the challenge to his power. He has managed this not just through harsh police tactics, hollow promises of reform or the passage of time. Rather, he has relied on a more insidious and often invisible machinery of persuasion, coercion and repression: a domestic security agency little changed from the Soviet era that, indeed, still uses its old Soviet name, the K.G.B.

“Over the past 26 years, Lukashenko has created a system of suppressing dissent in Belarus that instills the feeling of animal fear in people,” said Pavel P. Latushko, a former culture minister and onetime ambassador to France, Poland and Spain.

It controls a network of spies and monitors — known as “curators” — who oversee every establishment in the country, from schools and businesses to the presidential administration. Its agents collect compromising materials on just about anyone suspected of disloyalty and eavesdrop on the conversations of senior government officials to make sure they toe the party line.

Workers at factories and other state-run operations, which employ more than 40 percent of the country’s work force, risk losing their jobs if they are suspected of being disloyal, one of the reasons Mr. Lukashenko maintains a quasi-Soviet economic model.

“You understand well that if you express your point of view, you will be held responsible,” Mr. Latushko said. “You can be reprimanded, or face an administrative or criminal case. In the worst scenario, you can be destroyed physically.”

Some of those who get arrested refuse to submit to the constant physical menace. When Mr. Lukashenko met a group of high-profile political prisoners recently during a visit to a K.G.B. prison, he was shouted at by one of the inmates — Sergei Tikhanovsky, the husband of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, the opposition leader who ran in the presidential election in his stead after he was jailed.

“You, release me now!” he exclaimed.

But others took a softer line. After two months in the hands of the K.G.B., Yuri Voskresensky assured Mr. Lukashenko that he was seeking compromise and ready to act as a mediator.

Quickly released from a prison he described as “hell,” Mr. Voskresensky began hailing Mr. Lukashenko as a “strong leader” and an “open person,” and said the K.G.B. saw “a great potential” in him. In a stunning about-face, Mr. Voskresensky, who suffers from chronic diseases and had to receive regular treatment while in prison, urged opposition activists to stop protesting.

Mr. Voskresensky’s transformation highlighted how the legal system in Belarus, fed by numerous law enforcement agencies, serves only one goal — to keep Mr. Lukashenko in power indefinitely.

“We have two systems of law in the country, the one for normal crimes, such as murder or rape,” said Andrei V. Sytko, a former high-ranking prosecutor. “The second parallel system is driven by politics. The whole vertical of power from a police officer to the prosecutor general and the Supreme Court is working to defend the current political regime.”

And while Mr. Lukashenko does not manage that system from day to day, people within it pursue their tasks with a zealotry born of fear of the president.

“Officials are afraid of his righteous anger and are ready to commit punitive actions voluntarily,” said Mr. Sytko. “For them it is better to punish and overdo.”

In order to cement their loyalty, security officials get stable, if not lavish, salaries, with subsidized apartments and mortgages.

But there is a catch. Police officers and investigators who quit lose their pensions and are forced to pay back the bonus they received after their last contract renewal and tuition fees if they graduated recently.

A graduate of the Interior Ministry Academy owes about $10,000 for each year of study, a sum that is written off with every year of service, said Andrei I. Ostapovich, a former senior investigator and graduate of the academy.

“It is difficult to get there, but much more difficult to leave it,” said Mr. Ostapovich, 27, referring to the law enforcement system.

Following a violent crackdown on protests after the Election Day in August, Mr. Ostapovich wrote a resignation letter in which he said that riot police members “were the only people who provoked violence” and that they executed “criminal orders.” Shortly after, he fled to Russia, but was warned that he might be arrested there too.

He decided to flee to Latvia but was detained by Russian security services and driven back to Belarus in handcuffs with a dumbbell attached, he said. Once in Belarus, he escaped detention and had to walk through forests and marshes for days to reach Poland.

Law enforcement members also get brainwashed, said Yevgeny I. Babak, a former assistant prosecutor in Minsk. Every week, he says, he had to attend “political information” classes where he had to sit through state-run propaganda news shows and fill up an “ideology notebook” with the main takeaways.

Despite the brainwashing, many law enforcement officials still faced a difficult choice: whether to take part in the brutal crackdown on protests in August or step down and face the risks. In June, Yevgeny M. Yushkevich, a former senior investigator, launched a project to help mitigate these risks, offering financial help and training for law enforcement officers who wanted to quit.

While working as an investigator, Mr. Yushkevich, 31, was asked to launch criminal investigations against political activists and journalists. (He says he refused.) One of the more common tactics was to find a link to a pornographic website in a target’s phone and charge the person with its distribution, a criminal offense in Belarus, he said.

Judges routinely make politically motivated rulings. Aleksei V. Pasko, a judge in the Pinsk district in the country&#x27;s west, quit his job after he realized how many “political” cases he would have to hear after thousands of protesters were detained.

“I just got tired of all this,” said Mr. Pasko, 32. “I just decided that my moral compass wouldn’t allow me to do this in such circumstances.”

Lawyers, the only actors in the system with some semblance of independence, are regularly threatened and harassed and sometimes have their licenses revoked. Maria Kolesava-Hudzilina, an acclaimed lawyer who has been defending jailed protesters, says she was often warned during visits with her clients that she “might not be able to leave the building.”

“If we take the 20th century in Europe, we are dealing with one of cruelest regimes that existed,” said Sergei Chaly, who worked with Mr. Lukashenko at the beginning of his career and is now an analyst of Belarusian affairs. “This is the type of evil that Europe hasn’t seen for decades.”

As of this writing, weekly protests against Mr. Lukashenko are continuing, with more than 1,000 people detained at a demonstration in Minsk this past Sunday. For some, like Anatoly A. Kotov, who worked in the presidential affairs office until late August, the opposition has been eye-opening.

The party line “has come down to a very simple idea that we don’t serve the Belarusian state, we serve Lukashenko personally.”

However, most members of what he termed the “semi-military regime” that Mr. Lukashenko built still cannot afford to take the side of the protesters.

“If you leave this system, you have nowhere else to go,” said Mr. Kotov, 40, speaking from Poland, where he was forced to flee.





No.43 article:
She Married the Priest

Jonathan Morris and Kaitlyn Folmer met at the Vatican. He was a priest. Some things changed along the way.

Unforgettable. That’s the word that brought the worlds of Kaitlyn Folmer and Jonathan Morris back into the same orbit after a brief but indelible encounter more than seven years earlier.

“When I first met Kaitlyn, I found her to be super smart, super happy, very efficient, and very energetic,” Mr. Morris, 48, said. “She was someone who was really hard to forget.”

The two first met in March 2013, when both were in Rome to report on the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI and the conclave that elected Pope Francis.

Ms. Folmer, 37, an investigative producer in New York for ABC News, was booking guests at that time for “Good Morning America,” and one of them was Cardinal Timothy Dolan, archbishop of New York, whose wingman was Mr. Morris. Mr. Morris was then a Roman Catholic priest and a media adviser, as well as an analyst for Fox News.

During the booking process, she said, she was “incredibly impressed” with Mr. Morris.

“He was very kind and very pleasant, and I liked the fact that he also spoke Italian,” said Ms. Folmer, who was then living on Manhattan’s Upper West Side.

After the trip to Rome, she said, “I would catch him every once in a while on TV.”

One day in June 2019, Ms. Folmer happened to catch Mr. Morris on television yet again, this time discussing his decision to leave the priesthood for a new life that could potentially include marriage and a family.

Four months earlier, in February 2019, Mr. Morris had been granted a sabbatical by Cardinal Dolan to think over what would become a life-altering decision.

“I was seeking a special dispensation to leave the priesthood,” Mr. Morris said. “I received about 25,000 emails in the two days that followed my announcement during that interview.”

One of those emails was sent by Ms. Folmer, though Mr. Morris had not seen it because of the sheer volume of messages in his inbox.

A week later, Mr. Morris noticed a post from Ms. Folmer on her social media and thought it would be a good time to reach out, so he sent her a direct message on Twitter. “Kaitlyn, I don’t know if you remember me, but we met in Rome when I was a Catholic priest,” he wrote.

“I’ve requested dispensation from Pope Francis for the possibility of leaving the priesthood. I’m wondering if you are still in New York, and if you’d like to go to lunch.”

Ms. Folmer said that when she saw the text, she was “as curious” as she was excited.

“I knew what he had said in his statement, but I wanted a deeper understanding of why he left the priesthood,” she said. “I’m an investigative producer, so being curious is a huge part of my nature.”

They met for lunch at Match 65, a restaurant in Manhattan, on June 13, 2019, which happened to be Ms. Folmer’s birthday. “We drank rosé, and sat and talked for about two hours,” she said. “We got along so well. It was just such an enjoyable time.”

They parted ways and Ms. Folmer waited for a follow-up phone call from Mr. Morris that did not come for three weeks.

“Can you believe that,” said Ms. Folmer, her voice rising. “I was a bit concerned, but my girlfriends said do not call him, which I didn’t. And they told me that if he really wants to see you again, he will make it happen.”

Asked about the silence, Mr. Morris said simply, “Well, I wasn’t really looking to jump into a relationship at that exact time.”

But he was still very much interested in Ms. Folmer, who grew up in Harrisburg, Pa., as an evangelical Christian, and graduated from N.Y.U. with a bachelor’s degree in broadcast journalism.

“I had been living out in Akron, Ohio, at that time, and getting into a new business,” he said, “but no matter where I went, Kaitlyn was always on my mind.”

Mr. Morris, who is now a partner in Morris and Larson Advisors, a New York-based executive coaching and leadership development firm, remains an analyst for Fox News. He grew up in Cleveland and graduated from Pontifical University Regina Apostolorum, a Vatican university, with a bachelor’s degree in philosophy and advanced degree in moral theology and ethics.

[Sign up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings, and relationships in the news by email.]

He eventually reached out once more to Ms. Folmer during Fourth of July weekend in 2019. Ms. Folmer was in federal court in New York at that time, working for ABC television on the Jeffrey Epstein story, which had exploded after Mr. Epstein’s arrest on sex-trafficking charges.

“In the middle of all the craziness, I get this text, and it’s from Jonathan,” Ms. Folmer recalled. “I said, ‘Hey, what’s up, I haven’t heard from you in a while.’”

“He explained that he had been busy with the new job and several other things, and asked if I’d like to go out to dinner with him.”

On July 21, they enjoyed their first dinner together at the Shalel Lounge, another Manhattan restaurant.

Mr. Morris said that while he was “very much attracted to Ms. Folmer, she knew clearly that we were not entering into any exclusive relationship.”

While Ms. Folmer admitted “having feelings for him at that time,” she also noted that she had “a full plate to deal with regarding work.”

Nevertheless, they went to dinner again the next night — “even ex-priests have to eat,” Mr. Morris said, laughing — before he went back to his new life in Akron.

Whether either of them cared to admit it, a relationship was indeed forming.

“From the time we had that second dinner, I heard from him at least once a day,” Ms. Folmer said.

In the ensuing months, Ms. Folmer and Mr. Morris became the best of friends.

“I just enjoyed getting to know him day after day,” Ms. Folmer said. “He’s lived and worked around the world, and to hear about those experiences is so interesting.

“I’ve met plenty of people who I’ve tried to start a conversation with and they just sat there and said nothing,” she added. “Just to get a few words out of them was like pulling teeth. But Jonathan, trust me, he doesn’t have that problem.”

Mr. Morris said he enjoyed the fact that “Kaitlyn got more and more comfortable around me with each passing day.”

“She felt very free to be herself in my company,” he said. “And in turn, she made me feel comfortable just being myself, which I really appreciated.”

In October, they turned a serious corner, and it was Mr. Morris who suggested they take their relationship to the next level. “He just turned to me one day while we were watching a Michigan football game and said, ‘I just want to be with you — just you, no one else,’” Ms. Folmer said.

Mr. Morris said that his budding romance with Ms. Folmer was “a natural progression,” from his years spent wearing a white collar.

“My faith and my religious beliefs have not changed,” he said. “In fact, it feels more real, more free, and Kaitlyn and I enjoy going to church together every Sunday.”

In June 2020, a year after they reconnected, Ms. Folmer and Mr. Morris became engaged at the Fairmont Grand Del Mar resort in San Diego.

Ms. Folmer was ecstatic. “He has always put me first,” she said. “He’s the most thoughtful human being I’ve ever met. He’s calming and kind, and he brings out the best in me. I’ve never met anyone like him before in my life.”

The couple were married Oct. 17 at one of Mr. Morris’s old stomping grounds, St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York. Msgr. Robert T. Ritchie, rector of the cathedral, performed the ceremony before 200 family members and friends, all of whom were socially distanced and seated in every third pew marked by flower arrangements. (A meet-and-greet reception at 15 Hudson Yards’ Skytop followed the ceremony, which was followed by dinner for 50 at Winged Foot Golf Club’s outdoor terrace in Mamaroneck, N.Y.)

Sixteen months from first lunch to first dance, to “Bless the Broken Road,” by Rascal Flatts, the bride was asked if she would categorize her relationship with the groom as a whirlwind romance.

“When you know, you know,” she said. “With Jonathan I just knew. He was that unforgettable.”

When Oct. 17, 2020

Where St. Patrick’s Cathedral, New York

Live, From St. Patrick’s The cathedral livestreamed the couple’s wedding to a private YouTube channel mainly so that the bride’s foster mother, Lee Jeong Ja, who lives in Seoul, would be able to stay up late (11 p.m. her time) and watch the wedding. When the couple walked out of the cathedral, Cardinal Dolan was there to greet them.

What She Wore The bride wore the Scarlett Gown, designed by Sareh Nouri and made of soft alencon lace with a dramatic chapel train. The dress had long sheer sleeves and was adorned with a custom silk taffeta ruched cummerbund.

What He Wore The groom wore a Dolce and Gabbana black tuxedo, first worn by the groom at the world premiere of the Martin Scorsese film “The Irishman,” in which the groom played the role of the “young priest confessor.”

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.





No.44 article:
Want a Preview of President Biden? Look to the Campaign Trail

He is returning to a Washington he knows well. And the path he took to get back offers a road map for how he’ll govern.

Like President Bill Clinton, Joseph R. Biden Jr. is an empathetic extrovert with a sprawling network of friends. Like President George W. Bush, he maintains strict personal discipline (for Mr. Biden, that meant Peloton rides and protein shakes this year, to offset an ice cream habit).

Like President George H.W. Bush, he respects American political traditions, and with President Barack Obama, he shares eight years of history, experiences and some Washington battle scars.

But when Mr. Biden enters the White House in January, after four turbulent years of the Trump presidency and a chaotic transition period, he will bring with him his own set of instincts.

He has honed the ways he operates in Washington over 36 years as a senator and eight years as vice president. Based on his actions and attitudes throughout his most recent 18 months as a presidential candidate, here are four key elements of how Mr. Biden may approach governing come January, 48 years after he first arrived in Washington. 

Mr. Biden relied this year on a blend of expert opinion and conversations with elected officials across the country as he formulated his plans to confront the extraordinary public health and economic crises at hand, offering a glimpse of the kinds of input that may influence his decision-making as president.

When the pandemic hit, Mr. Biden’s instinct was to get on the phone.

Even though he had no power to enact policy, Mr. Biden made a point of maintaining relationships with mayors, senators and governors, calling them often and sprinkling his public remarks with references to what he had learned about their experiences. It was in keeping with the role he played as vice president, where he often was the Obama administration’s best liaison to Capitol Hill, and it reflected the respect that the longtime Delaware senator has for other elected officials.

At the same time, a core part of Mr. Biden’s message throughout the general election was that, as president, he would listen to the experts when it came to confronting the nation’s greatest challenges.

Some allies thought he did too much of that during the campaign, believing that he could have devoted more time, in person or virtually, to key battleground states rather than to the hours he spent receiving briefings on the virus and the economy even in the final days of the race.

But now he will enter the White House with an established cadre of advisers on those key subjects.

Yet for all of the expert advice Mr. Biden will have available to him from the White House, his outlook is also influenced, in broad terms, by a core inner circle of aides, advisers and a few family members — namely, his wife and his sister — who have offered counsel to him for decades.

Last week, he named Ron Klain, an operative who first started working for Mr. Biden in the 1980s, to be his chief of staff. But he has also promised to assemble a diverse administration, and he is particularly focused on building out the ranks of federal government that have been depleted under Mr. Trump.

“You want the steadiness, the experience and the confidence of those old hands that have been around,” former Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said of Mr. Biden’s calculations around his administration. “But you also want new energy, new ideas, fresh faces, to bring them up. They’re the next generation. I think that’s the way Joe will look at it.”

At key inflection points throughout the campaign, Mr. Biden wanted to take in as much information as possible.

And then, he waited.

Mr. Biden ultimately is decisive, his allies argue, saying that he is not the kind of person to second-guess or to walk back a promise once he has arrived at a deal in a negotiation. But on major political and personnel decisions, at least, he has demonstrated that he cannot be rushed.

Nowhere was this clearer than during the vice-presidential search process, when Mr. Biden missed one self-imposed deadline after the next to name his running mate, before ultimately deciding on Senator Kamala Harris. In her, he found someone he trusted to be a loyal ally, who shared his outlook on governing and who also possessed political strengths that he lacked.

That dynamic may be instructive for how his cabinet member announcements and other personnel choices play out in coming weeks, as Mr. Biden thoroughly assesses his options and also grapples with the political constraints of a potentially Republican-controlled Senate.

People who have worked with Mr. Biden or know him personally describe him as a gut politician in some ways, but one whose instincts are shaped by conversations with close advisers and allies, by peppering aides with questions and by soliciting a range of opinions, whether from experts in a particular field or from trusted friends and supporters across the country.

“I think he truly tries to get input, get all the perspectives, understand the pros and the cons,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said of his decision-making habits broadly. “He had people that gave him the perspectives of different people, and then he would make his own decision.”

Mr. Biden has suggested that he may name a handful of cabinet member choices by around Thanksgiving — setting up an early test of whether his self-imposed deadlines are any more accurate as president-elect than they were when he was a candidate.

Mr. Biden has been vice president of the United States, an elder statesman of his party and now, president-elect.

But in many ways he is, at heart, still a senator from Delaware, who sometimes slipped into the parlance of floor speeches (he referred to Senator Elizabeth Warren on the debate stage last year as his “distinguished friend”) and cited Senate mentors from decades ago on the campaign trail throughout the 2020 race.

His experience in the Senate defined his political outlook — one that prizes consensus, civility and bipartisanship as essential to at least some progress — and helps explain why he will enter the White House with great respect for Congress. His insistence that he could “lower the temperature” politically was a central part of his pitch throughout the race, and he relished dismissing Democrats who called such an outlook naïve.

The question is whether Mr. Biden’s views will be reciprocated by Republicans on Capitol Hill, some of whom are currently refusing to recognize the legitimacy of his election.

“He knows the Senate — these are personal friends of his, unlike other presidents that didn’t have that type of relationship,” said former Senator John Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana. “To an extent, Obama didn’t, either. Joe has been there over 30 years. He knows the leaders on the Republican side. I think he’s going to be reaching out to them, as well as Democratic leadership.”

When Mr. Biden declared victory last weekend, he claimed that “part of the mandate” he had received from the American people was to facilitate finding common ground.

“They want us to cooperate in their interest, and that’s the choice I’ll make,” he said. “And I’ll call on Congress, Democrats and Republicans alike, to make that choice with me.”

Whatever the response, Mr. Biden has also offered a long list of executive actions he plans to take on his first day in office.

After four years with President Trump in the White House, Mr. Biden promises, in many respects, a return to the past norms and traditions that have typically defined the office.

Do not expect to see Mr. Biden use his Twitter account to fire members of his cabinet, chime in on television news coverage or make sudden policy pronouncements. In fact, his campaign team claimed to disdain Twitter, arguing that it was a poor measure of the views of most Americans.

Do expect to see a president who embraces the traditional role of serving as consoler in chief in times of tragedy. Mr. Biden’s ability to connect with people experiencing grief is one of his most distinctive attributes as a politician, following a car accident that killed his first wife and a baby daughter in 1972, and the death of his elder son, Beau Biden, in 2015.

On Veterans Day last week, he visited the Philadelphia Korean War Memorial, and he takes care to show respect for those who serve in uniform.

Rarely did Mr. Biden grow as visibly angry on the campaign trail as when he cited Mr. Trump’s reported comments about fallen soldiers. Mr. Biden carries in his suit jacket a card that lists, among other things, the precise number of U.S. troops who have died in Iraq and Afghanistan, and he routinely ends his remarks by saying, “May God protect our troops.”

But for all of Mr. Biden’s regard for American institutions — the courts, Congress, the military — he is also a colorful figure in American politics with a vivid personality that Americans and world leaders will now see up close.

He is known for his empathy but is also capable of growing so defensive that during a testy exchange, he once appeared to call a voter “fat” (which his campaign disputed) and issued a challenge to do push-ups. He is brimming with “Bidenisms” and with assorted wisdom that he attributes to various relatives and long-dead colleagues, and is deeply proud of his Irish Catholic roots in Scranton, Pa.

“Look me over,” Mr. Biden has urged voters over the years. “If you like what you see, help out. If not, vote for the other guy.”

This time around, enough American voters liked what they saw. Now they, and the world, are about to get a much closer look.





No.45 article:
The N.F.L. Has Prevented Coronavirus on the Field. Off It Is Another Matter.

As the virus surges around the country — and near team facilities — the league’s efforts to complete the season on schedule will be severely tested.

Before the N.F.L. season began, one of the big questions the league faced was whether a close-contact sport like football, with 22 players on the field and dozens more on the sidelines along with coaches and trainers, could avoid a coronavirus outbreak stemming from a game.

That has largely been answered: yes.

Yet as the season passes the halfway mark, and more than 200 people on or affiliated with teams have been infected, the N.F.L. has been grappling with controlling the virus not just on the field but off it, sometimes far from it. And players are far from the only problem.

Between Aug. 1 and Nov. 7, 218 out the nearly 8,000 players, coaches and personnel have been infected, with players making up about one-third of the positive cases. Only one player is known to have been hospitalized, and most players have had mild symptoms and returned after their mandatory isolation.

League officials have said there is no evidence of players transmitting the virus on the field despite the close contact between teams, and there has been little transmission inside team facilities, where social distancing guidelines are in place.

Instead, the 78 players and the 140 staff members who support the teams, including coaches, trainers and employees, have picked it up outside the facilities, either when they congregated in restaurants or shared car rides, or came in contact with people outside the N.F.L., like nannies.

In response, the N.F.L., which has had to postpone but so far not cancel games, has expanded testing, and adopted and strengthened rules for isolating infected people or those in close contact with them. Coaches and players have been fined tens of thousands of dollars for failing to wear protective equipment properly on the field and outside team facilities.

But as the number of infections in the country skyrockets yet again, so too have the number of infections in the N.F.L. This will test the league’s efforts to keep the coronavirus at arm’s length in the second half of the season as teams exhaust their bye weeks, which were used earlier this season to reschedule games.

“Tip of the hat for their success so far, but it’s something that requires consistent vigilance,” said Dr. Michael Saag, an infectious diseases expert at the University of Alabama, Birmingham. “These mitigation strategies are tenuous. They are guesstimates in terms of what will work. If I were the N.F.L., I wouldn’t be too comfortable, because all it takes is one super spreader event to shut down a facility or two.”

League executives say their measures are working because thus far few infections have been transmitted inside a team complex. The biggest scare came in Tennessee, where two dozen Titans players, coaches and staff were infected in October, though the league has not disclosed specifically what it learned about the origin of the outbreak.

But in recent weeks, the number of positive cases on teams from Green Bay to Miami to Pittsburgh has jumped, forcing players, including star quarterbacks like Ben Roethlisberger and Matthew Stafford, to stay away from team facilities because they were in close contact with teammates or team personnel who tested positive. Five coaches on the Dolphins skipped the team’s trip to Arizona last weekend. Four offensive linemen on the Las Vegas Raiders had to quarantine for five days after coming in contact with right tackle Trent Brown, who tested positive for the virus.

“All of us are aware there has been an uptick in cases that we’ve seen in the N.F.L. last week,” said Dr. Allen Sills, the league’s chief medical officer. “That’s very reflective of what’s going on in the country as a whole. It’s not a surprise, and it’s something we’ve been preparing for.”

After practice every day, coaches, team personnel and players leave their team facilities and mix in their communities, including places where infections are surging. In Minnesota and Wisconsin, for instance, the average number of cases has grown fivefold since Sept. 6, the first Sunday of the season. The increase in infections has risen even faster in Colorado and Illinois, home to two other N.F.L. teams.

Some players continue to put themselves, and their teammates, at risk. Daniel Jones and Saquon Barkley of the Giants were recently photographed indoors with other teammates at a restaurant. Ten players on the Raiders were fined for attending a large gathering without masks, and the team was fined $500,000 and docked a sixth-round draft pick because of repeated violations of the league’s virus protocols. The Titans were fined $350,000 for their lax handling of the outbreak.

“Everyone is right to be worried, because the number of cases is going up nationwide and unfortunately they will continue to go up,” said Dr. Patrick Godbey, the president of the College of American Pathologists. “I don’t think anyone has a good way of knowing what people are doing when they leave the team facility.”

There have been a few cases of fans who attended N.F.L. games testing positive, though where they got the virus has not been established. But many teams have stopped increasing the size of their already limited seating capacity at stadiums, mindful of the risk to the broader community. The Minnesota Vikings and New England Patriots have given up any hope of hosting fans this season. Fans are also watching less football at home. Viewership for N.F.L. games has slipped.

Commissioner Roger Goodell continues to say that the league expects to complete a full slate of games and play the Super Bowl, as scheduled, on Feb. 7 in Tampa, Fla. But the league is considering allowing only about 20 percent of the seats to be filled, with fans socially distanced in small groups if they know each other. League sponsors, including Bridgestone, which typically invite hundreds of clients and employees to the Super Bowl city, have scaled back their entertainment plans.

The league is also making contingencies for an incomplete regular season. On Tuesday, the 32 owners approved a plan that would add one more playoff team in each conference if some teams are unable to complete their 16-game schedule and end up playing an uneven number of games.

The surge in coronavirus cases, coupled with the lack of flexibility in the league’s schedule, makes that more than a possibility. When an outbreak shut the Titans facility for about two weeks, the league postponed two Titans games by reordering bye weeks and shuffling the schedules of other teams.

After this weekend, though, only six teams will still have a bye week. If outbreaks occur on the other 26 teams, the league will have to shuffle its schedule to fit their games in or delay the start of the playoffs by one week and add an 18th week to the regular season for makeup games to be played.

It would be yet another wrinkle in an already rumpled 2020 season, another acknowledgment that despite the league’s success at containing outbreaks thus far, risky days and weeks lie ahead.

“We’re seeing the benefits of the concepts we’ve implemented,” Dr. Sills said. But “it is hard because we’re all tired of this, everyone’s tired of the pandemic, we’re tired of the procedures we have to go through on a daily basis.”

He added: “It continues to feel very unusual and abnormal because it’s not normal for us.”





No.46 article:
‘The Crown’ Has Had Its Scandals, but There’s Nothing Like Diana

When we first glimpse her, minutes into Season 4 of “The Crown,” Lady Diana Spencer is dressed as a tree and hiding behind a plant, the picture of long-legged innocence in a foliage-festooned leotard. “Sorry, I’m not here,” she says coyly to Prince Charles, the highly eligible heir to the British throne, who has arrived at her family’s estate for a date with her older sister Sarah.

“That’s sneaky of her,” Sarah says to Charles afterward. “I told her to leave us alone.”

Here is Diana in her contradictory glory, naïve and conniving, full of charm and full of guile, destined to marry a prince and wreak havoc on a monarchy. Everyone already knows the sorry end to this disastrous love story. But the new season of “The Crown” (released Nov. 15, and not a moment too soon, after all we’ve been through) takes us back to its beginning, when Charles was a self-pitying bachelor, Diana was an unworldly earl’s daughter, and the world was thrilled to believe in what seemed like the happiest of fairy tales.

Fans of the long-running royal drama have been waiting excitedly for this season, anticipating the story line they know best: the emergence of Diana as the glamorous, attention-sucking vortex around which the royal family swirled for so many years. Even Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, the royal family’s newest rebels, look wan and dull in comparison to Diana, who was not just “the People’s Princess,” as Prime Minister Tony Blair called her, but an international superstar for the tabloid age.

With its intoxicating stew of ingredients — royalty, beauty, adultery, celebrity, media intrigue — the tale of the doomed princess has been one of the most rabidly consumed true-life tales of the past few decades. Even 23 years after her death, Diana is still a cottage industry, her story fueling too-many-to-count books, films, documentaries, musicals, plays, mini-series and even present-day tabloid stories, her sapphire-and-diamond engagement ring (currently displayed on the hand of Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, Prince William’s wife) instantly recognizable. Now the new season of Netflix’s marquee series, under the watchful eye of its writer and showrunner, Peter Morgan, has to perform its greatest high-wire act yet: how to make such a familiar story feel fresh and new.

For the part of Diana, the production cast the unknown actor Emma Corrin, 24, a recent graduate of Cambridge University, who plays the princess from the ages of 16 to 28. Alert Diana-philes will notice that Corrin has gotten the princess’s seductive signature gesture — head tilting to the side, eyes glancing coquettishly upward through her bangs — just right. But inhabiting that most-talked-about of women presented challenges of its own.

“It’s very difficult; it’s a lot to take on and a lot of pressure, especially as we get close to when it comes out,” Corrin said in an interview. The series is fiction, she pointed out, and her portrayal of Diana is her own. “I never went into this thinking I wanted to embody or mimic her,” she said. “I think of her more as a character, and this is my interpretation of her.”

Peter Morgan’s multigenerational saga, a consistently enthralling mix of serious history and frothy gossip, has already spanned more than 30 years. This new season brings us into the 1980s, the era of big hair and puffy dresses, of pleated pants and Conservative government. In Britain, it was the decade of Margaret Thatcher, the country’s first female prime minister (Gillian Anderson, her manner imperious and her voice full of cardboard).

As always, intimate developments in the lives of the Queen and her family are set against the sweep of British politics and the wider forces of history: the Falklands war; the Irish Troubles; Thatcher’s efforts to remake her party and upend the welfare state; the subsequent economic upheaval. As we move closer to the present, these events seem less like distant history and almost like familiar home movies, parts of a collective past shared by many viewers.

Morgan said that he had approached the new season in the same way he has all along, but that expectations for it seemed higher. “I’m slightly more conscious of accuracy as opposed to truth, and I’m leaning into accuracy as much as I can,” he said, speaking by phone from London.

Luckily, the research team had a trove of firsthand material to draw on. The vicissitudes of the royal marriage were aggressively covered by the British tabloid press, often with the tacit help of Diana (although she denied it at the time). In addition to endless newspaper accounts, the production turned to Jonathan Dimbleby’s exhaustive biography of Prince Charles, written with Charles’s help and providing an insight into his difficult relationship with his parents; and Andrew Morton’s explosive biography of Diana, based on hours of confessional tape recordings from the princess and full of juicy details about her marriage. “In earlier seasons our subjects were not given to this kind of self-reflection, so this was very helpful,” Annie Sulzberger, the production’s head of research (and the sister of The Times’s publisher, A.G. Sulzberger), said in an interview from London.

The show had a team of advisers with direct knowledge of the events, a change from previous seasons, when “there were fewer people alive we could talk to,” said Oona O Beirn, a “Crown” producer who worked closely with the research team. (For instance, in the first season, they had just one surviving source from Churchill’s office; now there is a plethora of contemporary experts, including Patrick Jephson, a former private secretary to Diana.) “As the show has become more well known, we get approached a lot, and then it’s a case of talking to who we think would be helpful,” O Beirn said.

As always, they have taken many cinematic liberties. “Crown” watchers in Britain are already debating what is accurate and what has been changed for dramatic purposes. In one episode, for instance, Diana gets a crash course in royal-family protocol — where to walk, where to stand, how to speak in public. In real life, Sulzberger said, the instruction came from two members of the palace staff. But “The Crown” gives the job to Diana’s grandmother, the harsh Lady Fermoy, a lady-in-waiting to the Queen Mother known for testifying in court against her own daughter, Diana’s mother, during Diana’s parents’ bitter divorce. “We had some advice from one of our advisers that Lady Fermoy was more of the kind of taskmaster we were looking for,” O Beirn said. The resulting scenes are painful: Diana really does come across as a lamb to the slaughter, a description she once used of herself.

Sulzberger said that with so many people alive to remember what happened, the show was particularly concerned with plumbing the nuances of the story. That meant acknowledging potential bias in even knowledgeable sources. For instance, accounts sympathetic to Diana at the time stressed her despair over Charles’s infidelity while conveniently eliding her own adulterous adventures. But “The Crown” makes it clear that there were two sides to the tale, showing Diana promising the Queen that she will give up her lover, James Hewitt, and then going back to him after Charles fails to end his own affair with Camilla Parker Bowles.

Both Corrin and Josh O’Connor, who returned this season as Charles (Dominic West is his rumored replacement next season, Elizabeth Debicki has been confirmed as the new Diana), said they tried to not take sides in the million-dollar question surrounding the couple’s operatically disastrous marriage: Whose fault was it? “The Crown” gives evidence for both positions, and neither position.

“The more I’ve learned about the intricacies of this marriage and this relationship, the harder it’s been to pick sides,” Corrin said. “People criticize Charles, but he did love this one woman this whole life, and it wasn’t the one he married,” she said, referring to Camilla. “So many mistakes were made by Diana and Charles after their marriage, but the biggest mistake was that the marriage ever happened in the first place.”

Indeed, I was a Times correspondent in Britain in 2005 when Charles married Camilla, the woman he had loved all along, after years of upheaval following his divorce from Diana and her sudden, shocking death. I spent the day interviewing the crowds who had lined the streets in Windsor, where the wedding took place. Theirs was a mature, low-drama love between two people who knew each other thoroughly, and the public that had once so reviled them greeted this new chapter in their long relationship with a muted but respectful understanding that has deepened over time. They are both in their 70s now, with Charles still pointed toward the throne, and it feels as if they’ve been together forever.

But the new season reminds us how the relationship began in scandal, with the young Charles unable to give up Camilla even when she marries another man, and proposing to Diana only after his family browbeats him into finding a suitable wife. O’Connor presents Charles as a kind of Hamlet-on-the-Thames, stooped under the weight of his own ennui, by turns annoying and sympathetic. “He can be soft and gentle and kind,” O’Connor said in an interview. “I liked the idea that he was a sort of tortoise, with a shell over him that protects him from the world.”

Audience reactions at early screenings, Morgan said, have been emotional. “I’m inclined to think for the viewer there is now an increased sense of connection,” he said. “People are feeling it far more vividly.”

As always, the series skates through public events, focusing its attention on the more interesting private dramas. We see only a glimpse of the wedding, with Diana all but drowning in her famously over-pouffed meringue of a dress, but we are thrust right into scenes showing her doubts and unhappiness beforehand. (As one of her sisters said to her back then, it was too late to get out of the marriage because “your face is on the tea towels.”) The production also addresses head-on the bulimia that took hold of her, showing Diana compulsively gulping down food and then throwing it back up. The scenes are hard to watch, but true to the disease that consumed her for so many years.

The emphasis on behind-closed-door drama adds a special frisson to episodes like “The Balmoral Test.” First Thatcher, new to her job, and then Diana, new to Charles’s romantic orbit, are summoned to Balmoral Castle, the Windsors’ estate in the wilds of the Scottish Highlands. It’s hard for outsiders to break in to what we see here is a close-knit family with peculiarly aristocratic traditions: the muddy, bloody joy they take in hunting; the incomprehensible parlor games they play; the upper-class language conventions that smoke out who (from their point of view) is well-born and who isn’t.

Thatcher finds it excruciating and fails test after test, sitting in the wrong chair; saying “I beg your pardon” instead of the correct (according to the snobbish Princess Margaret) “What?”; wearing city clothes for a day of hunting. By contrast, Diana, whose family is actually older and grander than the upstart Windsors, knows exactly how to play it.

It all feels like voyeuristic fun, especially in every scene featuring Olivia Colman, who brings a droll, in-on-the-joke archness to the role of Elizabeth this season. Because the real-life Queen is scrupulously dull and anodyne in public, most of her private conversations are wholly made up — but true to her character, said Morgan, who has made a career of plumbing the personal lives of public figures and who has studied the queen from multiple angles in the past.

As always, we return to Diana, who remains as complicated and unknowable in death as she was in life. Was she the savior of the royal family, dragging a stultified institution, and a nation along with it, into the modern age with her humanity and common touch? Or were her emotional upheavals alarmingly anti-British and rather unhinged, a debasement of centuries of stiff-upper-lip rectitude?

It remains to be seen how the final two seasons of “The Crown,” which are expected to end in the early 2000s, will treat Diana’s legacy. But if you leave this season believing that to be a complex question — as indeed are the relationships between the Queen and her family, the Queen and her government and the Queen and her country — then Morgan will have done his job. You don’t even have to be a flag-waving royalist to care what “The Crown” reveals about the Windsors and the kingdom over which they preside.

Morgan himself isn’t a particular royal fan, he says: he’s much more interested in his characters’ unique position as both private and public figures, their personal lives inextricably intertwined with the history of their country. “Once you’ve spent time with these characters,” he said, speaking of his job as author of this ongoing drama, “you don’t pass judgment on them.”





No.47 article:
Travel and Coronavirus Testing: Your Questions Answered

Taking a test is the best way to assure yourself and others that you aren’t spreading the virus. Here’s what you need to know.

As the United States endures an alarming surge in coronavirus cases across the country, officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention continue to warn people to postpone travel and stay at home to be safe. 

But whether for the December holidays or otherwise, many Americans expect to continue with their travel plans, either out of necessity or desire, and many plan to tap new ways increasingly offered by airlines and airports to get coronavirus tests before their trips. 

Some destinations, like Hawaii, Washington, D.C., and some Caribbean countries have begun allowing people who have tested negative for the virus and can show test results to skip mandatory 14-day quarantines, a process that some view as risky because it is possible that people can take a test, receive a negative result and then contract the virus later.

No. There are two categories of coronavirus tests: virus tests, which help determine if you have the coronavirus, and antibody tests, which detect if you have an immune response because of past exposure to the virus.

[Read more on travel insurance during the coronavirus pandemic.]

If you want to find out if you currently have the coronavirus, you should plan on taking a virus test like a polymerase chain reaction or PCR test. PCR tests are currently considered the gold standard for tests because of their accuracy and reliability. PCR tests can detect an active infection and require a swab in the nose or the back of the throat. Some tests use saliva. The test is highly sensitive and looks for the virus’s genetic material.

Another type of diagnostic test is an antigen test, which detects the presence of a specific viral antigen or bits of coronavirus proteins, implying current viral infection. For antigen tests, a sample is collected by nasal swabbing, with hopes that there are some virus proteins in the sample.

You’ve probably heard of antibody tests, too, but those aren’t what you need in order to travel. An antibody test checks for antibodies, which may tell you if you had a past infection with the virus that causes Covid-19.

Many companies have released rapid tests and they are mostly antigen tests and they take minutes to return results. These tests tend to be less accurate, and false negatives could lead people to be reckless and unwittingly spread the virus, but they are fast and affordable. You can check if your airline and destination accept results from rapid antigen tests.

Most airlines and destinations will accept PCR tests although others might also be allowed.

If you’re taking a test specifically because you are about to travel, you should first see if your destination has a list of tests that it will accept. Many places, including Hawaii, Washington D.C., New York and a number of Caribbean countries, specify which tests they will accept.

If you get a test that isn’t approved, you could be forced to quarantine upon arrival or the airline could prevent you from boarding the flight.

Many places are offering coronavirus tests, including some hospitals, urgent care clinics, pharmacies and doctor’s offices. Some churches and fire stations are offering testing, too. Airlines like Hawaiian Airlines, United Airlines, JetBlue and American Airlines are offering testing at the airport or at nearby drive-through sites for passengers heading to certain destinations. Some airports have clinics in terminals. Companies, including CareCube and Pixel by LabCorp, will mail a test to you and you send back a sample; they promise to send you your results within 12 to 34 hours and 36 hours, respectively. JetBlue has a partnership with Vault Health for mail-in tests.

It’s a good idea to start by reaching out to your doctor’s office to see what all the available options for testing are and how long it will take to get results. If you don’t have a primary care provider, a good place to start is on city and state health department websites, which outline the various testing options and locations.

You should get a coronavirus test before you travel. Figuring out the exact time can be tricky, but you can’t wait too long to take the test because you might not get the results back in time to go on your trip.

For those reasons, many destinations, including France, Aruba, Bonaire, Puerto Rico and Hawaii, require that the test be taken within 72 hours of departure. Abu Dhabi and Croatia require test results are within 48 hours of departure. Some airlines, like Egypt Air, allow travelers to use results from a test taken up to 96 hours before traveling, depending on where they are traveling from and to.

You can walk into a testing site, but it’s a good idea to schedule an appointment and to not wait until the last minute to get the test.

It depends.

If you’re taking a test because you’re getting ready to go on a trip, you should look for test providers who will get results back to you within 36 hours, so that you have your results by the time you leave for your trip. Keep in mind that different tests will come with different wait times for results. Rapid tests typically return results in less than an hour, and results from PCR tests tend to take a few days because samples have to be sent to a lab.

There’s always a chance that your results won’t arrive in time, so try to be flexible with your travel plans.

Not all tests are covered by insurance, but since the passage of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act in March, many people should have coverage for coronavirus testing. Under the Act, public and private insurance, including self-funded plans, have to cover F.D.A.-approved coronavirus tests and costs associated with diagnostic testing.

Rapid tests like the ones offered at the airport on the day of travel might not be covered by many insurance companies.

Stay home and isolate. Don’t travel with the virus.

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places list.





No.48 article:
Leggings Take a Victory Lap

Everyone is still wearing leggings during the pandemic, including Kamala Harris.

When Vice President-elect Kamala Harris called to congratulate Joseph R. Biden Jr. on winning the election last Saturday, she was wearing what women everywhere in the United States seem to be wearing during the pandemic: leggings.

Leggings have been a staple of workouts, errands and lounging at home for well over a decade now, but wearing them often came with a slew of excuses: I just got back from the gym. I’m bloated. It’s the weekend.

But in the Covid era, the line between workout clothes and work clothes has evaporated for many people — and with it, any feelings of shame about wearing leggings 24/7.

Indeed, while sales of denim jeans have fallen since March, leggings have surged 61 percent in the United Kingdom and 21 percent in the United States during the same period compared to last year, according to WGSN, a trend forecasting agency in London.

Maggie Schneider, 21, the frontwoman of an Atlanta rock band called Glimmers, never wore leggings out of the house before the pandemic. Her look was very ’70s bohemian, lots of jeans and cute, flowy sundresses.

But her last music gig was on March 10; two weeks later, Atlanta issued a citywide stay-at-home order. That was also when her leggings broke free.

“It started as a comfort thing,” Ms. Schneider said, who studies writing at the Savannah College of Art and Design. “As time progressed, the comfort thing turned into me liking to wear them. And I thought, I’m going to embrace this.”

Her leggings — she prefers the black ones from Target — are now her daily pandemic look, often paired with a band T-shirt. She wears them during her livestream shows, while shopping for vintage clothes and for her acoustic guitar mash-ups on TikTok.

The telltale sign of the pandemic legging: women who never wore them out of the house before have caved to comfort.

Even in my suburban New Jersey town where leggings have been a staple since the dinosaur age, they’ve become omnipresent. Women used to change after their morning yoga class. But now they’re just changing into a new pair of leggings. Every morning I see neighbors like Angie Konetzni, a 40-something distributor for Shaklee nutritional supplements, charge up the hill in a different pair of leggings with her French bulldog, Bo.

“I was a jeans person,” she said. “But during the quarantine, something shifted. I think it was my threshold for comfort.”

Leggings have been gaining in popularity in the last decade, especially among millennials and the wellness set. They have also created controversy, often for being perceived as too revealing.

Two teenage girls were kicked off a United Airlines flight for wearing leggings in 2017. Schools in Evanston, Ill., and Kenosha, Wis., have prohibited girls from wearing them. Students held pro-legging protests at the University of Notre Dame after a self-described “Catholic mother of four sons” wrote a letter in the student newspaper saying that “leggings are so naked, so form fitting, so exposing.”

But since the pandemic, the debate seems to have become moot, as leggings go from merely popular to ubiquitous.

What’s different now? “The unspoken rules about sartorial standards don’t apply when nobody is in a social situation,” said Deirdre Clemente, a fashion historian at the University of Nevada Las Vegas. “No one’s going into the office now. Many girls aren’t going into school where teachers are telling you to go home and change out of your leggings.

“The rules that keep people’s behavior’s in place, there’s no enforcement for them,” Ms. Clemente added. “Someone can’t come through zoom and say, ‘Take off your leggings.’”

Which is exactly why Sarah Seltzer, 37, an editor for Lilith Magazine who lives in Harlem, wears her leggings all day, from the time she feeds her two children breakfast, to her daily Zoom editorial meetings, to her walks in the park. “They’re very trendy apparently,” said Ms. Seltzer, who often wears a pair that’s bright blue and tie-dyed by Pact Apparel. “I’ve seen a lot of young women in my neighborhood wearing them.”

Laura Yiannakou, a women’s wear senior strategist for WGSN, thinks the rise is about more than just comfort. Leggings, she said, appeal to women who want to celebrate their natural figure. “It’s not shapewear in the sense of wanting to make you look three sizes smaller,” she said. “It’s a parallel trend of inclusivity and body positivity.”

She also pointed out that legging styles have evolved beyond the sports department and now come in an array of fashionable hybrid options, including in faux leather and with long slits. Fenty, for example, sells a pastel-hued floral-print legging for $300.

“It’s not just about active wear anymore,” Ms. Yiannakou said. “Leggings are coming into their own as a fashion trouser.”

You can call this frivolous if you want, this talk about leggings. But fashion is a moving, breathing entity and changes whenever there’s a great upheaval in society, like a war or a pandemic.

“I don’t think we can separate the pandemic from fashion,” said Rhonda Garelick, the dean of the School of Art and Design History and Theory at Parsons. “We are frightened, we are hiding and our bodies feel deeply vulnerable. But privately, indoors, we’ve never been freer.”





No.49 article:
Before ‘I Have a Dream,’ Martin Luther King Almost Died. This Man Saved Him.

The bar in Showman’s Jazz Club, a Harlem destination for visitors from just down the block to Japan and back, stretched from the front door to the stage. The owner, Al Howard, liked to sit at the curve near the entrance.

John Miller, a regular at the club and a deputy commissioner in the Police Department, knew the habit well. “Typical detective thing,” he recalled. “So he could see everyone going in and going out.”

The club’s owner had in fact been a police detective, and the two men became friends. And so, decades later, Mr. Miller was surprised to hear one particular story about Mr. Howard’s years on the force. He wondered if it indeed could be true and, if so, found it shocking that it was not more widely known. So, a couple of years ago, very late one Saturday night — actually, already Sunday morning — after the crowd had thinned and the band had packed up, Mr. Miller took a bar stool beside the club owner and just came out and asked.

“I heard this story that you saved Martin Luther King,” Mr. Miller said.

What happened on Sept. 20, 1958, in a Harlem department store is briefly recounted in history books and old newspaper clippings that dutifully tell the who, what, when and where of a tragedy averted. But lesser known, because it was not in the nature of the men involved to broadcast it, are the snap decisions of a young officer and his partner, dropped into a scene of bedlam and confusion, that would change the course of American history.

That night in the bar, Mr. Howard, then 91, drew closer, and told his story.

It was a warm and cloudless Saturday afternoon. Officer Howard, 31 years old and on the job three years, was driving a patrol car with a rookie he’d just met that day, Officer Philip Romano. A call came over the radio: There was a disturbance at Blumstein’s department store in Harlem.

They arrived to find chaos on the second floor. At its center, in a dark suit and tie and sitting still as stone in a chair, was the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., then 29. There was a letter opener jutting out of his chest. He had been signing copies of his book “Stride Toward Freedom,” about the Montgomery bus boycott, when a young woman approached and stabbed him.

An advertising executive for The Amsterdam News, a prominent Black newspaper, grabbed the woman and restrained her until a security officer took over. Stunned local leaders and politicians looked on as another woman, fearing for Dr. King’s life, reached to pull the blade out. “She was hysterical,” Officer Romano said later. The officers, knowing that the blade might have been saving Dr. King from bleeding to death, stopped her in time.

They needed help.

“In those days we didn’t have walkie-talkies,” Officer Howard said years later in an interview for the internal N.Y.P.D. magazine, Spring 3100. “The only radio we had was the one in the patrol car. Once we left that, our communication was cut off. We were entirely on our own, and believe me, it was some predicament.”

He went into greater detail that night in Showman’s. “I said, ‘Take me to a telephone,’” Mr. Howard recounted to Mr. Miller. “I called Harlem Hospital. I said: ‘Send an ambulance. I have this man who’s got a knife sticking out of his chest. What do we do?’ The doctor came on the phone and said: ‘Don’t take it out. We’ll send an ambulance right away.’”

Officer Howard said: “There’s a big crowd at the front of the store. Send it to the back of the store.”

The two patrolmen hatched a fast plan, and Officer Howard turned to the crowd. The sight of a Black police officer in Harlem was no longer a novelty — the traditionally Irish-American force would have some 1,200 Black officers by 1960 — but Officer Howard nonetheless stood out.

“He had a mild face,” the New York Newsday columnist Jimmy Breslin wrote of him in 1993, “but at the same time a face that caused people, upon looking at it even for a moment, to stop what they were doing and behave.”

Officer Howard announced that Dr. King would be taken out through the front door on 125th Street and asked that a path be cleared. It worked. He himself stayed out front, as if waiting, while Officer Romano and others carried Dr. King, still seated in his chair, to an ambulance out back, on 124th Street. “Rather than try to push inside, a couple of thousand excited people remained out on the street to watch,” Mr. Breslin wrote.

Dr. King was taken to Harlem Hospital, where a team of doctors worked to pull the blade from his chest. Outside the operating room, 40 people offered to give blood. A doctor told reporters that the blade “impinged on the aorta, a blood vessel near the heart,” and that a puncture would have caused “instant death.”

The police arrested Izola Ware Curry, a mentally ill woman who believed Dr. King and others were following her, and charged her with the stabbing.

Dr. King spent weeks in New York City recovering. He addressed reporters from Harlem Hospital: “First let me say that I feel no ill will toward Mrs. Izola Curry and know that thoughtful people will do all in their power to see that she gets the help she apparently needs if she is to become a free and constructive member of society.”

He blamed larger societal ills: “A climate of hatred and bitterness so permeates areas of our nation that inevitably deeds of extreme violence must erupt.”

He later wrote a letter to thank the police. “I have long been aware of the meaning of the phrase ‘New York’s finest’ when applied to members of the N.Y. Police Department,” he wrote. “From the moment of my unfortunate accident, I have concurred, wholeheartedly, in that appellation. There are none finer.”

Officer Howard rose in the department, though not because of his actions at Blumstein’s. The earliest commendation in his personnel file would arrive two months later, for arresting a man with a gun. He worked bigger cases later, helping in the hunt for the serial killer Son of Sam and with a drug squad doing extensive heroin investigations in the Bronx.

He told Mr. Miller that years after the stabbing, he walked into a sandwich shop in Harlem and saw Dr. King sitting with three other people at a table. “I was looking at him, and he was looking at me,” he recalled, “so I walked across the store. I asked, ‘Do you remember me?’ He said: ‘I know I know you. I can’t remember from where.’”

Dr. King’s career and stature soared over the decade that followed that afternoon at Blumstein’s. During a speech in Memphis in 1968, he would reflect on that day.

“You know, several years ago I was in New York City, autographing the first book that I had written. And while sitting there autographing books, a demented Black woman came up,” he said. “The next minute I felt something beating on my chest. Before I knew it I had been stabbed by this demented woman.”

He continued: “The X-rays revealed that the tip of the blade was on the edge of my aorta, the main artery. And once that’s punctured, you’re drowned in your own blood, that’s the end of you.

“It came out in The New York Times the next morning that if I had merely sneezed, I would have died.” He repeated the phrase over and over, “If I had sneezed,” while naming the Civil Rights milestones he had accomplished since then — the lunch-counter sit-ins, the march on Selma, the “I Have a Dream” speech — and then concluded, “I’m so happy that I didn’t sneeze.”

The following day, Dr. King was shot dead.

Officer Howard reacted to the assassination with the same shock and sadness as countless others. But he held his own story close. “He was old police,” said his son, Al Howard Jr., 72. “They did their work and they came home and they were father, husband.”

After Officer Howard retired, he took over Showman’s. “If you wanted to hear the best jazz in the world, you could come to Showman’s and not pay a cover,” his son said.

The club drew many from the neighborhood, said the Rev. Robert Royal, a Baptist minister and himself a regular. “‘Bob Royal, you’re a preacher,’” he recalled Mr. Howard telling him once in the club. “‘How come I see you sitting on a bar stool night after night?’ I said, ‘Well, Al, I’m undercover for Jesus.’”

The coronavirus shut down Showman’s in March. Mr. Howard stayed home and kept busy, but finally had enough of lockdown. He and Mona Lopez, his companion and partner at Showman’s, were regular visitors to Las Vegas, and they flew there in September. On the way home the following week, Mr. Howard fell ill with what appeared to be a cold but was actually the coronavirus. He died several days later of Covid-19. He was 93.

His funeral on Oct. 27 at J. Foster Phillips Funeral Home in Jamaica, Queens, was limited in size by social-distance restrictions, but mourners included people from both sides of his working life — the Police Department and the club. His grandson Malik Howard read from an obituary that listed his many accomplishments. Tucked among them: “He helped save Martin Luther King Jr.’s life.”

That night at the bar in 2018, as Mr. Howard’s story reached its end, the place had emptied. Mr. Miller was struck by what would seem to be the ultimate futility of his friend’s actions in 1958.

“I mentioned it’s a shame he was killed a few years later,” Mr. Miller said. “You can save a guy’s life, and still, the life isn’t saved.”

His friend disagreed.

“Al made the point that in that span of years that he didn’t die by being stabbed,” Mr. Miller said, “he went on to do the most important works.”





No.50 article:
To Survive the Pandemic, Savile Row Cuts a Bespoke Strategy

LONDON — One morning in early November, a tailor on Savile Row took the measurements of a client 5,500 miles away with the help of a robot. The tailor, Dario Carnera, sat on the second floor of Huntsman, one of the street’s most venerable houses, and used the trackpad on his laptop to guide the robot around a client who stood before mirrors in a clothing store in Seoul. Mr. Carnera was visible and audible to the client through an iPad-like panel that doubled as the robot’s face.

“I’m just going to come a little bit forward,” said Mr. Carnera, moving the robot a few feet to the left.

He was collecting the roughly 20 measurements that are standard in a first Savile Row fitting, the initial step in the fabrication of a made-from-scratch suit that starts at about $8,000 and can reach as high as $40,000 for the priciest material.

“Twenty seven and a quarter,” said an assistant in Seoul, through a translator, holding a measuring tape.

This system, up and running since September, wouldn’t work without a pair of living, trained hands on the client. As robots go, Huntsman’s is primitive — essentially a camera and intercom on wheels. It doesn’t have arms, let alone the fingertips to find an inseam. The point of the gizmo isn’t to eliminate the need for the human touch. It’s to eliminate the need for Mr. Carnera to travel, which, because of the pandemic, he can’t.

This grounding is a fiasco for Savile Row tailors. They typically spend nearly as much time flying around the world, fitting clients, as they do cutting and sewing. For many houses, 70 percent of revenue comes from these overseas trunk shows. With tailors stuck in their shops, and London tourism in free-fall, the most famous men’s clothing street in the world is gasping for life.

“Our company lived through the Boer War, World War I, the Depression, World War II, recessions,” said Simon Cundey, the managing director of Henry Poole &amp; Co., which traces its roots to 1819. “But through all of these crises, we could visit our customers and they could visit us. This is a tragedy on a different scale.”

The struggles started before the pandemic. The decades-long drift from formal wear has wounded a retail strip known for elegant, hand-sewn garments that take up to 90 hours to produce. Plus, the cultural cachet of the suit has waned. All Savile Row shops are associated with a Hollywood star who was a regular: Fred Astaire at Anderson &amp; Sheppard, Charlie Chaplin at Gieves &amp; Hawkes. Most died decades ago.

Covid has turned the Row’s challenges into a brush with the abyss. Even dandies are now trundling around their homes in Lululemon. The four months of business between the first and second lockdowns helped, but not a lot. Profit-sapping quarantines meant that tailors still could not fly to other European countries, Asia and the United States, as they typically do three or four times a year.

American Anglophiles are the street’s not-so-secret sugar daddies. New York, Los Angeles, and a few other U.S. cities account for roughly one third of all revenue on the Row, managing directors here say.

Fortunately, the biggest landlord on the street has pockets deep enough to afford some rent forbearance. Most of the Row is owned by one of the richest entities on earth: Norway’s $1.1 trillion sovereign wealth fund. It owns a majority of the Pollen Estate, a holder of prime acres of central London real estate for nearly 400 years.

The overseers of the fund know that if the celebrated houses of Savile Row close or scatter for cheaper premises, the street’s cachet will disappear, along with much of its value. This gives tailors here a rare kind of leverage. Which may be one reason there’s a lot of we’re-in-this-together talk from Julian Stocks, a Pollen Estate property director.

“The fund family are actually very long-term thinkers,” he said. “It’s not about that slightly American approach of ‘make a quick buck and move on.’ It’s all about sustainable growth and value over the long term.”

How long this generosity will last is a major preoccupation for owners and employees here. So is the broader question of whether the street can shake off its image as a fusty redoubt of old-school haberdashery. Many of the nearly 30 shops are attempting an update. Some are opening or expanding online shops that offer ready-to-wear lines. Others are selling bespoke doctor’s scrubs and pandemic masks. A few are experimenting with Zoom. So far, only Huntsman has built a robot.

“I was skeptical when I first heard the idea,” Mr. Carnera said. “I’m very traditional. I work with a pair of shears that are about a hundred years old. But the bottom line is that we had to do something.”

The “golden mile of men’s tailoring” is actually just over 150 yards long. Starting in the early 19th century, it was the unofficial couturier of the British Empire, the place where England’s military leaders, equestrians, barristers and aristocrats bought ceremonial finery for parades, hunts, dinners and coronations. Both the tuxedo and the bowler hat were invented here, and when the suit emerged as the uniform of capitalism, the street set the gold standard for craft and durability. Its history and reputation are stellar enough that the name has found its way into at least one language. The Japanese word for “business suit” is sebiro. (Say it out loud.)

Suits made here don’t simply fit in ways that feel uncanny. They are intended to perform the sartorial version of plastic surgery, fixing imperfections like pigeon chests, splayed feet, uneven arms, humpbacks and more. It’s a goal that can’t be achieved through math alone. A fitting on Savile Row is a handsy tango that lasts anywhere from 20 minutes to an hour, and there are three fittings in all. As tailors measure, they take notes, mental or otherwise, on physical quirks that no tape could capture.

The ability to meld numbers and observations is what is known in the trade as “Rock of Eye.” For years, Rock of Eye was assumed to be possible only when tailor and client were in the same room. Now, in the age of the coronavirus, Mr. Carnera thinks otherwise.

“He’s got a dropped left shoulder and a slight bow to his legs — quite erect posture,” he said of the customer in Seoul when the fitting ended. “I can see all I need to see.”

Other tailors are dipping a tentative toe into the online world. Kathryn Sargent, the first woman to rise to the title of master tailor, was recently cajoled into her first Zoom fitting by a husband and wife in Manhattan who were tired of waiting for their clothing.

“I was reluctant because a fitting is quite intimate, and I didn’t know if I could create that feeling on Zoom,” she said from her new shop on nearby Brook Street. “But they told me, ‘Kathryn, you need to lower your standards.’”

Phoebe Gormley, who co-owns the first bespoke, women-only shop on the Row, Gormley &amp; Gamble, won’t be conferring with her clients over the internet. The degree of difficulty is too high.

“Men are more straight up and down, with or without beer bellies,” she said. Instead, she has sold tens of thousands of dollars worth of pandemic masks, some from leftover shirt fabric, and, more ambitiously, is prepping a new, socially distanced venture — an online store called Form Tailoring by Gormley &amp; Gamble.

“Completely Covid-proof,” she said.

Richard Anderson, owner of a shop that bears his name, stuck to an in-person approach to sales in the months between lockdowns. He had designed a trio of casual blazers, and one afternoon, before he had to close his doors again, he modeled them in a mirror. They were identical in cut — one button, peak lapels, slightly padded shoulders — and sold in wool, suede and leather. The leather version was a shade of shiny, riotous red rarely seen on anything but fire trucks or Michael Jackson.

“We’ll put it in the window and it brings them in,” he said, eyeing himself in the leather. “We’ve done something similar before. A peacoat in an orange billiard cloth. No one bought it in the orange, but we put in the window and people bought it in blue and green.”

Set in the upscale Mayfair neighborhood in Central London, Savile Row is a three-minute walk from Regent Street, one of the busiest shopping boulevards in Europe. Somehow it still feels separate and secluded, like a private club you might miss unless someone pointed out the entrance. It’s a by-appointment destination that doesn’t get a lot of foot traffic. Customers range from royals to mobsters, plus plenty of financiers.

“I had this one customer, young guy, whose father brought him in,” Mr. Carnera said. “He insisted I make an inside pocket for his joints.”

Raised in southeast London, Mr. Carnera skipped college to start an apprenticeship at Anderson &amp; Sheppard that lasted for three and a half years. During that time, he worked solely on jackets, though his duties also included sweeping the floor, making tea and enduring practical jokes, like being sent on errands to buy button holes.

He later learned the art of cutting patterns, which are made from pieces of brown paper that provide the blueprint of every garment. Unlike made-to-measure clothing, which starts with a jacket that a customer tries on and is then tweaked, bespoke begins with the customer’s own contours. Every house on Savile Row keeps its paper patterns, thousands of them, usually strung on a line. At a glance they look like animal pelts.

“This one is Gregory Peck’s,” said Mr. Carnera, after rummaging through a closet at the rear of Huntsman where patterns are kept in chronological order.

Savile Row is known for producing one-button jackets with roped shoulders that give men a slightly squared off look, a vestige of the street’s military roots. Every house, though, has its own aesthetic. Dege &amp; Skinner cuts its trouser narrowly and makes wider-than-usual lapels. Owners of a suit made by Huntsman — jacket cut long and close to the chest, an equestrian silhouette — are said to nod in recognition when they encounter each other.

Most of the august, old houses are clustered on the “sunny side of the street,” namely the east. Many of the buildings opposite were constructed after World War II. Members of the Third Reich were once a source of income, but when the hostilities began, the street wasn’t spared. A few of the many bombs dropped on London during the Blitz landed on Savile Row.

Since then, successive generations of tailors have trickled in, each offering a jolt of the new. Like Edward Sexton, who showed up with his business partner, Tommy Nutter, in 1969. At the time, most houses kept their storefronts partially covered with drab fabric and speaking to the media was not cricket. If you had to ask what was behind those decorous scrims, you were encouraged to just move along. Mr. Sexton shocked the street by putting dazzling jackets in the window and attracted rock star clients. Three of the Beatles on the cover of Abbey Road are wearing suits he designed.

“Paul was the most conservative,” Mr. Sexton said. “John was more quirky.”

He sat one morning in late October in his newly opened store at 36 Savile Row, wearing an aqua blue, three-piece suit that was about 20 decibels louder than his voice, which registered just above a whisper. He’d worked for the last few decades out of a studio in Knightsbridge, and sounded somewhat ambivalent about returning to the street that launched him.

“It’s asleep now, and not because of Covid,” he said. “When I was here earlier with Tommy, it was really buzzing. There was an intelligence — the tailors spoke to each other, and they spoke tailoring. Today, there’s no sense of the needle in these places. They’re just showcases for brands.”

It doesn’t help that five storefronts are now vacant, just enough to make the place seem like it’s in distress. Pre-pandemic rents were high, demand for suits declined and Brexit hurt, too.

“Things were already starting to unravel before Brexit,” said Ozwald Boateng, one of a handful of “new bespoke movement” tailors who opened shops in the 1990s and early 2000s. “All of that international traffic that was coming through London, well, it’s going somewhere else now.”

Tailors with a “sense of the needle” aren’t necessarily in a hurry to open on Savile Row. Ms. Sargent knows the street is her natural milieu, but she gets along well with her current landlord on Brook Street and isn’t expecting a bargain if she moves back to the place where she learned the craft.

“It’s evolution, not revolution, on Savile Row,” she said. “It’s just been really expensive, and I can’t take on the added costs now.”

Some combination of high overhead and poor strategic choices have defeated some boldfaced names in fashion here. Lanvin and Alexander McQueen opened stores on the Row that have since closed. Pillars of the community have folded, too. Kilgour, French &amp; Stanbury, which made the suit Cary Grant wore in “North by Northwest,” was acquired years ago by a Chinese investment company and closed in March, citing “challenging trading conditions.” (A pop-up shop on the Row is planned for December.)  Hardy Amies, which opened in 1945 and designed costumes for Stanley Kubrick’s “2001: A Space Odyssey” as well as frocks for Queen Elizabeth, closed last year.

The space is now occupied by the flagship of Hackett, a company that is a relative whippersnapper at 37 years old. It started elsewhere in London and has dozens of stores around the United Kingdom and Europe.

In other words, it has some trappings of a brand showcase.

Huntsman seems an improbable site for high-tech innovation. The second floor has a bar, a dart board and huge ancient ledgers with handwritten notes in elegant script. They look like props for a film adaptation of a Dickens novel. Actually, they are the in-house accounting books. There are entries for dukes, earls and many pages devoted to Queen Victoria, whose purchases included “2 Striped waistcoats with sleeves” and “5 pairs Western Angolan trousers.”

The robot idea sprang from the ever-churning mind of Pierre Lagrange, a long-haired 58-year-old Belgian hedge fund manager who acquired the company in 2013. Part nerd, part swashbuckling capitalist, Mr. Lagrange rides a Harley and exults during an interview about the pink, wide-wale corduroy jacket he owns. (“Everybody says it’s amazing.”) He’s been pushing Huntsman to expand its audience and offerings, bolstering its website and opening a Huntsman satellite in a Manhattan apartment that once belonged to Tony Bennett.

When Covid shut down retail in March, he brainstormed with a manager and started thinking about physicians who perform remote-controlled surgery. If a robot can work on a kidney, he figured, why not a suit?

“I’ve always been a proponent of using tech in ways that let people focus on what they’re really good at,” he said, “whether that’s a hedge fund or in tailoring.”

The company had six robots built and christened all of them “Mr. Hammick,” a tribute to Colin Hammick, Huntsman’s much-revered and now-deceased head tailor. Five Mr. Hammicks are now in the United States and Asia. They are assembled in places convenient to customers, like their homes, by employees who live in the same country.

To date, the Hammick brigade has yet to produce a finished suit. But even before that proof-of-concept moment arrives, Mr. Lagrange is optimistic. Suits made on the Row for overseas customers take about a year from start to finish, largely because all three fittings require a visit, and those are spaced a few months apart. By relying on Mr. Hammick instead of planes, the whole process will take five months.

“I don’t know how fast we would have gotten here without Covid,” said Mr. Lagrange, of the machines. “Sometimes you need a crisis.”

Some traditionalists here will be put off by what the mother of invention has wrought at Huntsman. Then there’s Mr. Stocks, the agent of the Pollen Estate, who is a fan of any innovation that adds vitality to the Row and keeps its character intact.

“Let’s face it, 10 years ago we’d be sitting here in suits,” he said, after settling into a chair in the spacious tearoom in the rear of J.P. Hackett, where we met for a pre-lockdown interview. “But the world’s moved on and we need to make sure that Savile Row moves with it. Because if you don’t, you’re dead.”

A few years ago, Pollen hired a PR firm for the Row. It has also pushed for improvements to the streetscape. The current priority is keeping tenants afloat. Many did not pay rent during the first lockdown and the estate is now speaking to all tailors about further support during lockdown number two. During the four months stores were open in the summer and fall, discounted rents were paid, and some paid no rent at all.

Plenty of managing directors here give the estate high marks for the way it has dealt with them during the pandemic and for the tenor of negotiations about rents in the near future. Others are less impressed. Life on the Row, they say, has been far too expensive for too long.

“My understanding is that they are now willing to talk and find solutions,” said Mr. Boateng of the Pollen Estate. “That’s good to hear, but given the number of empty stores here, the survival of the street is at stake. Some real, radical rethinking of approach is needed.”

The estate has extra motivation to keep mainstay tenants in situ. With historic preservation in mind, the local government imposed a singular restriction on some properties on the Row: If a space has been zoned for in-store tailoring, it can be rented only to shops with in-store tailors. Pollen couldn’t fill a vacancy with a Zara or a Topshop if it were so inclined.

Which it is not. Mr. Stocks acknowledges that this tailors-only policy hands tactical advantage to some tenants. But it also prevents the five other landlords that own properties on the Row from letting to chain stores that would make the place generic.

This is not merely a hypothetical. Eight years ago, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch opened a kid’s store in an unrestricted retail space. This was especially appalling to many because the building had once been home to Apple Corps, the Beatles’ multimedia company. In 1969, when the band couldn’t figure out where to play the show that became its last, instruments were hauled upstairs and the group played on the roof.

Before Abercrombie opened its doors, a group of dapper protesters, organized by a magazine called The Chap, gathered outside the space holding placards that read, in a nod to John Lennon, “Give Three Piece a Chance.” The store opened anyway and has since closed.

Mr. Stocks is engineering more palatable additions. A bespoke shoemaker, Gaziano &amp; Girling, moved in last year. A coffee shop called the Service opened in July, the first of its kind here. A made-to-measure shop for women, the Deck, debuted last moth.

“And we’d like to add the best leather goods, the best shirts, a watchmaker, male grooming,” he went on. “Make it a sort of bastion of men’s luxury — which it always has been, but in a broader, 21st-century sense.”

All of the Pollen Estate’s space on Savile Row is spoken for, so newcomers will move into the estate’s holdings nearby, on Old Burlington Street and Clifford Street. As it happens, one of Mr. Stocks’ newest tenants opened there in September, and he was eager to show it off.

Thom Sweeney, as the store is called, is a four-story townhouse with a spiffy new barbershop in the basement and two floors of clothing. The top floor has a full bar, leather sofas, a hearth filled with lit candles and a television playing a Sean Connery-era James Bond film.

To Mr. Stocks, this is the new model of hip, immersive retail — one he’d like shoppers to include in their image of Savile Row. The owners of Thom Sweeney, on the other hand, are happy to have a good 20 yards between them and the more famous street.

“We didn’t look at it,” said one of the owners, Thom Whiddett, about Savile Row. “We wouldn’t fit in there. The street has amazing tailors, but we didn’t want to pigeonhole ourselves.”

The idea was to open near enough to the Row to benefit from its prestige without getting saddled with its drawbacks. A number of tailors, on and off the street, lament the intimidation factor that keeps customers away. James Sleater of the nervily named Cad and the Dandy on Savile Row likened shopping on the street to beckoning a sommelier at a Michelin-starred restaurant. It could end up costing you so much you might not be inclined to do it. In a break with tradition, Cad puts prices on its website.

“Even if you can afford an Aston Martin,” Mr. Sleater said, “you want to know how much it’s going to cost you.”

Cad’s fondness for reinvention extends to online fittings. They have gone well enough for Mr. Sleater to call them “another string to our bow.”

Across the street, Ozwald Boateng sat in the office in his store and talked about lining up his first Zoom consultation. The prospect irked him. Last year, he unveiled his debut collection for women in a show at Harlem’s Apollo Theater, which he titled A.I. The name was a feint. The initials stood for “authentic identity.”

“I was really fed up with algorithms running our lives,” he said. “So I flipped the meaning. I was trying to say, ‘Keep your truth, keep your identity.’”

Eight months into the pandemic he’s realized that, like it or not, technology is the only end run for Covid-19 — and perhaps the only way his company can survive.

“The algorithms got me!” he said, laughing, with a hint of resignation. “Even here, the digital world has won.”





No.51 article:
Covid Pushes Real Estate Into the Future

There’s no going back to the old ways. Which technologies could propel the industry forward?

The coronavirus could be the crisis that finally propels the tech-averse real estate industry into the 21st century.

Location matters less, now that the office is the kitchen. Size matters more, now that everyone is at home. And the best way to justify exorbitant prices is no longer the building’s amenity package — it’s peace of mind walking from the lobby to the living room.

These are the touch points for a host of new or newly valuable technologies emerging in the post-Covid housing market, from rent-regulated apartments to luxury condos. They range from robotic furniture that reimagines itself inside our shrinking walls, to contactless apps designed to bring neighbors together. They are futuristic takes on prosaic features, like ultraviolet wands in air ducts, and “Ghostbusters”-inspired blasters to hose down Amazon boxes. Some may be passing fads.

Still, the ones that stick could have long-term implications for a stubbornly analog industry, even as some critics have raised concerns about data collection and privacy. And it remains unclear whether these improvements will reach the workaday housing market, or remain a luxury niche.

Here are some of the products and ideas that could stay with us long after the pandemic.

Transforming furniture is hardly new — consider the folding Murphy bed, patented more than a century ago. But housebound workers, cramped in overpriced studio apartments, might welcome an upgrade that not only saves floor space, but doubles as a tidy Zoom background.

Ori, a robotic furniture company short for “origami” that was founded in 2015, recently launched the pocket office: An almost 7-foot-tall sliding desk that, with the tap of an app, expands from a 30-inch-deep cabinet into a full-size desk with storageand library shelves. When sealed, it’s a sleek TV console with shelving and a Scandinavian aesthetic; when it opens, with the aid of a low-profile track system, it splits down the middle to create an office nook with a retractable desk on one wall and a bookcase and standing-desk setup on the other.

“People are expecting more from their space,” said Hasier Larrea, the company’s founder and chief executive, on a video call from his one-bedroom apartment in Williamsburg. “But square footage is the most expensive thing out there.”

That has always been true in big cities, but work-from-home policies and the uncertain prospect of a safe daily commute, even years after the virus recedes, has been a boon for the company, Mr. Larrea said.

“This is not only in New York, San Francisco, Boston — we’re seeing this from Boise, to Minneapolis, to Houston,” he said, noting that their bookings have “quadrupled”  from last year, without specifying sales, and that clients have purchased the  company’s furniture in over 15 cities, mostly in rental buildings.

ImageBumblebee Spaces creates modular storage and bed frames suspended from the ceiling that can be lowered or stowed away to clear floor space. Credit...Bumblebee SpacesBumblebee Spaces, a San Francisco-based company that creates modular beds and furniture that can be suspended from the ceiling with heavy duty straps to maximize floor space, has also seen growing interest, said Sankarshan Murthy, the chief executive and co-founder. The products also have software that can keep track of the items being stored.

“What changed is that people spend more time at home,” Mr. Murthy said,  and they “realize that traditional architecture is broken.”

For the most part,  the companies do not sell directly to consumers, but to property managers looking to maximize the use, and appeal, of studios, one-bedrooms, and sometimes bigger units. In a multi-unit deal with a property owner,  an Ori assemblage costs between $5,000 to $10,000 per unit. Bumblebee Spaces sells its floating bed and a few storage units together for about $10,000 to $40,000, depending on the installation and product mix.

That could change as the companies ramp up efforts to sell to residents. 

It can be a hefty commitment: Ori’s king-size “cloud bed,” a mechanical bed frame that can be raised into the air like a canopy to reveal a built-in sofa or desk, takes up 78 square feet, weighs about 1,140 pounds, and needs roughly eight-and-a-half-foot ceiling clearance. The retail price hasn’t been set, but for condo buyers, it could range from $10,000 to $20,000 — more than some midsize cars. 

But in markets like Manhattan, where apartments cost an average $1,532 a square foot last quarter, and studios sold for a median price of $495,000, the company is betting the math will pay off.

The most important changes in apartment buildings are likely to be the least appreciated: systems to sanitize surfaces, diffuse viruses and assuage resident fears.

There is an industrywide push to refine and better circulate the air in common areas, elevators and lobbies to reduce the spread of the virus, said Douglas Mass, the president of Cosentini Associates, a building systems engineering firm.

The aim is to raise the ventilation standard to MERV-13, an air-filter rating considered efficient, but not perfect, at capturing airborne viruses. By comparison, your typical window air-conditioner has a MERV-8 rating or lower, and hospitals use so-called HEPA filters above MERV-16. In all cases, most experts agree that there is no substitute for social distancing and face coverings.

Still, the majority of big-city housing stock is too old to support the higher filtration standard, because the thicker filters require more air flow, and only buildings completed in the last 20 years or so can easily make the upgrade, Mr. Mass said. Instead, many buildings are making incremental changes elsewhere, especially in the tight confines of elevators.

Thyssenkrupp Elevator, one of the largest elevator manufacturers, has begun installing air systems that pull in purified air straight from the elevator shaft. In another, the air is treated with ultraviolet light (passengers are not exposed) and hydrogen peroxide that neutralize bacteria, mold and viruses. One model introduces ionized particles into the cab to disinfect the air. The products range from $3,500 to $4,000 per elevator. 

They have devised a smartphone app that lets users call an elevator without pressing a call button, and also sell a low-tech alternative: “toe to go,” a foot pedal in lieu of buttons at the base of the elevator.

“These were not on the radar whatsoever,” said Jon Clarine, the company’s head of digital services, noting that Covid accelerated the release of several products. But the speed at which some of these technologies were deployed demands more scrutiny, said William P. Bahnfleth, a professor of architectural engineering at Pennsylvania State University, and chair of the epidemic task force at the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers.

“It sounds more like marketing to me than science,” he said of some claims about ionization and other products. “The question is, ‘How much risk is there, and how much do these mitigate it?’”

They are nevertheless in demand. Adam Berenson, the vice president of Dermer Management, a property management company, just installed a similar ultraviolet-light system for $5,000 in the elevator of a prewar co-op in SoHo. Many of the loft apartments open directly to the elevator, and residents were concerned with lobby air seeping into their space.

“I don’t think Covid is going away anytime soon,” he said. “And I also don’t believe that this is going to be the last one.”

And don’t be surprised to see building staff donning what look like the proton packs from “Ghostbusters.” More commonly seen in hospital settings, building managers are beginning to use electrostatic sprayers, a battery-operated pack and fogger that positively charges the particles of a liquid disinfectant to coat surfaces more evenly.

Alex Elkin, the owner of Eastbound Construction based in TriBeCa, has begun using the foggers in high-traffic areas like package rooms, gyms and bike storage. It’s an incremental part of the new normal, he said, but he has reservations. Without regular maintenance or application, many of these additions are ineffective, he said, and even the best regimens should not instill absolute confidence.

Without proper precautions, he said, “the reality is none of these things is going to protect you if you’re sitting two feet away from someone.”

Developers have used deluxe amenities to help justify shrinking apartments and record prices in recent years, and now millions of square feet of residential spas, lounges and playrooms are collecting dust, because of state restrictions or resident trepidation.

“Post-pandemic, everything has changed,” said Rebeca Park, the lifestyle director with Extell, a prolific condo developer in New York.

At One Manhattan Square, an 815-unit skyscraper on the Lower East Side that lured buyers with over 100,000 square feet of amenities, Extell has begun using a reservations app to regulate timed visits to spaces like the private bowling alley, basketball and squash courts. (The hammam, whirlpool and several other perks remain closed, because of state restrictions.)

Several property managers said they have adopted similar apps to manage their communal spaces, but ongoing limitations on capacity could mean a shift in the types of perks that developers and residents prefer in a post-Covid world.

One likely beneficiary is touchless technology that uses key fobs or smartphones to unlock doors. In the third quarter, sales at Latch, the touchless door operating company, were 50 percent higher than the same time last year, said Luke Schoenfelder, the founder and chief executive.

“We’ve surpassed our expectations,” he said, noting that the company booked $100 million in sales last year, and is on track to exceed that. A new partnership with Google’s Nest thermostat will also allow residents or landlords to remotely change the temperature or unlock doors with the same app.

At the American Copper Buildings, a luxury rental project on the East Side of Manhattan completed in 2017, several tech-forward amenities, like keyless apartment entry and destination dispatch  — in which the elevator is summoned from a panel outside of the car — could become more commonplace, said Marc Kotler, a senior vice president at FirstService Residential, which manages the building. 

The virus has also reinforced the idea that some services should not be considered amenities, but utilities that are essential. Rachel Fee, the executive director of the New York Housing Conference, a housing policy and advocacy nonprofit, will ask the city to underwrite the cost of Wi-Fi in new affordable housing projects and public housing renovations.

“Think back to the spring, to everyone who needed access to unemployment benefits, and to remote learning,” she said.

Many of these new features will bring big data to bear on a typically pen-and-paper industry.

RXR Realty, a large development and management company, has created the RXO app, a concierge service and community forum for its residents that can be used to pay rent, request maintenance, book amenities, and chat with staff, among other things.

It was used to great effect at Harbor Landing, a luxury rental in Glen Cove, Long Island, where neighbors received an alert to sing happy birthday to a young boy having a socially distanced backyard gathering. It can also monitor the number of people registered to enter the gym, for instance, and restrict access to those who haven’t made reservations.

There are more practical applications for the industry. Scott Rechler, the chief executive of the firm, said that, based on dozens of criteria — how often you park your car, or check your mail, or receive guests — it can help predict, with 80 percent accuracy so far, whether you will renew your lease. The program is still in development, but is being tested in three rental buildings, with plans for a broader rollout next year.

“We’d been sort of flying blind as an industry for so long,” Mr. Rechler said, but this kind of data collection, which he said is anonymized, could cut costs and help anticipate residents’ needs.

Another program, called “computer vision,” that the company plans to launch this month, will use new technology to determine whether people observed on surveillance are wearing masks and social distancing in common areas, to help alert the staff about noncompliance. So far, it’s being tested in the company’s commercial properties.  

Some worry that similar tech can overstep privacy boundaries, especially as it moves into lower-income developments. Last year, three congresswomen, including Yvette Clarke representing parts of central and south Brooklyn, proposed legislation that would ban the use of facial and biometric identification technology in public housing.

“I am in full support of innovative technologies, but we must work to ensure the proper research and testing goes behind it,” Ms. Clarke said in a statement. “We need to be very mindful of under-researched technology that can be harmful for vulnerable communities.”





No.52 article:
‘Yogurt Ladies’ of South Korea Deliver More Than Dairy

SEOUL, South Korea — An hour before dawn, Kang Hye-jeong was already ​out cruising on her battery-run mobile refrigerator, briskly moving through alleys in Cheongdam-dong, a district of southern Seoul.

She parked her refrigerator and darted among apartments and office buildings, door to door and desk to desk, punching in building entry codes with ease as if she were another family member or colleague.

But to her loyal customers, Ms. Kang is simply known as a “yakult ajumma.”

Dressed in beige uniforms and quick with smiles and greetings, yakult ajummas have been fixtures in South Korea for decades. They sell yakult — a sweet, drinkable yogurt invented in Japan in the 1930s — from refrigerated carts. In many Korean communities, they have evolved from door-to-door saleswomen to surrogate mothers, daughters and aunts.

Ajumma is a Korean word often used affectionately to describe middle-aged women with children.

“I deliver yogurt but also cheerfulness and energy,” said Ms. Kang, 47, a yakult ajumma since 2012, who knows her customers’ orders by heart. “People, especially the elderly, feel good to see a cheerful and hardworking woman, and some of them eventually start buying from me.”

Ms. Kang was flagged down by a ​neighbor who bought yogurt​ but also gave her some of his rice cake​. An old janitor ​greeted ​her warmly and gave her a cup of coffee in the chilly morning.

“​She is always on time, with her smile and greeting,” said Lee Hae-sook, a wine-shop owner. “​I buy ​yogurt ​from her and she helps me start my morning feeling good​. It’s a win-win deal​ for both of us​.”

Yakult ajummas have a long history in Korea.

In the early 1970s, the government provided farm subsidies to promote the country’s livestock industry. The growing cow business created a milk surplus because Koreans at the time had little appetite for dairy products. So Korea Yakult, in a joint venture with Yakult Honsha of Japan, introduced a sweet probiotic drink made from fermented milk, advertising the health benefits of “yusangyun,” or lactic acid bacteria, long before probiotic drinks became a part of the health food vernacular.

Yakult Honsha had already been using a network of women for home delivery in Japan, and the company’s Korean counterpart took to the idea. In 1971, a few dozen women looking for jobs to supplement their household income became the nation’s first yakult ajummas.

The work was hard. Lacking cold storage for fresh drinks, the women had to pull carts filled with ice to sell the yakult.

And buyers didn’t come readily. At first, the women were accused of selling “germs.”

The company launched an aggressive “good-for-​gut ​health” ad campaign. Now there are customers in hillside shantytowns and gleaming apartment buildings, ​factories and Parliament.

There are roughly 11,000 yakult ajummas in South Korea, the nation’s largest female-only, home-delivery sales network. Half of them can be seen cruising around Seoul, riding their sleek mobile refrigerators called CoCos, short for “cold and cool.”

Yakult ajummas have been credited with helping to establish South Korea’s taste for dairy, and are so ubiquitous they have become minor pop culture celebrities. Their image has given rise to a song, and K-pop stars have even ​tried to do ​the job for a day.

Jeon Deuk-soon, 49, started working in Bongcheon-dong, a district in southwestern Seoul, as a yakult ajumma 17 years ago. The hilly neighborhood dotted with car-repair shops​ and sewing factories has been her beat ever since.

Ms. Jeon first carried her yakult in a push-and-pull ​trolley packed with blocks of ice to keep her drinks cool. When an alley got too narrow or steep, or when she faced steps, she switched to an insulated cooler bag slung over her shoulder.

“Imagine how I felt when I ​​faced a three-block stretch of uphill climb,” Ms. Jeon said. “But I have always been constant, walking my streets whether it sweltered, snowed or rained.”

In 2015, as the proliferation of refrigerated trucks and convenience stores brought stiff competition to the market, Korea Yakult introduced the CoCo. The vehicle, which looks like a cross between a Segway and a golf cart, ​has helped rejuvenate sales by allowing the women to zoom up to five miles an hour​ on busy streets. Its 220-liter fridge carries cheese, cold-brew, fresh eggs and meat and even meal kits.

The yakult ajummas are part of the wave of women who joined the work force in large numbers in the 1970s. Often these women were driven by a fierce desire to finance their children’s education to elevate their family’s status.

They found work as street vendors, restaurant workers or whatever job was available outside their homes. In doing so, they were sometimes stereotyped as aggressive — willing, for example, to shove their way through crowds to find seats on the bus or subway after an exhausting day of work.

Ajummas were flouting traditional gender roles that expected women to be shy and focusing mainly on household work. And so they came to be nicknamed “a third sex.”

Today’s yakult ajummas are mostly in their 40s. They tend to work in the same neighborhood for their entire career, staying in the job for an average of 12.5 years. The job remains popular among women raising children who are attracted to the flexible hours and commission-based pay.

“When I started ​my gig, I had my grade-school daughter tag along on my​ round on Saturdays when she didn’t go to school,” Ms. Kang said.

Ms. Jeon, in Bongcheon-dong, said that she started the job after her husband’s bottled-water business failed​, and that she has never taken more than a week off at a time. She said her income made selling yakult helped her raise two sons.

Over time, most yakult ajummas become cherished for more than their tiny grocery store on wheels.

Neighborhood women running late have called on them for help with child care and school bus pickups. ​They have been known to run errands and watch pets. And they are especially appreciated by their older customers.

“Old clients stop me to share all kinds of personal stories when I visit them,” Ms. Kang said. “I get impatient because I still have my route​ to cover. But I remember my own mom and listen to them​, sometimes crying with them​. ​In this modern world, they lack someone to talk to​.”

Adult children living in distant cities will sometimes arrange for yakult​ ajummas to check on their aging parents and report back after making their delivery. In ​community ​programs coordinated with local governments, yakult​ ajummas bring free milk and yogurt and check on 30,000 seniors who live alone, often in semi-underground urban homes.

Such intimacy is part of what has kept the profession thriving in South Korea for half a century.

“I have raised six stepchildren​ and I don’t even know where they live now,” said Yang Hae-in, 91, who is one of Ms. Jeon’s customers. Ms. Jeon comes to see her every day, Ms. Yang said. The two held hands during a recent visit.

“She is like a daughter to me.”





No.53 article:
As a G.O.P. Playbook on Voter Fraud Falls Flat, Some Ask: What’s Next?

In dozens of lawsuits, Republicans tried to make voting and counting votes harder. After a record turnout and a Democratic presidential win, some wonder if that’s the party’s best strategy.

WASHINGTON — It was an election where Republican charges of fictitious voter fraud took center stage before, during and after the count, backed by a barrage of lawsuits intent on making it harder to cast or tally votes.

Yet by its end, Americans had cast ballots at a rate not seen in a century. A Democrat was elected president. And Republicans drew surprising support from Black and Latino voters — the very groups the party historically targeted with restrictive voting laws in state after state.

That a strategy Republicans long relied on largely fell flat, experts say, can be explained by the partisan divisions that drove record turnout, by self-inflicted wounds on the part of President Trump and by a pandemic that turned a gradual trend toward voting early — by mail or in person — into a stampede.

Some of those factors may be one-offs. But aspects of this election — especially the shift from Election Day voting to mail ballots, and the party’s surprising gains with some racial groups — raise questions of whether the Republican strategy of voter restrictions served the party’s interests as it once did. Also unclear is whether the changes in how people voted this year, in the middle of a pandemic, reflect long-term changes pointing to higher turnouts or factors unique to the 2020 vote. 

“Stereotypes die hard, and this Republican idea that if more people vote it benefits Democrats was at some level more true in the past,” said Norman Ornstein, a scholar of American politics and democracy at the conservative-leaning American Enterprise Institute. “It was certainly true when Republicans believed that white working-class voters were Democrats. But it’s a ridiculous stereotype now.”

Mr. Ornstein is a relentless critic of Mr. Trump and the Republican Party’s increasingly authoritarian bent. And nobody expects party leaders to quickly abandon a strategy that has served its interests from North Carolina to Texas to North Dakota. Republicans have argued that measures like voter identification laws, purges of voter rolls and limits on mail ballots are necessary to combat fraud, but ballot fraud is so rare that the rules often accomplish little more than suppress legal turnout. Even so, such strategies have long been part of American politics and are not going away.

“As long as the Republican Party is going to depend on whiter, older and more rural electorate,” said Richard L. Hasen, an election law expert at the University of California, Irvine, “they’re going to make it harder for some people to register and vote.” Assertions of fraud, he said, fire up loyalists, increase political contributions and delegitimize Democratic victories.

“Already,” Dr. Hasen said, “Biden is going to come into office with millions of people believing falsely that he cheated his way into the presidency.”

But the election also highlighted how trying to place limits on casting a ballot  might actually motivate voters to turn out. And even ignoring the toxic effects on democracy, some experts say, this was an election in which the results suggested that the Republican voting playbook may no longer be as effective as before.

Republicans in Texas outperformed expectations this fall, gaining inroads with Latino voters who are among those hit hardest by the state’s tough voting restrictions, which include a strict voter ID law that is geared to Republican-friendly constituencies and severely limited absentee balloting options. That cast doubt on the idea that Republican success comes from making it harder for Democrats to vote, said Joe Straus, the Republican speaker of the State House of Representatives until 2019.

That said, he added, the national party’s emphasis on discouraging voters in 2020 does not bode well for efforts to broaden its appeal. “That is not a good look,” he said. “Republicans ought to be the party that is encouraging people to vote and winning elections on ideas.”

Mr. Trump’s fact-challenged crusade against voting by mail, which he variously labeled “a scam,” “corrupt” and “dangerous,” “was a real head-scratcher to me,” Mr. Straus said. “Many Republicans, including myself, benefited from mail-in voting over the years.” 

Nationally, Republicans have embraced absentee voting more than Democrats have. (And Mr. Trump himself has frequently voted absentee, including in this year’s Florida primary). This year, however, Republicans followed Mr. Trump’s lead in the general election and shied in droves from voting by mail.

How many of them turned up at the polls later  is open to debate.

“I think Trump’s discouraging mail-in balloting during the campaign may well have cost him the election,” Mr. Hasen said.

Beyond that, the president’s fearmongering spurred a flood of news reports that debunked his claims while teaching Democrats who did cast mail votes how to do it correctly.

In Michigan, Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson, a Democrat, said a presidential tweet in May that falsely accused her of promoting absentee-ballot fraud turned into “a multi-front education effort from all sectors on how to vote absentee and why it’s reliable.”

“We ultimately were grateful even for negative attention,” she said.

Other analysts suggest that the right’s courtroom campaign to constrain voting hindered Republicans as much as it helped.

The most striking legal victory for Republicans came in Florida, where a federal appeals court upheld the Legislature’s requirement that former felons pay fines and court costs to regain the right to vote. The ruling, undermining a referendum overwhelmingly passed by Florida voters, effectively barred hundreds of thousands of Floridians with criminal records from registering to cast ballots.

Even that ruling, though, may have had a boomerang effect. Some analysts suggested that the publicity surrounding lawsuits and other Republican voter-security moves, like the party’s pledge to deploy 50,000 poll watchers in battleground states, actually worked in favor of Mr. Trump’s opponents.

“One effect the pre-election litigation and rhetoric did have was motivating citizens to vote exceptionally early,” said Barry Burden, who directs the Elections Research Center at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 

A key question is whether early voting will change American voters — and voting laws — in coming elections. The coronavirus pandemic turbocharged a shift away from Election Day voting to pre-election balloting, both in person and by mail.

According to the United States Elections Project, 47.2 million Americans voted early in the 2016 general election, roughly half by mail and half in person. This year that rocketed to 101.4 million — 65.5 million mail ballots and 35.9 million in-person votes.

“The data shows in other states that when voters begin using the mail and voting early, they embrace the convenience,” Ms. Benson said. “We’ll certainly see in future elections the majority of citizens voting early. What’s unknown is just how high that proportion will be.”

In many states, at least, voting by mail proved a positive for Democrats whose supporters had often faced hurdles like long lines at polling places. In suburban Atlanta, Carolyn Bourdeaux won a race for a previously Republican House seat by 10,000 votes in a state with a history of making in-person voting difficult.

“We had to fight for every vote,” she said. Voting by mail proved crucial: In 2018, when she lost a race for the same seat by fewer than 500 votes, one third of all mail ballots in the state that were thrown out for problems like mismatched signatures and missing addresses came from Gwinnett County, in her House district.

Ms. Bourdeaux later led lawsuits that simplified voting absentee, standardized verification rules and allowed voters to correct mistakes. This fall, only 0.1 percent of Gwinnett County mail ballots were rejected. In 2018, according to lawsuits at the time, the county’s rejection rate was about six percent.

Legal efforts to restrict mail balloting gained little traction this fall, but that could be temporary. Speaking on a podcast this past week, the former Republican governor of Wisconsin, Scott Walker, said falsely that all major industrialized nations have “gotten rid of or don’t have ballots by mail.” Citing unspecified “shenanigans” in mail ballots this fall, he called for the United States to outlaw absentee voting in all but limited circumstances.

David Wasserman, an analyst of the House of Representatives for the Cook Political Report, questioned whether many Republican tactics denounced by voting-rights experts as suppression affected many votes this year. Nor was he certain that misfires like Mr. Trump’s assault on voting by mail meant much in the end.

Some Texans were outraged by a court ruling limiting each county to a single location to drop off absentee ballots — a decision that gave millions of Houston voters one drop box in a county the size of Delaware. But voters still could mail ballots to election offices, he noted.

“There are examples of places where Republicans have impeded voters’ ability to cast ballots,” he said. “But a dispassionate reading of what transpired last week was that this was a fairly smoothly run election in which voters had, in many cases, very short lines to cast ballots and many opportunities to vote by mail.”

Some on the right see Republican gains with Black and Latino voters as evidence that the Republican message on fraud resonates more than voting rights advocates admit.

In New Mexico’s Second Congressional District, “a Trump Republican retook the seat with a platform pushing voter integrity,” said Logan Churchwell, a spokesman for the Public Interest Legal Foundation, a conservative group focused on illegal voting. In Starr County, Texas, a poor, Hispanic area near the border with Mexico where authorities have campaigned against election irregularities, “Trump nearly split the vote in a county where the G.O.P. doesn’t really exist.”

And some Republicans even suggested that the party might do better competing for Democratic-leaning voters than trying to discourage them.

“We saw with Joe Biden’s nomination that African-Americans are not exactly lefties, and we saw with the Latino vote in South Florida that an argument against socialism can be very persuasive,” said Whit Ayres, a Republican campaign strategist. “So there are avenues to expand the Republican coalition if we are savvy enough to take advantage of them.”

He added: “That’s the part I don’t know. A lot of that is going to depend on how much of a sway Donald Trump retains over the Republican Party when he is no longer president.”





No.54 article:
In Berlin, Mysterious Dwellings Hidden Amid the Trees

A DECADE AGO, when I lived in Berlin, I would often detour from my daily run through Tiergarten, the city’s appealingly untended park, to visit certain buildings I felt drawn to for reasons I couldn’t name. These were largely (though not exclusively) midcentury dwellings — some neglected, others wildly overgrown — on or in the park that seemed to reify my sense of the city’s layered strangeness, of its mystery and opportunity for discovery. Even more than other European cities, Berlin is marked by the remains of all kinds of ideologies past, from the TV Tower in the vast main square, Alexanderplatz, a retro-future icon erected in the late 1960s by the East German government in a now poignant display of might, to the buildings the Nazis left behind. (Hitler never did fully realize his vision of a rebuilt Berlin as the capital of “Germania,” but the kind of neo-Classical bombast he had in mind is evident in the Olympic Stadium, which he commissioned shortly after he took power in 1933 and was completed in time for the 1936 Summer Games, and the limestone Tempelhof Airport terminal, which was constructed between 1936 and 1941 and, following the war, became a site of the airlift that sustained the city with food and supplies when Stalin blocked access to West Berlin.) All architecture conveys a set of narratives, histories and values for how best to live, and today’s Berlin, a jumble of tragedy and utopian ambitions past — and, these days, encroaching foreign investment — can feel like an especially dark choose-your-own-adventure story.

It has always been the Modernist buildings in the city’s former West that have fascinated and even moved me, from Le Corbusier’s Unité d’Habitation (an apartment building now known as Corbusierhaus) to the residential complex of Hansaviertel, just north of the park, which includes apartment towers designed by Walter Gropius, Alvar Aalto, Oscar Niemeyer and others. Both were the result of the International Building Exhibition’s Interbau 57, for which prominent architects of the era were invited to design residential housing in Berlin, just over a decade after the end of World War II. This, of course, was long before the money and glamour arrived, in those years of eerie stasis when West Berlin was a small enclave marooned within East Germany; the resulting buildings — inexpensive, socially attuned, beautifully rendered — were created in a burst of postwar idealism, helping to fill in the vast gaps in the cityscape and to house displaced people. Designed in keeping with the very principles Hitler had rejected, many of them by the visionary thinkers who fled the Nazis in the 1930s — including the former Bauhaus directors Gropius and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe — they communicate something powerful about the city’s vicissitudes, the troubling capriciousness of history.

Following reunification in 1990, Modernist residential buildings fell out of fashion in a rush to remodel and preserve prewar buildings in the city’s former East. Some of them began to seem a bit forlorn, or maybe just sleepy, in a freshly awakened city. (Another setback for Modernist architecture in Berlin was the decision, in 2003, to demolish the asbestos-filled Palace of the Republic, a bronze-windowed icon of ’70s architecture, and replace it with a replica of the Baroque-era Berlin Palace.) But by the mid-aughts, members of Berlin’s creative class began to settle in and refurbish these postwar buildings. Among them was Peter Heimer, a contemporary-art consultant and dealer who, in 2011, bought a home in the visionary German architect and design engineer Frei Otto’s little-known Ökohaus (eco-house) development — a multistory, greenery-covered townhouse complex located at the southern edge of Tiergarten, in an area historically associated with embassies, not experimental architecture. Heimer, 53, had the graciousness to accommodate a curious stranger when I wrote to him last fall and invited myself over to tour his home after I saw an image of it on a mutual friend’s Instagram. What, I wondered, was it like to live in this kind of design experiment? Could Otto’s Ökohäuser be one of ecotopian architecture’s early success stories?

In Berlin, the Ökohaus project remains something of an open secret. Completed in 1992, on land where the Vatican embassy once stood, the dwellings yield for much of the year to ruffled vines, vanishing completely from the casual onlooker — an almost absurdly lush, jungly break in the austere, ambassadorial streetscape. Their undoneness struck me as too deliberate to be a squat — the inhabited derelict buildings that were once a familiar sight in Berlin — but the varied exteriors were messy enough to suggest some kind of cooperative, countercultural living exercise. Through the overgrowth, one can see a hodgepodge of decontextualized styles and references — Cape Cod-style facades here, 1980s po-mo there; a lot of glass and wood and concrete, including futuristic-looking, glassed-in staircases snaking through the foliage; grass-covered roofs and concrete decks with metal fences trailing plants faintly reminiscent of Japan’s traditional hanging gardens. I could imagine Hansel or Gretel emerging from the green to open the gate. It was one of Berlin’s last remaining mysteries in a vast city that by then felt thoroughly discovered.

TO LIVE WELL in the city, more conscientiously, and more closely with nature: This has long been a preoccupation for postwar architects, one that Otto had thought much about by the time his project was commissioned for the second International Building Exhibition, Interbau 87, to be built on what was then an undesirable part of West Berlin in the shadow of the wall. (He had originally developed the concept three decades earlier, in a taller edition that was never built, for a site near New York’s Central Park; for much of his adult life, he lived with his wife and five children in a free-standing glass-and-wood Ökohaus of his own that he built in 1969 next to his atelier, in Warmbronn, in Germany’s southwest.) Raised near the Saxon city of Chemnitz in a family of artists and idealists — his mother named him the German word for “free,” her life’s guiding principle — Otto’s architectural studies were interrupted by the Nazi war machine, and seeing Germany in flames from his Luftwaffe plane inspired him to imagine a new kind of architecture that would be transparent, democratic, nonhierarchical and free. In a French P.O.W. camp, he also saw a practical need for temporary structures that could be improvised and flexible, as well as built simply and inexpensively: He understood the ephemeral nature of life, of the city, of nature, and was dismissive of monumental architecture, which he likened to gravestones.

Partly because Otto’s practice was often theoretical or collaborative — he worked with Shigeru Ban on the Japanese Pavilion in Hannover, Germany, at Expo 2000 and is best known for his lightweight cable-net and membrane constructions, including the roof of Behnisch &amp; Partners’s 1972 Munich Olympic complex, its gleaming, tentlike canopy echoing the topography of the nearby mountains — he never became a household name, even after he won the Pritzker Prize in 2015, which was announced posthumously. And yet his influence is inarguable: By converting the destruction and horror of the 20th century into principles that continue to shape architecture today, he brought warmth and light to high-modernist ideals — for the engineering for Mies’s Neue Nationalgalerie in the 1960s, Otto suggested eliminating many of the internal pillars — and was inspired by structures found in the natural world such as crab shells, bubbles, spider webs or, in the case of the Ökohaus, trees. Norman Foster and Zaha Hadid have credited him as an inspiration, and one detects offshoots of his ideals in the work of younger architects like Sou Fujimoto and Neri Oxman. In contrast to the flamboyant postmodern statements made by many of his peers, Otto had a self-effacing, environmentally attuned approach that feels almost radically foresighted.

Even now, the Ökohaus concept sounds quixotic, even fanciful. Preserving the site’s mature chestnut tree (as well as gnarled wrought-iron fences and a bit of stone rubble, traces of the embassy that once occupied it), Otto designed three concrete, treelike skeletons, each composed of several trunklike columns with platform branches. Within this infrastructure, prospective owners would customize and build their own “nests,” putting into practice an idea — that everyone should have the freedom to create his or her own home environment — Otto shared with the late Yona Friedman, the Hungarian-French architect-philosopher who likewise questioned the role of the architect in society in his theoretical projects, which emphasized individual choice. Making these ideals (literally) concrete wasn’t logistically easy — there were a score of original owners, many of them architects and intellectuals themselves — but the project was a success, resulting in the complex’s characteristic patchwork of styles and materials. The third “tree,” designated for rentable social housing and owned by the city (it was sold off to a private investor shortly before Heimer bought into the complex), featured small townhouse-like apartments designed by Otto himself, who stacked small two-story residences, each featuring double-decker glass winter gardens, on the branches. (In total, there are 26 homes in the complex; each is roughly 1,400 square feet, with additional outdoor space in the form of private yards or hanging gardens for the upper units.) “At first, I said, ‘Oh, it looks like a kindergarten,’” jokes Heimer, who moved to Berlin in 1988 for architecture school and has witnessed the city’s dramatic shifts in fate. “And then I thought, ‘OK, this is the challenge.’ It’s about living with nature in the city. And in the end, it’s more about ethics, not aesthetics.”

THE SURPRISE, THEN, is just how beautiful this approach can be. In restoring the home (with the help of the architect Pierre Jorge Gonzalez, of the Berlin-based firm Gonzalez Haase), Heimer preserved Otto’s arrangement of rooms; most of the materials, which include oak, concrete and the kind of industrial white ceramic tile found in commercial kitchens and public swimming pools, are original. The lighting — dimmable halogen bulbs mounted on solid brass strips that run the length of the ceilings, which range in height from 9 to 11 feet — was upgraded for Heimer’s art collection: downstairs, a massive 1995 rubbing by the American artist Matt Mullican in bright primary colors; upstairs, a disc painting by the Danish artist Poul Gernes from the late 1960s. Just as Otto favored the juxtaposition of sunlight and shadows, Heimer gravitates toward the compelling contrast of pale tones and dark, warm textures. The dining-room floor and the staircase are lacquered black, setting off the white walls and vintage Berber rugs. A rustic dining table made of two glowing pieces of a single oak by Katja Buchholz, a German sustainable-furniture designer, is surrounded by cantilevered angular powder-coated aluminum chairs that were realized for Heimer by the Berlin-based Jerszy Seymour. The home flows so organically that it seems larger than it is: Downstairs is the open kitchen, winter garden and dining room; upstairs, Heimer’s spacious study occupies the space that was originally the main bedroom. Gonzalez redesigned an open space as a dressing area with built-in closets, adding a wall that separates it from the upstairs winter garden, where Heimer’s partner, the actor Christoph Glaubacker, grows Swiss chard, kohlrabi and tomatoes. Only in the upstairs bath, looking at the floor’s tile grid — which Heimer slightly reworked, inspired by the kind of grid systems utilized by the 1960s Italian architectural firm Superstudio, whose anti-consumerist ethos dovetailed with Otto’s beliefs — do I realize that the home’s footprint is a parallelogram: The rooms have no right angles. This was something of a headache for the tile setter, Heimer explains, as well as for Buchholz, who made the bookshelves in Heimer’s study, but it has the effect of eliminating the boxy feeling common to many Modernist dwellings; the home is clean-lined and bright but retains its nestlike Gemütlichkeit.

Over Kaffee und Kuchen in the downstairs winter garden, which he has filled with plants (a sculpturelike monstera, the delicate filigree of an asparagus fern) and furnished with red vintage chairs by the Japanese designer Kazuhide Takahama and a corn-yellow daybed he designed — a nod to interior color schemes favored by Frank Lloyd Wright, a key influence of Otto’s — Heimer calls my attention to the room’s exposures. Using a sundial-like instrument of his own design, Otto was able to precisely measure the movement of the sun in winter and summer and then orient the windows and rooms accordingly, so that each home would have a bright side and a shaded side, minimizing energy costs. The winter garden windows open electronically (also per Otto’s design) and look out onto verdant thatches of privacy-preserving bamboo and medlar; from his desk, Heimer faces the massive 90-year-old chestnut tree, its leaves blushing madly with fall color. “I respect nature much more, and the simple idea that you have to give things time to let them grow and to care for them every day,” says Heimer; before moving into the Ökohaus, he lived in an Altbau (pre-Modernist) apartment in Charlottenburg filled with meringue-like period plasterwork. In addition to the winter gardens, there’s a small grassy area where Heimer’s 14-year-old Vizsla, Ludwig (named after Mies), likes to lounge, as well as a small patio just big enough for a low-slung vintage concrete Loop chair by the Swiss designer Willy Guhl, who, like Otto, found liberation in doing more with less.

So, too, has living in the complex nurtured Heimer’s sense of community. As he tells it, the 70 percent or so of the original owners who remain, many of them now in their 70s, are esteemed by the newcomers for their role in maintaining Otto’s project. All are united by the architect’s larger ideals, both ecological and social: the belief that a fabulous life in the city can be low-impact; that individual freedom can blossom within a collective. As the forces of gentrification make urban life all the more tenuous for so many of us — one wonders what Otto would have made of Berlin’s increasingly Darwinist real-estate market, which has been pushing out the very people and ways of life that make a city thrive — this democratic mentality feels lamentably remote. The Ökohaus isn’t just an ecotopian fairy tale; it’s a model of flexibility and optimism, conceived in an era when we lived with less fear of the unknown and of each other, a time when we were still game and were open to ideas that spoke to more than the bottom line, back before we lost our belief in the possibility — via beautiful, innovative design — of a better common future.





No.55 article:
Democracy Worked This Year. But It Is Under Threat.





No.56 article:
It Took a Century to Open a Mosque in Athens. Then Came the Pandemic.

The first purpose-built Muslim place of worship in the Greek capital since the Ottoman occupation arrived after decades of delay — just in time for a second coronavirus surge.

ATHENS — The mosque that took more than a century to open, surviving legal, political and financial challenges, has closed in less than a week, a temporary victim of the coronavirus pandemic.

Athens, the Greek capital, had not had a dedicated, purpose-built Muslim place of worship since the expulsion of Ottoman forces in 1833, a gap that officials have long sought to fill. The first act of Parliament aimed at opening a mosque came in 1890, an effort that intensified in recent decades as the Muslim community has grown, now praying in dozens of unpermitted, makeshift venues like basements, garages and parking lots.

In the face of objections from the powerful Orthodox Church, and from nationalists who associate Islam with foreign occupation, plans repeatedly came to nothing over the years, leaving Athens as virtually the only European Union capital without a purpose-built place of worship for Muslims.

But in 2006 Parliament approved construction of a fully state-funded, state-run mosque in Athens — the only such arrangement in the European Union, Greek officials say. The opening, initially scheduled for 2010, finally arrived early this month after the project surmounted a mountain of red tape and legal challenges.

With coronavirus spiking, though, restrictions immediately limited a building designed for around 350 worshipers to only 13 at a time. Then, the day after the mosque’s first Friday Prayer, Greece returned to a national lockdown, forcing it to shut completely for now.

The closing heightened the bittersweet feelings many Muslims already had about the state-funded mosque — a squat off-white building, conspicuously free of minarets, set on a sprawling former naval base in an industrial district near downtown Athens. Its 4.2-acre grounds include a park with a fountain and a playground.

“My feelings are split in two,” Mohammed Zaki, the mosque’s 55-year-old imam, said in the courtyard before an early-afternoon call to prayer on the day the new lockdown was announced. “On the one hand I feel incredible relief and happiness — finally we have a mosque we can pray in.”

But his joy, he said, was tempered both by the Covid-related restrictions and the fact that dozens of makeshift mosques in the capital were now likely to close.

“It’s a huge problem,” Mr. Zaki said. “We are not 10 or 20 people,” he said, referring to the roughly 200,000 Muslims from countries including Pakistan, Syria, Bangladesh and Afghanistan who live in Athens. “Where will all these people go?”

“I hurt for those who come to pray and are turned away,” he added.

Around 70 venues operate as unofficial prayer sites, many without fire-safety certificates. Though 10 of those venues have secured permits to continue operating, the remainder must either obtain permits or close, the government says.

Among those now permitted is the Greek-Arab Educational and Cultural Center, which opened in 2007 in a former textiles factory in a southern suburb with funding from a Saudi businessman.

The Greek government considers the new Athens mosque to be a pioneering project.

“It’s a very sensitive experiment as we’re trying to make sure that all Muslims have a say in the running of the mosque without any countries getting involved,” said George Kalantzis, the general secretary of the Education and Religious Affairs Ministry.

The aim was to have the mosque under state control, Mr. Kalantzis said, adding that a site overseen by the state was less likely to become a breeding ground for radicalism.

Some Muslims say the new mosque signals a welcome shift in Greek attitudes.

Muhammad Shabir Dhama, a 60-year-old restaurant owner from Pakistan, was positively beaming when interviewed on the mosque’s grounds on the day the lockdown was announced.

“I have no words,” he said, wearing prayer robes, a face mask and protective shoe coverings. “I’d like to say a big thank you to the Greek government and to everyone who helped make this happen.”

“Things have changed,” added Ehab El Sayed, who sits on the mosque’s managing board. “Greeks didn’t know what Islam was. They used to equate it with extremism and fanaticism. They’ve realized that Islam is another strong, large religion, like Judaism and Christianity.”

Not all Athens Muslims are satisfied, however.

The head of the Muslim Association of Greece, Naim Elghandour, said the mosque’s small size and architecture are an affront. “It looks like a warehouse or an oversized kiosk,” he said. He also took issue with lettering on the building saying “Education and Religious Affairs Ministry.”

“They’re saying, ‘Muslim, you’re not equal,’ showing them it’s controlled by the state,” he said.

Mr. Elghandour had run a large unofficial mosque in the nearby port of Piraeus for decades, which was among those that closed recently. He said shutting such venues could mean potential radicalism went unchecked. “It dangerous to close down mosques that are monitored by police as people will gather to pray in other areas.”

Dunja Mijatovic, the commissioner for human rights at the Council of Europe, a body that seeks to safeguard rights across the continent, welcomed the mosque’s opening.

“Moves like this are not only important signs of the respect of religious minorities, but also significant contributions to more inclusive societies,” Ms. Mijatovic said. “Building bridges is much needed today as extremism and attacks against freedom of thought, conscience and religion are unfortunately on the rise in Europe.”

Opposition to the mosque, much of it from far-right groups and residents, has eased. The extreme-right Golden Dawn party had led protests in recent years but its own popularity has waned after the conviction of party leaders last month in a landmark criminal trial.

Still, local residents have raised repeated complaints. Ekaterini Pantelidou, an Athens-based lawyer who represents one group of residents, said they aimed to go to the European Court of Justice, saying that ancient ruins are under the site and that a church was torn down to accommodate the mosque. Officials dismiss such claims.

“It is a site that was always Orthodox Christian, since ancient times,” Ms. Pantelidou said. “Can we build a Parthenon in Mecca?”

For many Muslims, the mosque is but a first step.

“It is a good start. But there are other things we need to do,” said Mr. El Sayed, of the mosque’s managing board, citing discussions about a Muslim cemetery. Athens-based Muslims must currently transport their dead to a cemetery in Thrace, northern Greece, where the country’s Muslim minority is concentrated.

Another goal is the addition of a minaret to the building. At a time of increased tension with Greece’s Muslim neighbor Turkey, though, some political observers have said such a move could set off debate.

The issue is on the agenda, Mr. El Sayed said. “After the pandemic, we’ll ask for a minaret.”





No.57 article:
Millions of Votes Are in Postal Workers’ Hands. Here Is Their Story.




No.1 article:
Austria to mass-test population – as it happened

Here are the key developments from the past few hours:

The US has surpassed 11 million coronavirus cases today meaning that the country has recorded 1 million new cases in one week alone. 

On Saturday the US recorded 156,416 cases, marking the eleventh day in a row that the country had reported more than 100,000 daily cases. 

Starmer calls for “national action plan” for vaccine distribution

The Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has called on Boris Johnson to enact a “comprehensive national action plan” for distributing the expected Covid vaccine.

In a letter to the prime minister, Starmer writes: “The challenge facing the country now is not just how we get control of the virus, but how we get ready for the vaccine. We are world leaders in vaccines, and I believe we should be aiming for a world-class programme for rolling it out.

“However, this will be a mammoth logistical operation, probably larger than we have seen since the second world war. If we are to get it right, then we must have a clear plan in place now.

“It should be a plan that harnesses all of the talents of the British people: our businesses, nurses, doctors, scientists and public servants.”

Starmer continues to say that the government should “consider supporting councils and local NHS services to refurbish community assets, such as town halls or sport centres, into local vaccine clinics” as part of the new programme.

He emphasises that the action plan must harness the talents of the British public for the new national vaccine programme. Following the announcement of a viable vaccine, the health secretary, Matt Hancock, has said that UK residents are likely to be among the first in the world to receive a jab.

Pfizer and BioNTech have announced that preliminary findings show that their vaccine can prevent more than 90% of people from contracting the virus.

The interim recommendations that determine who gets the vaccine once available are set up in terms of vulnerability. Currently, the list prioritises older adults in care homes and care workers first, followed by all those aged 80 and over, and health and social care workers.

Next in line are the over-75s, then the over-70s, and so on down the age groups, as more vaccine shots become available. But, Starmer has said that Labour is also calling for a plan into the interim criteria.

Saying they want a system that guarantees “equitable access to the vaccine no matter where you live”.

A spokesperson for the Department of Health and Social Care told the Guardian: “The rollout of a Covid-19 vaccine will be delivered by the NHS which has vast experience delivering widespread vaccination programmes, and an enormous amount of planning has taken place to ensure our health service stands ready to deploy.

“This includes putting in place logistical expertise, transport, PPE and an expanded workforce to ensure we can deploy vaccines rapidly once they have met robust standards on safety and effectiveness and been approved by the medicines regulator. We have also provided GP practices with an additional £150m to support them over the coming months.

“We will follow independent advice from the Joint Committee on Vaccines and Immunisations on which groups should be prioritised to receive a vaccine, and will publish further details on our deployment plans in due course.”

Starmer’s letter comes ahead of the visit to Oxford vaccine labs on Monday with the shadow chancellor, Anneliese Dodds.

Boris Johnson has posted on Twitter confirming his self-isolation.

The Austrian chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, has said that the country will follow in Slovakia’s footsteps by mass testing its population.

Austria is currently set to close schools and shops on Tuesday as it toughens its lockdown measures until 6 December. Kurz said that the fast but less reliable antigen tests could help reopen the country faster in time for Christmas.

From that Thursday meeting when Boris Johnson met the Ashfield MP Lee Anderson.

Ashfield MP Lee Anderson, who met the PM on Thursday, updated his constituents on Facebook:

 Isolating. On Friday I lost my sense of taste at the same time my wife had a bad headache. 

I had no cough, no fever and felt well. We both had a test on Saturday and the result came in Sunday morning. My wife and I both tested positive.

I feel absolutely fine and my biggest concern is my wife who is in the shielded group. But we are both feeling good.

This will be the second time that the PM will have to self-isolate after contracting the virus in March. 

Boris Johnson intends to continue speaking to the country during his self-isolation period. No 10 is set to speak with the parliamentary authorities to discuss what options are available for the PM to take part remotely in some parliamentary business.

A spokesman for No 10 has said:

Prime Minister Boris Johnson has been told to self-isolate through the NHS track and trace app after coming into contact with someone who tested positive. 

No 10 confirm that the PM met with a small group of MPs in Downing Street on Thursday morning including the MP for Ashfield, Lee Anderson. Anderson later developed symptoms for the virus and has now tested positive. 

Reuters reports that Boris Johnson is “well” and “does not have any symptoms of Covid-19.” 

The prime minister, Boris Johnson, has been told to self-isolate through the NHS track and trace app after coming into contact with someone who tested positive, 10 Downing Street confirms. 

Here are the key developments from the past few hours: 





No.2 article:
US records 166,000 new Covid cases as states implement new restrictions

According to Johns Hopkins University, the overall US caseload is now nearly 10.9m and more than 245,000 have died. On Saturday, 1,266 people died. Hospitalisations are rising.

Dr Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious diseases expert, said it was “possible” the country would see 200,000 deaths in the next four months, which would put the toll of the pandemic above 400,000 in slightly more than a year.

In Washington DC on Saturday, thousands attended the “Million Maga March”, a gathering of supporters of Donald Trump, who lost the presidential election to Joe Biden but has refused to concede. The president has heralded news of an imminent Pfizer vaccine but he and members of his family, top aides and senior Republicans have all tested positive for Covid-19.

At campaign and White House events, Trump has refused to enforce mitigation measures such as mask-wearing and social distancing. On Saturday, local media reported that around the White House, where Trump waved to supporters from his motorcade, “it seemed a majority of the protesters gathered were not wearing masks”. Washington DC has a mask mandate.

Trump has said his administration will not implement any further social lockdowns. He has also refused to participate in the Biden transition, meaning information on Covid-19 is not being shared with the president-elect. Biden, who has appointed his own Covid-19 advisory group, supports a national mask mandate.

Across the country, particularly in the hard-hit midwest, states are implementing tighter controls. On Saturday, California, Minnesota and Maryland were among states reporting rapidly rising case numbers and healthcare systems under serious strain. Oregon and New Mexico implemented new social restrictions, while North Dakota introduced a mask mandate and Arkansas established a Covid taskforce. From Monday, the Navajo Nation will enter a three-week stay-at-home advisory period.

In Washington state, Governor Jay Inslee ordered sweeping restrictions and shutdowns starting at 11.59pm on Monday. Restaurants and bars were ordered to stop indoor service and keep outdoor service to groups of five or less. Gyms, movie theaters, museums and bowling alleys were ordered closed, the Seattle Times reported.

Indoor gatherings involving multiple households are barred, unless those present have quarantined for two weeks. Alternatively, participants can quarantine for one week and test negative within two days of the get-together. Inslee’s mandates will be enacted for a minimum of four weeks.

“Today, Sunday 15 November 2020, is the most dangerous public health day in the last 100 years of our state’s history,” Inslee said. “A pandemic is raging. Left unchecked, it will assuredly result in grossly overburdened hospitals and morgues and keep people from obtaining routine but necessary medical treatment for non-Covid conditions.”

On CNN’s State of the Union, Fauci was asked what the Trump administration should do other than advising the wearing of masks, hand-washing and social distancing.

“Well, what we’ve got to do is make what you just said uniform, not spotty,” he said. “Everybody’s got to do it. There’s no excuse not to do that right now, because we know that can turn things around. I mean, that’s the tool we have. We have good news with regard to the vaccines, so there is light at the end of the tunnel. Help is coming.

“It’s going to be a gradual accrual of more normality as the weeks and the months go by, as we get well into 2021,” he added.

Asked about his recent statement that a national lockdown is not necessary, he said: “We’re not going to get a national lockdown. I think that’s very clear, but I think what we’re going to start seeing in the local levels, be they governors or mayors or people at the local level … very surgical type of restrictions, which are the functional equivalent of a local lockdown.

“We’re not going to have a national lockdown. But if things really get bad and you put your foot on the pedal and yet still you have the surge, you may need to take the extra step that you’re talking about.”

Asked about Trump’s refusal to participate in the transition, Fauci said it was “almost like passing a baton in a race, you don’t want to stop and then give it to somebody, you want to just essentially keep going and that’s what transition is … Of course it would be better if we could start working with them.”

Leaders of the Trump taskforce have promised swift distribution of the Pfizer vaccine to the vulnerable and frontline health workers, once emergency use authorisation is obtained from the US Food and Drug Administration, expected by the end of November.

But Trump’s resistance to cooperation is not limited to Biden. On Friday, he said the federal government would not deliver the vaccine to New York, because its governor, Andrew Cuomo, “doesn’t trust where the vaccine is coming from”.

Trump and Cuomo have fought repeatedly. Cuomo has said federal distribution plans rely too heavily on hospitals, clinics and drug stores, a problem for communities which do not have easy access to the healthcare system. On Sunday, he said he would sue if the administration made it difficult for minorities to get vaccinations.

“If the Trump administration does not change this plan and does not provide an equitable vaccine process, we will enforce our legal rights,” Cuomo was reported as saying. “We will bring legal action to protect New Yorkers.”

From Ohio, Governor Mike DeWine told CNN coronavirus “fatigue” was a serious problem. Speaking to CNN on Saturday, Dr James Phillips, chief of disaster medicine at George Washington University Hospital, said he was “terrified” about the imminent holiday season.

“We’re going to see an unprecedented surge of cases following Thanksgiving this year, and if people don’t learn from Thanksgiving, we’re going to see it after Christmas as well,” Phillips said.





No.3 article:
Interim president of Peru steps down after two protesters killed

Manuel Merino’s exit follows fury sparked by shootings at pro-democracy rally

The interim president of Peru, Manuel Merino, has stepped down amid nationwide fury over the killing of two protesters in a brutally heavy-handed police clampdown on huge pro-democracy demonstrations on Saturday.

In a televised address to the nation, Merino announced his resignation and insisted he acted within the law when he was sworn into office as chief of state on Tuesday, following congress’s removal of the elected president in an impeachment vote.

News of the resignation was followed immediately by the sound of honking car horns, pot banging and cheers in neighbourhoods across the Peruvian capital.

The death of two men in their 20s from gunshot wounds on Saturday boosted the public clamour for Merino’s resignation.

The victims – identified as Jack Brian Pintado Sánchez, 22, and Jordan Inti Sotelo Camargo, 24 – were the first deaths in nearly a week of unrest over the controversial removal of Martín Vizcarra as president and his replacement by a de facto government, regarded by many Peruvians as a coup.

“They say he was injured with a bullet in the heart, he died like that and was brought in as corpse,” Sotelo Camargo’s father told local journalists at the entrance of the Lima hospital where his son’s body had been taken, calling on Merino to take responsibility.

Peru’s human rights coordinator reported that more than 40 people were missing following Saturday’s march amid multiple reports of heavy-handed police repression against largely peaceful demonstrators. The health ministry reported that more than 90 people were being treated for injuries.

Images from the protests on Saturday showed hundreds of riot police using batons and shields against largely peaceful protesters, teargas and buckshot being fired directly at crowds or individuals and tanks using water cannon. There were even reports of teargas being fired from helicopters flying overhead in downtown Lima, from where protesters reported street lights being switched off and mobile phones blocked during the march.

Daily protests mounted during the week, culminating in nationwide demonstrations demanding the resignation of Merino, the former speaker of congress, with tens of thousands of people filling the streets of Lima and dozens of towns and cities.

“There was irrational, abusive use of force in Lima. I demand that the president of the republic shows his face and gives explanations to the country,” said Peru’s human rights ombudsman, Walter Gutiérrez.

Erika Guevara, Americas director for Amnesty International, said: “We demand impartial investigations into the human rights violations in the protests in Peru including the deaths of two young students. Who committed these crimes and their senior officials must be investigated at the highest level.”

“Two young people have been sacrificed absurdly, stupidly, unjustly by the police,” Mario Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian author and Nobel laureate, said in a video message. I believe it is imperative that the repression – which is against all Peru – ceases, because it is all Peru which is protesting.”

The abrupt replacement of the popular president by Merino, a little-known politician with a questionable track record, caused uproar across the Peruvian capital, sparking some of the largest demonstrations in more than a decade.

George Forsyth, the politician leading the polls as a presidential candidate for the elections next year, had demanded Merino’s immediate resignation, saying in a tweet that his “hands were stained with blood”. He said congress should choose a new president from the 19 lawmakers who voted against Vizcarra’s impeachment over unproven bribery allegations. Out of 130 members of congress, 105 voted to remove the centrist leader on Monday.

The former president expressed his sadness over the deaths. “I deeply regret the deaths caused by the repression of this illegal and illegitimate government,” Vizcarra wrote. “My condolences to the families of these civil heroes who, exercising their right, went out in defence of democracy and in search of a better country. The country will not allow the death of these brave young people to go unpunished.”





No.4 article:
Fears of regional conflict in Horn of Africa after rocket attacks on Eritrea

Leader of Ethiopia’s Tigray region claims responsibility for strike on capital city Asmara

Risks of the increasingly bloody war in northern Ethiopia turning into a chaotic regional conflict rose sharply this weekend after rocket strikes on the airport in neighbouring Eritrea’s capital, Asmara.

Multiple rockets struck Asmara on Saturday night, diplomats and informed regional observers said, though communication restrictions in Tigray and Eritrea made the reports difficult to verify.

One source in Asmara said the missiles missed the airport, with one landing not far from the information ministry building. The city has since suffered widespread power cuts.

Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the restive region’s ruling party, said his forces had fired three missiles and claimed Asmara’s airport was a “legitimate target” because it was being used by Ethiopian forces.

“As long as troops are here fighting, we will take any legitimate military target and we will fire,” he said. “We will fight them on all fronts with whatever means we have.”

Gebremichael also accused Eritrea of sending troops into the Tigray region and denied reports that Tigray’s forces had entered Eritrea.

Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, launched military operations in Tigray 11 days ago after he accused local authorities of attacking a military camp in the region and attempting to loot military assets. The TPLF denies the charge and has accused the prime minister of concocting the story to justify deploying the offensive.

Since then, airstrikes and ground combat between government forces and the TPLF have killed hundreds, sent tens of thousands of refugees pouring into Sudan, and raised international concern over the willingness of Abiy, who won a Nobel peace prize last year, to risk a lengthy civil war against well-armed, experienced forces in the region.

On Sunday the office of Abiy said the war in Tigray region was “irreversible” and aimed at “enforcing the rule of law”.

“With unwavering commitment we will see this project through to the end … As a sovereign nation, Ethiopia reaffirms its capability and resolve to manage … its own rule of law operation without any external intervention,” the statement read.

The missile attack on Saturday and Abiy’s rejection of calls for a ceasefire and negotiations from the United Nations secretary general, the US, European powers, the pope and others have concerned many observers. “This is now an internationalised conflict,” said Martin Plaut, an expert on Eritrea at the University of London.

There have been unconfirmed reports of Ethiopian troops launching attacks into Tigray from Eritrean territory, a call-up of retired Eritrean senior officers, troop movements towards the southern border and a conscription drive by Eritrea’s authorities.

Relations between the Tigrayan leadership and Isaias Afwerki, who has ruled Eritrea with an iron fist for more than 30 years, are poor. 

The war has the potential to spiral into a broader conflict involving not just Ethiopia and Eritrea, but powers across the Horn of Africa and beyond. Regional tensions are high, sharpened by Ethiopia’s mega-dam project, which both Sudan and Egypt fear could reduce their share of the Nile waters.

The Blue Nile, the river’s main tributary, accounts for 80% of the river’s volume, and originates in Ethiopia’s highlands before merging with the White Nile at the Sudanese capital of Khartoum. Ethiopia says its dam would have no negative impact on Egypt or Sudan, and argues it is vital for its development.

Egypt and Sudan launched joint military exercises over the weekend, the first joint combat training held since Omar al-Bashir’s authoritarian rule in Khartoum ended in a popular uprising last year.

Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Turkey have all been battling for influence in east Africa in recent years. “The fear is that this will be played out like Libya. The longer the war continues, the more likely it becomes that it will draw in rival Gulf powers. For the moment all you can see are possibilities, but if observers can see them then you can be sure that actors on the ground can see them too,” said Plaut.

Between 10,000 and 25,000 refugees fleeing the conflict have crossed into Sudan from Tigray. Many of the refugees are fleeing a thrust by Ethiopian forces into the west of Tigray, which is aimed in part at cutting off the province from any potential supplies coming from Sudanese territory. The strategically located town of Humera on the border between Tigray, the neighbouring region of Amhara and Sudan has been the centre of bitter fighting, with atrocities reported by both sides.“The situation is very bad at the moment,” Jens Heseman, of the UN refugee agency, said in Mamdayet town.





No.5 article:
Covid deaths and learning disabilities

Maggie Lyons on how those in care homes particularly are being discriminated against

Public Health England’s research (Covid deaths for people with learning disability in England six times average, 12 November) reveals yet more discrimination against this marginalised group in society. From the beginning of the pandemic, this group of people, particularly those in care homes, have had their needs ignored. Decades of underfunding of social care has stripped many of the services used by those with learning disabilities and autistic young people and adults down to the bare minimum, and the costs of surviving the pandemic have hastened this decline.

The emphasis on the damage to health in care homes, and the emotional impact of separation from loved ones, has been almost exclusively focused on the elderly and people with dementia, yet younger people with learning disabilities and autism are suffering anxiety, loneliness and distress too, as are their families. The promise of priority access to any potential vaccine has been given only to the elderly, not everyone at risk, in care homes. 

Students are being promised fast-track testing so they can be reunited with their families at Christmas. Where is the fast-track testing for young people with learning disabilities and autism so they can be with their families at Christmas? A monthly test of residents in care homes is simply a PR exercise from a government failing in its responsibilities to the most vulnerable in society.Maggie LyonsSheffield





No.6 article:
Iota was already a record-breaking system, the 30th named storm of this year’s Atlantic hurricane season. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms.

The US National Hurricane Center (NHC) said on Sunday Iota had maximum sustained winds of 85mph (137km/h), making it a category 1 hurricane. But forecasters said Iota would rapidly strengthen and was expected to be a major hurricane by the time it reaches Central America.

Iota was centered about 240 miles (386km) east of Isla de Providencia, Colombia, and was moving west-north-west at 6mph. Forecasters said Iota was expected to pass or cross over Providencia sometime on Monday and approach Nicaragua and Honduras on Monday evening.

The system was forecast to bring up to 30in of rain from north-east Nicaragua into northern Honduras. Costa Rica, Panama and El Salvador could also experience heavy rain and possible flooding, the NHC said.

Forecasters said Providencia and parts of Nicaragua and Honduras were under hurricane warnings. Storm surge could increase water levels by up to 13ft in Nicaragua and Honduras.

Iota threatened to wreak more havoc in a region where people are still grappling with the aftermath of Eta. That system hit Nicaragua just over a week ago as a category 4 hurricane, killing at least 120 as torrential rains brought flash floods and landslides to parts of Central America and Mexico.

Then it meandered across Cuba, the Florida Keys and around the Gulf of Mexico before slogging ashore again near Cedar Key, Florida, and dashing across Florida and the Carolinas.

Eta was the 28th named storm of this year’s hurricane season, tying the 2005 record for named storms. On Sunday Theta, the 29th, was weakening over the far eastern Atlantic. It was expected to become a remnant low, forecasters said.

The official end of hurricane season is 30 November.





No.7 article:
The health ministry reported two protesters were killed and more than 30 people were being treated for injuries on Saturday after nearly a week of unrest over the controversial removal of Martín Vizcarra as president.

Vizcarra's replacement by a de facto government is seen by many Peruvians as a coup and people have demanded the resignation of Manuel Merino, the former speaker of congress who was sworn in as president on Tuesday





No.8 article:
Erdoğan met by protests from Turkish Cypriots during visit

‘Provocative’ trip to northern Cyprus angers residents as well as the south and Greece

Turkey’s president has been greeted with protests from Turkish Cypriots denouncing Ankara’s overt meddling in their domestic affairs as he visited northern Cyprus.

In a rare display of opposition for a leader whose tolerance for critics is notoriously low, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan was met by demonstrators as he flew into the territory for celebrations marking its unilateral declaration of independence 37 years ago.

Ignoring police attempts to ban the protests, many demonstrators expressed dismay over Erdoğan’s decision to use the occasion to enjoy a picnic in the controversially reopened beach resort of Varosha, holding banners that said: “No picnic over pain”. The resort visit has been widely condemned for violating UN resolutions aimed at reuniting the war-torn island.

“It’s now or never. We have to raise our voice in open defiance” Sener Elcil, a prominent trade unionist, told the Guardian. Speaking in the UN-patrolled buffer zone dividing Cyprus, he added: “Turkish Cypriots will become extinct if our country isn’t reunited … Erdoğan is a loose cannon, he can do anything.”

Last month Ersin Tatar, a nationalist hardliner backed by Ankara, won elections in the self-styled republic. Like Erdoğan, Tatar has vigorously espoused a two-state solution to resolving a dispute that has bewildered international mediators for decades.

Since proclaiming independence nine years after Turkey invaded in response to a coup aimed at uniting Cyprus with Greece, only Ankara has acknowledged the north of the island as a separate state. In stark contrast to the EU-member south, northern Cyprus is isolated internationally and prone to the whims of Turkey, its financial mainstay.

Most of those who took to the streets on Sunday voted for Tatar’s moderate predecessor Mustafa Akıncı, who is an ardent supporter of a settlement in which the majority Greek Cypriots share power in a bizonal, bicommunal federation.

The veteran leftist lost by less than four percentage points in an election during which members of Turkey’s ruling AKP party went from village to village and reports emerged of flagrant vote-buying and threats of deportation for mainland settlers who refused to endorse Tatar.

Amid fears of Erdoğan’s increasingly hawkish regional polices, such as the confrontation with Cyprus over energy reserves in the eastern Mediterranean, Tatar’s opponents fear annexation of northern Cyprus may now be on the cards.

Sertac Sonan, an associate professor in political science at Cyprus International University who advised Akıncı, said: “Inaction would invite more meddling, more interference from Turkey. This is about the 48% who voted for Akıncı. This was not a fair election. It’s not been easy to swallow and we still have the chance to express our discomfort, otherwise the worry is it could end up in annexation.”

Ankara had gone all out preparing the ground for Erdoğan’s arrival with a cleanup of the sealed-off area of Varosha and plants and shrubs being flown in.

But from the outset the visit had been beset by controversy. The leader’s announcement of enjoying a picnic in the resort upped the ante, intensifying already heightened tensions between Athens, Ankara and Nicosia. The Greek foreign ministry described Sunday’s tour as “an unprecedented provocation”.

Using similar language, Nicos Anastasiades, the president of Cyprus, said he feared Erdoğan’s actions would “torpedo the prospect of creating an appropriate climate” to resume UN-brokered talks. Senior government officials in Nicosia voiced angst last week that Tatar’s threat to develop Varosha would sound the death knell for negotiations. Returning the resort to the south has long been seen as a necessary part of any comprehensive settlement between the two sides.

In a poignant video broadcast before the Turkish president’s visit, Greek Cypriots forcibly displaced from Varosha called on him to stay away, saying: “This is not your homeland Mr Erdoğan, it was taken by war at gunpoint. You are there with power but not with law.”

But analysts said that 16 years after Greek Cypriots rejected reunification in a referendum, and more than three years after the collapse of peace talks that came close to a settlement, Erdoğan was also sending a message.

“Turkey has alienated a lot of allies and it needs a foreign policy success story,” said Prof Ahmet Sözen, who chairs the department of international relations at the Eastern Mediterranean University in northern Nicosia.

“Accession would not be in its interests. Instead, what Erdoğan is saying is: we want to solve the Cyprus problem, we’re ready for a negotiated deal but if you don’t want to do that we’re ready to go the extra mile and change the status quo with Varosha. It’s a retaliatory move that reflects the frustration of Turkey with the stance of the Greek side both over Cyprus and the issue of hydrocarbons.”

Analysts on both sides of the ceasefire line believe the election of Joe Biden to the US presidency is also likely to play a pivotal role in negotiations. The Democrat is among the few prominent US politicians to have visited Cyprus.

“It changes Turkey’s calculations on what it can get away with,” said Fiona Mullen, the director of Sapienta Economics, a consultancy in the south. “Turkey clearly wants closure on this and with a Biden presidency a federal solution to the Cyprus problem is still the quickest way to that.”

More than anything, Ankara wants to be involved in the eastern Mediterranean after the discovery of natural gas off the island, and not kept at bay by Athens and Nicosia, Mullen said. “You can’t do that without a settlement.”

Cyprus’s former president George Vassiliou, who pushed hard for a solution when he assumed office in 1988, agreed. “We have to recognise that the only way forward is to come to an arrangement with Turkey,” he said. “Of course I am optimistic … But it is crucial that negotiations restart as soon as possible without preconditions. A solution on this island will be to the benefit of all.”





No.9 article:
Nationwide fury mounts over brutal clampdown against pro-democracy demonstrations

The interim president of Peru, Manuel Merino, is under mounting pressure to step down amid nationwide fury over the killing of two protesters in a brutally heavy-handed police clampdown on huge pro-democracy demonstrations.

News of the death of two men in their 20s from gunshot wounds sparked spontaneous pot-banging protests and vigils in neighbourhoods across the Peruvian capital into the early hours of Sunday morning.

The victims – identified as Jack Brian Pintado Sánchez, 22, and Jordan Inti Sotelo Camargo, 24 – were the first deaths in nearly a week of unrest over the controversial removal of Martín Vizcarra as president and his replacement by a de facto government, regarded by many Peruvians as a coup.

“They say he was injured with a bullet in the heart, he died like that and was brought in as corpse,” Sotelo Camargo’s father told local journalists at the entrance of the Lima hospital where his son’s body had been taken, calling on Merino to take responsibility.

Peru’s human rights coordinator reported that more than 40 people were missing following Saturday’s march amid multiple reports of heavy-handed police repression against largely peaceful demonstrators. The health ministry reported that more than 90 people were being treated for injuries.

Images from the protests on Saturday showed hundreds of riot police using batons and shields against largely peaceful protesters, teargas cannisters and buckshot being fired directly at crowds or individuals and tanks using water cannon. There were even reports of teargas being fired from helicopters flying overhead in downtown Lima, from where protesters reported street lights being switched off and mobile phones blocked during the march. 

Daily protests mounted during the week, culminating in nationwide demonstrations demanding the resignation of Merino, the former Speaker of congress who was sworn in as president on Tuesday, with tens of thousands of people filling the streets of Lima and dozens of towns and cities.

“There was irrational, abusive use of force in Lima. I demand that the president of the republic shows his face and gives explanations to the country,” said Peru’s human rights ombudsman, Walter Gutiérrez.

Erika Guevara, Americas director for Amnesty International, said: “We demand impartial investigations into the human rights violations in the protests in Peru including the deaths of two young students. Who committed these crimes and their senior officials must be investigated at the highest level.”

“Two young people have been sacrificed absurdly, stupidly, unjustly by the police,” Mario Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian author and Nobel laureate, said in a video message. I believe it is imperative that the repression – which is against all Peru – ceases, because it is all Peru which is protesting.” 

The current speaker of congress, Luis Valdéz, called a multiparty meeting for Sunday morning to discuss Merino’s resignation, according to the Twitter account of the Peruvian congress.

The abrupt replacement of the popular president by Merino, a little-known politician with a questionable track record, has caused uproar across the Peruvian capital, sparking some of the largest demonstrations in more than a decade.

George Forsyth, the politician leading the polls as a presidential candidate for the elections next year, demanded Merino’s immediate resignation, saying in a tweet that his “hands were stained with blood”. He said congress should choose a new president from the 19 lawmakers who voted against Vizcarra’s impeachment over unproven bribery allegations. Out of 130 members of congress, 105 voted to remove the centrist leader on Monday.

The former president expressed his sadness over the deaths. “I deeply regret the deaths caused by the repression of this illegal and illegitimate government,” Vizcarra wrote. “My condolences to the families of these civil heroes who, exercising their right, went out in defence of democracy and in search of a better country. The country will not allow the death of these brave young people to go unpunished.”

Police detained at least 30 protesters on Saturday amid multiple reports of heavy-handed repression against largely peaceful demonstrators. The health ministry reported that more than 30 people were being treated for injuries.

Images from the massive protests on Saturday showed tanks, hundreds of riot police and clouds of teargas being used against protesters, as well as helicopters flying overhead in downtown Lima.





No.10 article:
From Diwali to Lewis Hamilton: best photos of the weekend

The Guardian’s picture editors select highlights from around the world





No.11 article:
Doctor who tried to save Covid patients from Romania hospital fire hailed as hero

Man named in local media as Catalin Denciu transferred to hospital in Belgium with 40% burns

A doctor left badly burned in a Romanian hospital fire that left 10 dead was been hailed as a hero after it emerged he had tried to help Covid-19 patients to safety.

After suffering second and third degree burns to 40%, the doctor, named in local media as Catalin Denciu, was transferred to Belgium’s Queen Astrid military hospital on Sunday for specialised treatment.

“I express my respect for the heroic doctor who showed particular courage and spirit of sacrifice in trying to save the patients,” the Romanian prime minister, Ludovic Orban, told local media, in praise echoed by doctors’ unions and local media.

Ten people suffering from Covid-19 died in the fire late on Saturday in an intensive care unit of a hospital in the north-eastern town of Piatra Neamt. The seven men and three women ranged in age from 67 to 86, the hospital said.

Six others were seriously injured.

The prosecutor general has opened an enquiry into the tragedy, while the health ministry has suggested the fire could have been caused by an electrical short circuit.

The government said public health inspectors and the agency for emergency situations would check the conditions under which medical equipment was operating in all ICUs from Monday.

Almost 13,000 Covid-19 patients were in hospital across Romania as of Sunday, including 1,169 in ICU. The country has reported 360,281 coronavirus cases since February and 8,926 deaths.

Even before the pandemic, Romania’s healthcare system had been under pressure, dogged by corruption, inefficiencies and politicised management.

The country has one of the EU’s least developed healthcare infrastructures. One in four Romanians have insufficient access to essential healthcare as tens of thousands of doctors, nurses and pharmacists have left since the country joined the EU in 2007.

On Sunday, the Romanian doctors’ association said a strategy was needed to build new medical infrastructure regardless of who was in government.

According to Digi24 TV, the hospital is seeking temporary storage for the victims’ bodies as the hospital morgue was already full before the fire.

“At least now, let’s do things that are organised and planned ... so that such tragedies don’t happen again,” it said.

Saturday’s fire was Romania’s deadliest since 2015, when 65 people were killed in a nightclub blaze in Bucharest.

Agence France-Presse and Reuters contributed to this report





No.12 article:
Police stop lockdown-busting service at London church

Officers interrupt gathering of 30 worshippers after pastor called restriction unlawful

Police have prevented an evangelical pastor holding a church service in defiance of lockdown restrictions.

About 30 worshippers had gathered at the Angel church in north London on Sunday for a service including a baptism after pastor Regan King said Christians served “a greater law”.

Four Metropolitan police officers prevented people entering the building in Clerkenwell, and two police vans and a police car were parked outside. Officers allowed 15 people to remain inside the church, while another 15 took part in a socially distanced outdoor service nearby.

Under current restrictions, communal services are banned although places of worship may remain open for individual prayer and streaming of worship, and small funerals are permitted. They are also permitted to run social action projects, such as food banks.

A spokesperson for the Met said officers had explained to the pastor that “due to Covid-19, restrictions are in place preventing gatherings and that financial penalties can be applied if they are breached”, adding: “After a discussion, the pastor agreed to hold a brief socially-distanced outdoor gathering in the church courtyard.”

Earlier, King said he believed the ban on collective worship was unlawful and that the church would “combat any challenge against us”. “Our priority is our fear of God … We serve a greater law,” he told BBC Radio 4. “Just because something is the law does not make it right.”

The restrictions, which are designed to prevent the exponential rise of coronavirus across the country, were discriminatory, he added. “You can go to a garden centre, normal shops. We believe that the church is essential in its role … and so we’re staying open.”

King said the church was complying with government guidance. When churches were allowed to reopen for worship in the summer, congregations had been obliged to socially distance and wear face coverings.

Asked how he would feel if someone attending the service became ill or died, King said: “It would be a tragedy. But remember death is something that comes to everyone. We’ve developed, I believe, a real idol of safety, we take risks on a daily basis. We have to accept the tragedy of death … we’re pointing to hope beyond death.”

King is among 122 church leaders who have launched a legal challenge against the lockdown ban on communal worship in England.

They claim worship has been “criminalised” and the ban has “inflicted a terrible human cost” on congregations for whom collective worship is a core element of their religious life. The ban, they argue, breaches article 9 of the European convention on human rights, which protects the right to freedom of religion.

The ban on public worship has also been challenged by the leaders of the Church of England, the Catholic church and Orthodox Judaism, along with Muslim, Hindu, Sikh and Pentecostal representatives.

They wrote a joint letter to Boris Johnson earlier this month saying there was “no scientific justification for the wholesale suspension of public worship”. Despite their arguments against the ban, most faith leaders are urging followers to comply with the restrictions.





No.13 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Exclusive: study of low-risk individuals finds impairments four months after infection

Young and previously healthy people with ongoing symptoms of Covid-19 are showing signs of damage to multiple organs four months after the initial infection, a study suggests.

The findings are a step towards unpicking the physical underpinnings and developing treatments for some of the strange and extensive symptoms experienced by people with “long Covid”, which is thought to affect more than 60,000 people in the UK. Fatigue, brain fog, breathlessness and pain are among the most frequently reported effects.

On Sunday, the NHS announced it would launch a network of more than 40 long Covid specialist clinics where doctors, nurses and therapists will assess patients’ physical and psychological symptoms.

The Coverscan study aims to assess the long-term impact of Covid-19 on organ health in around 500 “low-risk” individuals – those who are relatively young and without any major underlying health complaints – with ongoing Covid symptoms, through a combination of MRI scans, blood tests, physical measurements and online questionnaires.

Preliminary data from the first 200 patients to undergo screening suggests that almost 70% have impairments in one or more organs, including the heart, lungs, liver and pancreas, four months after their initial illness.

“The good news is that the impairment is mild, but even with a conservative lens, there is some impairment, and in 25% of people it affects two or more organs,” said Amitava Banerjee, a cardiologist and associate professor of clinical data science at University College London.

“This is of interest because we need to know if [the impairments] continue or improve – or if there is a subgroup of people who could get worse.”

In some, but not all, cases there was a correlation between people’s symptoms and the site of the organ impairment. For instance, heart or lung impairments correlated with breathlessness, while liver or pancreas impairments were associated with gastrointestinal symptoms.

“It supports the idea that there is an insult at organ level, and potentially multi-organ level, which is detectable, and which could help to explain at least some of the symptoms and the trajectory of the disease,” said Banerjee.

However, the study doesn’t prove that organ impairments are the cause of people’s ongoing symptoms, and the data haven’t yet been peer-reviewed.

Banerjee also cautioned that none of the patients were scanned before developing Covid-19, so some of them may have had existing impairments – although this is unlikely given their previous good health and relative youth. The average age of participants was 44.

They will continue to be monitored, and the researchers are also scanning people who haven’t had Covid-19 or have experienced other viral infections such as flu, for comparison.

Preliminary data from a separate study of 58 patients who were hospitalised with Covid-19 similarly found abnormalities in the lungs of 60%; in the kidneys of 29%; in the hearts of 26%; and in the livers of 10% of patients, two to three months after the initial infection, as well as tissue changes in parts of the brain.

callout-coronavirus

“What all the people in the world with long Covid are crying out for is to be taken seriously and to have some idea of what might be going on at the organ level – so to begin to assemble some kind of evidence base is absolutely the way to go,” said Danny Altmann, a professor of immunology at Imperial College London.

“I think this is a first step in a long journey towards providing some kind of mechanism [for their symptoms], and eventually some therapeutics for people with long Covid.”

The new findings could also have implications for the management of people with long Covid, suggesting the need for closer collaboration between medical specialists. “Sending the people you need to the cardiologist, and then to the gastroenterologist, and then to the neurologist would be an inefficient way to deal with things as the pandemic continues,” Banerjee said.





No.14 article:
Belgian racing pigeon sets fanciers&#x27; hearts aflutter in €1.6m sale

Record auction price for New Kim beats last year’s €1.25m for Armando, another Belgian

A two-year-old Belgian racing pigeon called New Kim has been sold for a world-record €1.6m (£1.4m) in an auction that ended on Sunday.

Offers for the pigeon had already hit €1.32m in the past week, surpassing the previous record of €1,252,000 set in March 2019 for another Belgian pigeon, Armando. They then went higher in a frantic last 30 minutes of bidding on Sunday.

“These record prices are unbelievable, because this is a female. Armando was a male. Usually a male is worth more than a female because it can produce more offspring,” said Nikolaas Gyselbrecht, the chief executive of Pipa, the online auction house that conducted the sale.

Gyselbrecht said New Kim was only two years old and only raced in 2018, earning the title of best young bird in Belgium and prompting an early retirement. Pigeons can typically breed until 10, so New Kim potentially has many years of chicks ahead.

Bidding started at €200 on 2 November and rose to €1.31m in less than 90 minutes with a bid from a South African group. Two wealthy Chinese collectors then fought it out on Sunday.

“The only thing I can see is we are in total shock,” said Kurt Van de Wouwer, whose family bred New Kim.

Chinese enthusiasm for long-distance pigeon racing has driven prices up sharply, with birds from Belgium, which is considered the traditional heartland of the sport, being particularly prized.

Gyselbrecht said no other country had such a high concentration of pigeon enthusiasts as Belgium.

“So you have 20,000 pigeon fanciers in a very small country competing with each other on a very high level. It’s like the Champions League,” he said.





No.15 article:
Exclusive: widow seeks damages for 2006 murder and payment of lost income

The widow of Alexander Litvinenko has submitted a claim against Russia to the European court of human rights (ECHR), seeking €3.5m (£3.1m) in compensation for his murder by radiation poisoning in London.

Marina Litvinenko is requesting punitive damages and payment for accumulated lost income. A public inquiry concluded that her husband’s murder in 2006 was probably ordered by Vladimir Putin.

The submission also asks the Strasbourg judges to rule on the significance of the pattern of targeted assassinations and attempted killings allegedly carried out by Russian state agents across Europe and the Middle East.

Among the attacks listed are the 2018 poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in Salisbury and the subsequent death of Dawn Sturgess after she handled a discarded container filled with the nerve agent novichok.

Russia, like the UK, is a member of the Council of Europe, which oversees the ECHR. To date the court has never awarded punitive or exemplary damages. It is being urged to do so in the exceptional circumstances of this claim and to prevent Russia from continuing its policy of covert elimination.

The legal arguments, submitted by Ben Emmerson QC, who represents Marina Litvinenko, refashion a claim first sent to Strasbourg in 2007 by her then lawyers, one of whom was Keir Starmer QC, now leader of the Labour party.

The UK government is cooperating with the Strasbourg court as it gathers evidence to assess the case. However, it has declined to intervene directly in support of the widow’s claim, partially on the grounds that it could affect the way the court deals with future British cases.

Alexander Litvinenko was a former KGB officer who spoke out about corruption inside Russia before fleeing with his family to Britain. He was poisoned with the radioactive isotope polonium-210.

The inquiry found it had been administered by two Russian agents, Andrei Lugovoi and Dmitry Kovtun, whom Litvinenko met in London. They have repeatedly denied involvement.

The pattern of killings that the Strasbourg judges are being asked by Marina Litvinenko to consider includes poisonings and execution-style shootings. Most of the attacks detailed in the submission occurred in countries other than Russia. They include:

The former acting president of the breakaway Chechen Republic was killed along with two bodyguards in a car bombing in Doha, Qatar.

Litvinenko drank tea laced with polonium-210 at a hotel in Mayfair, central London, where he had met two Russian intelligence officers.

Gebrev, an arms dealer, was poisoned with pesticide-like organophosphates in Bulgaria. GRU officers have allegedly been linked to the attempted killing.

The Montenigrin prime minister was the target of an assassination plot in Montenegro. A cache of weapons was discovered and two Russian men, said to have been GRU agents, were jailed for the coup attempt.

Skripal and his daughter Yulia survived being poisoned with novichok in Salisbury, England. Another woman, Dawn Sturgess, who handled a discarded container of novichok, died later in the year.

The Chechen separatist was shot dead in Berlin. A man travelling on a passport issued by the Russian authorities in a false name was arrested and is facing trial in Germany for the killing.

The Russian opposition leader was&nbsp;poisoned with novichok&nbsp;in Siberia in August. He was flown to Germany and has since recovered.

Marina Litvinenko told the Guardian: “It is almost 14 years since my husband was killed. We had to fight to get a public inquiry. It has taken a long time to bring this case to justice. It was a state-sponsored crime. Now we are talking not just about my husband being poisoned but also Sergei and Yulia Skripal and the Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny. These were chemical weapons, forbidden weapons of destruction.

“If we can’t bring the people who committed this crime to London … then someone still needs to be held responsible. The Russian government under Putin never says sorry. As the [widow from the] first [poisoning] case, it is very important to me to take it to Strasbourg and stand up for my rights.”

She said David Miliband, when foreign secretary, “paid attention to what happened to my family” and met her. She also met Theresa May when she was home secretary. She has not been able to meet Boris Johnson or other ministers since then to discuss her case.

In her compensation claim, Litvinenko is seekingabout €2m in loss of earnings that her husband, and she would have made through their work. There is also an additional element for psychological care, for counselling to overcome the trauma of her loss.

A further €1.5m is claimed to reflect the seriousness of the violation of her rights as well as exemplary, or punitive, damages to deter Russia from further clandestine assassinations.

The case raises complex legal questions about how the ECHR applies the principle of extraterritorial jurisdiction where one state carries out assassinations on the territory of another.

A letter from Paul McKell, the legal director at the Foreign Office, to Litvinenko’s lawyers – seen by the Guardian – explains that the UK government cannot agree to her request to intervene formally in the case.

The government is already participating in the proceedings, the letter says, “to the extent that it is preparing a response to the request by the [ECHR] to provide comments”.

However, it continues: “The application raises issues, such as those relating to jurisdiction, that are sensitive and have some potential to impact on UK cases in the future.”

Among others who have applied to intervene is Agnès Callamard, the United Nations special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions.

Emmerson, who recently joined the US law firm King &amp; Spalding International, said: “I am very pleased that Marina Litvinenko now has the backing and heft of a powerful US-based international law firm behind her in her case against Russia in Strasbourg.” The case is being taken on a pro bono basis.

“The commitment of a law firm that is close to the new administration in Washington is a big step forward in her quest for accountability and justice for her husband’s horrific murder,” Emmerson said. “I’m quite confident that the incoming Biden administration will take a much stronger position against Russia’s use of chemical and biological weapons to assassinate political opponents at home and abroad, and will hold those responsible accountable for their actions.”

The Foreign Office said: “The murder of Alexander Litvinenko was a blatant and unacceptable breach of international law. We’re committed to securing justice for the death of Mr Litvinenko, as demonstrated by the UK’s extensive police investigation and the inquiry into his death.”

The Kremlin has repeatedly denied that it was responsible for the attacks. The Russian embassy was asked to comment. 





No.16 article:
Belarus: thousands protest against death of teacher in police custody

Roman Bondarenko, 31, died after being beaten by plainclothes police officers in Minsk

Thousands of Belarusians have protested against the death in police custody of a military veteran and children’s art teacher arrested for his opposition to the authoritarian leader, Alexander Lukashenko.

Roman Bondarenko, a 31-year-old artist, was pummelled by several men believed to be plainclothes police officers in a Minsk courtyard known as the Square of Change on Wednesday in a dispute over ribbons indicating support for anti-government protests.

Bondarenko, who reportedly hit his head on the ground during the attack, was then detained and taken away in a van, disappearing into police custody. When his family finally located him, he was in a coma in a city hospital, where he died due to brain damage on Thursday.

In Minsk on Sunday, police wielded clubs and used teargas and water cannons to disperse thousands of demonstrators. The Viasna human rights organisation reported detentions at demonstrations in other cities, including Vitebsk and Gomel. It said the nationwide arrest total was at least 928 and that some of those detained were beaten by police.

The government has washed its hands of Bondarenko’s death, saying his injuries were sustained in a street fight between government and opposition supporters. His family are convinced he was beaten in custody after his arrest, with one relative saying that “everything that happened to him happened after the square”.

“I am filming this video so that more people know what is happening in this country, that people are absolutely defenceless,” Olga Kuchurenko, a relative, said in a video posted by Radio Svoboda.

Belarus has been rocked by the largest protests in its history after Lukashenko claimed victory in August elections marred by widespread voter fraud.

The death is the latest trauma endured by Belarus’ protest movement. Thousands of people have been beaten and tortured in police stations, members of the political opposition have been jailed or forced to flee the country, and donations to victims of the violence have been seized by the government.

Protests took place on Thursday and Friday, with thousands taking part in a vigil at the square on Thursday evening, leaving flowers and lighting candles in Bondarenko’s memory. “Tribunal!” the crowds chanted, calling for justice. 

Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, a former presidential candidate now living outside of Belarus, wrote on Telegram: “Roman Bondarenko was killed by accomplices of the regime. He was an innocent victim of an inhumane system that considers people’s lives to be the cost of power. We all understand that any peaceful person could have ended up in his place.”

European diplomats expressed concern over Bondarenko’s death. Linas Linkevičius, Lithuania’s foreign affairs minister, wrote that he was “shocked” at the “astonishing cynicism, cruelty of the regime”.

An EU spokesman threatened to impose additional sanctions against the government. “This is an outrageous and shameful result of the actions by the Belarusian authorities who have not only directly and violently carried out repression of their own population, but also created an environment whereby such lawless, violent acts can take place,” they said.

Last week the EU announced sanctions including a travel ban and asset freeze against Lukashenko, his son Viktor and 13 officials responsible for the “violent repression and intimidation of peaceful demonstrators”.

On Friday the Belarusian parliament discussed a new measure apparently aimed at opposition supporters that could lead to those found guilty of extremism or “causing damage to the national interest” being stripped of citizenship.





No.17 article:
Fernando Simón appeared to blame doctors for some cases and accused of incompetence

Spain’s general medical council has called for the country’s health emergencies chief to be sacked, accusing him of “patent and prolonged incompetence” in his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and of undermining the morale of overworked doctors.

Fernando Simón, the head of Spain’s coordination centre for health emergencies and alerts, has been the public face of the government’s response to the coronavirus since March.

The 57-year-old epidemiologist, who has worked in Africa and Latin America, has won plaudits for his down-to-earth briefing style, but has also attracted controversy.

The general council of medical colleges said it had been obliged to call for Simón’s removal after remarks made last week in which he appeared to blame doctors for some of the Covid infections during the first wave of the virus in the spring and early summer.

The council said: “In his latest comments on the number of infections among health workers, he literally said: ‘Health professionals have learned lessons following the first wave. Managers are putting in place better care circuits in hospitals. And obviously, we’re seeing better behaviour from health workers when it comes to avoiding infection beyond the areas where they work.’”

The council, which represents Spain’s 52 medical colleges,said Simón’s remarks had been made in the full knowledge of the huge damage Covid had inflicted on health workers in general – and doctors in particular.

It added: “These discouraging comments don’t just show insensitivity and a lack of understanding, they also demonstrate a clear ignorance of the working conditions we have been subjected to – including a lack of personal protective equipment and diagnostic tests – and of the responsibility and vocation of thousands of colleagues who have been carrying out their medical duties in close collaboration with other health professionals.”

The council pointed out that 72 doctors had died doing their jobs since March, adding that hundreds more were still suffering the aftereffects of the virus, “and thousands more are still fighting to deal with a pandemic the likes of which we have never seen”.

It also accused Simón of ignoring dissenting voices and of failing to put together a committee of independent experts to assess the government’s handling of the pandemic.

However, Prof Rafael Bengoa, a former World Health Organization health systems director who is now the co-director of the Institute for Health and Strategy in Bilbao, defended Simón.

“This isn’t the way forward,” he tweeted. “When mistakes are made in our hospitals, we ask, ‘what happened?’ and not ‘whose fault is it?’. That’s how we learn. Simón has my support for the most complicated medical task in decades!”

Jaume Padrós, the president of the Medical College of Catalonia, also spoke out against the general medical council’s call, saying his college did not support the move, adding: “Legitimate criticism doesn’t justify this call for this sacking.”

Simón apologised earlier this month for sexist remarks made during a YouTube interview. Asked whether he preferred “infectious diseases or infectious nurses”, he replied: “I didn’t ask [the nurses] if they were infectious or not; you only see that a few days later.”

His words were denounced as “sexist and degrading” by the General Nursing Council, while the deputy prime minister, Carmen Calvo, called them “very inappropriate” and unhelpful.

Simón said he was sorry for the way he reacted to “a very silly joke”, adding: “My response was very wrong. I apologise to anyone and any groups who may have been offended. I’m sorry.”

Spain has the second highest number of Covid cases in western Europe, after France. As of last Friday it had a total of 1,458,591, 234,280 of them detected over the previous fortnight. To date, 40,769 people have died from the virus in Spain.

• This article was amended on 16 November 2020. Spain has the second highest number of Covid cases in western Europe, not the highest as stated in an earlier version.





No.18 article:
'Chumocracy': how Covid revealed the new shape of the Tory establishment

Appointments made and contracts awarded during the pandemic have uncovered a web of connections

by  David Conn,  David Pegg,  Rob Evans,  Juliette Garside and  Felicity Lawrence

The great global hope raised this week by news of successful trials for a Covid-19 vaccine interrupted a very British row about the head of the UK’s own vaccine efforts, who was appointed in May and reports directly to Boris Johnson.

As Kate Bingham, chair of the vaccine taskforce, came under sustained scrutiny over the £670,000 budget she had allocated for public relations consultants, attention switched from her suitability for the role to her connections to the Conservative government.

Managing partner of a private equity firm, SV Health Investors, involved for 30 years in pharmaceutical investment, she is also married to a Tory MP, Jesse Norman, who was at Eton at the same time as Johnson, and she went to private school with Rachel Johnson, the prime minister’s sister.

The pandemic’s devastating hold over British life has shone an unsparing light on the country’s defining features: the divide between north and south, the wealthy and less well-off, the vulnerability of black and minority ethnic communities.

The anti-establishment claims of a government led by Johnson and Dominic Cummings were always audacious, and in the appointments and contracts awarded during the pandemic, the shape of a Tory establishment has come into focus. Critics are calling it a “chumocracy”.

Companies benefiting from government contracts awarded during the pandemic have links, among others, to the Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove and Cummings, the prime minister’s chief adviser. Cummings shock departure from Downing Street following the resignation of his close ally Lee Cain, who was head of communications, now signal a realignment of power in No 10, but the web of connections drawing complaints of “cronyism” extend beyond any single Tory faction.

Bingham’s appointment shares similarities with that of Dido Harding, to head the NHS test and trace operation in May. She was made chair of NHS Improvement in 2017 after an open recruitment process, her CV gleams with executive experience, and also opens a window to a small world of Conservative connectedness. Married to the Tory MP John Penrose, she was given a peerage in 2014 by David Cameron, a friend, and sits in the House of Lords as a Conservative.

Neither Bingham nor Harding are being paid for their roles, but critics complain that two central pillars of the pandemic response, vaccines and testing, are being led by two well-connected executives appointed without an evident formal process.

A racehorse owner and keen rider, Harding was in 2004 appointed as a member of the Jockey Club, which gave the local Newmarket MP and current health secretary, Matt Hancock, another horseracing enthusiast, honorary membership of its prestigious rooms, shortly after he was first elected, in 2010.

The racing and Tory connections extend to Randox Laboratories, the Northern Irish healthcare company that was given a £133m contract in May by Hancock’s department to produce testing kits, recently extended by six months for a further £347m. Owen Paterson, Conservative MP for North Shropshire since 1997, is paid £8,333 per month for 16 hours work as a consultant for Randox. The company is the official healthcare partner of the Jockey Club, and has sponsored the Grand National since 2016.

Both the initial Randox deal for tests, and its recent extension, were awarded under the emergency Covid-19 regulations that waive standard rules requiring competitive tenders for public contracts, enabling Johnson’s government to directly hire chosen firms at speed. Neither Randox nor Paterson responded to requests for comment.

In the latest twist to the controversy over appointments, the Sunday Times reported that George Pascoe–Watson, UK chairman of lobbying firm Portland Communications, was made an unpaid adviser to a health minister during the first wave of the pandemic without any public process or announcement. Pascoe–Watson told the newspaper that information he and Portland passed to private clients in October about the government’s stance on future lockdowns was “in no way connected” to calls he had access to in his advisory work for the government.

Amid the billions spent, some multimillion-pound contracts for the supply of personal protective equipment have been criticised by campaigners, including the not-for-profit Good Law Project (GLP), which has highlighted several Tory links.

While the emergency regulations could be expected to enable urgent commissioning of tests, PPE and other medical supplies, the government’s contracting of data, policy and communications companies has perhaps come as more of a surprise.

Four of the companies engaged for such consultancy services on contracts not put out to tender have political links either to the government, Conservative party, Cummings himself or the Vote Leave campaign he ran during the Brexit referendum.

In June the Cabinet Office, whose minister is Michael Gove, published details of a contract that had been running under the emergency regulations since March with the policy consultancy Public First, to research public opinion about the government’s Covid-19 communications. The company is owned by the husband-and-wife team James Frayne, previously a long-term political associate of Cummings, and Rachel Wolf, a former adviser to Gove who co-wrote the Conservative party manifesto for last year’s election.

Frayne and Cummings first worked together approximately 20 years ago on Business for Sterling, the Eurosceptic campaign against Britain joining the euro, and then in 2004 at the rightwing thinktank, the New Frontiers Foundation. 

After Gove became education secretary following the 2010 election – with Cummings as his chief adviser – Frayne was from 2011-12 the Department for Education’s (DfE) director of communications, a civil service appointment. Frayne told the Guardian that after leaving the DfE in 2013 he worked in commercial consulting, setting up Public First in 2016. He said he has not been personally in contact with Cummings or Gove for some years.

Despite his wife’s recent work on the Tory manifesto, he insisted their company was engaged by the Cabinet Office because it is known for high-quality focus group and policy work, not because of its connections. The upper limit for the Cabinet Office contract was £840,000, but Frayne said they had billed about £550,000 in total, and that the work had a “low margin” of profit.

Public First was also contracted to advise the exams regulator Ofqual on its communications before and after the summer debacle over the awarding of A-level and GCSE grades, and had a £116,000 contract with the Department for Health and Social Care (DHSC) to advise on joining up health and social care. The value of these contracts was below the level at which a competitive tender is required.

Another very well-connected company that has profited from directly awarded contracts during the pandemic is Hanbury Strategy. A policy and lobbying consultancy, Hanbury has been paid £648,000 under two contracts, one under the emergency regulations to research “public attitudes and behaviours” in relation to the pandemic, the other, at a level that did not require a tender, to conduct weekly polling.

The company was co-founded by Paul Stephenson, who was director of communications for the Vote Leave campaign, working with Cummings. Stephenson is now among the names tipped as potential new chief of staff for the prime minister. In March last year, Hanbury was given responsibility for assessing job applications for Conservative party special advisers.

When its government contracts were first reported, Hanbury said its “leading experts” had worked with different political parties and governments internationally, and it was proud of its work for the British government during the Covid-19 crisis.

On 17 March, six days before Johnson finally imposed the first lockdown, the Cabinet Office gave the political communications company Topham Guerin a £3m contract under the new emergency regulations. Run by two New Zealanders, Sean Topham and Ben Guerin, the company had produced social media content for a number of rightwing political parties, including the Conservative party’s 2019 election campaign.

It was Topham Guerin that was behind two notorious Tory stunts during the election: renaming the official Conservative party Twitter account “factcheckUK” during the leaders’ debate, and setting up a website presented as Labour’s manifesto.

The £3m Covid-19 work was to sharpen the government’s messaging, and Topham Guerin is reported to have suggested on a call with Stephenson and Lee Cain, that the “stay home, save lives” slogan had worked in some other countries. The government adopted that with “protect the NHS”, reportedly suggested by Cain.

Topham Guerin’s £3m contract concluded in September; the Cabinet Office says it has exercised the option to extend the company’s work for a further six months.

Meanwhile, the artificial intelligence and data analytics company Faculty Science Ltd, which worked with Cummings for Vote Leave in the referendum, has been awarded a string of government contracts since 2018. After Johnson became prime minister, a former Faculty employee who worked on Vote Leave, Ben Warner, was recruited by Cummings to work alongside him in Downing Street.

Warner, who is the brother of Faculty’s chief executive, Marc Warner, is reported to have run the data modelling for the Conservative party’s general election campaign in 2019. A close Cummings ally, he regularly attends the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) on behalf of No 10, although he is one of several aides who reportedly may now exit amid a changing of the guard at Downing Street.

Under the emergency pandemic regulations, Faculty has been engaged on a £400,000 contract with the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government, and two contracts totalling approximately £350,000 with the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy.

That government work was in addition to a £930,000 contract with the DHSC to be the AI lab partner for NHSX, the digital arm of the NHS, which began on 2 February and was awarded following a competitive tender. That contract was extended to include work on the Covid-19 datastore, an “unprecedented” data project also involving Palantir, a US firm founded by the libertarian billionaire Peter Thiel.

A Faculty spokesperson told the Guardian that the work for Vote Leave in 2016 was to provide polling analysis and advice on reducing advertising costs. “This was a commercial contract,” she said. “Faculty would equally have worked with Remain, had they asked.” The spokesperson stressed Faculty’s expertise, and said all of its government work was “won through a fit and proper process”.

The Good Law Project has challenged some government contract awards to companies with Tory connections, and is increasingly focused on those for PPE. The case of Ayanda Capital, an investment firm that won a £252m contract in April to supply face masks, was raised with Johnson by the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, in parliament this week. Ayanda’s chief executive, the financier Tim Horlick, has strongly denied allegations that millions of its masks were unusable, saying the issue was the Cabinet Office requesting the final consignments to be headband style rather than with ear loops. The government appeared to support that view in its response to the GLP, saying “a wider issue” emerged as to whether ear-loops provide “an adequate fixing”.

The GLP drew attention to the involvement for Ayanda at the bidding stage of Andrew Mills, at the time an adviser to the Board of Trade, an arm of the Department for International Trade (DIT), where Liz Truss is the minister. Horlick has said that Mills was “told to go to the public portal” for procurement “like everybody else”, and the DIT said neither it nor the Board of Trade was involved in the Ayanda deal. Mills has since been replaced on the Board of Trade when it was “refreshed” in September.

The prime minister has repeatedly rejected accusations of “cronyism” made by the Labour opposition in the award of contracts, and in an exchange with Starmer at the dispatch box he hailed the contributions made by commercial companies in the pandemic. The government maintains that both Harding and Bingham are very well qualified and have made great successes of their roles.

However, Liz David-Barrett of the University of Sussex, an adviser to the Cabinet Office on the UK’s anti-corruption strategy, argues there are “red flags” when the competitive tendering process for government contracts is suspended and contracts are awarded to companies with connections.

“Competition and transparency for government contracts are hard-won processes, very important if the public are to have confidence that the best people are providing public services,” she said. “If the processes are suspended for a long time, there is a risk that it becomes the norm, and confidence is undermined.”

On Thursday the government in effect agreed; Julia Lopez, a Cabinet Office minister, said an internal review would be held into the awarding of private contracts during the pandemic, so ministers could be sure there was “no basis” for claims of favouritism to Tory supporters or donors. The National Audit Office is also carrying out its own review into procurement.

Throughout, as concerns have grown about the networks of Tory-linked relationships highlighted by the business done during the pandemic, it might be of some reassurance that the UK has an official anti-corruption champion. Perhaps less reassuring is that the champion is John Penrose, Conservative MP and husband of Dido Harding.

The Scott Trust, the ultimate owner of the Guardian, is the sole investor in GMG Ventures, which is a minority shareholder in Faculty.

Additional reporting by Joseph Smith





No.19 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Uğur Şahin ‘very confident’ vaccine candidate developed with Pfizer will bring big reduction in cases

The scientist behind the first potential Covid-19 vaccine to clear interim clinical trials says he is “very confident” the jab will reduce transmission of the disease, perhaps by 50%, resulting in a “dramatic” reduction in cases.

The German company BioNTech and the US pharmaceutical firm Pfizer announced to worldwide acclaim last week that their jointly developed vaccine candidate appeared to be 90% effective in stopping people from falling ill.

Uğur Şahin, the chief executive of BioNTech, said he expected that further analysis would show that the jab is also effective in stopping spread of the disease, but probably not by as much as 90%. Certainty around its impact will not come until next year, he added.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

Şahin, who was interviewed by the Guardian last week, told BBC One’s Andrew Marr show on Sunday: “As a scientist and from extrapolation of what we have seen so far from other viruses, I would expect a high efficacy in preventing disease translates into at least some efficacy in preventing infection.

“I’m very confident that transmission between people will be reduced by such a highly effective vaccine – maybe not 90% but maybe 50%. But we should not forget that even that would result in a dramatic reduction of the pandemic spread.”

Şahin said the scientists would have a better understanding of the vaccine candidate’s impact in slowing transmission “in a few months” following further analysis of the antibody response in trial participants.

BioNTech has said previously that some crucial questions regarding the jab’s efficacy will only be answerable in the coming weeks and months. Establishing for certain whether it can also stop asymptomatic infections could take up to a year.

It is also not known how long immunisation will last once the vaccine has been taken, but Şahin said on Sunday that the jab could be required “every year, every second year or every five years”, depending on the antibody response.

The companies hope to deliver more than 300m doses of the vaccine around the world by April next year, with the first injections taking place next month. This would be too late to have a dramatic impact on the second wave sweeping across large parts of Europe and the Americas, Şahin said, but it could help the west have a “normal winter” next year.

“This winter will be hard. We will not have a big impact on the infection numbers with our vaccine this winter. If everything continues to go well, we will start to deliver the vaccine end of this year, beginning of next year,” he said.

callout-coronavirus

“The bigger impact will [not] happen until summer. The summer will help us anyway because the infection rate will go down. What is absolutely essential is that we get a high vaccination rate until or before autumn, winter next year.

“That means all the immunisation vaccination … must be accomplished before next autumn. We are confident that this will happen because a number of vaccine companies have been asked to increase the supply, so we could have a normal winter next year.”

Şahin, whose wife, Özlem Türeci, is BioNTech’s chief medical officer, said he received the “extremely relieving” news about the results of their interim trial in an 8am call from Pfizer’s chief executive, Albert Bourla. Asked how he and his wife celebrated the news, Şahin said: “We sat together and had a tea … this is not only British, this is also Turkish.”





No.20 article:
Covid lockdown two: coffee queues, traffic jams, staring at shops and boredom

On a sodden seafront in Hove, East Sussex, walkers look for respite from the latest coronavirus restrictions

It’s said the name Hove derives from the old English hufe, meaning shelter or coverage. But it did not feel sheltered on Saturday morning. A biting wind whipped in from a sea that looked, in James Joyce’s memorable phrase, “scrotumtightening”. Overhead a dull rain leaked from a dishcloth-grey sky.

Yet the promenade was filled with hundreds of walkers, seemingly oblivious to the elements. Welcome to the second lockdown, a conspicuously more external event than its predecessor.

“I remember walking along here during the first lockdown,” said publican Sue Morley, standing outside Starbucks on the high street, “and there was no one around. No cars. No people. Nothing. Now it’s just like normal, whatever normal is.”

Normality, as we’ve come to learn, is a relative concept. But first time around there was something rather spectral and unnerving about the UK’s near-abandoned streets, as if a neutron bomb had gone off, and the only people to survive were deeply suspicious of each other.

It was a matter of pandemic etiquette for pedestrians to give a wide berth to anyone they encountered, often walking into the road to avoid the threat of aerosol contact. And there was that unearthly, rather blissful silence that announced the sudden absence of cars.

Now cars are bumper to bumper again and everyone’s brushing shoulders with strangers as if in unconscious search of human contact.

“I’m fed up,” complained Helen Kaouris. “He’s not,” she added, gesturing to her husband Michael.

“I quite enjoy it,” Michael admitted, sheepishly.

“It’s just boring,” said Kate McDonald. “It’s winter and there’s nowhere to go. I don’t think people are obeying this one as much. That’s why the seafront is absolutely packed.”

Almost everyone complained about the weather, unfavourably contrasting it with the dreamy premature heatwave that illuminated the dark days of last spring, and which gradually encouraged people to venture out.

The government rules still stipulate that everyone should stay at home, but the exemptions are so numerous that few seem to be taking the prohibition as anything but a loose guide for other people.

“It’s messy,” said Sam Parsons, braving the wind on the seafront. “It’s like the idea of essential shopping. What’s essential? In M&amp;S, it’s not just food that you can buy, but all the other stuff too. Which isn’t very fair on other shops.”

Certainly the fact that most shops are closed doesn’t seem to have affected the footfall on Hove’s main shopping drag. Some punters were window-shopping, staring at ultra-high definition televisions in Sevenoaks Sound &amp; Vision. Others were queuing up outside the countless coffee shops that were doing a roaring takeaway trade.

The deep-seated consumerist instinct to get out on a Saturday morning and spend money, or at least prep for it, does not appear to have been damaged by this prolonged pandemic. Yet everyone has had to make the difficult adjustment to an open-ended sense of limitations.

“First time round we thought we’d stamp it out,” said Michaela Bridger. “Now you realise it’s not going to go away. It’s depressing.”

Her husband, Daniel, said he was conscious that in the first lockdown there was a unified national spirit in the face of an invisible enemy. But that had waned, leaving a denuded sense of collective purpose. “I’m starting to think that it’s impinging on my first world liberties,” he said with deliberate irony. “And I do worry about the long-term effects on the economy.”

The general sentiment was that the government had lost its ability to motivate the population, because no one much believed in its vision or knew what it was.

“I don’t think people have much faith in the government,” said Freya Lucks, who was visiting her boyfriend Doran Good in Brighton.

“My friends are not observing this lockdown as strictly,” said Good. “They’re much more likely to hang out in groups now.”

And do what? “Skateboard.”

But no one was on skateboards on the promenade. They were all just walking, heads down, with gritted teeth, set with dogged determination against the wind. There wasn’t very much else to do. In St Ann’s Well Gardens, a small park just back from the seafront, eight tennis courts stood empty as small groups of people, in their twos, threes and fours, walked shoulder-to-shoulder around the park.

Why playing tennis ten yards apart is seen as more likely to spread the virus than walking inches away from one another is a mystery that science is highly unlikely to solve. By the same token, wide-open golf fairways are officially viewed as petri dishes of contagion, yet bunched queues outside coffee shops are of minimal concern.

These are the anomalies that seem to have been created to give us something to talk about as we walk around and around, wondering whether we’re going to watch another episode of The Queen’s Gambit this evening, and if we’ve run out of gin.

The paradox of the first lockdown was that the nation was united in staying apart. This time there’s no grand overarching belief, and people are coming together to share the fact that they’re all in the same leaky boat, and that it has an uncertain destination.

“I find that I’m talking to strangers a lot more,” said Sally Swann, an art therapist.

In a sense no one is a stranger in this lockdown. There isn’t the same anxiety about what others might be carrying. In its place is a shared sense of boredom, and the bonding knowledge that everyone’s in it together, even if no one can say any longer what “it” is.





No.21 article:
Bars and shops closed as Europe battles second wave of coronavirus

Strict measures – including curfews and states of emergencies – are in force once more across the continent as Covid cases surge

The country announced a second lockdown from 30 October after daily Covid-related deaths reached their highest levels since April. Due to last at least a month, it is having a limited effect: new infections and hospital admissions dropped sharply at first only to increase sharply at the end of last week. , health ministry data showed

People are allowed to leave home only for essential work and medical reasons, or to exercise for one hour a day; restaurants and bars have been told to close but schools and factories can remain open. All non-essential travel has been banned and the country’s external borders are closed (although journeys are still permitted inside the EU). Travellers must be tested on arrival.

Austria

Yesterday, Vienna ordered a three-week lockdown starting on Tuesday to bring a surge in Covid-19 cases under control in time for Christmas. Austria now has one of Europe’s highest infection rates per capita. Daily new cases hit a record of 9,586 on Friday, nine times higher than at the peak of the first wave. 

A current night-time curfew will become an all-day requirement to stay at home, with a few exceptions such as shopping or exercise. Working from home should happen wherever possible. Non-essential shops will close, as will service providers such as hairdressers. Secondary schools have already switched to distance learning; primary schools and kindergartens will continue to provide childcare.

Early this month, Germany began a “circuit-breaker” national lockdown to try to stop a sharp rise in cases, closing restaurants, bars, cinemas and gyms, and banning leisure travel. Schools remain open, and worship and protests are still allowed.

But daily infections have continued to increase, hitting a record 23,542 on Friday, and officials have dampened hopes that restrictions would be lifted at a meeting on Monday, when the effect of the lockdown will be discussed. Winter events such as office Christmas parties were unlikely to be allowed, the health minister said.

The country is having a second wave that is worse than its first, and in response has brought in one of the strictest lockdowns in Europe, with a nightly curfew and weekend shutdowns in nearly 200 municipalities, home to more than three-quarters of the population. People have been urged to work from home if they can, though schools, shops and restaurants are still open. In affected areas, people must stay at home from 11pm to 5am, or from 1pm at weekends.

The country has recorded a comparatively low 191,011 cases and 3,181 deaths, but last Saturday daily infections rose to over 6,600.

Since the start of the pandemic, Sweden has opted for a light-touch, anti-lockdown approach. There were hopes that this could mitigate a second wave by producing a higher level of immunity, but studies so far show that the national health agency has been over-optimistic about levels of antibodies in the population. In recent days, infections and hospital admissions have surged, and several regions have brought in tighter controls – though people are asked, rather than legally obliged, to comply with most measures. On Friday, the country registered 5,990 new cases, the highest since the start of the pandemic.

But shops, bars, restaurants and gyms have stayed open throughout, and wearing a face mask is still not an official recommendation outside hospitals. The country’s death rate per capita is far higher than that of its Nordic neighbours, but lower than in countries such as Spain.

• The headline to this article was amended on 15 November 2020. An earlier version referred to borders being closed; while France, for example, has closed its external borders, internal EU borders are open with a regime for restriction measures in place. It was further amended on 17 November to include the detail that people in France can leave home to exercise for one hour a day.







No.22 article:
&#x27;Everyone is outraged and sad&#x27;: Canada shocked by killing of rare white moose

Flying Post First Nation in northern Ontario offer reward after ‘spirit’ moose – considered sacred – killed by suspected poachers

The killing of a rare “spirit” moose in Canada has shocked residents of a northern Ontario community and prompted one First Nations man to offer a reward to anyone who can help officials apprehend the suspected poachers.

Residents around the city of Timmins have long swapped stories of a ghostly white moose population occasionally spotted moving silently through forests of aspen and pine.

But poachers recently killed two female moose, including one white cow. The remains, including their heads, were left discarded along a remote service road.

“Everybody is outraged and sad. Why would you shoot it? No one needs one that bad,” said Chief Murray Ray of nearby Flying Post First Nation. “If you have a license to shoot a cow moose, you could shoot another one. Just leave the white ones alone.”

The moose are not albinos, but get their colour from a recessive gene. Among Indigenous peoples in the region, white animals like bison, raven and grizzly bears, are considered sacred and shouldn’t be harmed.

“It saddens me that somebody would take such a beautiful animal,” said Flying Post community member Troy Woodhouse. “Nobody knows exactly how many are in the area, so the loss of a single spirit moose is one too many.”

Years ago, as he and his wife fished the Groundhog River, Woodhouse spotted a white figure on the tree line. As they approached in their boat, the couple watched in awe as a young white bull moose stood near the homestead of Woodhouse’s grandfather.

“It was a sign that he’s watching over us on the land. It was very special to me,” he said.

Mark Clement, a photographer in the region, has spotted a number of moose over the years. He knows of at least four white bulls – and estimates there could be as many as 30 spread out over the region.

While the white moose have been spotted in the area for more than 40 years, it was only in the last decade that they won legal protections. They are not a distinct species, but throughout the region, signs warn against killing them – the only place in the country where such a law exists.

In 2013, a trio of hunters killed a white moose in the province of Nova Scotia, angering the local Mi’kmaq people. After they realized their mistake, the hunters returned the pelt to the Mi’kmaq so that a multi-day ceremony could be performed – but kept the head as a trophy. The Flying Post nation has also requested the pelt of the latest spirit moose returned to them so that a ceremony can be held to honour the moose.

Wildlife officials have asked the public to come forward with any evidence that could lead to charges. Woodhouse has also offered a reward of C$1,000 ($760).

“I’m a proud Flying Post First Nation member and I just wanted to help any way I could,” he said. “Since I’m so far away, I thought I could donate some money to help bring more awareness and encourage others to voice their concerns.”

News of his offer has spread quickly. A local drilling company has matched Woodhouse’s offer and an animal welfare group has offered C$5,000. The total now stands at $8,000.

“Maybe hunters tried to get one moose and got the other by accident. If a person does come forward and admit what they did, I would put my portion towards any of their legal fees,” said Woodhouse. “There’s so much negativity in the world today. It’s nice to just see some people banding together and trying to turn this into something positive.”





No.23 article:
Social media firms must face sanction for ‘anti-vax content’, demands Labour

Opposition claims that online disinformation poses a threat to the effective take-up of coronavirus vaccines

Social media companies that fail to act to “stamp out dangerous anti-vaccine content” should be subject to financial and criminal penalties, Labour has demanded.

As hopes rise that a vaccine against coronavirus could be ready within weeks, analysis by Labour has revealed that dedicated online groups with hundreds of thousands of members are still churning out disinformation – despite the new measures announced by the government and social media companies last week to tackle the issue.

In a letter to Oliver Dowden, the digital, culture and media secretary, Labour warns that the spread of disinformation presents a “real and present danger” to vaccination efforts and calls on the government to bring forward legislation against online harms. Jo Stevens and Jonathan Ashworth, the shadow secretaries for culture and for health,

 say in the letter that if the government works with Labour on the issue, it will provide votes to pass legislation.

The government announced an agreement with social media giants last week. But the details of the deal revealed that the only commitment was not to profit from or promote flagged anti-vax content. This raised questions as to why these groups weren’t simply being closed down.

Labour says its analysis shows:

• Anti-vaccine social media groups unmasked by the Center for Countering Digital Hate months ago still remain open and active in spreading misinformation.

• Numerous openly anti-vaccination groups with nearly 100,000 Facebook users can be found within seconds of logging on to the platform in the UK.

• Videos featuring prominent anti-vaxxers on YouTube are still featuring advertising generating income for the platform.

• Groups engaged with tackling extremists warn that anti-vaccination conspiracy theories provide a recruiting ground for the far right.

Stevens said: 

“The government has a pitiful track record on taking action against online platforms that are facilitating the spread of disinformation. It has been clear for years that this is a widespread and growing problem and the government knows, because Labour has been warning them for some time, that it poses a real threat to the take-up of the vaccine. This is literally a matter of life and death and anyone who is dissuaded from being vaccinated because of this is one person too many.”

Other groups joined the call for action. Imran Ahmed, chief executive of the Center for Countering Digital Hate, said: “Despite big tech’s promises, Google is still funding anti-vax misinformation websites by placing advertisements on them, while Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and YouTube give well-known anti-vaxxers a platform to spread dangerous conspiracy theories and lies to millions of users.

“Throughout the coronavirus pandemic, big tech has made bold claims of intent, but failed to follow through with effective action. It is vital that there are sanctions when social media companies fail to fulfil their duty of care to users and society at large. The government must stop falling for big tech’s excuses, and introduce financial and criminal penalties for failures that lead to serious harm.

“We have all done our bit to contain coronavirus. It’s beyond time for social media companies and regulators to do their bit too.”

But Adam Hadley, founder and director of the Online Harms Foundation, said that while it may be superficially appealing to fine social media platforms for allowing users to post content online, “it creates more problems than it solves.”

“Anti-vaxxers will still exist regardless of whether they are permitted to make their arguments online. A more sensible solution would be to require social media companies to run government adverts alongside anti-vaxxer content, ” said Hadley, whose NGO works in partnership with some of the major platforms, governments and others to tackle online harms.

“Controversial ideas are best defeated by debating and debunking them rather than by effectively banning people from talking about them. When that happens, these debates tend to move to the fringes of the internet and the offline world, where they are often exploited by extremist groups whose only aim is to stoke division and discontent,” he added.

• This article was amended on 17 November 2020 to add detail about the Online Harms Foundation, whose partners include Facebook, Google and Twitter, tech companies and government ministries, among others.





No.24 article:
Will Dutch library ban on &#x27;Black Pete&#x27; books spell end for &#x27;racist&#x27; festive tradition?

The portrayal of Santa’s Moor servant ‘Zwarte Piet’ is widely seen as offensive. Protesters applaud the decision to remove the character from children’s books 

Public libraries across the Netherlands are removing from the shelves children’s books depicting a black-faced Zwarte Piet, a side-kick to Sinterklaas, in the latest sign that the country is turning the page on a festive figure widely seen as being racist.

For at least a decade, there have been protests against the practice of white people with blackened faces, curly wigs and exaggerated bright red lips depicting the character at the nationwide parades held in early December to herald the feast of Saint Nicholas.

The need to socially distance due to the coronavirus pandemic has ensured that such high-street festivities will not be possible this year. But the debate over the portrayal of Zwarte Piet has continued, not least in response to the decision by librarians to start removing books containing images of the character, which first appeared in print in 1850, for being “contrary to good morals”.

“Everywhere there is a growing awareness that Zwarte Piet gives a stereotypical image of a certain part of the population and the libraries are moving along with this,” the director at the Association of Public Libraries, Anton Kok, told the Het Algemeen Dagblad newspaper.

“Numerous books have been taken down over time for being ‘contrary to morals’. I am thinking, for example, of the children’s books in which the population of the Dutch East Indies was dismissed as patjakkers [low-life rascals]. Zwarte Piet is also contrary to good morals as far as I am concerned. It is more that [libraries] are linking up with the spirit of the times.”

There has been a slow but unmistakeable shift in public opinion in recent years about the depiction of Zwarte Piet, Sinterklaas’s Moor servant, expressed most significantly by the Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte in the wake of the killing of George Floyd and the emergence of the Black Lives Matter movement.

Rutte, who has dressed up as Zwarte Piet in the past and has defended the practice on the grounds that it is a simple representation of a figure that “is black”, said this summer that his opinions had changed. “When I met people who said, ‘I feel incredibly discriminated against because the Piet is black,’ I thought: that is the last thing you want at the Sinterklaas party,” he said.

A survey released last week by the current affairs programme EenVandaag of 29,000 members of its longstanding opinion panel found that support for the traditional depiction of Piet has fallen from 89% in 2013 to 55%.

The Belgian publisher Clavis, the largest supplier of Dutch language children’s books, has said it will no longer support authors who include a Zwarte Piet in their pages with red lips, a frizzy wig and gold earrings.

The company destroyed 7,000 books containing such images at the end of last month, and Zwarte Piet is being represented in a host of new ways including as a white boy with soot on the face in a reference to his trips down chimneys to hand out sweets to children.

There has also been international pressure for change. In 2015, a United Nations committee on the elimination of racial discrimination urged the Dutch government to “actively promote the elimination” of the racial stereotyping implicit in the character. Google said last month that it would not allow adverts to be shown on web pages or videos featuring a “black face” Zwarte Piet.

Kok said the Dutch Association of Public Libraries could not order all its members to remove the offending books but that librarians were making the right decisions without need for guidance.

He said: “White children don’t care about another Pete and black children find it strange and nasty, and that is what matters. Some people also like fascism. And yes, that sounds crude, but I mean that a tribe cannot determine our policy. We see that libraries are taking on that responsibility en masse.”

• The headline to this article was amended on 15 November 2020 to remove a reference to Christmas. Although the figure of Father Christmas arose from the traditions associated with St Nicholas, the saint’s feast day of 6 December is a distinct celebration, which is also marked in some countries on its eve.







No.25 article:
As Covid upends the American education system, some parents have been forced take on the jobs of highly specialized educators and therapists

For months, little Jordi thrived.

Although Covid-19 had prompted shutdowns in Los Angeles this March, the five-year-old, who has severe autism, was able to receive behavioral therapy at home. Meanwhile, Jordi’s parents were working from home, so he was around them all day. In June, after safety protocols were in place, Jordi resumed speech and physical therapy at an early-intervention clinic. These therapies were through their private insurance.

“I’d never seen this kid blossom so much,” his mother, Carla Suarez-Capdet, told the Guardian.

That changed when Jordi started remote learning at kindergarten.

“Fast forward to August: we log on for virtual learning,” Suarez-Capdet recalled. “All of a sudden, Jordi is like, ‘why am I logging into Zoom four times a day … [seeing] all these squares’” with people in them.

“He started injuring himself again,” Suarez-Capdet said of Jordi, who is now six. “Banging his head on the ground, pulling his hair out … He was regressing to pre-early intervention behavior.

“Kids with special needs and kids with IEPs [individualized education programs], they can’t access anything virtually, because it’s very hard for them to focus,” she said, saying there had been a “lack of support” from the Los Angeles unified school district.

Suarez-Capdet’s concerns are far from unique.

While parents around the US are grappling with dramatic changes to schooling – such as shifts to all-remote or hybrid instruction – those who have children with special needs must adapt to far more than juggling their Zoom work meetings with homework help. Many have had to take on the jobs of highly specialized educators and therapists; many have spent hours and hours trying to navigate a labyrinthine system to find assistance.

New Jersey resident Henry Tejada, who has two autistic sons, saw a dramatic shift in their behavior shortly after schools went all-virtual in March. “They’re used to going to a place, to getting out of the house,” Tejada said.

“The main thing is they’re always structured, everything is by time … with remote learning, it was not,” explained Tejada, who works at Span Parent Advocacy Network, an organization that helps New Jersey families with special needs children find resources.

Tejada said his 13-year-old son, Carlos, is non-verbal while his 11-year-old son, Ricky, is verbal. “I had to manage both worlds,” said Tejada, referring to two sets of educational needs.

“My non-verbal son would get upset and I’d try to figure out why he gets upset. His main thing was, ‘I want to get out of the house’, because that’s what he was normally used to – see other people, experience other things. His world basically shut down.”

Tejada and his sons stayed inside because of Covid-19. This meant that he couldn’t walk with Carlos, which is what educators at school did to calm him down. While Tejada understands about 80% of what Carlos wants, as his son uses an iPad or book to communicate with pictures, it was hard for Tejada to explain why they couldn’t go outside.

Ricky initially did fine with remote instruction, completing three worksheets every day. “Then, once he started asking, ‘why can’t I go back to school,’ he didn’t want to do anything unless he went to school – ‘I’m not doing this, it’s not fair, I should be going to school.”

By the fourth month, Tejada said, “He just outright stopped doing it. He was upset.”

Carlos and Ricky have been doing far better since September, after in-person classes resumed several days a week. But, Tejada is concerned: spurred by an increase in Covid-19, his city is planning school shutdowns later this month.

Some parents of students with special needs have had more positive experiences despite the challenges.

In the Bronx borough in New York City, Grisel Cardona, a single mother, described at-home learning with three children as “a little stressful”, but better than she expected.

Cardona’s 10-year-old son has autism and her eight-year-old daughter has special needs. Before the pandemic hit, Cardona’s now three-year-old son was doing an in-person early intervention program for feeding therapy, because he struggled with chewing anything large.

Her older son now has a tablet, so he can do live-instruction. “The teacher’s on with him for a little over 30 minutes, just doing work activities, and they kind of stretch it out at the end of the session, just to loosen them up a bit,” she said. “I’m super grateful for that – it’s hard to not be with your schoolmates in person.”

Cardona has also kept up with the feeding therapy remotely, following the instructor’s guidance, trying to teach him to chew properly, using the proper movements to tone his mouth muscles. Like Tejada, however, she recognized the limitations of not being a professional.

“We still do it online. I usually get his little snacks and you know, we try to work on it. I do exactly what they ask me to. Again I’m not a professional at it, and with them guiding me correctly, I’m able to do the best that I can,” she said.

Back in Los Angeles, Suarez-Capdet continues fighting for her son and advocating for other families. She says that her family is “blessed” to have insurance that covers many services, as most families in the district don’t have access to this level of coverage. This forces them to rely on a system that she characterized as a patchwork, rife with barriers to access.

The Los Angeles unified school district is now offering some access to in-person services for special education students, including one-on-one tutoring and group instruction with up to three students. Earlier this month, special education professionals started conducting assessments for students, the district said.

Suarez-Capdet said there are caveats. With one-on-one tutoring, teachers have to volunteer to participate. When they were offered tutoring, Suarez-Capdet said she asked whether the tutors were certified to teach special education.

“They said, ‘oh, they don’t need to [be], because they’re just tutors’… because it’s a volunteer tutoring that parents can participate in, there’s no requirement legally.”

Suarez-Capdet said she declined the one-on-one because the teachers volunteering were from a pool who didn’t necessarily have training. It was also potentially the case that Jordi would have a different person every week.

“It’s a Band-Aid on a very, very large, hemorrhaging wound,” she said.





No.26 article:
Migrant children’s welfare is being sidelined in UK’s ‘brutal push to deport’

The hostile environment appears very much in operation as documents show the Home Office focusing on exclusions

Home Office officials have expressed concern that the welfare of children and families who have crossed the Channel to the UK is being “compromised” by an intent to prosecute individuals for immigration offences, internal emails and documents reveal.

At least one senior safeguarding official has resigned over what they described as an example of the hostile environment still being used to target vulnerable new arrivals.

One email from a safeguarding expert, whose brief was to inform the Home Office on the welfare needs of families due to be forcibly deported, questioned the use of restraint and “physical intervention” on children.

Correspondence sent to the home secretary, Priti Patel, also reveals how an official stepped down because they did not want to “compromise the safety and wellbeing of children and families to facilitate the proliferation of an enforcement agenda”.

The former safeguarding expert told the Observer that a change in the Home Office’s approach to families and children they were preparing to deport was reflected in the language of some officials.

Requesting anonymity, they said: “The Home Office began undermining our welfare advice, and we started seeing quite crude assumptions made about the credibility of individuals such as asylum seekers trying to scrounge off the state or being called illegals.

“I had to bite my lip. It was basic, crude and quite brutal. Children were being put to one side to focus on immigration issues.”

Another email seen by the Observer also questioned if some families who crossed the Channel in small boats were being “immediately turned around and sent back to France under an obscure article”.

Earlier this year, reports alleged the Home Office had launched an initiative to return migrants swiftly to France before their asylum claims were properly considered.

Details of cases of concern are outlined in other emails including a family where the children were seemingly separated from parents who were subsequently restrained on the way to a deportation flight.

Another highlighted case involves an Iranian teenager who was caring for her young brother and whom the Home Office twice attempted to deport before an intervention by safeguarding officials ensured they were eventually allowed to remain in the UK.

Dan Sohege, director of human rights advocacy group Stand for All and a refugee law specialist, said: “It’s a very disturbing direction of travel the Home Office is going in. They are looking at exclusionary measures rather than supporting those, particularly children, who absolutely need support.”

The disclosures follow attacks by Priti Patel on lawyers who she claims frustrate attempts to deport failed asylum seekers.

Safeguarding officials, according to the emails, were also concerned that similar arguments have been raised in relation to deporting families with references to “high numbers of cases where further submissions and judicial reviews present barriers to removal”. However, the officials say they are legitimate legal challenges made under asylum law, and that one reference to “high numbers” was actually only 17 judicial review applications in a year.

Other concerns relate to claims of information on sensitive cases being withheld from a body called the Independent Family Returns Panel (IFRP), which provides advice on the welfare plans for the forced deportation of families with children.

Among the information allegedly held back from the IFRP were details on potential trafficking victims, while one message claims that the Home Office blocked a trip to Italy for the panel to evaluate the condition of reception facilities before leaving the EU. “We remain concerned about the reported situation for returnees [in Italy],” said one email.

Other areas of disquiet include the holding of child refugees who have crossed the Channel in the “inappropriate accommodation” of a Kent holding facility with some detained for more than 18 hours when they arrive. Last month, it emerged one 15-year-old boy was held for over 66 hours.

The Home Office has been contacted for comment.





No.27 article:
Child mortality crisis is looming as nations struggle to make payments to west and China, says former prime minister

It is being called the “great reversal”. After decades of progress, the international goal of eradicating extreme poverty by 2030 is in jeopardy, Gordon Brown has warned, as developing countries battling the coronavirus sacrifice their health and education systems to pay western and Chinese creditors.

“We need a comprehensive new plan that recognises the need for some countries to restructure and reduce debt,” Brown told the Observer. Ahead of a key G20 meeting next weekend, the former prime minister is calling for a global solution if an imminent child mortality crisis is to be averted.

His warning comes against a backdrop of rising poverty and reversals in child health. Data from the Johns Hopkins Medical School shows that an additional 6,000 children could die every day from preventable causes as the pandemic weakens health systems and disrupts routine services.

But the ability of many developing countries to tackle Covid-19 is severely limited by their debt obligations. With little financial support flowing from the IMF and the World Bank, some governments face a stark choice between repaying creditors or funding crucial public services.

It is predicted that African countries will pay out more than $10bn to creditors this year and next year alone. More than half will go to City asset management firms, like BlackRock, which employs former chancellor George Osborne on £650,000 a year, and Fidelity Investments.

Some countries owe a substantial amount to major commodity firms, while Chinese development banks and companies also figure prominently on their balance sheets.

Zambia, which like many African countries is spending more repaying debt than it is on health and primary education, looks set to become the first African country to default on its debts to bondholders since the pandemic began.

The G20 group of countries that meets in Saudi Arabia next weekend is promoting a Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) under which 73 eligible countries will receive a temporary debt service freeze, with repayments to follow over three years.

Of the 73 countries covered by the DSSI, 43 are scheduled to spend more on debt repayments in 2020 than on health provision.

But aid experts are sceptical about the initiative and the appetite of private creditors to back it. “The G20 debt initiative is an exercise in sleepwalking,” said Kevin Watkins, chief executive of Save the Children. “At a time when many countries need permanent debt reduction, it offers a temporary pause on payments. It is treating a solvency crisis as a liquidity problem, repeating the mistakes that led to the debt crisis of the 1980s. The refusal of private creditors and China to participate in the initiative means that over half of the debt service bill for the poorest countries is not covered by the initiative.”

According to Save the Children, a failure to tackle the debt crisis will see child poverty numbers rise from 307 million to 354 million in the poorest countries covered by the initiative.

It warns that millions more children will go unvaccinated, while untreated killer diseases, such as pneumonia, malaria and diarrhoea, could reverse gains in child mortality built up over the last two decades. The charity is calling for a new initiative that converts debt liabilities into investments in children.

Brown, who played a major part in helping tackle Africa’s debt crisis 20 years ago, said if a comprehensive solution were to be found this time around, the private sector had to step up.

“What’s new is that, unlike early 2000, private creditors account for a sharply rising share of debt service obligations. I would stress the need for a global framework, covering all creditors and, in advance of the G20 meeting next week, we are trying to build worldwide support for it.”

The Observer approached both BlackRock, which is said to hold more than $1bn of African sovereign bonds, and Fidelity for comment.

BlackRock declined to comment and Fidelity did not respond.

Financial experts said that creditor firms had a fiduciary obligation to clients, such as pension funds, limiting their ability to write off debts. Also, the debts are parcelled up, making it impossible for them to act unilaterally. But Watkins called for the firms – and China – to think again. “Money that should be going into health clinics, nutrition programmes and schools is being siphoned off to repay unpayable debts to commercial creditors and China. To speak plainly, this is a violation of child rights.”





No.28 article:
Jean-Luc Mélenchon, France&#x27;s unbowed lefty, plans another run at presidency

Celebrated agitator admits Covid will mean a change of tactics for bid to lead country in 2022

France’s veteran leftwing agitator, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, is preparing once again to sally forth against his enemies on the right after announcing that he is standing in the 2022 presidential elections, the third time he has mounted a challenge to lead the country.

The leader of France Unbowed (La France Insoumise, or LFI) promised last week he would put his name forward if 150,000 French citizens signed a petition supporting him. Within days, he had comfortably hit his target, and the signatures are still pouring in.

With 18 months to go until the next presidential election, polls suggest it is likely to be a repeat of the last one in 2017; a run-off between the current centrist leader, President Emmanuel Macron, and the far right’s Marine Le Pen.

 Mélenchon is aiming to disrupt it. “I have said that I do not wish to see this country once again elect a majority based being against something … voting for Monsieur Macron against Madame Le Pen. It’s time that the French are offered a real choice of something they want,” he says.

Mélenchon, who will be 71 in 2022 and admits that every time he pops up in an election someone says, “You again?”, said his petition was a way of getting talked about.

Marianne magazine pointed out the petition was hardly a barometer of popular support, claiming to have signed it three times under false names including Maximilien Robespierre, which prompted LFI to respond angrily that the list would be independently and legally verified.

There is just one problem. How does a self-confessed political rabble-rouser, who admits his modus operandi is to ramp up the rhetoric, find the right tone in the time of the coronavirus crisis?

“The Covid-19 situation makes our job very difficult because we are in opposition and we do oppose the way the health crisis has been handled, but we cannot be the ones organising more disorganisation. We cannot be pushing people to disobey and create chaos. We just can’t do that,” Mélenchon told the Observer.

“This has led us, the Insoumises, to change our tactics. We have moved on from the period of sound and fury, where it’s a question of channeling the collective anger that is the expression of anti-capitalism, stirring it up, amplifying it and giving voice to it. 

“Societies in a state of distress have a tendency to close ranks, to unite in mutual aid. So now we are saying first, what can we do to get out of this? Secondly, why are we not doing this, and thirdly who is to blame?

“I’m not saying this excludes taking a conflictual position, but that is not our main aim. We are not engaging in head-on clashes.”

In 2012, his first presidential campaign, Mélenchon polled 11.1% of the vote – fourth behind the then centre-right president Nicolas Sarkozy and his successor, Socialist François Hollande, and Le Pen.

In 2017, he polled 19.6% but came fourth once again. Macron went on to win, but with a large anti-Le Pen vote.

Mélenchon said it was wrong to assume that people had “stopped thinking” during the health crisis. Covid-19 was already “changing mentalities”, he said.

“Whenever I said we had to nationalise something, it made everyone afraid. Now people are saying we cannot let certain businesses close, we have to nationalise them. When I spoke of requisitioning the textile industry to make masks, did anyone say the Red Army was behind Mélenchon?

“There’s no revolution in the world that has happened for an ideological reason – they have all happened for practical reasons, without exception, including the revolution of 1789, including the Russian Revolution.”

Mélenchon said the party was in the process of dusting off its 2017 programme, updating it and seeking new ideas from supporters. 

If elected president, he said recently, he would end the fifth republic introduced by Charles de Gaulle in 1958, draw up a new constitution for a sixth republic, and bring key people together and tell them “to sort out poverty and homelessness. I’m sure someone knows how to do it.”

Mélenchon, who has been described as autocratic, authoritative, passionate and charismatic, is presenting a more mellow, jocular face. Tomorrow it will be different, he admits. “With the health crisis, it’s more Mélenchon the anthropologist and sociologist who is responding to you, as opposed to the political man. Afterwards … well [political] conflict is never far away.”





No.29 article:
South Australia records three new local Covid cases linked to hotel quarantine worker

Chief public heath officer says importation from quarantine hotels is Australia’s highest risk as worker infects family members

South Australia has three new cases of locally acquired Covid-19 after a worker from a quarantine hotel infected family members.

An 80-year-old woman was diagnosed on Saturday after she went to Adelaide’s Lyell McEwin hospital for a test, chief public health officer Nicola Spurrier said. 

A woman in her 50s and man in his 60s were later tested and on Sunday also found to be infected.

“One of those people works in our medi-hotels,” Spurrier said.

“This is where we are considering the source to be.”

 Spurrier said the infected trio is part of a very large family and four relatives are showing symptoms with test results expected later in the day.

The older woman, who lives independently – not in an aged care facility – is now in isolation at the Royal Adelaide Hospital.

She is the mother of one of the younger pair, who are in a relationship.

Contact tracing is also under way for about 90 staff and patients at the hospital who may have come into contact with the 80-year-old woman.

 Spurrier said the woman also visited Parafield Plaza supermarket in Adelaide’s north while infectious

She urged any person who develops symptoms to immediately report for testing.

“I am expecting that we will have more cases. This is a wake-up call,” Spurrier said.

All staff working at SA’s quarantine hotels will now be required to undertake virus testing every seven days.

“It’s obvious that the highest risk in Australia right now is this risk of importation [of the virus] in our quarantine hotels,” Spurrier said.

The new rule includes police, nurses, concierge, cleaners and security guards.

A 30-year-old man who recently returned from overseas was also diagnosed while in hotel quarantine.

There are now 19 active Covid-19 cases in SA.





No.30 article:
Religious intolerance is &#x27;bigger cause of prejudice than race&#x27;, says report

Attitudes to faith said to drive negative perceptions more than ethnicity or nationality

Religion is the “final frontier” of personal prejudice, with attitudes to faith driving negative perceptions more than ethnicity or nationality, a report to be published tomorrow will say.

How We Get Along, a two-year study of diversity by the Woolf Institute, is due to conclude that most people are tolerant of those from different ethnic or national backgrounds, but many have negative attitudes based on religion.

Religion is a “red line” for many people, the study – based on a survey of 11,700 adults in England and Wales – will say. This is particularly so in the case of Muslims.

Almost three-quarters of non-black or Asian respondents said they were comfortable with a close relative marrying a black or Asian person, but only 43% were comfortable with a close relative marrying a Muslim.

Muslims were most often the subject of negative attitudes held by other faith groups, but were also the group most likely to hold negative attitudes towards people of other religions.

The researchers focused on the question of marriage as a way of measuring tolerance and prejudice. They found that the public is largely positive about intermarriage across ethnic and national lines. However, the word “Muslim” triggered more negative sentiment than the word “Pakistani”, even though the vast majority of British Pakistani people are Muslim.

Prejudice based on religion was stronger among people aged over 75, those with no or few educational qualifications, people from non-Asian ethnic minorities, and Baptists.

Men appear to be more uncomfortable than women about the idea of a close relative marrying someone from a different ethnic, national or religious background.

Among Hindus, Sikhs, Jews, Buddhists and people of no religion, the majority felt uncomfortable with the idea of a close relative marrying a Muslim. Among Christians, there was a significant minority.

A majority of Muslims were uncomfortable with the idea of a close relative marrying a Buddhist, Hindu, Jewish or Sikh person, or someone of no religion. Almost four in 10 Muslims were uncomfortable with a close relative marrying a Christian.

The study also found that attitudes within minority faith communities were undergoing significant generational shifts. In particular, British Muslim women were exercising more freedom to decide when, whom and how to marry.

This article was updated on 19 November 2020 to replace the main image with a more suitable photograph.





No.31 article:
With British skiers nervous about booking holidays in Europe, travel specialists are predicting an exodus to the north

The Scottish mountains may be an unlikely beneficiary of the Covid-19 pandemic. With British skiers nervous about committing to a package holiday with a tour operator in one of the main European destinations, travel specialists are predicting the rise of the DIY ski trip, which could be good news for the Cairngorms.

“There’s clearly still an enormous amount of uncertainty about what will happen across the winter season,” said Rob Stewart, founder of Ski Press PR, who represents clients in the ski industry. “The general view is that December – and I’m talking about for UK skiers – will be a write-off in regards to skiing. This is mainly due to uncertainties on when resorts will really start to open up and, of course, the quarantine and Foreign Office advice against all but essential travel.”

Stewart said that many tour operators had pulled out of the market for December while others had decided to mothball “pretty much” the entire season. “So anyone travelling out during December will need to do a DIY version.” This could see more people choosing to drive to the French Alps rather than fly. A recent survey suggested that 27% of skiers intended to drive to Europe this winter via Eurotunnel compared with the normal figure of 7%.

Another alternative is to head to the north of Britain. “The talk is that skiers are interested in heading up to Scotland,” Stewart said. “But while I love Scotland and skiing there, we need to be honest about what a ski holiday in Scotland is. And it’s not the Alps, not even close, not comparable at all. It’s a harsh environment, the weather is unpredictable and the snow even more so.”

Angus Maciver, general manager of the Ski Club of Great Britain, also believes that more people will head to Scotland. The SCGB has now started offering adventure snow holidays in Scottish resorts. “We think there will be more ski-touring in Scotland and if people are willing to wait until the conditions are right they could have a great experience in Scotland,” he said. “We also think this is a big opportunity to ski at artificial and indoor slopes in the UK.”

Maciver said he believed that there would still be “a season of sorts” in the Alps but people would notice a difference. “Some resorts will limit uphill lift capacity, all will have limited spaces in restaurants, which may make things difficult in busy periods, and there will be a much reduced après-ski scene.” The arrival of a vaccine could have an effect towards the end of the season, Maciver said. But this prospect has left many people playing a waiting game, and three-quarters of Britons say they will not book a skiing holiday until four weeks before they intend to travel.

If British winter sports fans fail to hit the major European ski destinations this season, it could have a severe adverse effect on the industry, Maciver said.

“There will be many organisations which may not be able to survive a season without revenue, especially given the refunds or vouchers paid out last season,” he added.

“It will be difficult for us all in the UK ski industry, as we kept staff on to run holidays when the travel corridors opened up, and we still have rent and rates to pay – and could have no holiday income if the current rules stay in place.”





No.32 article:
Church leaders urge UK government to sign UN anti-nuclear treaty

Archbishops and bishops express ‘much regret’ in letter at refusal to join international peace accord

The leadership of the Church of England is calling on the UK government to stand with 50 other nations in signing a historic international treaty banning nuclear weapons.

Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, and Stephen Cottrell, the archbishop of York, have put their names alongside those of 29 bishops to a letter published in the Observer and reproduced below saying that the UK’s support for the United Nations’ Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons would give hope to people seeking a peaceful future.

The treaty will come into force on 22 January 2021, having reached the required 50-signatory threshold after Honduras ratified it three weeks ago. None of the world’s nuclear powers, however, have signed up, and the US has called support for the move a “strategic error”.

But António Guterres, the UN secretary general, said the treaty’s ratification was “the culmination of a worldwide movement to draw attention to the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons”. Peter Maurer, president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, said it was “a victory for humanity, and a promise of a safer future”.

Campaigners hope the treaty will have a gradual deterrent effect on the proliferation of nuclear armaments. Earlier international treaties on landmines and cluster munitions resulted in a change in behaviour even in countries that did not sign up.

The bishops’ letter applauds the treaty’s ratification, saying: “For so many of the nations of the world to speak clearly of the need to ban these weapons of mass destruction is an encouraging and hopeful sign.

“We very much regret that the UK, together with other nuclear states, has not yet signed the accord. We call on the UK government to do so, and thereby to give hope to all people of goodwill who seek a peaceful future.”

Stephen Cottrell, who was enthroned as the archbishop of York last month, told the Observer that it “shouldn’t be a surprise to anybody that the church is concerned for peace and reconciliation. “Although we recognise that there are different legitimate views on how we make and keep peace, the church has consistently considered any use or possession of nuclear weapons to be outside of what could ever be considered a just use of arms.”

The treaty would not result in the disappearance of nuclear weapons overnight, “but it’s another step on the journey towards becoming a nuclear-free world”, he added.

The UK had taken a stand to outlaw cluster bombs and landmines. “If we think it’s immoral to possess or use a cluster bomb, how much more so a nuclear weapon? International treaties do achieve things, but it’s usually a long road, and this is a significant step along the way.”

Cottrell, has a long track record of speaking out on the issue of nuclear weapons. In 2016, he told a rally in London the renewal of Trident was “an affront to God”, and in 2018, he told the C of E’s ruling body, the general synod, that there were “no circumstances” in which Trident’s use could be justified.

“This comes from very deep inside me. For me it’s an ethical issue, but there are all sorts of very good reasons – financial, military, legal – why we need a serious debate about the possession of nuclear weapons,” he said.

As bishops of the Church of England, we warmly welcome and applaud the recent ratification, by the required number of member states, of the United Nations’ treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons and we rejoice that the treaty will therefore come into force on 22 January 2021.

For so many of the nations of the world to speak clearly of the need to ban these weapons of mass destruction is an encouraging and hopeful sign. We commit ourselves to pray and to work so that this ratification will indeed help to see an end to nuclear weapons in the future. We very much regret that the UK, together with other nuclear states, has not yet signed the accord. We call on the UK government to do so and thereby to give hope to all people of goodwill who seek a peaceful future.

We echo the UN secretary general who “commends the states that have ratified the treaty and salutes the work of civil society, which has been instrumental in f acilitating the negotiation and ratification of the treaty”. Accordingly, we renew our support for the work of the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, together with sister organisations and agencies in each nation, whose advocacy and commitment continues to make such a difference.

Justin Welby, archbishop of Canterbury; Stephen Cottrell, archbishop of York; Paul Bayes, bishop of Liverpool; Christopher Cocksworth, bishop of Coventry; Richard Atkinson, bishop of Bedford; Jo Bailey Wells, bishop of Dorking; Pete Broadbent, bishop of Willesden; Sarah Bullock, bishop of Shrewsbury; Jonathan Clark, bishop of Croydon; David Court, bishop of Grimsby; Guli Francis-Dehqani, bishop of Loughborough; Jonathan Goodall, bishop of Ebbsfleet; Martin Gorick, bishop of Dudley; Olivia Graham, bishop of Reading; Clive Gregory, bishop of Wolverhampton; Joanne Grenfell, bishop of Stepney; David Hamid, suffragan bishop in Europe; Peter Hill, bishop of Barking; Anne Hollinghurst, bishop of Aston; John Inge, bishop of Worcester; Roger Morris, bishop of Colchester; Philip North, bishop of Burnley; John Perumbalath, bishop of Bradwell; Lee Rayfield, bishop of Swindon; Tony Robinson, bishop of Wakefield; Alan Smith, bishop of St Albans; John Thomson, bishop of Selby; Graham Tomlin, bishop of Kensington; Rachel Treweek, bishop of Gloucester; David Walker, bishop of Manchester and Pete Wilcox, bishop of Sheffield





No.33 article:
Prof John Edmunds calls for consistent UK government strategy and warns against relaxing measures

Encouraging the public to visit bars and restaurants and then closing down such venues when Covid-19 cases spike is not a “sensible way to run the epidemic”, a government scientific adviser has said.

Prof John Edmunds, a member of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage), urged a long-term strategy when it comes to balancing the economy and the pandemic.

Current national lockdown measures in England mean venues such as pubs, bars and restaurants have been forced to close but are expected to be allowed to reopen when the restrictions lift.

Edmunds raised concerns about “flip-flopping” between incentives such as Eat Out To Help Out and closures.

“We need to take a long-term view and be sensible and realise that we’re going to have to have restrictions in place for some time,” he said.

“Yes, we can lift them when it’s safe to do so, which will be primarily when large numbers of people have been vaccinated.

“But flip-flopping between encouraging people to mix socially, which is what you’re doing by encouraging people to go to restaurants and bars, versus then immediately closing them again, isn’t a very sensible way to run the epidemic.”

Under current plans a regional tiered system is set to replace the national lockdown when it ends on 2 December.

Edmunds, of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said it was “too early to judge” if this was too soon to lift the current restrictions.

But he said a return to the lowest alert level of the regional tier system, tier 1, when the lockdown ends would be “very unwise”.

“The problem with the tier system is tier 1 doesn’t do much at all, tier 2 probably has some effect, but not a great deal, and tier 3 seems to be able to hold the epidemic,” he said.

“The problem with the tier system is that inevitably you end up with quite a lot of places with high incidence under those circumstances.

“The tier 1 and tier 2 ones just eventually drift up into tier 3 with a high incidence, and then tier 3 holds it there. It wasn’t a very well thought through strategy frankly.”

The comments come after the government said a further 462 people had died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 as of Saturday.

As of 9am on Saturday there had been a further 26,860 lab-confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK, slightly down from an increase of 27,301 on Friday.

Meanwhile Labour has called for emergency legislation to “stamp out dangerous anti-vax content” following promising preliminary results from the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. The opposition claimed that dedicated anti-vaccination groups with hundreds of thousands of members on social media were “churning out disinformation”.

Elsewhere, another member of Sage said the next two weeks will be “absolutely crucial” in ensuring that the coronavirus lockdown ends as planned.

Prof Susan Michie, a behavioural scientist at University College London, urged the public to resist breaking current rules, to be in a position to spend the festive period with loved ones.

“So I think for the next two weeks, everybody has to really get all their resolve together,” she told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.

Michie suggested the announcement of a potential Covid-19 vaccine could lead to complacency towards lockdown, adding that the jab will make “no difference” to the current wave.





No.34 article:
UK records 26,860 more cases and 462 deaths – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

That’s where I’ll leave you for now. Thanks for sticking with me. 

Let’s recap on the developments of the past 24 hours. 

The Australian state of New South Wales has just released its latest Covid-19 data. 

It has again recorded no new locally-acquired cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. The state has reported nine cases in overseas travellers in hotel quarantine, which brings the total in NSW to 4,306 cases since the beginning of the pandemic. 

NSW conducted 17,226 tests reported, a slight increase on the prior day. 

The state’s health authorities are warning residents not to drop their guard. 

With the weather becoming warmer and people starting to attend more social gatherings, NSW Health is calling on the community to maintain the COVID safe behaviours that have been key to stopping the spread of the virus. Though there have been no locally acquired cases in NSW in recent days, now is not the time to drop our guard. Everyone needs to continue to be alert to the ongoing risk of transmission of COVID-19, to keep practising physical distancing and good hand hygiene, and most importantly to get tested and isolate if they feel unwell.

Just back to Victoria, Australia, momentarily. The premier Daniel Andrews has flagged he will make an announcement on the wearing of masks next Sunday. 

That announcement could include allowing individuals who are walking alone to take masks off until they come into contact with others. 

That’s not for today. We will hopefully have a bit more to say about masks next week.

The German government has released a tongue-in-cheek ad hailing an unlikely hero in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic: the humble couch potato. 

AP reports: 

The 90-second video posted online Saturday begins with an elderly man recalling his ‘service’ to the nation back when he was just a young student “in the winter of 2020, when the whole country’s eyes were on us.”

“I had just turned 22 and was studying engineering,” he continues, “when the second wave hit.”

With violins stirring at viewers’ heart strings, the setting switches to a scene of the narrator as a young man.

“Suddenly the fate of this country lay in our hands,” he says. “So we mustered all our courage and did what was expected of us, the only right thing. We did nothing.”

“Days and nights we stayed on our backsides at home and fought against the spread of the coronavirus,” the narrator continues. “Our couch was the front line and our patience was our weapon.”

The ad ends with a government message that “you too can become a hero by staying at home.”

Germany imposed fresh restrictions to curb the spread of COVID-19 at the start of November, shutting restaurants, bars and gyms, and setting limits on the number of people who can meet in public and private settings.

Greg Hunt also repeated the federal government’s call for all Australian states and territories to open their borders by Christmas. 

What we do want to see is the borders open overwhelmingly by Christmas, we’d like to see all of them open, we know that [Western Australia] has a little bit further to go. But there is no advice from the Commonwealth chief medical officer that any state or territory should be closed to any other state or territory. 

Australia’s federal health minister Greg Hunt has just spoken in Canberra. He was asked about Australia’s efforts to return stranded citizens from abroad. 

He says Australia is exploring “green lanes” with other nations, an arrangement already in place with New Zealand. Green lanes are agreements that allow travel without quarantine. 

Hunt:

We have the green lane with New Zealand and there’s the potential for other green lanes for countries where the medical advice is that they are considered overwhelmingly safe for bringing people to Australia without quarantine. That is something that will be used cautiously and carefully. 

He said Australia was working to begin to return international students also. But he said that would not be done in a way that displaces returning citizens. 

The prime minister has been absolutely clear that he would not detract from the ability to bring Australians home.

The Victorian premier Daniel Andrews is speaking about the state’s continued success at containing Covid-19.

Andrews says Victoria has now recorded 16 days without a new case. That’s a remarkable turnaround for the state, easily the worst hit jurisdiction in Australia. 

Andrews: 

Since yesterday, that 16 days with no new cases in our state. We have now received results from 3,398,653 tests since the beginning of the pandemic. That’s 8323 tests since yesterday. I want to thank those 8300 people are going and getting tested the day before. Getting tested is the critical thing. That allows us to have a complete picture, or at least the most complete picture of where this virus is, and to put a public health response around your family and then protect every family across the state, so we are very grateful and we say thank you to each and every one of those people. If there is one thing that people take away from the current positive news the notion of more than a fortnight now with no extra cases, the biggest and most important take to every single Victorian is, if you have symptoms, even the mildest symptoms, please go and get tested and get tested quickly.

Hi everyone, 

It’s Christopher Knaus here, I’ll be live blogging the latest Covid-19 developments for the next little while.

Just staying with Australia, for the moment. 

A key problem facing the nation is the repatriation of stranded Australians abroad. The education minister has just made an announcement about a related issue: how to return international university students to the nation. 

Education minister Dan Tehan has instructed states and territories to draw up plans for the return of international students, while staying within their quarantine caps. 

Tehan spoke to Sky News a little earlier: 

Our priority is returning Australians and that will continue to be the case especially in the lead up to Christmas

But we have asked state and territory governments to submit plans to us as to how they can bring in international students back.

The loss of international students has crippled Australia’s university sector, which is estimated to have lost up to 12,000 jobs. 

Hello everyone, I am off now. My colleague Christopher Knaus will be taking over the blog, so best to direct any tips his way.

From Australian Associated Press:

New South Wales contact tracers are racing to reach 455 travellers to Australia from New Zealand after a positive case was confirmed in Auckland.

Those who have arrived in NSW from New Zealand since 5 November have been sent a message with NSW Health advice and are being contacted and alerted about a number of venues of concern in Auckland.

NSW Health said in a statement no passengers arriving in Sydney from New Zealand on Friday evening reported having visited the locations and none had symptoms.

“Airlines will ascertain if passengers have attended these venues before they leave New Zealand and if they have, they will be not allowed to travel,” the department said.

NSW has now gone a week without a locally transmitted virus case but health authorities are still urging the community to keep getting tested.

NSW will reopen its border with Victoria on 23 November. The southern state has recorded more than two weeks of consecutive zero-transmission days.

For the 16th straight day in a row, Victoria is reporting a “donut day” – that is, a day with no coronavirus cases or deaths.

It comes after the state tested 8,323 people.

Victoria’s death toll from the virus remains at 819, while the total number of deaths from Covid in Australia is 907.

Victoria has just three active cases of Covid. 

On Sunday, Allan Cheng, the deputy chief health officer, described the stretch of zero-case days as “about as good as it can get” but warned “there may still be the potential for hidden trains of transmission out there”.

“And then obviously the potential for an incursion of cases from outside, from New Zealand or NSW.” 

The state government is pushing for more testing in Hume and Wyndham.

Covid restriction in Victoria are set to ease further next Sunday, when contact sport will resume across the board, 50 people will be allowed to attend outdoor public gatherings, 10 people will be allowed to visit homes, and 100 people will be able to attend wedding and funerals. 

The border to South Australia will reopen on 1 December and to NSW on 23 November.

Guardian Australia staff and Australian Associated Press 

French police broke up a house party that was attended by at least 300 people outside Paris on Saturday, describing the event as being “in total disdain for health rules”.

Daily newspaper Le Parisien said police had to throw special grenades as intermediate weapons to break up the gathering in Joinville-le-Pont and escape. 

Authorities appealed to everyone who went to get tested quickly, as it emerged that at least one person at the party was infected with coronavirus.

France is in the grips of a second lockdown, with hospitals having to delay some operations to tend to Covid patients because they are so stretched.





No.35 article:
Packed crowds and euphoric leaders: Australia revels in Covid-free days

After a grinding lockdown in Victoria and punishing border closures between states, Australia has arrived at something like normality 

When the premier of Queensland held her regular Covid-19 update on Friday she couldn’t help letting a smile creep across her face.

“Now, here’s a good one,” Annastacia Palaszczuk told reporters. “I think all Queenslanders are going to be happy about it.”

She went on to announce that Brisbane’s Suncorp stadium would host a capacity 52,500 crowd for the forthcoming State of Origin rugby league decider against New South Wales next week.

“The cauldron can be filled to 100% capacity,” she said.

In the midst of the pandemic, the idea of responsible leaders encouraging citizens to gather in large crowds to sit or stand shoulder to shoulder with strangers might seem to be a case of extreme recklessness.

But in Australia, where the Covid-19 pandemic has largely been controlled after months of lockdowns, border closures and strict limits on gatherings, moments like these are becoming more and more common.

Last month, footage from a packed nightclub in Western Australia went viral, offering a surreal image of pre-Covid normality even as countries in the northern hemisphere began to return to lockdowns amid surging case numbers. In Sydney, about 40,000 fans were present for the rugby league grand final last month.

The country has reason to be bullish about its successes. On Friday, Australia recorded no new cases of the virus for the fifth day in a row. In Victoria, where a second-wave spike of the virus forced Melbourne into a months-long lockdown and left hundreds dead, Friday marked the 14th day in a row with no new cases.

The closely watched downward trend of the virus has even sparked a new phrase, the “donut day”, meaning a day with no new Covid-19 infections, which has become synonymous with the country’s success in tackling the pandemic. 

In Victoria, the term has been adopted with particular enthusiasm. On 26 October the state’s premier, Daniel Andrews, posted a photo of himself online posing with a glazed donut.

Wearing a black face mask and the North Face jacket that has taken on a near-religious significance to the wearied residents of his state as he gave daily press conferences for 120 consecutive days, he captioned the photo: “Today’s a good day.”

It marked the first time since June that the state had gone without recording a new case, and shoppers responded by clearing supermarkets of the snack. It also coincided with the first winding back of a severe lockdown of Melbourne, which included a curfew, strict limits on travel and movement and heavy policing.

Andrews’ announcement that the city would begin to reopen after 112 days was greeted with an outpouring of emotion. At his daily press briefing, an event which had become a sort of morbid soap opera for Victorians, Andrews was asked by a journalist whether he was “saying we can finally get on the beers”.

He responded: “I might go a little higher up the shelf.”

Since then, the donut days have kept coming. Friday’s 14-day marker brought Victoria’s statewide average to zero. In NSW, which has mostly avoided large outbreaks of the virus since a national lockdown in March, it has been a month since more than 10 cases were recorded.

Across the rest of the country the virus has almost entirely receded from view. Strict border closures between states have cut families off from one another and caused an ongoing political stand-off, but they have also meant that in states such as Tasmania and Western Australia, life has almost returned to a pre-Covid state.

The country’s success in managing the pandemic stands in stark contrast to its western allies. When Victoria recorded 723 new cases on 29 July, the figure was roughly in line with the UK’s 763 and France’s 1,392. Since then, Australia has gone in the opposite direction.

In the UK a record 33,470 were infected with the virus on Thursday and 563 died as the country endures another gruelling lockdown. The total death tally from Covid-19 now stands at more than 50,000, though estimates which count all deaths where the virus was mentioned on a death certificate put the toll at almost 67,000. France extended its lockdown for another two weeks after exceeding more than 50,000 daily cases in October.

In the US under Donald Trump, more than 240,000 people have died from the virus and deaths from the virus have risen by 23% in a fortnight. On Thursday, the country posted another new record of 160,000 daily cases. Perhaps most gallingly, the country appears to have no national plan to bring the virus under control as Trump continues to downplay its seriousness while attempting to undermine the country’s election.

According to Prof Jodie McVernon, an epidemiologist at the highly regarded Peter Doherty Institute in Melbourne, Australia’s success compared with those countries comes down to both the speed of the response and a willingness to listen to expert advice. Public health advice panels in Australia were meeting daily to monitor the spread of the virus from January, and the country’s leaders listened to early advice to begin shutting borders and introduce quarantine protocols for returning travellers.

“Australia basically made the decision to try to keep this virus out for as long as possible,” she said.

“Given our proximity to China and the travel volume between the two countries we really were probably in line to be an early adopter. So we decided we were going to actively try to suppress the virus to keep it within the capacity of our health system.”

Perhaps most crucially, McVernon said, politicians listened to health experts.

“The same advice was coming from experts in the US and UK but they took less definitive early action. They didn’t have that overarching coordination like we had here, where all of the relevant state and federal governments were singing from the same hymn sheet.”

With cases spiralling in both the US and UK, McVernon said the only real hope was to suppress the virus. But, she said, there were cultural factors that played in Australia’s favour too.

“Particularly in the US it’s totally out of control now. And so they might be able to do some things to suppress it, but it’s also about turning around a population that will actively revolt at the idea of wearing a mask or doing any of these things that might limit its spread,” she said.

“Australians are pretty compliant overall, and we still have that level of social cohesion where these things can work.”

But Australia’s relative success in managing the virus has come with significant costs. Victoria’s extended lockdown devastated the state’s economy, and raised concerns about over-policing of disadvantaged and minority populations.

The prolonged and heavy-handed restriction on civil liberties also prompted a wave of protests from anti-lockdown activists fuelled by a growing movement of conspiracy theorists, backed in some cases by far-right actors.

Melbourne’s lord mayor, Sally Capp, told Guardian Australia the city had been through “an incredibly tough year”. While signs of normality were returning with the gradual rollback of restrictions, she said it would be “a big challenge to revitalise Melbourne after the devastation caused” by the virus.

“Prior to Covid-19 restrictions, more than one million people came into the city each day,” she said.

“Our daily pedestrian counts have increased recently but we are still about 69% below the same time last year, which means there are far fewer potential customers for city businesses.

“We’re working every day to get our city economy back to the top of the ladder and our cultural life buzzing again.”

The virus has not completely receded from view. Strict limits on gathering sizes still remain in Victoria and NSW, and despite an agreement between most states on Friday to ease border closures by Christmas, the issue continues to cause significant tension between state leaders.

McVernon says the greatest threat to Australia’s success against the virus may come down to complacency. She points to a measure health officials call the “reproduction potential”, which looks at factors such as mobility to see how likely it is the virus could spread.

“We have to accept that the longer we go without cases the more that potential goes up,” she said.

“But that’s the whole point of getting to this point of no community transmission. The point is really how you keep up the personal behaviours like washing hands and wearing masks. You want people moving again, but you now have a society that looks different.”






