No.1 article:
Virus Surge, Once in the Nation’s Middle, Gains Steam All Around

With cases and deaths rising fast, scientists say they worry about the virus’s course in the United States as Thanksgiving celebrations and cold weather arrive.

What started as a Midwestern surge has grown into coast-to-coast disaster.

Over the last two months, rural counties and midsize cities in the Great Plains and Upper Midwest have been the main drivers of the dizzying growth in coronavirus cases in the United States.

But the virus appears to have entered a new phase in recent days: The reason the country is continuing to break case records has less to do with North Dakota and Wisconsin than it does with swift resurgences of the virus in cities like Baltimore, Los Angeles, Miami and Phoenix and with first-time spikes in smaller cities away from the nation’s middle, like Cumberland, Md.

“Our people are tired,” said Maggie Hansen, the chief nursing executive at Memorial Healthcare System in South Florida. “They’re tired and they don’t see an end in sight.”

Seeking to rally the nation on the eve of Thanksgiving, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. offered words of encouragement, saying “there’s real hope, tangible hope” in the face of the virus. He urged Americans to wear face masks and practice social distancing, and to “hang on” as they faced a long, hard winter.

“Looking back over our history, you see that it’s been in the most difficult circumstances that the soul of our nation has been forged,” Mr. Biden said.

In language that served as an implicit repudiation of President Trump, he urged Americans to come together to fight the virus. “I know the country has grown weary of the fight,” Mr. Biden said. “We need to remember we’re at war with the virus, not with one another, not with each other.”

Coronavirus cases are emerging in their highest numbers of the pandemic, with more than 175,000 a day, on average, in a country that has seen more cases and more deaths than anywhere else in the world. More than 1.2 million cases have been identified in the United States in the last week alone, and the country is on pace to reach 13 million known cases in the coming days. Deaths are also rising fast, with more than 2,200 announced nationwide on Tuesday, the most on a single day since early May.

The spread of the virus rages on in the Great Plains and the Upper Midwest. Iowa and South Dakota continue to report new cases at some of the highest rates in the country, and deaths there have reached their highest levels on record. But the pace of the spread has slowed in those regions while rapidly increasing in other, more populous parts of the country, including in California, where more than 17,000 cases were announced on Monday, and in Texas, where more than 20,000 cases were announced on Tuesday, the two highest daily totals of any state during the pandemic.

All of this has been unfolding on the eve of what infectious-disease experts see as a likely turning point for the outbreak in this country. Dr. Eli Perencevich, an infectious-disease physician and epidemiologist at the University of Iowa, said he feared the worst was still yet to come in his state, especially with Thanksgiving gatherings and cold weather looming.

“Human behavior is very different indoors versus outdoors when it gets cold, so I’m worried that’s going to make things worse,” said Dr. Perencevich, who has treated coronavirus patients. “And then we know Thanksgiving, where we’re all just bracing, given that the hospitals are completely full.”

Unlike in the spring, when the Northeast faced the worst, and the summer, when the Sun Belt saw explosive growth, this latest surge has begun to move beyond a single region. In fact, it is elbowing back into places like New York City that had brought earlier outbreaks under control and tearing through cities that had not seen many cases all along.

“People just wanted some normalcy and got loose and here you are,” said Cyndi Kirkhart, who runs a food bank in Huntington, W.Va., an area that is averaging a record 250 cases daily, more than triple the number from a month ago. “With the pandemic fatigue and all the politics stuff getting close to Election Day, there were so many things that contributed.”

The small city of Cumberland, in Maryland’s Appalachian panhandle, also avoided the worst of the pandemic’s first months.

By midsummer, Emmanuel Episcopal Church, a Gothic Revival landmark overlooking the city’s downtown, was inviting people back inside for services, though with disinfectant and temperature checks. The church rector and a part-time priest and their spouses dined together regularly but took precautions, usually staying outdoors.

And even as cases started rising this fall on the Northern Plains, infections remained relatively scarce around Cumberland and many other cities in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast.

“Then, right before Halloween,” said the rector, the Rev. Martha Macgill, “it just exploded.”

In the first days of November, the priest and her husband were both admitted to the hospital with Covid-19. Per capita, Allegany County, where Cumberland is the county seat, now has the worst outbreak in Maryland, and the Cumberland region has the 14th-highest number of recent cases per capita of any metro area in the country.

“It kind of happened silently then all of a sudden it was bad,” Ms. Macgill said.

About 1,100 miles to the west, in Sioux Falls, S.D., the fall surge came early. Mayor Paul TenHaken said some people in his city wrongly thought they had made it through the worst after a spring wave, mostly confined to a meatpacking plant, came and passed.

But the virus returned and hit the city hard: Two of Mr. TenHaken’s five staff members tested positive, as have dozens of others the mayor knows. The Sioux Falls area has had the sixth-most known cases per capita of any American metro area. Hospitalizations and infections remain high statewide but have slightly declined in recent days. Mr. TenHaken’s unease remains.

“This week makes me a little nervous, just with all the travel and Thanksgiving and gatherings,” the mayor said. “I think this will be the real test, how diligent people are once you get into the holidays.”

Elsewhere, in the Midwest, there are localized signs of progress, or at least stabilization, though officials say that it could all prove fleeting.

The marginal progress in the Midwest comes after governors in some states, including Illinois, Iowa and North Dakota, imposed additional restrictions, and after hospital leaders across the region issued public warnings that they were running out of capacity to treat the sick.

In Wisconsin, which for weeks reported explosive growth, reports of new cases continued rising, but by 4 percent over the last two weeks. In Nebraska, which also saw runaway growth, the curve has flattened, with 1 percent growth. And in Illinois, which has averaged more than 10,000 cases per day, infection numbers have also leveled off, especially around Chicago.

“This is going to take weeks, not days,” Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois said this week. “But is there a glimmer of hope? There is.”

Any incremental improvements in the Midwest have been more than offset by growing outbreaks elsewhere in the country. In Los Angeles County, Calif., where cases have soared past the levels seen this summer, to an average of more than 4,000 a day, restaurants can no longer offer indoor or outdoor dining starting Wednesday evening. Around Miami, reports of new cases have more than quadrupled since the start of October, though they remain below the peak levels seen in July.

“We fully anticipate it’s going to increase, but we just want to do whatever we can to not get into the same position we were over the summer,” said Dr. Peter Paige, who was recently appointed the chief medical officer of Miami-Dade County. “It’s a real threat.”

Epidemiologists and public health officials around the country said the reason for resurging outbreaks could be explained by a simple variable: what people choose to do.

Dr. Debra Bogen, the health director in Pittsburgh’s Allegheny County, told reporters last week that the fast-paced increase in local cases was fueled by people letting down their guard.

“The virus itself hasn’t changed — what has is our behavior,” Dr. Bogen said, recounting the story of an informal homecoming dance, organized by parents in a local school district, that led to multiple confirmed cases.

In Kansas, Anil Gharmalkar, 41, who owns a trucking company and lives in the town of Oswego, believed that the virus was a “big city problem,” unlikely to affect him.

Then he got infected.

“Covid didn’t care what I believed,” Mr. Gharmalkar said in a video posted by the University of Kansas Health System, where he has been treated and received a breathing device that has been implanted in his throat. “I gave lip service to being careful, and I could have been more careful, and I wish I would have been.”

All the while, deaths are rising, the virus is raging and, for most Americans, a vaccine is still months away.

What comes next? It depends in part, experts said, on how Thursday plays out around the country.

“Thanksgiving hasn’t happened yet,” Dr. Ngozi Ezike, the director of the Illinois Department of Public Health, said this week. “People can still change their plans and change the outcomes. We don’t have to have superspreader events at homes.”





No.2 article:
U.S. Economy Stumbles as the Coronavirus Spreads Widely

Claims for new unemployment benefits and other data suggest that the recent increase in infections is threatening the economic recovery.

Layoffs are rising again and Americans’ incomes are falling, the latest signs that the one-two punch of a resurgent pandemic and waning government aid are undermining the U.S. economic recovery.

Applications for state jobless benefits rose for the second straight week last week, the Labor Department said Wednesday. Unemployment filings are up by more than 100,000 from the first week of November, when they hit their lowest level since last spring, the start of the pandemic.

Forecasters have been warning for weeks that the increase in coronavirus cases could have dire economic consequences as consumers pull back on spending and cities and states reimpose restrictions on businesses and social gatherings. But while job gains and other markers of progress have slowed since the summer, the recovery had proved surprisingly resilient.

Now cracks are beginning to appear. Jobless claims, not adjusted for seasonal patterns, jumped by 78,000 last week to nearly 828,000 — a big change following an increase of 18,000 the week before. It was the first time filings had risen for two straight weeks since early September, and the largest two-week increase since April. Measures of consumer confidence fell sharply in November, and real-time data from private sources show the labor market slowing further or going into reverse.

Any reversal would be disappointing after months of economic progress. But it would hardly be surprising given the new wave of lockdowns and business restrictions that made further layoffs all but inevitable. In recent weeks, Chicago has imposed a new stay-at-home order, Los Angeles County has suspended outdoor dining and Philadelphia has banned most indoor private gatherings. Several states have ended or restricted indoor dining. And even where officials have enacted no new rules, many consumers are likely to restrict their activity voluntarily to avoid contracting the virus.

“The most obvious culprit for rising claims is the surging pandemic,” said Daniel Zhao, senior economist for the career site Glassdoor. “It seems like it was only a matter of time before it started to show up in the economic data.”

The latest data is not universally bleak. The Commerce Department reported on Wednesday that orders for big-ticket goods like machinery, a measure of business confidence, rose in October. New home sales also jumped, as rock-bottom interest rates continue to lift the housing market. Households have $1 trillion more in savings than before the pandemic, money that could fuel consumer spending when vaccines become widely available and the threat of the virus fades. And the stock market, that highly imperfect barometer of the economy, has set new highs.

But for the people and industries most exposed, the outlook is bleak. In addition to the new round of business restrictions, a new wave of school closings could push parents — and particularly mothers — back out of the work force. A growing number of economists are forecasting a “double-dip” recession, in which economic activity contracts again early next year.

Unlike in the spring, families and businesses will have to weather the latest shutdowns largely on their own. Federal programs that provided trillions of dollars of support to small businesses and unemployed workers expired over the summer, and efforts to revive them have stalled in Congress. Many of the remaining programs run out at the end of the year.

Data released by the Commerce Department on Wednesday showed that personal income fell 0.7 percent in October as declines in government aid offset wage and salary gains. Consumer spending rose 0.5 percent, the smallest increase since the recovery began last spring.

“Part of the reason the recovery has done so well is because there was so much assistance for affected businesses and workers, and this is just really not the time to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory,” said Julia Pollak, a labor economist at ZipRecruiter. More aid, she said, was necessary to “prevent this temporary disruption from becoming permanent destruction.”

Democratic and Republican leaders have both said they want to pass a relief package before the end of the year. But the two sides remain far apart, and prospects for a quick deal appear dim.

Congressional aides and outside groups that have been monitoring the stimulus talks said this week that they did not expect rising unemployment claims to prompt Senate Republicans to agree to anything close to the $2 trillion package that Democrats have wanted for months.

Aides to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. are planning for the possibility of another contraction in the economy and have called on lawmakers to approve a stimulus deal before his inauguration in January. A small group of House Democrats have pressured Speaker Nancy Pelosi to accept a smaller deal in order to reach a compromise with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.

The stakes are particularly high for the nearly 14 million Americans receiving unemployment benefits through a pair of emergency programs that are set to expire next month.

The data released Wednesday showed that in early November, roughly nine million people were enrolled in the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program, which covers freelancers, self-employed workers and others who don’t qualify for regular state benefits. That program has been plagued by fraud and double-counting, and many economists believe the Labor Department’s count inflates the true total. Still, by any measure, there are millions of people enrolled in the program who will lose their benefits when it expires.

An additional 4.5 million people are receiving payments through the Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, which adds 13 weeks of benefits to the 26 weeks available in most states. Enrollment in it has been rising rapidly as more people reach the end of their regular state benefits.

Some of those people will qualify for a separate federal extended benefits program that existed before the pandemic. But that program isn’t available in every state.

For workers, the timing could scarcely be worse.

“We’re going to be in the heart of winter, virus cases are likely to be through the roof, and the holiday hiring season is over,” said AnnElizabeth Konkel, an economist at the career site Indeed. “It puts those who are potentially rolling off of those benefit programs in a really precarious situation.”

Adding to the risk: Federal rules to block evictions and allow borrowers to defer payments on home mortgages and student loans also expire at the end of the year. The Trump administration could choose to extend them, but if it doesn’t, families could lose their only source of income and lose the protections keeping them in their homes.

“It’s sort of like running into a giant brick wall,” said Elizabeth Pancotti, a policy researcher who co-wrote a recent report on the benefits cliff. “Not that there’s a good time for all these programs to end, but maybe all on the same day wasn’t a great idea.”





No.3 article:
Trump’s Pardon of Flynn Signals Prospect of a Wave in His Final Weeks in Office

Political allies and associates are starting to press for clemency as the president also considers extending his criminal justice overhaul by commuting lengthy sentences for other offenders.

WASHINGTON — When President Trump pardoned Michael T. Flynn on Wednesday, he did more than wipe clean the record of his first national security adviser, who had twice pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. He also bolstered the hopes of a wide array of clemency seekers that he might deliver a wave of pardons and commutations before leaving office.

Among the others looking for pardons are two former Trump campaign advisers, Rick Gates and George Papadopoulos, who like Mr. Flynn were convicted in cases stemming from the special counsel’s Russia investigation.

But lawyers and others who have been in touch with the White House say they anticipate that Mr. Trump will use his authority in cases that extend beyond those involving the special counsel’s inquiry and the lengthy cast of aides and associates who have gotten in legal trouble since he first ran for the presidency.

Alan Dershowitz, the law professor who represented Mr. Trump during his impeachment trial, is advising two of his clients — a New Jersey man serving more than 20 years for defrauding investors, and a billionaire businessman convicted in what’s been called “one of North Carolina’s worst government corruption scandals” — on whether to seek clemency.

Mr. Dershowitz said he recently discussed the pardon process with the White House. He praised Mr. Trump’s pardon of Mr. Flynn, and said that “he should extend that to others who are less well known.”

Several groups that have pushed for a criminal justice overhaul are working with an ad hoc White House team under the direction of Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and adviser, with a goal of announcing as many as hundreds of commutations for offenders now in jail for crimes ranging from nonviolent drug convictions to mail fraud and money laundering.

“Lists of people are being circulated,” said Brandon Sample, a Vermont lawyer who specializes in presidential pardons and has submitted several names of people to be considered. Among them is Russell Bradley Marks, 57, who has been imprisoned after pleading guilty in 1992 on a cocaine-related conviction for which he was given a mandatory life sentence.

The end of any presidential administration is a time for intense lobbying related to pardons.

But in Mr. Trump’s case, it extends to his own personal and political considerations, his lingering bitterness over the Russia inquiry and his transactional approach to governing.

The sheer number of people in the president’s circle to have gotten in trouble with the law has also made the question of pardons especially fraught.

Mr. Flynn has been enmeshed in a long battle to clear himself despite his admissions that he had lied to investigators about his contacts with the Russian ambassador during the presidential transition four years ago. The Justice Department had moved in the spring to withdraw the charge against him, but his case remained tied up in the courts.

In addition to Mr. Flynn, Mr. Gates and Mr. Papadopoulos, Trump aides and associates who have been convicted include Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer; Roger J. Stone Jr., his longtime friend and adviser; and Paul Manafort, his former campaign chairman.

Others in the president’s circle to face federal charges include Stephen K. Bannon, his former strategist, who was indicted in August on charges of defrauding donors to a campaign to support Mr. Trump’s plans to build a wall along the border with Mexico, and Elliott Broidy, a top fund-raiser, who pleaded guilty last month in a foreign lobbying case.

Activists see a blitz of late pardons for people without political connections as a way for Mr. Trump to build on his efforts to reform the criminal justice system, including what is considered the most consequential legislation in a generation, which reduced sentences for nonviolent offenders.

Far more explosive in political terms is the possibility of pardons or commutations for allies, associates or even himself, reflecting Mr. Trump’s oft-stated belief that his presidency was undermined by law enforcement investigations, including the special counsel’s inquiry.

“The president knows how much those of us who worked for him have suffered, and I hope he takes that into consideration if and when he grants any pardons,” said Mr. Gates, who served as Mr. Trump’s deputy campaign chairman in 2016 before pleading guilty to financial fraud and lying to investigators.

Before Wednesday, Mr. Trump had granted 28 pardons, which wipe out convictions, and 16 commutations, which reduce prison sentences. 

Of the actions Mr. Trump has taken, many have benefited individuals with a personal or political connection to him.

They include Mr. Stone, who had been convicted of charges brought by the special counsel, the conservative commentator Dinesh D’Souza and the former Wall Street executive Michael Milken, whose bid for a pardon drew support from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.

Mr. Trump also has mused about pardoning Mr. Manafort, who was sentenced to seven and a half years in prison for obstructing justice and violating financial and lobbying laws, in the highest-profile of the cases brought by the special counsel.

There is open speculation about whether he might go even further in using his clemency power in his self-interest, possibly issuing pre-emptive pardons to members of his family and even himself for federal crimes.

Even if such a self-pardon were possible — scholars differ on the legality — it would not inoculate Mr. Trump against possible charges stemming from ongoing investigations into his business and finances by city and state prosecutors in New York.

The planned clemency initiative, and the lobbying that has unfolded around it, has been hindered in some ways in recent weeks by Mr. Trump’s refusal to formally concede his loss to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Potential pardon seekers and their representatives said in interviews that they were waiting to escalate their appeals until Mr. Trump conceded, or at least signaled that he had started to come to grips with the looming end of his presidency. 

“As long as they’re fighting this and there are court cases and the Electoral College hasn’t voted, it seems premature,” said Bud Cummins, a former U.S. attorney who was credited by the White House for helping persuade Mr. Trump to commute the sentence last year of one of his clients, a politically connected Arkansas businessman convicted of bribery related to Medicaid fraud.

Mr. Cummins, who was registered to lobby this year for a firm co-founded by two Trump campaign aides, said “lots of people” had approached him asking for help winning pardons from Mr. Trump. He declined to identify them.

Other potential pardon seekers and their allies are discussing a range of strategies to win over the president. They include highlighting donations to Mr. Trump, spending money at his properties, trying to hire lawyers or lobbyists seen as close to him and emphasizing business connections that could help Mr. Trump after he leaves office.

Mr. Gates, who received a 45-day jail sentence after cooperating with investigators, published a book last month accusing the special counsel’s team of using devious strong-arm tactics to pursue Mr. Trump and his allies. Mr. Gates conceded that his criticism of the investigation could potentially help with a pardon, but he added that “my motivation in writing the book was not to seek a pardon; it was to expose the truth about the Russia investigation.”

Mr. Papadopoulos, who pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and served 12 days in jail, has also been very public in his embrace of Mr. Trump. He appeared at the Trump National Doral resort in Florida last month for a conference of conservative activists, where he promoted his book, “Deep State Target: How I Got Caught in the Cross Hairs of the Plot to Bring Down President Trump.”

In an interview, he said his support for Mr. Trump was not inspired by his pursuit of a pardon, adding that he did not expect he would get one but still hoped it would happen.

“Of course I would be honored to be pardoned,” Mr. Papadopoulos said.

Others seeking creative ways to forge ties to the president include Joseph Maldonado-Passage, the former Oklahoma zoo owner who is better known as Joe Exotic. His representatives have been running a carefully orchestrated campaign to try to persuade Mr. Trump to pardon Mr. Maldonado-Passage, who is one year into a 22-year sentence for trying to hire a hit man to kill an animal-rights activist.

They have focused on getting Mr. Trump’s attention through appeals to Donald Trump Jr. and Mr. Kushner, appearances on Fox News and a visit to the Trump International Hotel in Washington where, one organizer said, they ran up a tab of about $10,000 to try to get Mr. Trump’s attention.

Mr. Dershowitz is exploring applying for pardons on behalf of Greg E. Lindberg, a North Carolina businessman who was sentenced in August to more than seven years in prison for his role in a bribery scheme that shook the state’s Republican Party, and Eliyahu Weinstein, a New Jersey man sentenced to more than 20 years in prison for a real estate Ponzi scheme.

Mr. Dershowitz said he had not approached Mr. Trump about either case, though he recalled an earlier conversation in which he explained his general philosophy on the importance of pardons to Mr. Trump.

The president, Mr. Dershowitz said, “was very interested in the concept of the pardon power being more than just clemency, but being part of the system of checks and balances for excessive legislative or judicial actions.”





No.4 article:
After Admitting Mistake, AstraZeneca Faces Difficult Questions About Its Vaccine

Some trial participants only got a partial dose of AstraZeneca’s vaccine. Experts said the company’s spotty disclosures have eroded confidence.

The announcement this week that a cheap, easy-to-make coronavirus vaccine appeared to be up to 90 percent effective was greeted with jubilation. “Get yourself a vaccaccino,” a British tabloid celebrated, noting that the vaccine, developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, costs less than a cup of coffee.

But since unveiling the preliminary results, AstraZeneca has acknowledged a key mistake in the vaccine dosage received by some study participants, adding to questions about whether the vaccine’s apparently spectacular efficacy will hold up under additional testing.

Scientists and industry experts said the error and a series of other irregularities and omissions in the way AstraZeneca initially disclosed the data have eroded their confidence in the reliability of the results.

Officials in the United States have noted that the results were not clear. It was the head of the flagship federal vaccine initiative — not the company — who first disclosed that the vaccine’s most promising results did not reflect data from older people.

The upshot, the experts said, is that the odds of regulators in the United States and elsewhere quickly authorizing the emergency use of the AstraZeneca vaccine are declining, an unexpected setback in the global campaign to corral the devastating pandemic.

“I think that they have really damaged confidence in their whole development program,” said Geoffrey Porges, an analyst for the investment bank SVB Leerink.

Michele Meixell, a spokeswoman for AstraZeneca, said the trials “were conducted to the highest standards.”

In an interview on Wednesday, Menelas Pangalos, the AstraZeneca executive in charge of much of the company’s research and development, defended the company’s handling of the testing and its public disclosures. He said the error in the dosage was made by a contractor, and that, once it was discovered, regulators were immediately notified and signed off on the plan to continue testing the vaccine in different doses.

Asked why AstraZeneca shared some information with Wall Street analysts and some other officials and experts but not with the public, he responded, “I think the best way of reflecting the results is in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, not in a newspaper.”

AstraZeneca was the third company this month to report encouraging early results on a coronavirus vaccine candidate. At first glance on Monday morning, the results looked promising. Depending on the strength at which the doses were given, the vaccine appeared to be either 90 percent or 62 percent effective. The average efficacy, the developers said, was 70 percent.

Almost immediately, though, there were doubts about the data.

The regimen that appeared to be 90 percent effective was based on participants receiving a half dose of the vaccine followed a month later by a full dose; the less effective version involved a pair of full doses. AstraZeneca disclosed in its initial announcement that fewer than 2,800 participants received the smaller dosing regimen, compared with nearly 8,900 participants who received two full doses.

The biggest questions were, why was there such a large variation in the effectiveness of the vaccine at different doses, and why did a smaller dose appear to produce much better results? AstraZeneca and Oxford researchers said they did not know.

Crucial information was also missing. The company said that the early analysis was based on 131 symptomatic Covid-19 cases that had turned up in study participants. But it did not break down how many cases were found in each group of participants — those who received the half-strength initial dose, the regular-strength initial dose and the placebo.

“The press release raised more questions than it answered,” said John Moore, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Weill Cornell Medical College.

Adding to the confusion, AstraZeneca pooled the results from two differently designed clinical trials in Britain and Brazil, a break from standard practice in reporting the results of drug and vaccine trials. 

“I just can’t figure out where all the information is coming from and how it’s combining together,” said Natalie Dean, a biostatistician and an expert in vaccine trial design at the University of Florida. She wrote on Twitter that AstraZeneca and Oxford “get a poor grade for transparency and rigor when it comes to the vaccine trial results they have reported.”

With AstraZeneca’s shares declining on Monday, company executives held several private conference calls with industry analysts in which they disclosed details that were not in the public announcement, including how the Covid-19 cases broke down across different groups. Such disclosures to analysts are not uncommon in the industry, but they often generate criticism about why the details were not shared with the public.

Bigger problems soon surfaced.

Mr. Pangalos told Reuters on Monday that the company had not intended for any participants to receive the half dose. British researchers running the trial there had meant to give the full dose initially to volunteers, but a miscalculation meant they were mistakenly given only a half dose. Mr. Pangalos described the error as “serendipity,” allowing researchers to stumble onto a more promising dosing regimen.

To many outside experts, that undercut the credibility of the results because the closely calibrated clinical trials had not been designed to test how well a half-strength initial dose worked.

The company’s initial announcement didn’t mention the accidental nature of the discovery.

“The reality is, it could end up being quite a useful mistake,” Mr. Pangalos said in the interview with The New York Times on Wednesday. “It wasn’t putting anyone in danger. It was a dosing error. Everyone was moving very fast. We corrected the mistake and continued on with the study, with no changes to the study, and agreed with the regulator to include those patients in the analysis of the study as well.”

He added, “What is there to disclose? It actually doesn’t matter whether it was done on purpose or not.”

In the statement attributed to Oxford, Ms. Meixell, the AstraZeneca spokeswoman, said the error stemmed from an issue, which has since been fixed, with how some of the vaccine doses were manufactured.

Then, on Tuesday, Moncef Slaoui, the head of Operation Warp Speed, the U.S. initiative to fast-track coronavirus vaccines, noted another limitation in AstraZeneca’s data. On a call with reporters, he suggested that the participants who received the half-strength initial dose had been 55 years old or younger.

Mr. Pangalos confirmed that on Wednesday, saying the participants received the half-strength dose over a matter of weeks before the error was discovered.

The fact that the initial half-strength dose wasn’t tested in older participants, who are especially vulnerable to Covid-19, could undermine AstraZeneca’s case to regulators that the vaccine should be authorized for emergency use.

Stephanie Caccomo, a spokeswoman for the Food and Drug Administration, declined to comment on whether the dosing error would hurt the vaccine’s chances of being authorized. The F.D.A. has said it expects vaccines to be at least 50 percent effective in preventing or reducing the severity of the disease, a bar that the vaccine appears to have cleared even in the group that got the two full doses.

AstraZeneca’s shares have fallen about 5 percent this week, while broader stock indexes have climbed to record highs. Investors seem to be disappointed with the murky results, especially compared with the much clearer data released by two of AstraZeneca’s chief rivals in the race for a coronavirus vaccine.

Pfizer and Moderna said this month that their vaccines, which use a technology known as “messenger RNA,” appear to be about 95 percent effective. Both offerings seem nearly certain to win emergency authorization from the F.D.A. in the coming weeks.

The AstraZeneca vaccine, which uses a different approach involving a chimpanzee virus to provoke an immune response to the coronavirus, had all the hallmarks of a blockbuster.

It was inexpensive — only a few dollars per dose — and easy to mass-produce. Unlike Pfizer and Moderna’s vaccines, AstraZeneca’s could be stored for months in normal refrigerators. The company has estimated it will be able to produce some three billion doses next year, enough to vaccinate nearly one-fifth of the global population.

Compared to most of the other leading Covid-19 vaccine developers, AstraZeneca is inexperienced when it comes to vaccines. And even before the chaotic release of results, the company was under scrutiny for its handling of the testing process.

In September, AstraZeneca paused clinical trials worldwide after a participant fell ill — but the company didn’t promptly announce the decision publicly. AstraZeneca also came under fire for providing details about the nature of the illness on a private conference call with investors hosted by the investment bank J.P. Morgan, rather than disseminating the information to the public. Both of those developments were first reported by STAT, which covers health and science news.

Ever since the Oxford-AstraZeneca team emerged as front-runners in the race to develop a vaccine this spring, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain has embraced the effort. The government preordered 100 million doses and cast the research as one of the country’s most important contributions to fighting the pandemic.

Basking in the results on Monday, Mr. Johnson said the vaccine “has the makings of a wonderful British scientific achievement.”

In the United States, which has ordered at least 300 million doses of AstraZeneca’s vaccine, the regulatory path forward is unclear. AstraZeneca was circumspect on Monday about its plans for seeking regulatory approval. The company said it would seek guidance from the Food and Drug Administration on whether it should formally submit its findings to apply for emergency authorization.

AstraZeneca has not been testing the promising half-strength initial dose in its ongoing United States trial. The company said it would work with the agency to add it as quickly as possible to that trial.

Mr. Pangalos said the company is planning a global trial to compare the two dosing regimens. The number of participants it will enroll hasn’t yet been determined, but it will be in the thousands.

“The only way they’re going to find out is by specifically and deliberately testing this serendipitous observation,” Professor Moore said. “The onus is on them to prove the speculation.”





No.5 article:
Debbie Allen’s Technique? It’s All About Tough Love

Was Lydia Grant, the dance teacher Debbie Allen played in both the film and television versions of “Fame,” really a fictional character? Wielding a cane — in homage to one of Ms. Allen’s own ballet teachers, Madame Tatiana Semenova — Grant tells her students: “You’ve got big dreams; you want fame. Well, fame costs, and right here is where you start paying; in sweat.”

To my great delight, Ms. Allen shares that no-nonsense perspective — it’s not about coddling. The new film “Dance Dreams: Hot Chocolate Nutcracker” is certainly about the vibrant and charming reimagining of the holiday classic that the Debbie Allen Dance Academy presents each season. But it is just as much about Ms. Allen herself.

It shows that this dancer, actor, choreographer and director is also something else: an educator, and a formidable one at that.

“Dance Dreams,” on Netflix beginning Friday, documents the rehearsal process leading up to performances of “The Hot Chocolate Nutcracker,” a child-dominated production that emphasizes acting as much as dancing, and showcases jazz, modern dance, hip-hop and ballet. (Like most “Nutcrackers,” it is on hiatus this season because of the coronavirus.)

In doing so, the movie provides an unvarnished look at Ms. Allen’s tough-love approach to running a dance academy. “I know some of you still need to learn how to point your toes and your feet,” she says at the start of the film. “But none of that will come if you don’t learn how to be quiet and listen!”

At her academy, in Los Angeles, technique is offered in many genres, but the training is more expansive than just learning steps. Ms. Allen’s students study dance history; they must know about the choreographers Katherine Dunham and Bob Fosse; but they also must know about the artist Jean-Michel Basquiat because, to her, understanding dance is about understanding all the arts.

“They have to know everything about ‘West Side Story,’ the quintessential American musical,” Ms. Allen, 70, said in a phone interview. “Who is Irene Sharaff, the great costume designer? These are things that will get lost, and I want my young people to speak the language of dance anywhere on the planet. And they do.”

At the first audition in the documentary, she tells some young girls that they need more training before they will get a part in the show. A moment later, she consoles a sobbing girl while simultaneously studying a sheet of paper. “You just need more class,” she says. “It hurts my feelings, too.” (Love.)

To a group of teenage girls on the floor, their legs parted in a straddle, Ms. Allen stresses that they won’t make it to the next level by “going around to the mall and being cute in heels.” She tells them: “Take those high heels off and get down on the floor and stretch.” (Tough.)

Ms. Allen doesn’t need a script to be a quote machine. She recently spoke about her own journey as a student, her twist on “The Nutcracker,” and why dance — and all of the arts — should be considered essential.

What follows are edited excerpts from the conversation.

The director of “Dance Dreams,” Oliver Bokelberg, has a daughter at your school. How did the project begin?

He wanted to capture a few pictures and before you knew it he was there all the time. And then one day he said, “Debbie, can I put on this microphone?” I said, “Oliver, get out of my way, you can’t interrupt me!” And then I honestly would forget that he was in there. He was shooting all the time.

It’s real cinéma-vérité, where you’re a fly on the wall. I was true to what the moment needed. And when the students needed to be blasted for coming in late or not working hard enough, it’s what I do, it’s how I train them every day.

Why was it important for you to feature so many children in your “Nutcracker”?

In the middle of a traditional “Nutcracker,” my son screamed out loud, “Mom, when is the rat coming?” So I knew they wanted to see a rat. I decided to let the rats take over the story. I created these characters that kind of take you through the journey.

But more important, I focus on the young performers because I wanted to create something where they would see themselves on that stage.

You’re busy with other projects, including your work on “Grey’s Anatomy” (acting, directing and as a producer). Why is having a dance school so important to you?

I had to send my child Vivian across the country to go to the Kirov School [in Washington] because there was no school here that I thought was the right kind of school. She was there for several years. And when she finally called home crying, I was like, OK, that’s it. [Vivian was told she could never be a classical dancer.]

It was time to have a school. I call it an academy. Something that they would commit to. And if they would commit, I would commit.

I have missed directing so many movies or starring in this or starring in that because of the children. I just missed doing something with Lin-Manuel [Miranda]. But I can’t leave my kids. And this is something that helped me when I was young.

How?

When I was a kid in Texas battling racial segregation and all of that foolishness, dance is what helped me pull through. Kids need that.

You know, they don’t list us as essential, but they need to change that model right now in the middle of this pandemic. The arts is essential for people. It keeps them mentally balanced and feeling hope and feeling confident.

In the film, you speak about the racial injustice you faced in studying to become a ballet dancer. What do you hope for in terms of more equality in dance?

I don’t just hope, I do. I create an environment that is welcoming to every person who has the spirit of the dance in them regardless of their body type or their ethnicity or their economic background.

I’m curious about your time in New York and when you discovered choreographers outside of ballet, like Martha Graham. What was that like?

I discovered them when I was at Howard University. I was a freshman, and my mother feared I might get lost in the academia and the fraternities and the cultural richness of it all. So she found a dance festival in New London, Connecticut. Martha Graham was there. Twyla Tharp was there. Donald McKayle was there. Katherine Dunham’s protégé Talley Beatty was there. Alvin Ailey was there. In one summer. Can you imagine what that was like? Judith Jamison and Dudley [Williams] wanted me to join Alvin Ailey because I was killing that “Revelations.”

What happened?

Alvin said, “She’s too young,” and I’m like, “No, I’m not, I’m not.” [Laughs] I was 17, and I was ready to drop out of college and, oh God, did I want to go. But that was the beginning. By the time I graduated from Howard and stepped foot on the street they called Broadway, I was in class with Richard Thomas — he and his wife ran the New York School of Ballet. You’d look up and Margot Fonteyn would be in class. Nureyev would be in class. New York, my God, it was a training camp.

I remember auditioning for a show and not being chosen. And at the end of the audition, the director came over to me and told me how talented I was, but that he didn’t need another brunette in the show.

And we know what that is code for.

OK? So what I’m passing on and giving to my kids is that they know they belong everywhere.

Because isn’t passing on that confidence what helps to make a dancer, too?

Yes, it is. You can go run the world. You could train as a dancer and go to Washington, honey, and pull that thing together. I always say I wish I could put them all in dance class right now and get this mess straightened out.

What would dance class do?

It would remind them that there’s something more powerful than they are. And that it’s not just you. When you’re dancing in the ensemble, you have to be a part, and if you’re the leader of that group, then you have to absolutely know where you’re going. Everyone’s following you. You cannot take the wrong step and end up in the pit.





No.6 article:
In a Year of No Trade Fairs, Germany Takes It Hard

The funeral directors will have to wait for their big get-together. So will the toymakers, the equestrians and the vegans.

All those groups and many more had scheduled trade fairs to take place in Germany in recent months. But these rituals of business life, a chance for people to make deals, check out the competition and commune with others in the same walk of life, are in crisis.

The mass cancellation of trade fairs has been a disaster for hotels, restaurants and taxi drivers around the world, but especially in Germany. The country has four of the world’s 10 largest trade venues, more than any other nation. 

Trade fairs have played a central role in German economic life at least since the Middle Ages, when merchants convened in cities like Leipzig to trade wine, furs, grain and gossip. The first Hanover Fair in 1947, a showcase for machine tools and other industrial goods, was seen as a turning point in Germany’s economic revival after World War II. The fair attracted more than 700,000 potential customers from around the world and helped reconnect Germany to the international economy.

The pandemic forced organizers to scratch this year’s Hanover Fair as well as dozens of smaller events like VeggieWorld in Munich, the International Toy Fair in Nuremberg and Horse &amp; Hunt in Hanover.

In a good year, trade fairs generate 28 billion euros, or $33 billion, in revenue for German convention centers, hotels, restaurants, airlines and various service providers, according to the Ifo Institute in Munich, a research organization.

That revenue largely evaporated, and there were additional losses that are impossible to quantify: the orders never taken, the partnerships never formed, the new connections not made.

“They’re a showcase,” said Jan Lorch, chief sales officer at Vaude, a German maker of outdoor gear and apparel that would normally have been a presence at the ISPO sports industry fair in Munich and the Eurobike cycling industry fair in Friedrichshafen, Germany.

Mr. Lorch said that in addition to being a way to meet retailers, the fairs were an opportunity to learn about topics like the latest supply-chain software. “You meet a lot of people in a short time,” he said. “You learn things you wouldn’t have known about otherwise.”

Conventions are an underappreciated driver of economic growth worldwide, responsible for about 1.3 million jobs. Trade fairs generated revenue of $137 billion in 2018, as much as General Motors, according to the Global Association of the Exhibition Industry in Paris.

But revenue this year is down by two-thirds after the cancellation of events like the Mobile World Congress (which drew more than 100,000 visitors in 2019) in Barcelona, Spain, or the North American International Auto Show in Detroit (which drew more than 750,000).

Some fairs moved online when the pandemic made live gatherings inadvisable. After the cancellation of Leben und Tod, or Life and Death, a funeral industry event normally held in Freiburg, Germany, organizers turned to the internet. They livestreamed presentations on topics such as “Fear of Dying” and “Burial Preparation: Which Shoes for the Final Journey?”

But virtual events do not fill hotels or restaurants, or provide work for the carpenters who build the often elaborate company displays, which can easily cost as much as a house.

“A lot of firms are on the brink of insolvency,” said Jan Kalbfleisch, executive director of FAMAB, an organization that represents firms that design displays, caterers and other service providers. Government aid programs for small business, he said, “are a help if your sales go down 30 percent, but not if they go down 80 percent.”

There are already signs that even after a vaccine becomes available, the pandemic may leave permanent scars on the exhibition industry. The Geneva Motor Show was canceled at the last minute in March, and the organizers have already called off next year’s event. The future of the show, once one of the main events on the auto industry calendar, is uncertain, in part because car companies have begun to question whether the shows are worth the substantial expense, which for big automakers can be millions of dollars.

The big worry for the exhibition industry is that companies will discover they can do without trade fairs. As anyone who has ever attended one knows, they can be exhausting corporate speed-dating marathons short on sleep and long on booze and bad food.

“There’s too much drinking. You live on coffee and toasted paninis,” said Kristof Magnusson, a fiction writer who is a regular at the Frankfurt Book Fair, the publishing industry’s premier event. “Afterward everyone is sick.”

A survey by the Ifo Institute found that nearly half of German companies with at least 500 employees want to cut spending on trade fairs and conduct more meetings online. But Horst Penzkofer, an economist at the institute, said trade fairs remained important for smaller companies that couldn’t afford international sales forces.

Nikolaj Schnoor, the chief executive of the Danish eyewear maker Lindberg, said the company staged online presentations to show off its latest designs after almost all industry trade fairs were canceled in the United States, Europe and Asia. But he said he was hoping they would resume soon.

“For small and midsize companies, they’re a window on the world,” Mr. Schnoor said. “I would be sad if we didn’t have them.”

German authorities allowed trade fairs to take place for most of the year if organizers limited the number of visitors and took other measures to avoid contagion. But most events were canceled anyway because of travel restrictions that discouraged visitors from abroad. Many exhibitors did not want to spend money getting ready for events that might be canceled at the last minute, which happened in several cases.

The latest lockdown restrictions in Germany, which took effect on Nov. 1 and last until December, include an almost total ban on trade fairs, much to the consternation of the industry. There was at least one exception — a fair in Erfurt called Pro.vention. It featured companies that make disinfectants, air purifiers and other products to cope with the pandemic.

Those are exactly the kind of companies that need trade fairs to find a market for new products, said Michael Kynast, chief executive of Messe Erfurt, the city’s trade fair venue. (“Messe” is the German word for “trade fair.”)

“There are companies that get 80 percent of their sales from trade fairs,” Mr. Kynast said.

It’s anybody’s guess when businesspeople can start thronging to trade fairs again. The Messe Frankfurt, whose dozen exhibition halls covering 400,000 square meters (nearly 100 acres) make it the third-largest fairgrounds in the world after the Hannover Messe and the National Exhibition and Convention Center in Shanghai, has canceled all events through March. Even if restrictions are lifted, exhibitors do not want to commit to events without knowing when the pandemic will be over.

The Frankfurt Book Fair, which attracted 300,000 visitors last year, may foreshadow how trade fairs will function. The event, normally held in October, traces its roots to the 1400s not long after Johannes Gutenberg, a native of nearby Mainz, invented movable type and made mass production of books possible.

This year, plans to allow a limited number of visitors had to be abandoned after a second wave of the coronavirus swept Germany. Instead, book fair organizers set up online platforms where attendees could make deals and seek partners, and staged a full program of online readings, panels and lectures.

Mr. Magnusson took part in a related event at the German National Library in Frankfurt that, he said, reminded him why he likes trade fairs despite the hangovers and sleep deprivation.

Mr. Magnusson, who was promoting his latest novel, “Ein Mann der Kunst” (“A Man of the Arts”), found himself appearing before a live, socially distanced audience with Wladimir Klitschko, a former heavyweight boxing champion promoting a motivational book, and Eva von Redecker, a philosopher who argues that capitalism is in the final stages of its demise.

“You get the whole panoply of the literary world,” Mr. Magnusson said. “It’s a good way to get out of your bubble.”





No.7 article:
Honestie Hodges, Whose Handcuffing Changed Police Policy, Is Dead at 14

Honestie’s handcuffing by the police in Grand Rapids, Mich., caused a national uproar and led to a new law enforcement policy on dealing with youths. Honestie died of Covid-19.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

Honestie Hodges, who was handcuffed by the police outside her home in Grand Rapids, Mich., when she was 11, a frightening incident that drew outrage and national headlines in 2017, died on Sunday. She was 14.

Her death, at the Helen DeVos Children’s Hospital in Grand Rapids, was caused by Covid-19, her grandmother Alisa Niemeyer wrote in a post on the website GoFundMe.

The incident occurred on Dec. 6, 2017. Honestie had stepped out the back door of her home with her mother and another family member to go to the store when they were confronted by police officers with their guns drawn.

“Put your hands on top of your—,” an officer ordered them before he was interrupted by Honestie’s mother screaming, “She is 11 years old, sir!”

“Stop yelling!” the officer responded, as recorded by an officer’s body camera. He ordered Honestie to walk backward toward him with her hands up.

A second officer grabbed her arms, pulled them behind her back and handcuffed her. Honestie shouted, “No, No, No!” pleading with the officers not to place the cuffs on her. The police, who said they had been searching for a 40-year-old woman in connection with a stabbing, removed the handcuffs after several minutes.

The incident caused a widespread uproar that led to a soul-searching within the Grand Rapids Police Department. In a news conference, the police chief at the time, David Rahinsky, said that “listening to the 11-year-old’s response makes my stomach turn; it makes me physically nauseous.” He retired in 2019.

None of the officers were disciplined because they had not violated any departmental policies, Mr. Rahinsky wrote in a statement at the time. Nonetheless, the department acknowledged that the officers had made a mistake in how they handled the child.

By then the police force was already facing criticism for a similar encounter that March in which five innocent teenagers were held at gunpoint.

At the time, Honestie, who was Black, spoke out. “I have a question for the Grand Rapids police: If this happened to a white child, if her mother was screaming, ‘She’s 11,’ would you have handcuffed her and put her in the back of a police car?” she was quoted as saying on MLive.com, a Michigan news site.

In March 2018, the police department adopted the “Honestie Policy,” which called for using the least restrictive options when dealing with youths. Even so, several more incidents involving the police pointing weapons at children have heightened tensions in Grand Rapids. A local television station, WOOD-TV, reported this summer that Honestie and her family were negotiating with the city to settle a claim filed over the handcuffing episode.

Honestie developed severe stomach pains on Nov. 9, her 14th birthday. Taken to the hospital, she tested positive for the new coronavirus and was sent home. But her condition worsened that evening, an ambulance was called, and she was admitted to the hospital’s intensive care unit. Over the next few days she received iron and blood transfusions as complications arose. She was placed on a ventilator on Nov. 14. But her condition never improved. Ms. Niemeyer updated the GoFundMe page asking for prayers.

Then, on Sunday, Ms. Niemeyer wrote: “It is with an extremely heavy heart that I have to tell you that my beautiful, sassy, smart, loving granddaughter has gone home to be with Jesus.”

Ms. Niemeyer had created the GoFundMe page to collect donations for her daughter, Whitney Hodges, who had had to stop working to care for Honestie and her four other children.

Lynn Sutfin, a spokeswoman for the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, said Honestie was not the youngest person to die of Covid-19 in Michigan.

The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said that Covid-19 deaths among children were rare over all, but that Hispanic and Black children were more likely than their white peers to be hospitalized or admitted to an I.C.U.

Ms. Niemeyer told WOOD-TV that Honestie had been “healthy and happy” with no underlying health issues.

“She could have been the vice president one day, or maybe the president,” Ms. Niemeyer said. “The world was open to her.”





No.8 article:
Latinos, Long Dismissed in Hollywood, Push to Make Voices Heard

Tanya Saracho landed her first television writing job on the Lifetime soap “Devious Maids” in 2012. She was a diversity hire.

It’s an official term for a practice meant to encourage inclusion. In an effort to make writers’ rooms — long the bastion of white males — more diverse, studios pay the salary of a minority writer so the show doesn’t have to. Ms. Saracho finds the idea noble but also inescapably problematic.

“You get otherized and marginalized and then you are expected to be the culture negotiator and ambassador and defender of every culture, not just yours,” Ms. Saracho, 44, said in a recent video interview. “It’s a big burden. I almost quit every day.”

Instead, Ms. Saracho persevered and achieved success in an industry that hasn’t always been welcoming to her: a queer writer interested in exploring her Mexican-American heritage on television. She wrote for HBO’s “Looking” and “Girls” and spent time on Shonda Rhimes’s “How to Get Away With Murder.” Her big break came when Marta Fernandez, then the senior vice president of original programming at Starz, invited her to create a show, “Vida,” about two estranged sisters returning to their East Los Angeles neighborhood of Boyle Heights to bury their mother. The show, which made its debut in 2018, tackled issues of gentrification and assimilation through the prism of family. It was well-reviewed and for three seasons served as an example of what’s possible when underrepresented voices are given a chance to succeed.

But “Vida” was canceled in March. That was followed by ABC ending the sole network TV show with a primarily Latino cast, “The Baker and the Beauty,” in June. And though CBS reran the truncated fourth season of the Latino-centric reboot of “One Day at a Time” in October, the fate of that show remains unclear. (Netflix first canceled it in 2019.)

To many Latinos working in Hollywood, it seems that every gain is soon followed by a loss, a continuous ebb and flow that never feels rectified.

“It’s great ‘Vida’ existed, but ‘Vida’ is now gone,” said Ms. Saracho, who began her career as a playwright in Chicago, where she co- founded a theater company and an alliance for Latino playwrights. “‘One Day at a Time’ is gone now, too. We haven’t arrived.”

According to a Writers Guild of America West study issued in June, while Hispanic-Latinos account for 18.3 percent of the population, they represent only 4.7 percent of feature film writers and 8.7 percent of television writers. The University of Southern California’s Annenberg Inclusion Initiative called Hollywood’s treatment of Latinos both behind and in front of the camera “an erasure” in a 2019 study.

The grim stats, coupled with personal experiences, prompted Ms. Saracho, Gloria Calderón Kellett (“One Day at a Time”) and the 16 other Latina showrunners who make up the Untitled Latinx Project group to start promoting their own cause.

In the middle of October, on the final day of National Hispanic Heritage Month, the group delivered an open letter to Hollywood demanding change in an industry that has long overlooked them. It bore the names of 276 Latino creative people, including film screenwriters and well-known names like Lin Manuel-Miranda, John Leguizamo, Eva Longoria and the writer and producer Phil Lord (“Spiderman: Into the Spiderverse”). And it made specific demands: Stop telling our stories without us, start greenlighting more of our projects, reflect the diversity of our population and hire us for projects that aren’t about the Latino community.

The letter arrived in Hollywood’s inboxes shortly before the 2020 election, which shined a spotlight on the diversity of Latinos in the United States. Latinos make up the second-largest voting group in the country, but they defy blanket classification. For example, Latinos in Florida and Texas, including many of Cuban and Venezuelan descent, leaned toward President Trump, while young progressive Latinos in Arizona, including a number of Mexican descent, favored Joseph R. Biden Jr.

It was a stark reminder that grouping Puerto Ricans, Cubans, Mexican-Americans and others into one monolithic racial group, as Hollywood has done for decades, diminishes their disparate experiences and concerns. Stacy L. Smith, the founder of U.S.C.’s Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, said in an interview that Latino characters in Hollywood movies are most often depicted as “criminals, as low income, as immigrants, as isolated, as hungry.”

Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas, who leads the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, went further, arguing that these depictions have real-world consequences. In a recent column in the Hollywood trade publication Variety, he wrote, “You can draw a clear line from the pervasive lack of positive Latino representation onscreen to the rise in hate crimes against our communities.”

The Untitled Latinx Project is one of the groups trying to change that. Last year, the women partnered with Franklin Leonard and his company, The Black List, which aims to promote the best unproduced screenplays in Hollywood, to create the inaugural Latinx TV List. It showcases one-hour and half-hour original pilots written by at least one Latino writer and featuring a Latino or Latin American character in a prominent role. The top three finishers landed deals with the streaming service Hulu. Many secured agency representation.

“We found 10 great writers who just happen to be Latinx who are just as good as anybody else that is already as a professional working writer,” Mr. Leonard said.

Advocates say that findings like that demonstrate how Hollywood’s issue is not a lack of creative voices to choose from but a lack of executives willing to take a chance and nurture new talent.

“If people are as committed to diversity and inclusion as they say they are, then they would make different choices,” Ms. Calderón Kellett said. “That’s why Tanya and I are pretty loud about talking about the inequality that we see consistently and trying to call for some real change.”

Ms. Saracho, for one, recognizes that without Ms. Fernandez at Starz, “Vida” never would have happened. “Who knows how she championed me and what battles she had to fight that I never saw,” said Ms. Saracho, adding that Ms. Fernandez also encouraged her to direct. “That’s what happens when you have one of you in the castle.”

But Ms. Fernandez left Starz last year for a job running the television department at Macro, a production and finance company intended to bolster voices of color. In addition to developing new shows with writers of color, she is also grooming executives of color who she hopes will one day land decision-making spots at the studios.

Ms. Saracho and Ms. Calderón Kellett will continue following their own paths. Ms. Calderón Kellett signed an overall deal with Amazon Studios last year. Ms. Saracho signed one this August with NBCUniversal’s television studio, Universal Content Productions, which, in addition to making new shows, will create a talent incubator for Latino creators.

Ms. Saracho is now in London, collaborating with the indie musician Johnny Flynn on a new pilot for Universal Content Productions called “Love Story” that centers on one heart-wrenching love story a season. The debut will focus on two Mexican-American childhood friends living in London who fall in love with the same singer-songwriter. (Mr. Flynn is writing the music and helping Ms. Saracho navigate the world of the anti-folk British indie music scene.)

Ms. Saracho is energized by the project and encouraged by the response her group’s letter has received. But she knows there is a long way to go.

“I don’t understand why they don’t take a chance on us but they will take a chance on the most tepid refried-bean cop show,” she said. “I think it’s a side effect of how we are viewed in this country, in a stereotyped way, a limited way. Those winds waft to Hollywood and it sort of seeps in everywhere. It hurts.”





No.9 article:
A Feared Law to Protect the Monarchy Returns Amid Thailand’s Protests

The country’s lèse-majesté law, which makes insulting the king punishable by years in prison, is being used against the protesters’ leadership for the first time.

BANGKOK — The number 112 strikes fear in Thailand. It refers to Section 112 of the country’s criminal code, which makes insulting or defaming the king and his close kin an offense punishable by three to 15 years in prison.

On Tuesday night, a leader of the protest movement that is calling for changes to Thailand’s monarchy and political system received a summons to face multiple charges of lèse-majesté, as the crime is known. It was the first time that Section 112 had been applied during the protests, which have brought thousands of people onto the streets since July.

The protest leader, Parit Chiwarak, commonly known as Penguin, must report to a police station by Dec. 1 to face the charges, which stem from speeches he gave in September and this month. In those speeches, Mr. Parit and others called for the monarchy to come under the Thai Constitution and for the public to be allowed to scrutinize its considerable wealth.

Eleven other protest leaders have also received summonses for lèse-majesté charges, according to the International Federation for Human Rights, which works with human rights lawyers in Thailand. Section 112 has not been used to prosecute individuals for the past two years, according to legal scholars.

The revival of 112 came hours before a rally in Bangkok on Wednesday during which protesters urged King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun to return his fortune to the people. Tax revenues, they said, were being used to fund his lavish lifestyle and fill the coffers of one of the world’s richest monarchies.

The protest took place at the headquarters of the Siam Commercial Bank, in which the king is the biggest shareholder. It was the first rally to focus almost exclusively on overhauling the monarchy’s powers, as opposed to bundling the issue together with calls for Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, the leader of a 2014 coup, to resign.

“I am not scared,” Mr. Parit said on Tuesday night, after receiving his summons. “I am more worried about the country if they are still using this 112 in politics like this. This will cause the monarchy to deteriorate further.”

Mr. Parit appeared at Wednesday’s protests dressed in a yellow duck suit, evoking the rubber duckies that have become a protest symbol. Others at the rally held up signs with the number 112 crossed out. A large portrait of the king went untouched.

In just a few months, Thailand has transformed from a country where criticism of the monarchy was only whispered to a place where protesters have spray-painted “the king is dead” on Bangkok streets.

The robust criticism, particularly from Thailand’s youth, has appalled royalists and left Mr. Prayuth, a retired general who justified the 2014 coup as necessary to protect the monarchy, contending with a rapidly shifting landscape.

“Any defamation law depends on what society thinks is OK and not OK, but in Thailand, we’ve had this oceanic change and what was lèse-majesté and defamation yesterday might not be what it is today,” said David Streckfuss, an independent scholar who has studied the application of Section 112 over the years.

“When we look back 10 years from now at the decline of the monarchy, we might say that this moment, of using 112, was a big misstep, a self-inflicted wound, which is what often happens with fading institutions,” he added.

Thailand abolished absolute monarchy in 1932, but deference to the king was institutionalized for decades, especially under King Maha Vajiralongkorn’s father, Bhumibol Adulyadej, who reigned for 70 years and was seen by the United States as a bulwark against the communist revolutions sweeping the region.

Images of both monarchs, who are envisaged as semi-divine beings, are ubiquitous across the country, from giant billboards near international airports to smaller portraits in shophouses. When politicians are given an audience with the monarch, they typically prostrate themselves and slide sideways to show their respect.

The royal anthem is played at many public events, even at movie theaters, and people were conditioned to stand in respect or face possible consequences. (That has changed in recent weeks, with far fewer people rising to greet a photo montage of the king at cinemas.)

Those who have fallen afoul of lèse-majesté accusations over the years have included Thai academics who called for reforms to the monarchy, a foreigner who defaced a portrait of the former king, and relatives of King Maha Vajiralongkorn’s third wife, who was purged in 2014. For two years after the 2014 coup, Section 112 prosecutions rose sharply.

Bhumibol — known as Rama IX, the ninth monarch in the Chakri Dynasty — died in 2016. His son has spent most of his reign living in Europe, although he returned to Thailand last month with his fourth wife, his son and a noble consort, an official title given to his mistress.

After inheriting the crown, King Maha Vajiralongkorn tightened his authority over influential military units. He also took direct control over the crown’s assets.

Even before Section 112 was invoked late on Tuesday, other laws had been used against the student-led protesters, who began with a campaign against conservative school rules and later widened their movement to include calls for an overhaul of Thailand’s leadership structure.

Mr. Parit and others have been charged with various crimes like sedition, which carries a punishment of up to seven years’ imprisonment.

Last month, several protesters were charged with the arcane crime, punishable by possible life imprisonment, of committing “an act of violence against the queen’s liberty,” after they raised their hands in defiance and shouted slogans at a passing limousine containing the queen and the heir apparent.

Lawyers in Thailand said that this section of the criminal code was so obscure that it did not appear in a database of cases that had appeared before the Supreme Court.

On Nov. 17, dozens of people were injured when the police directed water cannons and tear gas at protesters. A handful of people also suffered gunshot wounds, although the police said they had not used any bullets.

A day later, protesters converged at the national police headquarters in Bangkok, spray-painting sexual insults of the king on the walls and on the pavement. Mr. Prayuth soon warned that the authorities would be “enforcing all the pertaining laws against protesters who violate the law.”

Benjamaporn Nivas, a 16-year-old student leader, said that the specter of lèse-majesté might make her more careful in publicly criticizing the monarchy, but not because her feelings about its need to reform had shifted.

“I want to fight until the day when no one can fight anymore, then I will join the others in prison,” she said.

In June, Mr. Prayuth noted that lèse-majesté prosecutions had stopped in late 2017. “You know why?” he said. “It was because the king was kind enough to instruct that it should not be used.”

Opposition politicians called for the lèse-majesté law to be abolished. It is not clear why it is now being used again.

“A number of questions arise,” said Mr. Streckfuss, the scholar. “What authority does the king have to say that lèse-majesté shouldn’t be used? And is he now telling the government to use it? In either case, it puts the whole question of 112 in even stronger relief as a problematic law, and it won’t stop the protesters.”

“If anything,” he added, “it will egg them on.”





No.10 article:
Alaska’s Controversial Pebble Mine Fails to Win Critical Permit, Likely Killing It

The immense project would have been one of the world’s largest gold and copper mines, but regulators found it “contrary to the public interest” due to environmental risks in the pristine Alaskan tundra.

The Army Corps of Engineers on Wednesday denied a permit for the proposed Pebble Mine in Alaska, likely dealing a death blow to a long-disputed project that aimed to extract one of the world’s largest deposits of copper and gold ore, but which threatened breeding grounds for salmon in the pristine Bristol Bay region.

The fight over the mine’s fate has raged for more than a decade. The plan was scuttled years ago under the Obama administration, only to find new life under President Trump. But opposition, from Alaska Native American communities, environmentalists and the fishing industry never diminished, and recently even the president’s son, Donald Trump Jr., a sportsman who had fished in the region, came out against the project.

On Wednesday, it failed to obtain a critical permit required under the federal Clean Water Act that was considered a must for it to proceed. In a statement, the Army Corps’ Alaska District Commander, Col. Damon Delarosa, said the mine, proposed for a remote tundra region about 200 miles from Anchorage, would be “contrary to the public interest” because “it does not comply with Clean Water Act guidelines.”

Opponents said the large open-pit operation, which would dig up and process tens of millions of tons of rock a year, would irreversibly harm breeding grounds for salmon that are the basis for a sports-fishing industry and a large commercial fishery in Bristol Bay. Salmon are also a major subsistence food of Alaska Natives who live in small villages across the region.

“The Corps’ denial of the permit for the Pebble Mine is a victory for common sense,” said Chris Wood, chief executive of the conservation group Trout Unlimited. “Bristol Bay is the wrong place for industrial scale mining.”

Lindsay Layland, deputy director of United Tribes of Bristol Bay, which has fought the project for years, said that while the decision means the project may be dead, the threat remains that the gold and copper ore could still be mined in the future. “It doesn’t mean that those minerals aren’t going to be in the ground tomorrow,” she said. “We need to continue to push for long term and permanent protections down the road.”

In a statement, John Shively, interim chief executive of the project’s developer, Pebble Limited Partnership, said the partnership would “focus on sorting out next steps for the project, including an appeal of the decision.”

Mr. Shively described the Corps’ action as “politically driven,” particularly given that earlier this year the Corps had approved an environmental impact statement that, he said, “clearly stated the project could successfully coexist with the fishery and would have provided substantial economic benefit.”

The environmental impact statement was finalized in July by the Corps, which had authority to approve or deny a permit under the federal Clean Water Act. But a few weeks later the Corps said that the company’s plan to compensate for environmental damage from the mine was insufficient, and requested a new plan.

The new plan, which was not publicly released but was believed to designate land near the mine to be permanently protected, was submitted last week.

The mining industry and many state officials have supported the project for the revenue and other economic benefits it would bring. But some important Alaskan politicians, notably Senator Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, had been noncommittal, saying the mine should go forward only if it could be shown to be environmentally sound.

In a statement on Wednesday, Senator Murkowski said the Corps’ decision affirmed “that this is the wrong mine in the wrong place.”

“This is the right decision, reached the right way,” she added.

Under the Trump administration, the Environmental Protection Agency reversed an earlier ruling, allowing the environmental review by the Corps to proceed. Under the Clean Water Act, the Corps reviews any dredging and filling activities in waterways, including wetlands like those in the area of the proposed project.

Support for the mine among Republicans was never as ironclad as it has been for some other projects with potential environmental consequences, notably potential oil and gas drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, also in Alaska. And many Democrats had been fiercely opposed.

One of the project’s biggest Congressional critics, Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, hailed the Corps’ decision. “But denial of a permit does not mean Bristol Bay is safe from the threat of the Pebble Mine,” Senator Cantwell said, adding that the incoming administration of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. should make it a priority to establish permanent protections for the Bristol Bay fishery.

The Pebble project even generated a rare dispute within the Trump family. In August, Donald Trump Jr., an avid sportsman who has fished in the Bristol Bay area, tweeted his opposition to the mine: “The headwaters of Bristol Bay and the surrounding fishery are too unique and fragile to take any chances with. #PebbleMine.”

President Trump, when asked in following days about his son’s sentiments and the prospects for the project, said only that he would “look at both sides” of the issue and that politics would not play a role in any decision. Privately, however, administration officials said they expected that the permit would be approved.

But in September, the future of the multibillion dollar project appeared in doubt when secret recordings of company executives suggested that they were planning for a much larger mine, and one that would operate far longer, than what had been proposed to the Corps.

The recordings were obtained by an environmental advocacy group, with two members who were posing as potential investors in the project meeting by video with two project executives. The executives described how the mine could operate for 160 years or more beyond the proposed 20 years, and how its output could double after the first two decades.

In the fallout from the recordings, one of the executives, Tom Collier, chief executive of the Pebble Partnership, resigned.





No.11 article:
How ‘Blue Bloods’ and Other Shows Resumed Filming in Pandemic N.Y.C.

With the city’s economy in a downturn, film production has been a bright spot, with crews again filling the city’s sound stages and, increasingly, the streets.

Across from Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan recently, dozens of crew members in yellow safety vests filmed a scene for the TV medical drama, “New Amsterdam,&quot; as real doctors and nurses skirted past them. A few blocks away, the television series “Manifest” wrapped up a morning shoot inside a cozy bar, then set up a crane to light a night shoot at a Midtown playground.

With Broadway dark, concert venues closed and live performances strictly limited, New York’s powerhouse arts and entertainment industry has been devastated by the coronavirus pandemic. But amid the downturn, film production has been a bright spot, with television and streaming series again filling the city’s sound stages and, increasingly, the city’s streets, despite a rise in virus cases in New York and across the nation.

The film and television industry, which brought $60 billion to the city in the year before the pandemic, is not yet back to its old heights. Of the nearly 80 series that were filming or planning to film in New York City in the 2019-2020 season, 35 were back at work by early November — including popular shows like “Younger and “Blue Bloods” — with another five expected back by the end of the year, according to the Mayor’s Office of Media and Entertainment. 

 A virus surge could threaten that recovery, particularly if Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo declares New York a “red zone” and orders all nonessential businesses closed again.

Still, in a pandemic-weary Manhattan, whose streetscapes are pockmarked by boarded-up storefronts and “for rent” signs, the sight of dozens of shiny production trucks and the hum of workers rolling equipment on and off film sets is giving the city a glimpse of its former self. It is also getting thousands of people back to work, and burnishing the image of New York as a resilient metropolis to the millions who watch New York-based television shows worldwide.

The city’s major studios — Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, Steiner Studios in the Brooklyn Navy Yard and Silvercup Studios in Long Island City — all report that they are full, though each stage can only function at 50 percent of its regular occupancy under state rules.

“It’s a very mobile industry; they don’t have to be in New York,” said Hal Rosenbluth, the president of Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, of his studio being full again. “The thing that made me feel good, is that the executives that make these decisions were still confident to come back to New York, and that is the best statement you can say.”

The overlapping safety protocols of the industry’s labor unions, the Hollywood parent companies and the New York state and city government have led to robust safety protections, at least for major studio projects. While near daily virus testing is turning up coronavirus cases among the crew and actors, the productions, for the most part, have continued with few delays. To satisfy homebound audiences eager for new content, studios been willing to pay big for safety measures, with production costs ballooning by around 30 percent.

“Just the Covid division alone for each production could be up to 40 people,” said Doug Steiner, the chief executive of Steiner Studios, where seven series, including Amazon’s “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” and Showtime’s “City on a Hill,&quot; are back in business.

About one person every week or two test positive somewhere on the lot, Mr. Steiner said. But so far, he said, the productions have managed to isolate cases and their contacts, and continue filming. Studios pay for testing, and their coronavirus teams do their own contact tracing.

The city said that at least one production had shut down for two weeks because of virus cases, while others have shut down for a day or two.

It’s impossible to get a complete picture of how often the coronavirus is appearing on set, as no one is tracking that number fully. Daniel Hank, a New York producer and a member of the Directors Guild of America, cited informal numbers put out by the organization internally, which reported a total of 113 virus “events”— which could include anything from a false positive to multiple positive tests — on film and television sets across North America, 59 of which resulted in a pause in production. The Directors Guild said that those numbers were anecdotal and not intended for public release.

Projects have found a way to keep filming because it is too costly just to stop, said Mr. Hank, who leads a weekly call for producers to share advice on filming during a pandemic. “It adds a level of complexity that’s one more challenge to overcome in an industry filled with challenges,” he said.

On-location shooting in New York has been slower to return, with the logistical puzzle of filming in a busy city made even more difficult by new social distancing requirements and increased demands on outdoor space. Outdoor dining structures, for example, now cover many sidewalks and parking spots.

(Filming in Los Angeles is also recovering, although permit requests remain at about half the levels analysts would expect in a typical year, according to FilmLA, the partner film office for the city of Los Angeles.)

The interplay between the public and the film crew in the city has also been transformed. Film crews are used to dealing with a mix of curious onlookers and “real New Yorkers” who walk right through the set without noticing.

“Now, I see people do a double take and walk the other way,” said Kelly Mahoney, the first assistant director on the set of the NBC series “Manifest,” which was back shooting in Manhattan for the first time in mid-November. “It was really strange to me.”

On set, the most obvious change is that masks are mandatory, as are face shields for the crew closest to the actors. Portable sinks have become a new must-have street accessory. Color-coded bracelets or lanyards mark what zone a crew member is assigned to, in order to limit contact between workers and those allowed near the action. Actors take off their own masks to film scenes, and then put them on again when a crew member yells cut.

“Manifest&quot; has not yet had a virus case on set, said Harvey Waldman, one of the show’s producers, “but it is a little bit like playing Russian roulette, all the time.” At the same time, he said, “you also feel this comradeship, and you feel that people are watching out for each other.”

The productions have mostly stuck to filming inside sound stages, where they can tightly control the environment. Script writers have also made adjustments, limiting intimate scenes, extras and shifting some shoots to more spacious settings outside the city.

Before the pandemic, the Mayor’s Office of Media and Entertainment generally issued about 1,000 permits per month for outdoor filming on public property. After a complete spring shutdown, the numbers began to rebound in September, when film crews of up to 100 were allowed to work. Last month, 559 permits were granted.

“Slow and steady wins the race, and that’s what we are seeing right now,” said Anne del Castillo, the city’s media and entertainment commissioner. “It’s one of the bright spots in the recovery, and I love talking about it.”

But the return to the city streets in the last few weeks has offered a sometimes worrying level of interaction between the crews and the public, with both sides wary.

On the set of “New Amsterdam” on a recent Tuesday, for example, the large crew found it impossible to perfectly socially distance while setting up for the actors in a small park and traffic lane on First Avenue. Bikers kept rolling through the set, and the lighting crane was temporarily stored right next to the active Citi Bike rental station.

“Please stay at least six feet away — we have all been tested,” one crew member warned a lingering pedestrian.

With the extra cost of everything from testing to transportation, many projects, particularly smaller ones or those not yet filming, are pausing until the spring, said Flo Mitchell Brown, the chair of the industry group New York Production Alliance.

Commercials and smaller projects do not have to abide by the same safety protocols agreed to by the major studios, so their virus protections can be more variable. False positives have also caused closures on some sets, to the point where some major studios have stopped using rapid tests, Mr. Hank said.

Inside the city’s live television studios, frequent testing, social distancing and masks have also enabled a return to production, though with huge changes from the pre-pandemic era. Candi Carter, the executive producer of the “Tamron Hall” show, which broadcasts from the Upper West Side, uses an empty green room as her makeshift office, because all the guests and audience on the show are virtual. Everyone who can work from home does.

Though things feel “bizarre, to say the least,” Ms. Carter said, it is an improvement over the many weeks this spring Ms. Hall was filming from her New York City kitchen. Audiences seem to agree, and ratings are up.

“I think people want to see regular TV again,” she said. “Everyone on our staff is completely on board. And that’s how we are able to do it.”





No.12 article:
C.I.A. Officer Is Killed in Somalia

The officer’s combat death came as President Trump considers pulling back on American operations in the region.

WASHINGTON — A veteran C.I.A. officer was killed in combat in Somalia in recent days, according to current and former U.S. officials, a death that is likely to reignite debate over American counterterrorism operations in Africa.

The officer was a member of the C.I.A.’s paramilitary division, the Special Activities Center, and a former member of the Navy’s elite SEAL Team 6.

The identity of the officer remained classified, and the circumstances of the killing were ambiguous. It was unclear whether the officer was killed in a counterterrorism raid or was the victim of an enemy attack, former American officials said. The C.I.A. declined to comment.

The death will lead to another star being added to the wall in the C.I.A.’s lobby, where it memorializes its fallen. The past 20 years have placed a heavy burden on the agency, with dozens of stars bringing the total to 135.

Compared with the U.S. military, the deaths of C.I.A. officers in combat is a relatively rare occurrence. Still, paramilitary work is the most dangerous task at the agency, and members of the Special Activities Center carry out missions as risky as those of Delta Force or SEAL Team 6.

The death of the C.I.A. paramilitary officer comes as a draft order is circulating at the Pentagon under which virtually all of the more than 700 American military forces in Somalia conducting training and counterterrorism missions would depart by the time President Trump leaves office in January.

The Shabab, the Qaeda-affiliated terror group based in Somalia, remains a deadly threat and claimed responsibility this week for killing a group of American-trained Somali soldiers. No Americans were killed in that attack, a military official said.

Inside the C.I.A., Somalia has long been considered a particularly dangerous war zone. Senior intelligence officials have debated whether counterterrorism operations there are worth the risk to American lives. Some in the agency believe the Shabab is at worst a regional threat to Africa and to American interests there but not beyond the region.

But other counterterrorism experts believe that if left unchecked, the Shabab could emerge as the same kind of global threat as the Islamic State and Al Qaeda have been. The Shabab, the most active affiliate of Al Qaeda, issued new threats against Americans in East Africa and in the United States this year. Members of the group were arrested while taking flying lessons in the Philippines, and others have sought to procure surface-to-air missiles.

The growing worries about the Shabab’s expanding ambitions had prompted a flurry of American drone strikes in Somalia during the past two years to keep the group in check.

Covert C.I.A. operations in Somalia are harder to track but are likely to have been stepped up alongside the drone strikes as the agency sought additional information about whom to target in such attacks.

Decisions about whether to alter American counterterrorism operations in Somalia will be an early national security challenge for President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. as he reviews Mr. Trump’s policies.

Still, Mr. Biden may find his options more limited as Mr. Trump considers major changes in his last weeks in office.

The Trump administration plan under discussion would not apply to U.S. troops stationed in nearby Kenya and Djibouti, where American drones that carry out airstrikes in Somalia are based. They would continue to conduct counterterrorism operations against the Shabab, according to officials familiar with the internal deliberations who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

The acting defense secretary, Christopher C. Miller, announced plans last week to reduce troop levels in both Afghanistan and Iraq to 2,500 by January, but Pentagon officials said this week that they were still working out details of the drawdown in Somalia.

Critics said Mr. Trump’s plan to leave Somalia comes at a precarious time for the strife-weary nation in the Horn of Africa. Somalia is gearing up for parliamentary elections next month and a presidential election scheduled for early February. The removal of U.S. troops could complicate any ability to keep election rallies and voting safe from Shabab attackers. Political turmoil has also erupted in neighboring Ethiopia, whose army has battled the Shabab.

Security inside Somalia is increasingly dire despite a sustained flurry of American drone strikes and U.S.-backed ground raids against Shabab fighters, according to a report issued on Wednesday by the inspectors general of the Defense and State Departments and the U.S. Agency for International Development.

“Despite many years of sustained Somali, U.S. and international counterterrorism pressure, the terrorist threat in East Africa is not degraded,” the assessment concluded. “Shabab retains freedom of movement in many parts of southern Somalia and has demonstrated an ability and intent to attack outside of the country, including targeting U.S. interests.”

The paramilitary arm of the C.I.A. has borne the brunt of the agency’s losses since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according to former officials. Officers on the C.I.A.’s paramilitary teams conduct raids and operations in austere locations, far more dangerous missions than the kind of intelligence collection that is the backbone of the agency.

Many of them were killed in Afghanistan, where over all at least 20 people have died since the beginning of the war there. It is unclear whether other officers have been killed in Somalia in recent years.





No.13 article:
Is Margaret Thatcher’s Hometown Ready to Put Her on a Pedestal?

The first woman to be prime minister of Britain is seen as a political colossus abroad, but her 11 years in power have a complicated legacy at home.

GRANTHAM, England — Statues of the politically unpalatable have this year been toppled, beheaded and graffitied from the American South to Belgium, and Britain to New Zealand. Not even Winston Churchill was spared.

In the English town of Grantham, an hour’s train ride north of London, an 11-foot pedestal now stands empty. That’s not because the statue atop it has been vandalized — though many expect it will be once it is finally installed.

Next year, that plinth is to become the base of a stern-looking, larger-than-life bronze monument to Grantham’s most famous daughter: Margaret Thatcher.

If Mrs. Thatcher — the “Iron Lady” who was the first female prime minister of Britain — is currently getting a sympathetic portrayal from Gillian Anderson on Netflix’s “The Crown,” she remains a divisive and polarizing figure three decades after leaving office.

That’s true even in her hometown. So while the unveiling of a statue is usually a festive occasion, few in Grantham expect Mrs. Thatcher’s homecoming to be celebrated as a hero’s return.

“If you’re a Conservative,” said Graham Newton, the news editor of the weekly Grantham Journal, “you want a statue, and you want her recognized. But if you’re not, there’s a lot of people who — not to put a fine point on it — hated her.”

Many in Grantham expect her critics will not wait long to make their mark, Mr. Newton added. “Either way, it’ll make a good story for the paper,” he said.

Culture wars have been roiling around statues since 2017, when officials in Charlottesville, Va., said they would remove a statue memorializing Robert E. Lee, the Confederacy’s top general. But voices calling for the removal of statues associated with slavery and colonialism have grown steadily louder this year, particularly since the killing of George Floyd and the resurgent Black Lives Matter movement.

In England, some have taken matters into their own hands. A monument to Edward Colston, a 17th-century slave trader, was toppled in Bristol in June during a Black Lives Matter protest.

That same month, a protester in London scrawled “racist” on a statue of Winston Churchill, an ardent imperialist who once said it was right for “a stronger race, a higher-grade race” to claim territory from another. (He is also widely regarded as Britain’s greatest prime minister for his leadership in World War II.) The statue was boarded up to prevent further damage, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Twitter that it was “absurd and shameful” that Churchill’s statue was at risk of attack.

As in the United States, where a statue of Abraham Lincoln was considered fair game for protesters in Portland, Ore., a wide range of monuments now seems more vulnerable to attack. And while it is unusual for a statue of a woman — a rarity itself — to attract such strong emotions, this was always the way with Mrs. Thatcher.

Internationally, Mrs. Thatcher, who died in 2013 at age 87, may be seen as a political colossus, the British equivalent of Ronald Reagan. But in Britain, her 11 years in power have a more complicated legacy.

Some see her as the leader of a much-needed political and economic revolution, privatizing industry, facing down trade unions and winning victory for Britain against Argentina in the Falklands War. To others, she is someone who, coldly, left towns that were dependent on state-run industries to rot and turned Britain into a society of uncaring individuals.

Perhaps that’s why Mrs. Thatcher’s presence in Grantham is currently so low-key. She grew up above the grocery store her father ran, and there is a small plaque on the building today — although the store itself is now a center for “chiropractic natural therapies,” beauty and massage treatments. The town’s museum features a few exhibits, including her childhood bed and one of her suits, though none of her trademark handbags are on display.

“She was never very fond of Grantham, and so Grantham was never very fond of her,” said John Campbell, a biographer, pointing out that Mrs. Thacher rarely visited the town as prime minister, and did not mention it in speeches. “She was happy to leave it behind,” he said.

The new monument, designed by the sculptor Douglas Jennings, won’t be Britain’s first to Mrs. Thatcher, but it will be the first outdoors, in easy reach of vandals.

In 2002, a marble statue was unveiled by the former prime minister herself inside the Guildhall, a regal municipal building in London. (She praised the sculpture for its “good, big handbag.”) Within months, a man attacked the statue with a cricket bat, before decapitating it with an iron bar. He was jailed for three months; the statue was repaired, and is still on display.

Another statue of Mrs. Thatcher stands in a lobby of the Palace of Westminster, home to the British Parliament. It has also suffered damage since its unveiling in 2007, albeit of a more benign kind: Devoted lawmakers who rubbed the monument’s toes to bring good luck on their way into the debating chamber wore off the patina of the brass.

The Grantham statue was initially proposed for Parliament Square in London, putting Mrs. Thatcher in the company of Abraham Lincoln, Nelson Mandela and the Churchill statue that was boarded up this summer.

But officials rejected it twice for a variety of reasons, including a rule that people honored with statues must have been dead for a decade, “to allow partisan passions to cool and enable sober reflection.”

The monument is now in storage at a secret location, said Ivan Saxton, the founder of the Public Memorials Appeal, a nonprofit that raised the money to erect it.

The plinth was installed in Grantham in February, and the statue was meant to join it in May, Mr. Saxton said, but the coronavirus pandemic scuppered those plans. The unveiling ceremony will now be postponed until social distancing is no longer required, he added, so the event could have a sense of pageantry, complete with local dignitaries and a military band.

For many, such pomp couldn’t be more inappropriate. In a telephone interview, Charmaine Morgan, a Labour Party councilor in Grantham, said that Mrs. Thatcher “represents a period in our history when inequality was prevalent, and many of her policies led to a significant increase in it that is only continuing to grow.”

She said she wouldn’t mind if the statue were in the town’s museum — she just doesn’t want it in public.

Charles Moore, a former editor of The Daily Telegraph newspaper, who wrote an authorized biography of Mrs. Thatcher, said such objections were the views of a minority. “It’s obvious there should be statues to Britain’s first woman prime minister, and I think they would be accepted by most people in Britain,” he said.

Mr. Moore added that while “divisive” was the first word most British journalists used to describe her, he preferred “successful.”

“She won every election she fought,” he said. “She won big majorities. And this made some of her critics very, very angry.” Her success is what made her divisive, he said.

The authorities in Grantham considered extra measures to stop the statue from being vandalized, said Rosemary Kaberry-Brown, a Conservative local councilor. “I still think it should be in the middle of a fish pond, so anyone who wanted to vandalize it has a hard job,” she said.

But last week, the plinth seemed far from a fortress. Two local government employees stood by it, discussing a plan to install flower beds.

In interviews with 20 Grantham residents, more were in favor of the statue than against.

Joan McDaniel, 82, said she had mixed views on Mrs. Thatcher as a politician, but added that she deserved a monument, even if it could “attract idiots” who might vandalize it.

“It looks just like Maggie — the fierceness of her,” Ms. McDaniel said.

Many said it would be good for at least one thing: tourism.

“No one talks about Grantham” said Sarah Gibson, 46, a cafe owner. “At least this will get them.”





No.14 article:
Verses vs. Virus: What These Poets Laureate Are Thankful For

As Americans gather for Thanksgiving in a nation battered and brought low by rampant disease and division, you may ask: What in this of all years do we have to be thankful for?

More than a quarter-million lives have been lost to a scourge that at this time last year no one knew existed. Wildfires and hurricanes have ravaged great swaths of the country. Trusted institutions — science, post offices, the vote — have been politically assaulted.

Jobs have disappeared. Hospitals have been overwhelmed. Lines stretch for blocks at food banks. Students cannot sit in classrooms or travel home from colleges without a face-masked ordeal of quarantine, swabs and evasive maneuvers. Neighbors cannot break bread safely around Thanksgiving tables, assuming they still have the will.

Yet gratitude persists. Last week, we asked poets laureate across the country why the people in their states would be thankful. They enthusiastically responded, some within minutes, many with poetry.

“I am thankful for friends,” wrote Nebraska’s state poet, Matt Mason:

“Lately, I’d been wanting a little light — and there it was,” wrote Karen Craigo of Missouri, describing a stand of small trees that “glowed like campfires” and made her think about other blessings.

In Maine, Stuart Kestenbaum summoned “gale force winds along the coast in the morning” and thanked the crew — “these men doing their jobs” — that repaired his downed power line in the dark, in head lamps.

“It’s not hard for Californians to know whom to thank in 2020,” wrote Dana Gioia, California’s most recent poet laureate. “Four million acres of the Golden State went up in flames this fall. We thank — profoundly and prodigiously — the fire, police, and emergency personnel, as well as the prison volunteers, who risked their own safety to protect us.”

Oregon’s poet laureate, Anis Mojgani, was grateful, too, “for the earth still / having not released us.” His predecessor, Kim Stafford, recalling the catastrophic wildfires that swept through that state, wrote of another savior: “rain nipping flame’s root, gray mud of ash.”

And in Minnesota, Joyce Sutphen gave thanks for

Not all states responded. The New York Times request came with some prosaic conditions — 100 words or less on a newspaper deadline, a tall order for an exacting art form. Some states have no poet laureate. New Jersey abolished the post in 2003 amid controversy, and Idaho replaced it in the 1980s with a broader “writer-in-residence” appointment. The last full-time poet to hold that job, Diane Raptosh, who has also served as poet laureate of Boise, offered that state’s poem.

Still other states were between poets. In California, Mr. Gioia’s term ended in 2018 and the governor has yet to appoint a successor. Illinois had been without an official poet since 2017; we received submissions from its last laureate and the poet who succeeded him on Wednesday.

But the many writers who did respond reflected a widespread, if weary, appreciation, both for regional grit and more universal blessings. Many wrote, in these socially distanced times, of the humanity and fellowship around them.

Hawaii’s poet was grateful for “tight-knit island communities,” Wyoming’s for “neighbor helping neighbor / despite long distances,” and Alabama’s for a state where people “rally to help each other out in times of crisis.”

And North Carolina’s for “North Carolinians” and “the many ways we have gathered together to take care of each other.” And South Dakota’s for “food, resources, / each other — love and fear’s first real test.” And Oklahoma’s “for the after-tornado swarm of helping strangers  / for those who smell of oil, of diesel, of dirt, of sweat.”

Paisley Rekdal of Utah wrote of “something unusual: crowds in the canyons.” Bobby LeFebre of Colorado reached out on social media to crowdsource that state’s thanks for “love, familia, health, work, creator, community, cultura / resilience, art, abolitionists, education, imagination, clarity / life, truth, weed,” and much more.

Beth Ann Fennelly of Mississippi was “grateful to be counted on: One Mississippi, Two. Grateful for the word y’all. Grateful for the emphatic all y’all.”

“After many and much / have been taken from us, we gather what remains / like hallowed guests at our otherwise empty table,” explained Kevin Stein, the last Illinois poet laureate, who was succeeded by Angela Jackson.

She was grateful for “waystations / Peopled with all kinds / Of people — / All colors / A One / In the Land of Lincoln.” Similarly, Virginia’s poet laureate, Luisa A. Igloria, recalled the toppling of Confederate monuments in the racial reckoning of the summer and gave thanks “for the thousand-thousand bodies / marching in the hearts of grieving, / inflamed cities.”

M.L. Smoker and Melissa Kwasny, Montana’s poets laureate, wrote jointly that “after 125 years, the Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians was finally granted federal recognition.” Next door, Ms. Raptosh wrote four “Gratitude Sonnets,” praying that the “vowels within Idaho” can “slipper us into some new, non-tribal unities.”

Kari Gunter-Seymour of Ohio name-checked Zoom, “a window of windows inside a dollhouse,” and she was not the only one. Grace Cavalieri of Maryland thanked it for bringing poetry, which “can’t be stopped by calamity.” Alexandria Peary wrote that people in New Hampshire were glad to look up from it and “see Mount Washington in their living room window.”

“Thank you for drawing the crow outside my window,” wrote Mary Ruefle of Vermont. “Thank you for drawing the wrinkled bittersweet berries.” Tina Cane of Rhode Island cited “sweeping ocean views / that give a sense of peace and wonder and hope, some space to rest.”

In New Mexico, Levi Romero was “thankful for remedios, te de cota, manzanilla, osha,” and in Kansas, Huascar Medina wrote, gratefully, that “some of us are going to save a lot on our small Thanksgiving dinners,” including, perhaps, one another. Larry Woiwode in North Dakota thanked the “dual poles of the Dakota mind: / Faith and work” and between them, another remedy: “the common Act of art.”

In Kentucky, Jeff Worley offered art, too — a sampler of books by his state’s writers and poets. Chelsea Rathburn in Georgia, looking at a picture her daughter made last Thanksgiving, asked her what she was grateful for in 2020. “That this year is nearly over,” the 8-year-old replied.

Delaware’s poets, the twin brothers Al Mills and Nnamdi Chukwuocha, saluted their fellow Delawarean, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. And Peter Meinke wrote an ode to Florida, which “voted for Trump and would again if given a chance.”

Running through the responses was a thread: gratitude just to still be here. Maybe that’s appropriate for a holiday that we trace to Pilgrims who were desperate not to die of starvation, and that was made official by a Civil War president who was desperate for his divided nation to have something, anything, in common, even just one meal in November.

Still, it is striking: On a day we have come to celebrate for comity and plenty, we stand apart this year and give thanks, even in our poetry, for simple survival.

“You see we’re still holding on here just enough,” wrote Marc Harshman, the poet laureate of West Virginia, “despite all we’re doing wrong.”

We received nearly three dozen submissions in all. Here is a sampling:

Read all the poems here.





No.15 article:
Penguin Random House to Buy Simon &amp; Schuster

ViacomCBS agreed to sell the 96-year-old company in a deal that potentially creates a megapublisher.

The biggest book publisher in the United States is about to get bigger. ViacomCBS has agreed to sell Simon &amp; Schuster to Penguin Random House for more than $2 billion in a deal that will create the first megapublisher.

Penguin Random House, the largest book publisher in the United States, is owned by the German media conglomerate Bertelsmann. Adding Simon &amp; Schuster, the third largest publisher, would create a book behemoth, a combination that could trigger antitrust concerns.

The deal announced on Wednesday includes provisions that would protect ViacomCBS in the event that a sale is squashed by authorities. Bertelsmann would pay what is known as a termination fee if the deal does not go through.

The sale of the company will profoundly reshape the publishing industry, increasingly a winner-take-all business in which the largest companies compete for brand-name authors and guaranteed best-sellers.

The book business has seen wave after wave of consolidation in the past decade, with the merger of Penguin and Random House in 2013, News Corp’s purchase of the romance publisher Harlequin, and Hachette Book Group’s acquisition of Perseus Books. This fall, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt announced it was exploring a sale of its trade publishing division, and could be an attractive target for a large publishing company like Macmillan or Hachette.

Simon &amp; Schuster, which publishes prominent authors like Stephen King, Don DeLillo, Bob Woodward, Doris Kearns Goodwin and Walter Isaacson, had long been rumored to be the next big company to be put up for sale, and it made an attractive prize for larger publishing houses seeking to grow through acquisitions. It has a vast backlist of more than 30,000 titles.

Founded in 1924 by Richard L. Simon and M. Lincoln Schuster, the company began as a publisher of crossword puzzles. It eventually grew into a sprawling company with more than 30 publishing units, and a backlist of literary treasures like the works of Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald, Henry James and Edith Wharton.

The past year has been tumultuous for Simon &amp; Schuster. In March, it was put up for sale, just as the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit, destabilizing the economy and forcing bookstores to close, hobbling a major sales channel. In May, Carolyn Reidy, the company’s beloved chief executive, died suddenly, and was later replaced by Jonathan Karp, who was formerly the publisher of Simon &amp; Schuster, the company’s flagship house among dozens of imprints. The company also faced lawsuits from the Trump family and administration, as the president tried and failed to prevent the publication of books that were critical of him, by John Bolton and Mary L. Trump.

The company had a profitable year, in spite of such hurdles. Revenue grew to $649 million through September, an 8 percent increase, and profit before tax rose by 6 percent to $115 million.

For Simon &amp; Schuster’s owner ViacomCBS, the all-cash deal will help the company pay down its $21 billion debt load and keep up dividend payments to shareholders. The sale of Simon &amp; Schuster is part of a great unwinding taking place across the media industry as conglomerates cleave off or close down ancillary businesses. ViacomCBS, which also owns Paramount studios and Nickelodeon, has bet its future on streaming, and books won’t play a big role in that strategy.

Mr. Karp and Dennis Eulau, Simon &amp; Schuster’s chief operating officer and chief financial officer, would remain the heads of the publishing house under new ownership.

In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. Karp said that Simon &amp; Schuster would maintain its editorial independence and would continue to publish the same volume of books under its new ownership.

“This is a company that respects the creative autonomy of publishers,” he said. “We’ll all still be competing against each other. Publishing is a business driven by individual passions for books and for writers.”

Mr. Karp said it was too early in the process to discuss whether there would be staff reductions or streamlining of editorial and marketing departments, or if Simon &amp; Schuster’s print distribution networks and warehouses would be absorbed into its parent company.

Markus Dohle, the company’s chief executive and a member of the Bertelsmann executive board, said in an interview that Simon &amp; Schuster would retain its editorial identity. He noted that Penguin Random House’s imprints compete with one another for book projects and that that practice would apply to Simon &amp; Schuster as well.

“We’ve done this before, so we have proof of concept,” he said, citing the merger of Random House and Penguin. “We keep the creative side of the business basically untouched.”

Mr. Dohle said that concerns that his company’s acquisition of Simon &amp; Schuster would create a competition-stifling monopoly are based on “politics and perception” rather than data.

“The book publishing industry is very unconcentrated and fragmented compared to other industries,” he said. “We are very confident we’ll get clearance for the deal, and we are also confident that we can increase the service level for authors, agents and retailers.”

Still, some authors and literary organizations expressed alarm at the news that the largest publishing company could gain even greater market share.

“I worry that it’s going to force authors out of the industry, and I worry that it’s going to force really great people who work in the industry out,” said Jason Pinter, an author and the founder and publisher of Polis Books, an independent publishing company.

The Authors Guild, in a statement, said it opposed the sale, and it called on the Justice Department to challenge the deal.

“The number of large mainstream publishing houses will go from five to just four, further reducing competition in an already sparse competitive environment,” it said. “For authors, it means there will be fewer competing bidders for their manuscripts, which will inevitably drive down advances offered.”

ViacomCBS received more than half a dozen inquiries from interested buyers, including financial firms and the French media giant Vivendi, which holds a minority stake in Hachette through the publisher Lagardère. The top three contenders were Bertelsmann, Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp, which owns HarperCollins, and Vivendi. News that Bertelsmann was close to a deal was reported earlier by The Financial Times.

The merger will be reviewed by President-elect Biden’s team, according to Erik Gordon, professor at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. The incoming administration, he said, “will be tougher than the prior administration’s team and more sympathetic to the plight of authors who will have less ability to negotiate deals or even get published.”

He added that regulators could seek what are known as “structural remedies” where Penguin Random House would have to sell off other divisions or imprints as a condition of the merger. The company would have to spin off or sell a large enough chunk to create “viable competitors,” he said.

A spokesman for Bertelsmann said Penguin Random House had lost market share in recent years and cited Amazon as a competitive threat to the overall book market. The combination of Penguin Random House and Simon &amp; Schuster would be “below 20 percent,” the company said, citing data from the Association of American Publishers, an industry trade group.

The sale could also have a ripple effect throughout the literary ecosystem. The biggest houses are better equipped to negotiate favorable terms with major retailers like Amazon, Barnes &amp; Noble and the big box stores, and are also able to develop direct-to-consumer marketing and sales networks so that they are not as dependent on retailers.

For literary agents and authors, the wave of consolidations has meant fewer potential buyers for books from authors without a proven track record.

“There are projects that would have sold for $150,000 years ago that might not sell at all now to the big five, whereas the book that would have sold for $500,000 might go for a million,” said the literary agent David Kuhn. “They would rather go in bigger for the thing that they have the most consensus on.”

Some industry analysts say the sale will accelerate a long-running trend that has taken hold over the last decade, as publishers have grown more dependent on blockbuster titles and backlist sales, resulting in fewer opportunities for new writers and midlist authors.

“For certain books, there will be only four possible customers, down from five,” said Mike Shatzkin, founder and chief executive of the Idea Logical Company. “It’s another sign of how the trade publishing ecosystem has weakened.”

With its pending acquisition of Simon &amp; Schuster, Penguin Random House will dwarf other major publishers, giving it an estimated market share of some 30 percent of the U.S. book market. The company has developed sophisticated online marketing networks and is the only major publisher in the United States whose warehouses ship books seven days a week.

“It certainly extends their dominance,” Mr. Shatzkin said. “It’s going to be a strengthening elixir.”





No.16 article:
Thai Protesters Want to Rein in an Absentee King

For months, demonstrators have kept up their demands for resignations and reforms.

There is something noble and inspiring about masses of people rising up to demand democracy. Such movements may not always succeed in ushering in better government — witness Hong Kong, or the Arab Spring — but even when they do not, they deliver an indelible message that elemental freedoms cannot be forever denied.

The mass protests that have roiled Thailand for almost five months have not yet achieved the goals summed up by their slogan, “Resign, Rewrite, Reform” — the resignation of Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, a former army chief and an architect of a coup in 2014, the rewriting of the constitution he imposed and perhaps most notably, a check on the powers and privileges of a wayward king when even modest criticism of the monarchy can result in a long prison term.

The youth-led demonstrations, which often bring tens of thousands of people into the streets, have persisted week by week. They began over the summer as a student protest against the strict, military-style regimentation in Thai schools, an aspect of a broad effort by the powerful military-royalist ruling establishment to control and coerce the population. As the protests grew, their goals expanded into broad demands for true democracy, which has eluded Thailand despite repeated uprisings. Since it ended absolute monarchy in 1932, the country has known a dozen successful military coups, 20 constitutions and many brutal crackdowns.

Another coup is always possible in the current wave of unrest. If it followed past practice, the military would declare that it has acted to restore order, followed by a rigged election that results in another government determined to maintain the alliance of an enormously wealthy military establishment, a hugely wealthy 1 percent and an ultrawealthy king.

The challenge to that last establishment, the monarchy, has been the most conspicuous and notable feature of the protests. A legally mandated reverence for the king has long been a fundamental pillar of Thai society, with the threat of long prison terms for anyone who “defames, insults or threatens the king, queen, heir-apparent or regent.” The last king, Bhumibol Adulyadej, who ruled for more than 70 years until his death in 2016, was genuinely admired, and so was never a major target of political protests. His 68-year-old successor is a different story.

A playboy who lives most of the time in high luxury in Bavaria, King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun has strengthened his power by bringing the huge wealth of the crown and key army units under his direct control. More and more, he has become the target of the continuing demonstrations, in which irreverence has been a central theme. Signs reading “How is the weather in Germany?,” referring to the king’s foreign haven, have been common. At a recent demonstration the throng likened him to a giant monitor lizard, one of the worst insults in Thailand, and graffiti in Bangkok’s city center have included a spray-painted sign reading, “The king is dead,” and references to his sexual activities.

The authorities finally struck back on Tuesday, summoning a dozen leaders of the protest movement — including Parit Chiwarak, commonly known as Penguin — to face charges under the dreaded Section 112 of the criminal code, the lèse-majesté laws that could land them in prison for up to 15 years. The charges were made hours before a rally in Bangkok on Wednesday, held outside a bank whose biggest shareholder is the king. Protesters there demanded that he return his fortune to the people. As is typical for the demonstrations, Mr. Parit appeared dressed as a yellow duck, evoking the image of large inflatable rubber duckies that have become a protest symbol. “I am not scared,” he declared.

What comes next is anybody’s guess, but Thailand’s military-royalist rulers are not likely to easily surrender any wealth or power. The formidable military establishment, which includes 1,600 generals and has few outside threats to contend with, has vast business holdings and is the largest landowner in Thailand. It appoints all 250 members of the Senate, uses conscription to imbue youths with martial traditions and has its own internal security apparatus, which it uses to bring in dissenters by the thousands for “attitude adjustment” sessions. The army has not been reluctant to use gunfire against protesters in the past.

Yet as with Humpty Dumpty, it is hard to see how all the king’s men can put the untouchable monarchy back together again. That is a message democratic leaders of the world — and especially the United States, which has a long and multifaceted diplomatic, security and commercial relationship with Thailand — should strongly reinforce by urging Prime Minister Prayuth and the generals to avoid a needless crackdown, and instead to heed their young people and undertake long-overdue reforms.





No.17 article:
A New Political Force Emerges in Georgia: Asian-American Voters

The Asian-American population in the state has doubled in two decades, and many live in the Atlanta suburbs, which voted for Joseph R. Biden Jr. by large margins.

LAWRENCEVILLE, Ga. — Four years ago, Maliha Javed, an immigrant from Pakistan, was not paying attention to politics. A community college student in suburban Atlanta, she was busy paying for books and studying for classes. She did not vote that year.

But the past four years changed her. The Trump administration’s Muslim travel ban affected some of her friends. The child separation policy reminded her of living apart from her parents for three years during her own move to the United States. Then, this summer, the discovery that she was pregnant made it final: On Election Day, she marched into the Amazing Grace Lutheran Church near her house and voted for the first time in her life. She chose Joseph R. Biden Jr.

“I want it to be a better country for him to grow up in,” said Ms. Javed, who is 24 and is having a boy.

Ms. Javed is part of a small but powerful new force in Georgia politics: Asian-American voters. She lives in Gwinnett County, Georgia’s second-most populous county and the one with the largest Asian-American population. Mr. Biden, who narrowly defeated President Trump in Georgia, won Gwinnett County by 18 percentage points, a substantial increase over Hillary Clinton’s performance four years ago and only the second time the county went blue since the 1970s.

The county is also the heart of the only tightly contested House seat in the entire country that Democrats flipped this year — Georgia’s Seventh Congressional District. A survey of Asian-American early voters in that district found that 41 percent reported voting for the first time, said Taeku Lee, a political science professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who helped conduct it.

The emergence in Georgia of Asian-American voters is a potential bright spot for a Democratic Party counting on demographic changes to bring political wins across the country. Asian-Americans are the fastest-growing segment of eligible voters out of the major racial and ethnic groups in the country, according to the Pew Research Center; their numbers, nationally and in Gwinnett County, more than doubled between 2000 and 2020.

Families of Asian descent in the United States come from dozens of countries, but according to Pew, a vast majority of the voting population comes from just six. China, the Philippines and India account for more than half, followed by Vietnam, Korea and Japan.

But interviews with Asian-Americans in Gwinnett County showed that their political preferences are fluid. While many voted for Mr. Biden, they are hardly a done deal for the Democratic Party. A large portion are socially conservative, often observant Christians and owners of small businesses.

Many new voters were drawn to the presidential race because it had loomed so large in American culture. But that also means they are no guarantee for Democrats in Georgia’s runoffs for two critical U.S. Senate seats in January, in which control of the upper chamber hangs in the balance.

“People are like, ‘What?’” said Cam Ashling, 40, a Democratic activist, referring to new voters’ responses when she raises the runoffs, which she referred to as “a giant uphill battle.”

She added: “We have to try very hard to keep Georgia blue. It is not solid.”

As a group nationally, Asian-Americans tend to prefer Democrats, but that masks deep differences by ethnic origin and generation. AAPI Data, a data analytics firm that focuses on Asian-Americans, has found that many Vietnamese immigrant voters lean Republican, for instance, while very few Bangladeshi voters do. And American-born Vietnamese voters lean less toward Republicans than do their foreign-born parents.

Two-thirds of all eligible Asian-American voters in 2018 were naturalized citizens, according to Pew, the highest ratio of any major racial or ethnic group.

“I would love to be a Republican, but right now they’re just crazy,” said Jae Song, 50, an IT worker who was picking up lunch at Vietvana Pho Noodle House in Duluth, an upscale town in Gwinnett County that is 24 percent Asian-American. Mr. Song, a Korean immigrant, said he loved Mr. Trump on the economy, but hated him on the coronavirus. His daughter in New York has had racist slurs flung at her. But he said he was also confused by Democrats’ priorities.

He had heard a lot of the phrase “Black lives matter,” and he understood that. But this also led him to wonder, “What about us?”

Surveys suggest a substantial increase in Asian-American votes this year, a jump that follows the expansion of the group’s population in the state. About 2.5 percent of Georgia’s voters were Asian-American this year, up from 1.6 percent in 2016.

The Asian-American population in Georgia is mixed economically. Some are doctors and upper-income professionals, but others are owners of beauty supply stores, restaurants, mobile phone franchises and laundromats.

James Woo, 35, who immigrated from Seoul to Meridian, Miss., in the late 1990s, said Korean immigrants had a saying that whatever the business of the person who picked you up at the airport would become yours, too. His father was picked up by his brother-in-law who owned a beauty supply store. Now Mr. Woo’s extended family owns more than two dozen beauty supply stores in Georgia and Louisiana.

In the early years, being Asian-American was not easy, and Mr. Woo, who moved to Georgia in sixth grade and worked at his parents’ shop on the weekends up through college, had searing experiences of discrimination.

“I saw that growing up, the discrimination, and I don’t want that for my kids,” he said. “I want them to feel like we belong. Because we do. This is our home.”

He said he realized that the way to achieve that was to elect more Asian-Americans to office in Georgia. He now works full time as the Korean outreach leader for Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta, an advocacy group. He said about half of the voters he helped this cycle were voting for the first time.

“For me it’s not about the state turning blue or belonging to one party or another,” he said. “It’s seeing people who look like me with similar backgrounds to mine get elected.”

For years, the few Asian-Americans in elected office in Georgia were often Republicans, and organizing was more focused on raising money from economically established immigrant voters than registering working-class immigrants. Nationally, voter participation among Asian-Americans has historically been low: In 2016, they had the second-lowest turnout after Hispanics of all major groups.

“Voter participation had always been an iffy question because those communities had not matured politically and the younger generation had not really become active,” said Baoky Vu, former commissioner to George W. Bush’s Presidential Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, who lives in DeKalb County.

Today, Asian immigrants have reached a critical mass and their children, entering their 30s and 40s and many of them educated in the United States, are pushing for representation. In Gwinnett County, about 12 percent of people are of Asian heritage, according to William Frey, senior demographer at the Brookings Institution.

When Stephanie Cho moved to Georgia from California in 2013, “there were lots of Asians but they had very little power,” she said. Ms. Cho, who is now the executive director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta, said she remembered walking the halls of the State Legislature and seeing just two Asian-Americans: a Republican named Byung J. Pak and a member of his staff.

Now there will be six Asian-Americans in the Statehouse, including Michelle Au, a Chinese-American doctor who was elected to the State Senate as a Democrat this month, the result of aggressive voter registration and turnout efforts. In this election, Mr. Woo put ads in Korean-language newspapers, started chats with dozens of voters on KakaoTalk, an app popular among Korean immigrants, and made announcements at his church.

Bee Nguyen, a Democrat who was elected to Georgia’s House District 89 in 2017, said she only realized just how ignored Asian voters had been in 2016 when she was canvassing for Sam Park, the first openly gay Korean-American to run for a State House seat.

“The pattern we saw when we were knocking on doors was that no one had ever talked to these people before,” said Ms. Nguyen, 39, who was born in Iowa to Vietnamese refugees.

An important turning point for Asian-American voters came in 2018, several Democratic activists said, when Stacey Abrams in her race for governor had a staff member assigned to Asian immigrant communities. Exit polls later showed that 78 percent of Asian-American voters cast their ballots for her.

But not all Asian-Americans are Democrats. According to AAPI Data, about a fifth of Korean immigrants in the country voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, and a number in Gwinnett County this month said they trusted him more on the economy.

Kyung Baek, 58, a Korean immigrant who sells shoes and cloth flowers in the H Mart in Duluth, said she voted for Mr. Trump because she liked his tough talk against Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, whom she sees as a bully, and also because Mr. Trump looked past the “smaller issue” of the virus to the “bigger one” of the economy.

“Trump’s concern is big things, not small things,” she said. The economy, she said, is the top priority: “When America is rich, I can be rich.”

The generational divide is particularly pronounced among Vietnamese-Americans. Many of the older generation came to the United States after the fall of Saigon, and a fear of communism runs deep.

“If you went to a Viets for Trump rally they spoke with broken English and if you went to a Viets for Biden rally they spoke broken Vietnamese,” said Ms. Ashling, 40, who came to Georgia in 1988 as a Vietnamese refugee.

This year has stood out, second-generation Vietnamese-Americans said in interviews, because of a flood of misinformation targeting older Vietnamese voters in the form of videos in Vietnamese that have cast Mr. Biden as a communist.

Ms. Ashling said she had found countering it nearly impossible.

She prefers to spend the weeks that remain before Georgia’s crucial Senate runoff elections on more persuadable voters. Ms. Javed, the community college student from Lawrenceville, was one. She said she had become increasingly furious about the cost of higher education, feelings she said she would channel into a vote for each of the Democrats.

She has already marked down Election Day for the runoff races, Jan. 5, in her calendar.





No.18 article:
Ian Finkel, ‘World’s Greatest Xylophonist,’ Dies at 72

He entertained from the borscht belt to the Philharmonic, playing an unconventional instrument with vaudevillian flair. He died of complications of Covid-19.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

For half a century, Ian Finkel adamantly proclaimed himself “the world’s greatest xylophonist.”

“All the others are gone now,” he would say. “So I win by default.”

He balked at being described as “one of” the greatest.

“He said, ‘I’m not one of the greatest — I am the greatest,’” the singer Michael Feinstein, for whom Mr. Finkel served as musical director, said in an interview. “And he was.”

Mr. Finkel died on Nov. 16 in a hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. His daughter, Dara Finkel, said the cause was complications of Covid-19 after a protracted battle that began in March, when he tested positive while hospitalized for a stroke.

He spent seven months in hospitals and a rehabilitation center and returned home earlier this month, only to die suddenly after a respiratory infection.

Mr. Finkel’s path took him from the borscht belt resorts in the Catskills to playing with the New York Philharmonic. He also worked as a composer and musical arranger for stars like Sid Caesar, Tito Puente and Ginger Rogers, his brother, Elliot Finkel, said.

As a percussionist, he worked in orchestras that accompanied the likes of Michael Jackson, Whitney Houston, Diana Ross and Tony Bennett.

Mr. Finkel lived for nearly 50 years in the same Manhattan apartment. He would walk out of his home stylishly dressed in a jacket, tie and hat — with, up until a year ago, a fat cigar in his mouth.

“He was the quintessential New Yorker and Upper West Sider,” his daughter said. “He would go for long walks and talk to everyone.”

He had a razor wit and a nasal voice that his brother described as “a mixture of Pavarotti and Jerry Lewis.”

Ian Lawrence Finkel was born on Aug. 13, 1948, into a show business family in Brooklyn. His father, Fyvush Finkel, was a Yiddish theater actor who also appeared in films and on television. His mother, Gertrude (Lieberman) Finkel, known as Trudi, was a teacher, playwright and painter.

“The joke in our family goes, you have to audition to become a Finkel,” his daughter said. “It was in his blood. He had no other choice but to be an entertainer.”

And so, as little boys, Ian and Elliot began joining their father onstage.

“They called us the Jewish von Trapp family,” said Elliot Finkel, a concert pianist. He said he and his brother performed comedically as the Finkel Boys and spent their childhood devouring musical scores borrowed from the public library.

They would later perform around the world, as a duo and often with their father.

Ian Finkel said he took up the xylophone in his teenage years, as rock ’n’ roll was becoming cool. “I thought it would get me girls,” he said in a 2012 interview, “but no one said guitar.”

Through incessant practicing, he developed virtuosic technique and added to the instrument’s repertoire, partly by adapting demanding solos written for the violin and other instruments.

He went to the Mannes School of Music at the New School and studied with Walter Rosenberger, a longtime principal percussionist for the New York Philharmonic, his brother said. He was often brought in by orchestras to handle particularly difficult mallet passages.

“Solos for the Vibraphone Player,” a book he edited, became standard fare for mallet-playing musicians.

In his performances, he would intersperse music with comedic patter, conduct his band theatrically and accentuate rhythmic punches with a vaudevillian flair.

His mallets would blur during rapid-fire runs that could resemble a cartoon chase. He tackled intricate patterns and complicated polyrhythms while mugging for the audience.

“He was a true entertainer,” his daughter said. “He would tell other entertainers that it’s not just about playing the most difficult piece of music. You have to entertain the audience as well.”

Mr. Finkel developed his entertainment skills by talking to older comedians like Milton Berle at the Friars Club in Midtown, his brother said.

He also wrote novels, plays and musicals, including “Sophie Tucker in Person,” which explores the life of the great vaudeville star.

In addition to his daughter and his brother, Mr. Finkel is survived by his wife of 50 years, Cheryl Ann Allen, a singer; a son, Abott; and two grandchildren.

Ms. Allen said Mr. Finkel stuck with the xylophone even when finding work was tough.

“It’s a strange instrument to choose,” she said, “but the xylophone was always his heart.”





No.19 article:
How College Students Are Helping Each Other Survive

Student-led mutual aid networks have raised tens of thousands of dollars to help peers cover basic costs of living.

At many colleges and universities, from underfunded institutions to top-tier private colleges, many students have found themselves unable to meet basic needs during the coronavirus pandemic. Financial insecurity, previously accelerated by rising tuition costs and living expenses, has become even more acute because of the closure of campuses, loss of jobs and slashing of budgets.

In response, across the country, students have created mutual aid networks: raising and redistributing tens of thousands of dollars to help their peers cover housing, medical costs, food and other essentials. Generally, students send in requests for small amounts of money, and network organizers will send them the funds using payment apps like Venmo.

“The pandemic has obviously exacerbated a lot of the inequalities that exist on college campuses,” said Neha Tallapragada, 19, a sophomore who helped start an aid network at Rice University. “That’s really been a painful experience for a lot of students. Students have been laid off from their jobs, or they’ve had to take on new responsibilities because of losses in family income, perhaps due to Covid-related layoffs.” At some schools, students who depend on dorms for housing have struggled after their campuses closed.

“We’re trying to fulfill a lot of the needs that have been exacerbated or are there in a greater degree due to the pandemic,” Ms. Tallapragada said.

At its core, mutual aid is a form of charity in which neighbors or peers work together to help each other out on a case-by-case basis. (The term is often attributed to “Mutual Aid: A Factor of Evolution,” a 1902 essay collection by the Russian social theorist Peter Kropotkin, who argued that voluntary cooperation has been key to the flourishing of human civilization.)

Not all the aid networks operate in the same way. At Rice, aid recipients must provide a school ID number,  while at Vanderbilt University, students and alumni have created a network for sharing temporary housing in addition to their cash distribution efforts. At Northeastern University, organizers aren’t distributing money at all; instead, they use donations to stock a free food pantry and distribute personal protective equipment on campus.

Giving out money is “not something that we’re opposed to, but it isn’t something that we’ve been asked for by students,” said Madeleine Allocco, 21, a junior at Northeastern who has helped with the organizing.

The aid networks are entirely student-run, operating outside of any official college administration oversight.

At Georgetown University, students donate cash to a central Venmo account, according to one of the founders, Megan Huynh, 20. “Then we have a funding request form for students in need — both undergrads and graduate students — to request basically like a micro-grant of $50 to $100,” she said. “And we just send them the money, no questions asked.”

To date, the Georgetown mutual aid network has raised $25,000 from current students and some alumni, and has distributed $20,000. The money, which is meant to be used for “textbooks or weekly groceries, medication, things like that,” has been raised from more than 900 donors, Ms. Huynh said, “so it’s really shown the power of small grass-roots movements.”

Sara Goldrick-Rab, a sociology professor at Temple University who studies college affordability, said: “These mutual aid networks are springing up because the new economics of college, which is what I tend to call it, puts students at a significant economic disadvantage.”

She cited exorbitant tuition costs and ever-rising living expenses to argue that college students, in general, are often misrepresented as more privileged than they are — and that was even before the pandemic. “We did a survey of 38,000 students around the country, and nearly three in five students were dealing with either homelessness, housing insecurity or food insecurity,” she said, referring to a June study of the pandemic’s devastating effect on student finances.

“Students continue to lead the fight to address their basic needs,” she said. 

Campus mutual aid networks mirror similar efforts that have sprung up in communities nationwide this year. But several college organizers defined their efforts as distinctly left-wing and political. “It’s a form of community care that is in response to the failures of capitalist structures,” said Hadeel Hamoud, 20, a junior and one of the founders of Duke Mutual Aid, who cited the Black Panthers’ aid program as an inspiration.

Ms. Tallapragada at Rice was one of several students who said they started their networks based on the advice of Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who wrote a 12-page mutual aid manual with the activist Mariame Kaba, and tweeted about it in March. “Myself and a lot of other college students at different colleges have been referencing that tool kit,” Ms. Tallapragada said.

A mutual aid network at Duke University was started in mid-March, after the college sent students home because of the pandemic for the first time. Lily Levin, 19, said that she and her fellow organizers at Duke initially ran their network as “a kind of reciprocal exchange,” a forum where students could offer housing or other material goods to those in need.

“But as time passed, like, even after the first week, it became really clear that most people did need financial aid much more than they needed kind of those material goods,” she said.

The network began soliciting donations in increments of $100, distributing $20,000 from March to May. Then organizers hit a snag: Venmo began declining transactions because of how much money they were sending and receiving. The group paused their efforts and consulted with a tax lawyer at Duke, who suggested that they team up with a local nonprofit called Durham Congregations in Action. Now, it’s easier to handle funding, Ms. Levin said, because “we are attached to a nonprofit, but we aren’t one ourselves.”

The project restarted in late July; the students have since raised and distributed another $17,000. The focus of the project has “transitioned,” Ms. Levin said. Now that some Duke students are back on campus, the network has begun donating most of what it raises to low-income or homeless people in the town of Durham, rather than to students on campus.

Georgetown’s mutual aid network was established in July, said Binqi Chen, 20, after she and other students from low-income backgrounds saw the disparities of pandemic-driven inequality play out on social media.

“Seeing our parents struggle throughout this time, and then going on social media and seeing, like, my friends or acquaintances having the time of their lives even amidst this pandemic, was something that was really, really just — I wouldn’t even say shock,” she said. “I think I kind of expected that, but it’s nonetheless still very disappointing.”

“We go to school with, you know, like, TikTok influencers and students who come from royal families, or ambassador students who can afford to donate a lot more into mutual aid,” Ms. Chen said. The average donation is $20, she said, which reveals “who’s contributing to this and who our message is reaching.”

“Primarily that’s the people that are using mutual aid for themselves, but can give back to it whenever they can, to support students that they know are also going through difficult times,” she said.





No.20 article:
The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now

New films, and classics, just keep coming, but you don’t have to drill down to find the finest selections to stream. We’ll do the heavy lifting. You press play.

Sign up for our Watching newsletter to get recommendations on the best films and TV shows to stream and watch, delivered to your inbox.

As Netflix pours more of its resources into original content, Amazon Prime Video is picking up the slack, adding new movies for its subscribers each month. Its catalog has grown so impressive, in fact, that it’s a bit overwhelming — and at the same time, movies that are included with a Prime subscription regularly change status, becoming available only for rental or purchase. It’s a lot to sift through, so we’ve plucked out 100 of the absolute best movies included with a Prime subscription right now, to be updated as new information is made available.

Here are our lists of the best TV shows and movies on Netflix, and the best of both on Hulu and Disney+.

Terrence Malick followed up ‘Badlands,’ his startling debut, with this elliptical yet evocative period drama that follows three transients into the Texas panhandle, circa 1916. Richard Gere, in his first leading role, hides his internalized pain with brusque physicality, while Brooke Adams finds the right, quiet notes for the woman he loves, and loses. But the real star here is Malick’s distinctive style, which was fully formed by this sophomore effort: gorgeous, picturesque cinematography, paired with searching, thoughtful voice-over, accumulating into something less like conventional cinema and more like filmed poetry. (Gere is also excellent in Paul Schrader’s “American Gigolo.”)Watch on Amazon

This grindhouse take on World War II adventure movies won Quentin Tarantino his second Oscar for best original screenplay — and it’s certainly original, imagining an outcome for the Third Reich that departs gorily (and gleefully) from the historical record. Brad Pitt is the drawling leader of an elite unit of Nazi-hunters; Mélanie Laurent is the Jewish cinema proprietor with an eye on revenge. But the star of the show is Christoph Waltz, who also won an Academy Award for his giddy, menacing and unforgettable turn as a particularly ruthless SS colonel.Watch on Amazon

This harrowing drama from the writer-director Henry Bean won the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival and was the breakthrough role for its dazzling star, a “Mickey Mouse Club” alum named Ryan Gosling. He’s vivid and terrifying as Daniel Balint, a fanatical neo-Nazi with a dark secret: He’s Jewish, a former yeshiva student who turned violently against his own people. Gosling makes a meal of the character’s contradictions, while Bean (drawing from the true story of Dan Burros, a member of the American Nazi Party) constructs a narrative that portrays Balint, quite correctly, as a ticking bomb. It’s disturbing, riveting and timely.Watch on Amazon

Oliver Stone graduated from a respected screenwriter to a top-flight filmmaker with this harrowing Vietnam War drama, which won Oscars for best picture and best director. Stone based the film on his own experiences in Vietnam, with Charlie Sheen as his avatar, a clean-cut kid from a privileged background whose eyes are opened to the horrors of combat and conflict. Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger singe the screen as his sergeants, one free-spirited and open, the other hard-edged and cruel. Our critic called it a “vivid, terse, exceptionally moving” film.Watch on Amazon

Every generation has a story of a gifted teacher who inspires students to break out of the boxes they’ve been groomed for. This was that movie for young audiences of the ’80s. Set in a strict New England prep school circa 1959, this Peter Weir film dramatizes the literary, cultural and ultimately social awakening of a group of young men. Their guiding light is the English teacher John Keating, played by Robin Williams in what our critic called an “exceptionally fine performance”; the ensemble cast is noteworthy now for early work by the likes of Ethan Hawke, Josh Charles and Robert Sean Leonard. Some of the tropes on parade here lean a tad to the musty side, but this is a heartfelt and moving picture, with a closing scene that still raises goosebumps.Watch on Amazon

John Singleton’s debut film burned with the kind of energy and intensity that only a first-timer can produce — the feeling that they may not get another shot, so they’re making this one count. Singleton’s heartfelt story of growing up in the Crenshaw section of Los Angeles netted him two Academy Award nominations, one for best director — he was the youngest person and the first African-American nominated in that category — and the other for best original screenplay. The movie launched not only his career but those of several members of the cast, including Cuba Gooding Jr., Ice Cube, Angela Bassett, Morris Chestnut, Nia Long and Regina King. Our critic praised Singleton for “saying something familiar with new dramatic force, and in ways that a wide and varied audience will understand.”Watch on Amazon

Ang Lee received an Academy Award nomination for best director for this enthralling mixture of martial arts adventure and heartfelt romance. His narrative is a busy hive of deception, betrayal, loyalty and pride, and while the personal and emotional stakes are high, “Crouching Tiger” is most memorable for its awe-inspiring action sequences — bone-crunching and balletic, thrilling and lyrical, as heroes and villains alike transcend gravity itself. Our critic called it “a heady and delirious brew.”Watch on Amazon

Melanie Griffith shines, Sigourney Weaver snarls, and Harrison Ford shows off his comic chops in this sparkling Wall Street rom-com from the director Mike Nichols. Griffith stars as Tess McGill, a secretary who tires of merely daydreaming about corporate success and decides to do something about it when her back-stabbing boss (Weaver) has a skiing accident and ends up in traction. Kevin Wade’s script is reasonably wise to the ways of the boardroom, but the real draw here is the fun and flirtatious chemistry of Griffith and Ford, who team up for a big business deal, and perhaps more. Our critic deemed it “always fun even when at its most frivolous.”Watch on Amazon

Relocating the 2002 international hit “Infernal Affairs” from Hong Kong to Boston, this 2006 Best Picture winner tells the intertwining stories of a tough young cop (Leonardo DiCaprio) who goes undercover to infiltrate the crew of a local Mob boss (Jack Nicholson), just as his surrogate son (Matt Damon) goes undercover in the Boston Police Department. The possibilities for deception and unmasking are endless, and the director Martin Scorsese mines the tension from every angle while investing the central predicaments with psychological nuance and dark humor. Our critic praised the picture’s “speed and Mr. Scorsese’s sureness of touch.” (Scorsese’s “Bringing Out the Dead” is also on Prime.)Watch it on Amazon

This sci-fi-action thriller from the director John Carpenter imagines the distant future, 1997, in which the island of Manhattan has become a giant, chaotic, maximum-security prison. (Considering the state of the city in the early ’80s, it wasn’t hard to imagine.) A grizzled Kurt Russell stars as Snake Plissken, a bank robber attempting to rescue the kidnapped president of the United States from the island. Carpenter manically orchestrates Plissken’s mission as a darkly funny free-for-all, loaded with slam-bang set pieces and memorable supporting turns by a rogues’ gallery of character actors. Our critic called it “by far Mr. Carpenter’s most ambitious, most riveting film to date.”

Watch it on Amazon

Frances McDormand won her first Oscar for her unforgettable performance in this indie smash from Joel and Ethan Coen (“at their clever best,” per our critic). McDormand takes what could have been a caricature — Marge Gunderson, the very pregnant Minnesota police chief with a cheerful Midwestern disposition — and turns it into one of the warmest characters of the entire Coen canon: She deftly conveys not only Marge’s sense of “Minnesota nice,” but her sharp investigative skills and keen instincts for the nuances of human nature.

Watch it on Amazon

The writer and director Cameron Crowe based this 2000 drama on his own teenage years, when he was landing bylines at major music publications before he could drive a car. Crowe elegantly conveys the seductive power of that backstage life, with all its sex and drugs and (most importantly) camaraderie. “It’s the kind of picture,” A.O. Scott wrote, “that invites you to go back and savor your favorite moments like choice album cuts.” Patrick Fugit is charming as the naïve Crowe stand-in, while Frances McDormand, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Kate Hudson shine in supporting roles.

Watch it on Amazon

Orson Welles attempted to repair his flailing film career (and his marriage to Rita Hayworth, whom he cast as a femme fatale) in this moody and visually striking film noir. Welles portrays a crewman hired to sail Hayworth and her husband’s yacht, and finds himself drawn into a wicked web of deception, sex and murder. As was often the case with his later works, “Shanghai” suffered from extensive studio interference and reshoots. But even in its expurgated form, this is an expert potboiler, and its oft-imitated house-of-mirrors climax is as gripping as ever. Our critic called it “at once fluid and discordant,” and “filled with virtuoso set pieces.”

Watch it on Amazon

One of the greatest of all “gritty Gotham” movies — our critic called it “a movie that really catches the mood of New York and New Yorkers” — this darkly funny, white-knuckle thriller from the director Joseph Sargent concerns four armed men who take a subway car hostage, demanding a million dollar ransom for the lives of the passengers aboard. Robert Shaw is coolly ruthless as the leader of the gang while Walter Matthau is at his hangdog best as the cynical transit cop hot on their trail. (Fans of ’70s thrillers will also want to stream “The Parallax View” on Prime.)

Watch it on Amazon

This wryly funny drama from Mike Nichols, adapted from the novel by Charles Webb, has become such an entrenched piece of popular culture (50-plus years later, you still don’t have to explain what “Mrs. Robinson” means), it is easy to lose track of what a great entertainment it is. But it is: Using Dustin Hoffman as his marvelously dry-witted vessel, Nichols dramatizes youthful ennui with a skill rarely seen in American cinema. Our critic called it “funny, outrageous, and touching.” (Hoffman fans will also enjoy “Kramer vs. Kramer” and “Little Big Man.”)Watch it on Amazon

This acclaimed romance from the director Stephen Frears (“Dangerous Liaisons,” “The Grifters”) plays as both a tender relationship tale and a piercing commentary on Thatcher-era London. The tensions in that period between the city’s British and Pakistani people provide both the conflict and warmth that fuel this story of a young Pakistani man (Gordon Warnecke) who takes over his uncle’s launderette with the help of his friend and eventual lover (a young Daniel Day-Lewis). There’s a wonderful offhandedness about the central relationship — these protagonists are drawn together not by labels, but by mutual attraction and affection — resulting in what our critic called “a fascinating, eccentric, very personal movie.” (For more character-driven drama, add “Atlantic City” and “Hard Eight” to your watchlist.)Watch it on Amazon

Between his second and third Batman outings, the director and co-writer Christopher Nolan crafted one of his twistiest and most satisfying entertainments, a mystery/thriller that delves into nothing less ambitious than the human dreamscape. Leonardo DiCaprio is in fine, tortured form as a high-tech dream manipulator on a high-stakes caper inside the head of a slumbering CEO; Tom Hardy, Ellen Page, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, and Marion Cotillard are among the stacked supporting cast. Our critic praised “Mr. Nolan’s virtuosity as a conjurer of brilliant scenes and stunning set pieces.” (Love mind-melting thrillers? Check out “Don’t Look Now” on Prime.)Watch it on Amazon

When Jonathan Demme’s performance film of the Talking Heads opened in 1984, our critic wrote, “’Stop Making Sense’ owes very little to the rock filmmaking formulas of the past. It may well help inspire those of the future.” She couldn’t have been more right. Demme was rewriting the rules with this innovative hybrid of documentary and concert movie, taking his cues from the group’s kinetic energy and cross-pollination of styles. The filmmaker creates an immersive experience that captures both the thrill of being in that crowd, and the high of playing for them. (Rock doc fans should also add Martin Scorsese’s “The Last Waltz” to their watchlists.)Watch it on Amazon

Spike Lee adapts and updates Aristophanes’ “Lysistrata” to the streets of contemporary Chicago in this wildly funny, vividly theatrical mash-up of gangland drama, musical comedy and surrealist fantasy. Teyonah Parris shines as the determined young woman who leads a sex strike to stop the city’s violence, while Samuel L. Jackson struts and rhymes as “Dolmedes,” the picture’s one-man Greek chorus. His Dolemite-style interludes push the premise to its bawdy extremes, but Lee isn’t just playing for laughs. He’s swinging for the fences, and the result, according to Manohla Dargis, “entertains, engages and, at times, enrages.”Watch it on Amazon

The ’50s gangster movie gets a snazzy musical makeover in this 1955 film adaptation of the Broadway hit, itself based on the colorful New York characters of Damon Runyon’s fiction. Joseph L. Mankiewicz (“All About Eve”) directs with energy and pizazz, coaxing cheerful, engaged performances out of Frank Sinatra, Jean Simmons, Vivian Blaine and that most unlikely of crooners, Marlon Brando. Our critic called it “as tinny and tawny and terrific as any hot-cha musical film you’ll ever see.” ‘Guys and Dolls’: (For a starker examination of gambling and buddy dynamics, check out Robert Altman’s “California Split.”)Watch it on Amazon

The Taiwanese master Hou Hsiao-hsien directs what A.O. Scott called “a stately action movie, graceful and slow-moving,” concerning a female assassin (Shu Qi) and her quest to kill corrupt government officials in Tang Dynasty-era China. What sounds like a conventional martial arts epic is elevated into something far wider in scope and far grander in ambition by Hou, who emphasizes poetry over fighting and mood over broken bones. His exquisite compositions and magnificent production design elevates “The Assassin” from action to art; it’s one of those movies in which nearly every image could be printed, put on a frame and mounted on your wall.Watch it on Amazon

Reese Witherspoon is a marvel as Tracey Flick, the high-school overachiever who gets under the skin of her teacher (Matthew Broderick), with disastrous results, in this “deft dark comedy” from the director Alexander Payne (“Sideways”). Payne slyly uses a high school election as a stand-in for larger political concerns, without letting the analogy overwhelm the narrative; at heart, it’s the story of a deeply unsatisfied Good Guy who finds out exactly how bad he is. Broderick cleverly subverts his Ferris Bueller persona, and Chris Klein is uproariously funny as the cheerfully clueless popular jock, but this is Witherspoon’s show: Her Tracey is a dizzyingly complicated creation, both mildly insufferable and deeply sympathetic. (“Ghost World” is a similarly smart and darkly funny examination of the teenage years.)Watch it on Amazon

This debut film from the director Andrew Patterson wears its “Twilight Zone” influence right on its sleeve, opening (on a vintage television, no less) with the spooky intro to an anthology series called “Paradox Theater,” and presenting this story as “tonight’s episode.” The throwback framework is key; this is a film that bursts with affection for analog, with the look, feel and (above all) sound of black-and-white tube TVs, reel-to-reel tape recorders, telephone switchboards and the distant voices of a radio disc jockey and his mysterious callers. Patterson orchestrates it all with the grinning giddiness of a campfire storyteller — he’s having a great time freaking us out. Manohla Dargis called it “a small-scale movie that flexes plenty of filmmaking muscle.”Watch it on Amazon

Across six years in the mid-2000s, an analyst named Daniel J. Jones (portrayed by an excellent Adam Driver) pored through 6.3 million pages of C.I.A. documents to write the Senate Intelligence Committee’s Report on the C.I.A.’s detention and interrogation program. This taut, angry film from Scott Z. Burns dramatizes that investigative process and what Jones discovered — and the steady growth of his righteous indignation. Burns, in what our critic deemed a “smart, layered screenplay,” deftly translates the story’s intellectual urgency into emotional agency, making the political into something decidedly personal. (For more historical drama, try “The Pianist.”)Watch it on Amazon

The director David Fincher’s breakthrough film was the serial-killer thriller “Seven,” but he had no intention of repeating himself with this 2007 mystery. Because the real-life Zodiac killer was never apprehended or tried for his crime, Fincher sidestepped the big payoff of most true crime stories, crafting instead a film that focuses on the kind of obsessiveness it takes to follow that trail, year after year, without a satisfactory conclusion. Our critic called it “at once sprawling and tightly constructed, opaque and meticulously detailed.” (Joe Carnahan’s “Narc” draws similar inspiration from the thrillers of the 1970s.)Watch it on Amazon

Frontier tales have filled our books and movie screens for centuries, but few are as bleak and unforgiving as this one. Three pairs of settlers find themselves lost on the Oregon Trail, led by a guide (Bruce Greenwood) who doesn’t seem to have the foggiest idea what he’s doing. This is a sparse film, both in plotting and approach; director Kelly Reichardt (“Wendy and Lucy,” “Old Joy”) lets her story play out in long, uninterrupted takes that may test the patience of some, but which force the viewer to ease into the rhythms of the period. A.O. Scott called it “bracingly original.”Watch it on Amazon

Jill Soloway, the creator of “Transparent” and “I Love Dick,” made her feature filmmaking debut with this “meticulously acted” seriocomic drama. Kathryn Hahn is astonishing in the leading role, clearly conveying her dissatisfied housewife’s longings and nerves but keeping her intentions enigmatic, and Juno Temple is electrifying as a young woman who’s learned how to use her sexuality as a weapon without fully considering the carnage left in its wake. Their byplay is vibrant, and it gets messy in fascinating ways; this is a sly, smart sex comedy that plumbs unexpected depths of sadness and despair. (For more female-driven drama, check out “Steel Magnolias” and “Girl, Interrupted.”)Watch it on Amazon

The great British writer/director Joanna Hogg tells a story of youthful exuberance, romantic recklessness, and unchecked addiction in early ’80s London. Her heroine is Julie (Honor Swinton Byrne, flawless), an idealistic film student who finds herself pulled, time and again, into the orbit of Anthony (Tom Burke), whose roguish charm covers a considerable number of concerning flaws. Tilda Swinton (Byrne’s real-life mother) co-stars as Julie’s concerned mum. Hogg’s film is quiet yet revelatory, trusting its audience with these characters’ secrets — and trusting us enough to fill in their blanks. A.O. Scott raves, “This is one of the saddest movies you can imagine, and it’s an absolute joy to watch.” (Stay in a melancholy mood with “The Last Black Man in San Francisco,” also streaming on Prime.)Watch it on Amazon

The director Frank Capra and the actor Jimmy Stewart took a marvelously simple premise — a suicidal man is given the opportunity to see what his world would have been like without him — and turned it into a holiday perennial. But “It’s a Wonderful Life” is too rich and complex to brand with a label as simple as “Christmas movie”; it is ultimately a story about overcoming darkness and finding light around you, a tricky transition achieved primarily through the peerless work of Stewart as a good man with big dreams who can’t walk away from the place where he’s needed most. Our critic dubbed it a “quaint and engaging modern parable.” (Classic movie lovers can also stream “The Misfits” and “A Place in the Sun” on Prime.)Watch it on Amazon

Early in Garrett Bradley’s extraordinary documentary (a co-production of The New York Times), someone asks Fox Rich about her husband, and she replies, “He’s, uh, out of town now.” Technically, it’s true; he’s in Angola prison, for a 1997 bank robbery, serving a 60-year sentence without the possibility of parole, probation or suspension of sentence. Fox Rich has spent years fighting for her husband’s release — and against mass incarceration — and Bradley interweaves her crusade with years of grainy home video footage, moving back and forth from past to present, contrasting the possibilities of those early videos and the acceptance, even resignation, of today. But Fox Rich never gives up hope, and this “substantive and stunning” film suggests that even in the grimmest of circumstances, that never-say-die spirit can pay dividends. (Also worth watching: the thought-provoking documentaries “Hale County, This Morning, This Evening,” “Best of Enemies” and “Grizzly Man.”)Watch it on Amazon

Most superhero movies clobber the viewer with special effects, smirking quips, and strained world-building; Julia Hart’s indie drama is barely a superhero movie at all, but a rich, tender character study of three women who just so happen to move objects with their minds. Gugu Mbatha-Raw is remarkable as Ruth, who has smothered her “abilities” in addiction and irresponsibility, returning home to join her mother (Lorraine Toussaint) and daughter (Saniyya Sidney) in an attempt to, well, save the world. Hart’s rich screenplay (written with Jordan Horowitz) vibrates with small-town authenticity and hard-earned emotion; our critic called it “a small, intimate story that hints at much bigger things.” (For more offbeat sci-fi, check out “AI: Artificial Intelligence” and “The City of Lost Children.”)Watch it on Amazon

Billi (Awkwafina), a Chinese immigrant who grew up to be a starving artist in New York City, returns to her homeland to help perpetrate a family hoax in this charming and beguiling comedy/drama from the writer-director Lulu Wang. The reason for the homecoming is her grandmother, known as Nai Nai (Zhao Shuzhen), who has only months to live, but doesn’t know it. The family hastily arranges a premature wedding as a chance to say goodbye, resulting in misunderstandings, realizations and reconciliations. A.O. Scott praised the film’s “loose, anecdotal structure” and “tone that balances candor and tact.” (Fans of character-driven indie fare should also check out “The Virgin Suicides,” “Raising Victor Vargas,” and “Trees Lounge.”)Watch it on Amazon

Nearly 30 years before Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez’s “Grindhouse,” the director Stanley Donen and the screenwriter Larry Gelbart perfected the fake double-feature with this affectionate sendup of classic Hollywood. “Movie Movie” gives us two films for the price of one, a black-and-white boxing melodrama and a color musical spectacular (with a fake trailer for a World War II flying-ace picture between them), with shared casts including George C. Scott, Trish Van Devere, Red Buttons and Eli Wallach. Our critic called it “Hollywood flimflamming at its elegant best.”Watch it on Amazon

The South Korean master Park Chan-wook (“Oldboy”) takes the stylistic trappings of a period romance and gooses them with scorching eroticism and one of the most ingenious con-artist plots this side of “The Sting.” Working from the Sarah Waters novel “Fingersmith,” Park begins with the story of a young woman who, as part of a seemingly straightforward swindle, goes to work as a Japanese heiress’s handmaiden, occasionally pausing the plot to slyly reveal new information, reframing what we’ve seen and where we think he might go next. Manohla Dargis dubbed it an “amusingly slippery entertainment.” (Foreign film enthusiasts may also enjoy Herzog’s “Aguirre, the Wrath Of God” and Buñuel’s “That Obscure Object of Desire.”)Watch it on Amazon

Asghar Farhadi writes and directs this lucid and contemplative morality play, in which a married couple must grapple with the fallout of an assault on the wife in their home, particularly when the husband’s desire for vengeance surpasses her own. Farhadi’s brilliance at capturing the complexities of his native Iran’s culture is as astonishing as ever — particularly when coupled with insights into victimhood, justice, poverty and intimacy that know no borders. A.O. Scott praised the picture’s “rich and resonant ideas.” (Fans of foreign drama should also check out “Cold War” and “In a Year With 13 Moons.”)Watch it on Amazon

Humphrey Bogart won his first and only Oscar for his role as the gin-soaked roughneck at the helm of the titular vessel; this was also his only on-screen pairing with his fellow icon Katharine Hepburn. Most of what happens is predictable, from the outcome of the dangerous mission to the eventual attraction of the opposites at the story’s center, but the actors and John Huston’s direction keep the viewer engaged and entertained. Our critic praised the picture’s “rollicking fun and gentle humor.” (Huston’s gut-wrenching “Fat City” is also streaming on Prime, as is Bogart’s “In a Lonely Place.”)Watch it on Amazon

One of the most enduring images of the great Buster Keaton comes from this 1928 classic, in which a clueless Keaton, wandering the streets of his hometown during a cyclone, pauses for a moment in front of a building — which collapses around him, his life saved only by his accidental position in the landing place of an open window. Our critic called it “one of the most astonishing sight gags ever filmed,” and good news: The rest of the movie is wonderful too. (For more of Mr. Keaton, stream “College” on Prime.)Watch it on Amazon

Joel and Ethan Coen’s story of a struggling folk singer in Greenwich Village in 1961 cheerfully intertwines fact and fiction; they faithfully reproduce that period, and incorporate many of its key figures into a week in the life of the title character (played by Oscar Isaac). But this is not just a museum piece, or a “music movie.” It’s about the feeling of knowing that success is overdue, and yet may never arrive. A.O. Scott called it an “intoxicating ramble.”Watch it on Amazon

Kenneth Lonergan makes films about people in turmoil, roiled by bottomless sadness, dysfunction and guilt. Casey Affleck won an Oscar for his nuanced portrayal of Lee Chandler, a Boston plumber who, for all practical purposes, is broken; Lucas Hedges is prickly and funny as the nephew who needs him to put himself together again. Keenly observed, emotionally fraught and surprisingly funny, it’s a tear-jerker in the best sense, never stooping to cheap manipulation. Our critic called it “a finely shaded portrait.” (For more indie drama, try “Leave No Trace” and “Take This Waltz.”)

Watch it on Amazon

The broad plot outlines — a traumatized vet, working as a killer-for-hire, gets in over his head in the criminal underworld — make this adaptation of Jonathan Ames’s novella sound like a million throwaway B-movies. But the director and screenwriter is Lynne Ramsay, and she’s not interested in making a conventional thriller; hers is more like a commentary on them, less interested in visceral action beats than their preparation and aftermath. She abstracts the violence, skipping the visual clichés and focusing on the details another filmmaker wouldn’t even see. Joaquin Phoenix is mesmerizing in the leading role (“there is something powerful in his agony,” A.O. Scott noted), internalizing his rage and pain until control is no longer an option. (Ramsay’s “We Need to Talk About Kevin” is also streaming on Prime; for more mind-bending drama, queue up David Cronenberg’s “Dead Ringers” and Nicolas Roeg’s “The Man Who Fell to Earth.”)Watch it on Amazon

This energetic and entertaining animated western comedy swipes its water-control plot from “Chinatown” and its style from Sergio Leone; even Johnny Depp’s earlier desert-wandering tale “Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas” gets a shout-out. In other words, it’s a family film for movie buffs, steeped in genre conventions and filled with sly little winks and inside jokes, but it resists the urge to coast on its own cleverness. Our critic raved, “this rambling, anarchic tale is gratifyingly fresh and eccentric.” (For more unconventional family fun, stream “Ernest and Celestine.”)Watch it on Amazon

Eliza Hittman (“Never Rarely Sometimes Always,” “Beach Rats”) made her feature debut with this tricky, nuanced coming of age story, set in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Gravesend. A “mood poem to summer loving and sexual awakening,” it concerns 14-year-old Lila (Gina Piersanti), increasingly aware of her sexual impulses but unsure what to do with them; perhaps destructively, she focuses on Sammy (Ronen Rubinstein), a casually misogynistic neighborhood bad boy. Hittman’s narrative is slight, but her insight is not — this deceptively casual film captures the power and potency of hormonal pangs with a rare directness and immediacy. (For more young women coming of age, check out “Eighth Grade” and “Valley Girl.”)

Watch it on Amazon

An unexplained and unstoppable zombie uprising forces a group of strangers to join forces for a common goal in this 1968 horror classic from director George A. Romero. In the half-century since its release, it’s been justifiably praised for its pseudo-documentary, newsreel aesthetic, as well as the adjacent social commentary and political subtext (particularly with regards to its African-American lead, and the unexpected payoff of its grim final scene). But it also remains, after all these years, scary as hell.Watch it on Amazon

Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani based their first screenplay on their own, unconventional love story — a courtship that was paused, then oddly amplified by an unexpected illness and a medically induced coma. This isn’t typical rom-com fodder, but it’s written and played with such honesty and heart that it somehow lands. Nanjiani and Zoe Kazan (standing in for Gordon) generate easy, lived-in chemistry and a rooting interest in the relationship, while a second-act appearance by Holly Hunter and Ray Romano as her parents creates a prickly tension that gives way to hard-won affection. Our critic deemed it “a joyous, generous-hearted romantic comedy.” (If you like your comedies with a dash of heartfelt drama, we also recommend “Heaven Can Wait” and “Harold and Maude.”)Watch it on Amazon

As director of the “Ocean’s” trilogy, Steven Soderbergh honored the classic heist movie aesthetic: sleek, classy and star-studded. And then he set out to subvert all of those conventions with this working-class heist comedy, in which a minor character describes its central job as “Ocean’s 7-11.” The key players are familiar (the safecracker, the computer whiz, the sexy girl, the brains of the operation), but they’re done with salty fun and earthy humor. You’ll never say “cauliflower” the same way again. Our critic dubbed it “gravity-defying” and “ridiculously entertaining.” (Fans of Daniel Craig’s Southern accent will also want to stream “Knives Out.”)Watch it on Amazon

This sun-drenched romp reunited the director Alfred Hitchcock with one of his favorite leading men, Cary Grant, and with Grace Kelly, the ultimate “Hitchcock Blonde.” The sparks are nuclear-grade as the two fall in love, and they trade witticisms, jabs and flirtations with aplomb against the beautiful backdrop of the South of France. Our critic wrote, “the script and the actors keep things popping, in a fast, slick, sophisticated vein.” (Grant also sparkles in “The Bishop’s Wife.”)Watch it on Amazon

Directed by Howard Hawks, this 1940 film wasn’t the first cinematic adaptation of the popular play “The Front Page,” but it cooked up a twist the 1931 version hadn’t: What if Hildy Johnson, the superstar reporter whom the ruthless editor Walter Burns will keep on his staff at any cost, wasn’t his drinking buddy but his ex-wife? It’s a movie that talks fast and moves faster, and the passage of nearly 80 years hasn’t slowed it down a bit. Our critic called it “a bold-faced reprint of what was once — and still remains — the maddest newspaper comedy of our times.” (For more classic romance, check out “Royal Wedding and “Roman Holiday.”)Watch it on Amazon

Billy Wilder’s poison-penned love letter to Hollywood is often remembered more as a series of moments (particularly its closing line) than for its overwhelming whole: a sometimes tragic, sometimes comic, always riveting story about a faded silent movie queen (an unforgettable Gloria Swanson) and the opportunistic young man who tries to take advantage of her (a prickly William Holden). Our critic wrote that it “quickly casts a spell over an audience and holds it enthralled to a shattering climax.” (Classic movie lovers won’t want to miss John Ford’s “The Quiet Man,” also streaming on Prime.)Watch it on Amazon

This Polish possession story from the writer and director Marcin Wrona opens on a note of uncertainty and dread and then holds it for 94 harrowing minutes. Wrona transforms the relatable fears of wedding day into something far more sinister, as our groom protagonist discovers horrifying skeletons in his new family’s closet (or, more accurately, its yard); the filmmaker offsets the considerable nightmare imagery and wild-eyed desperation with piercing moments of gallows humor, particularly in contemplating how “sensible people” might react to these events. Our critic praised its “light shivers” and “bluntly old-fashioned screen magic.” (Fans of trippy genre movies will also enjoy “Always Shine,” “The Lighthouse,” and “High Life.”)Watch it on Amazon





No.21 article:
It Started With ‘Birtherism’

There’s a pattern here.

Donald Trump is exiting political life much the same way he entered it, pushing conspiracy theories for personal gain. Now, as then, these aren’t just any old conspiracy theories, but ones that hinge on the fundamental illegitimacy of a whole class of Americans.

Trump made his first serious foray into national politics with “birtherism,” the conspiracy theory that Barack Obama was born outside the United States, making him an illegal president. It was a public expression of Trump’s belief that citizenship is tied to blood and ethnicity — that some Americans are Americans, some are less so and some just aren’t.

The voter fraud conspiracy to which Trump hitched his attempt to hold onto power falls under the same umbrella, an attempt to write millions of Americans out of the electorate on the basis of race and heritage, instead of just one person out of the office of the presidency.

The essence of the campaign’s legal and political argument, after all, is that Trump won the election, or would have, if not for mass electoral fraud, all in swing states and only then in those cities with sizable Black populations, specifically Atlanta, Detroit, Milwaukee and Philadelphia. To right the ship, his campaign asked various courts to toss out votes in these cities, invalidating hundreds of thousands of Black votes to hand the president a second term.

Here is Rudy Giuliani saying exactly this without shame or embarrassment at a news conference last week:

The Trump movement has never been about “populism” or “nationalism” or the interests of working Americans. It has always and only been about the contours of our national community: who belongs and who doesn’t; who counts and who shouldn’t; who can wield power and who must be subject to it.

And the answers, no matter how much the president’s defenders and apologists pretend otherwise, have race at their core. Yes, Trump will take support from anyone who wants to give it to him, but the Americans that matter — whose votes must be counted, whose wishes must be heard, respected and fulfilled — are the white ones, and of them, only a subset.

I call this “Trumpism,” but none of this began with the president. Trump did not force the Republican Party in Michigan and Wisconsin to create districts so slanted as to make a mockery of representative government in their states; he did not tell the North Carolina Republican Party to devise and pass a voter identification bill targeting the state’s Black voters for disenfranchisement with “surgical precision”; he didn’t push Republican election officials in Georgia to indiscriminately purge their voter rolls or pressure Florida Republicans into practically nullifying a state constitutional amendment — passed by ballot measure — to give voting rights to former felons.

The Republican Party’s contempt for democracy and embrace of minoritarian rules and institutions predate Trump and will continue after he leaves the scene. It does not seem to matter that Republicans can clearly compete and win in high turnout elections since hostility to democratic participation has become as much a part of the party’s identity as its commitment to low taxes and so-called small government.

What does this mean for the future of our politics? In the near-term, the president’s haphazard attempt to nullify the election is probably the start of a new normal, in which it is standard procedure for Republican politicians to allege fraud and challenge the results, tying the outcome up in federal court until it’s either untenable — or somehow successful. And even if it doesn’t work, the attempt still stands as a ritual affirming the belief that some Americans count more than others, and that our democracy is legitimate only insofar as it empowers the people, narrowly defined, over the mere majority.

In “Talking to Strangers: Anxieties of Citizenship Since Brown v. Board of Education,” the political theorist Danielle S. Allen observes that

She continues:

What if the thing we need some citizens to give up is a sense of superiority, a sense that they are — or ought to be — first among equals? And what if they refuse? What do we do about our democracy when one group of citizens, or at least its chosen representatives, rejects the egalitarian ideal at the heart of democratic practice?

These aren’t new questions in American history. But unless we plan to recapitulate the worst parts of our past, we will have to come up with new answers.





No.22 article:
Macron’s Rightward Tilt, Seen in New Laws, Sows Wider Alarm in France

One bill would reach into Muslim life, and another would place new restrictions on filming of police. Critics say they’re part of a drift toward repressive government policies.

PARIS — A rightward push by the French government is alarming civil liberties advocates in France and raising questions about President Emmanuel Macron’s positioning ahead of an expected electoral challenge from the far right in 2022.

Propelled by a national wave of anxiety following recent terrorist attacks by Islamist extremists, two proposed new laws underscore what critics have called an alarming drift toward repression in government policy.

One bill, which passed an initial hurdle in the lower house of Parliament, the National Assembly, on Tuesday, restricts the public filming of the police, a step civic groups consider a shield for brutality at a moment when law enforcement has come under more scrutiny for aggressive tactics, often from citizens armed with cellphone cameras.

The other, still to be considered by Parliament, seeks further restrictions against Islamism as the French government has defined it, reaching into some aspects of Muslim life. This bill would ban home-schooling, flag in a database those deemed to “excuse” terrorist acts, subject organizations that receive government subsidies to a test of allegiance to “the values of the republic,” and increase strictures against polygamy, which is already illegal.

The law aimed at curbing Islamist extremism follows a series of terrorist attacks, including one at a basilica in Nice that left three dead and the beheading of a teacher in a suburb of Paris, that have set off a government crackdown that critics have contended is already overly broad, in rare cases sweeping up even children as young as 10.

In tilting right, Mr. Macron, a shape-shifting centrist who came out of the Socialist Party, has placed himself largely in step with public opinion. In the wake of the terrorist attacks, pollsters say, much of the French public is demanding protection from a perceived Islamist threat, and from public disorder of the sort seen during the Yellow Vest protests against economic hardship two years ago.

But while Mr. Macron has little to lose politically, and almost everything to gain, by moving to the right to keep his nationalist opponents at bay, his latest measures have dismayed even some of his early supporters.

Critics have faulted his government for a repressive, stigmatizing tone toward Muslims, perhaps a tenth of France’s population. “Under the pretext of reinforcing republican values, we’re actually serving the opponents of the republic, who have a xenophobic agenda,” said Aurélien Taché, a representative in Parliament who quit Mr. Macron’s party.

“This law does nothing to reinforce secularism,” said Mr. Taché, using the French term laïcité. “Those who pretend to want to do that, actually what they actually want is to exclude the Muslims,” said Mr. Taché, who represents a Paris suburb.

The law restricting the filming of police officers now threatens to engender even broader criticism because its wording is so open-ended that it has provoked antigovernment demonstrations in Paris and other cities. “Big Macron is Watching You,” read a sign held aloft at a Saturday rally attended by around 10,000 in Paris.

The law prescribes a penalty of a year in prison and a fine of some $54,000 for anyone who broadcasts “the face or any other identifying element” of police officers in action if the goal is to “physically or mentally harm” them.

Even the European Commission has raised questions, in addition to an outcry from journalists and left-leaning politicians.

“An authoritarian regime is installing itself,” thundered Jean-Luc Mélenchon, leader of the left-wing France Unbowed party, before Parliament. “The first liberty the citizen should benefit from is the control of those who exercise authority.”

Still, in the context of France’s heightened anxiety — which comes after scores of attacks for several years that have left more than 250 people dead — Mr. Macron’s bigger concern is with the right, and Mr. Mélenchon’s diatribe can only serve the president’s purpose.

“You’re seeing an evolution of the electorate to the right,” said Gérard Grunberg, a political scientist. “Public opinion is demanding toughness,” said Mr. Grunberg. “Toughness toward Islamists, whoever. There’s definitely been a change,” he said.

Mr. Macron’s opposition in 2022 will come either from the far-right former National Front party led by Marine Le Pen or from the mainstream right, neither of which finds any fault with the new laws — both want them to be tougher.

The president’s disappointed supporters on the left will have no choice but to vote for Mr. Macron again, especially if his opponent is once again Ms. Le Pen, just as many did in 2017.

In an environment of fear and xenophobia after the terrorist killings, few voices have been publicly raised, yet, against the measure on what Mr. Macron describes as Islamism, or against his accompanying efforts to exert state oversight of the activities of imams in France.

Representatives of France’s main mosques and Muslim organizations have not publicly raised objections to Mr. Macron’s proposals. There is agreement on the need to curb extremism and put a stop to the influence of foreign countries who send imams to France.

In the police bill, civil libertarians have decried what they say is an attempt to stifle what is seen as a major tool in curbing French police violence — a term rejected wholesale by Mr. Macron — in recent years: the filming of the police by citizens, equipped with nothing more than their smartphones.

Police unions have been demanding such a measure, and in France these unions, unlike others, often get what they want. Governments have traditionally been afraid to cross them. The police in France are rarely punished for acts of violence.

And they have always hated being filmed. Several now-notorious cases of police brutality have come to light as a result of this impromptu filming, including the suffocation death of a bicycle delivery driver earlier this year after he had filmed his own arrest. Incidents of police brutality against Black and North African youth in the suburbs, quasi-endemic according to independent reports, have also been filmed by citizens.

On Monday night, citizens filmed the police violently breaking up a migrant encampment in central Paris, harsh scenes which led to an internal police investigation; “shocking” is how even the hard-line interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, characterized them.

“So, Mr. Interior Minister, you’ll agree then that these images are actually useful — and you’re the one who wanted to ban them,” wrote Clémentine Autain, a parliamentary representative of France Unbowed, on Twitter.

Under the new bill, they might soon be illegal.

France’s public citizens’ rights guardian has raised alarm bells, saying that these images are “legitimate and necessary” in a democracy. So have many journalists and academics.

“For the last two years, because of these videos, the whole issue of police violence has become a major subject in society, which it was not before,” said David Dufresne, a freelance journalist whose compilation of police violence videos during Yellow Vest protests brought into sharp focus the government’s harsh repression of the movement.

“Now they have introduced the idea of intention,” he said. “But what they want to do is stop the introduction of these images.”

The measure nonetheless passed easily thanks to Mr. Macron’s large parliamentary majority, smoothed by promises from Mr. Darmanin, who is seen as especially receptive to the French police, that press freedom was not at stake.

In the measure on Islam, the muted criticism has focused on an increasing official tendency to single out the country’s large Muslim community for regulation.

Originally an initiative against what Mr. Macron himself described as “separatisms,” it was rebaptized as a law to “reinforce republican principles,” in an apparent effort to back away from undertones of stigma.

The critics are not fooled, however. “I’m very disappointed by his secularist, authoritarian drift,” said Olivier Roy, one of France’s best-known scholars of Islam. “Teachers are being told to denounce their students. This is unacceptable,” he said.

‘‘Every statement against laïcité becomes separatist,” Mr. Roy said, referring to the republic’s guiding precept of secularism, which guarantees freedom of worship but also enforces a strict neutrality of the state on religious matters. “This is very serious. It’s an assault against freedom of expression.”

Others warned against potential long-term consequences. “Absurd and counterproductive, and it weakens the republic. Was it really a good idea to alienate 10 percent of the French public?” asked Ayyam Sureau, who heads a refugee aid association in Paris. “They’ve rallied together the moderates and the Islamists,” she said.

Mr. Macron himself, in an October speech heralding the initiative, slipped imperceptibly from denunciations of “Islamism,” to decrying the problems of Islam itself, and then back to “Islamism.”

“I feel this is wounding for the Muslim community as a whole,” said Ms. Sureau. “This consecrates the separation. I don’t see what’s new apart from stigmatizing the entire community.”





No.23 article:
Homeless Men Must Leave Upper West Side Hotel, Judge Rules

The dispute has been a flash point in one of New York City’s most liberal neighborhoods.

About 200 homeless men will have to vacate a hotel on Manhattan’s Upper West Side that has been used as an emergency shelter during the pandemic, a judge ruled on Wednesday — the latest twist in a contentious case that has been a flash point in one of New York City’s most liberal enclaves.

The judge in Manhattan said that she would dismiss the proceedings and said that the court lacked jurisdiction over the dispute.

A spokesman for the city’s law department, Nicholas Paolucci, said that officials planned to begin moving the men after Thanksgiving.

“We’re pleased with the court’s decision which will allow the city to continue providing critical services to those who need it most,” Mr. Paolucci said in an email.

A lawyer for a downtown group that filed the lawsuit seeking to stop the relocation said that it planned to appeal.

The Upper West Side hotel, the Lucerne, which used to offer valet parking and spa services to tourists during pre-pandemic times, is one of 63 hotels the city has temporarily used as shelters to help prevent the spread of coronavirus at dormitory-style shelters.

The city’s strategy has sparked legal threats, protests, news conferences and the formation of several neighborhood groups — some opposed to these shelters and others in favor. But caught in the middle of the political push-and-pull are the displaced men whose lives have often been upended by evictions, unemployment and other traumatic events.

Michael Hiller, the lawyer who represented several of the men at the Lucerne, wrote in a text message: “Words cannot express how I feel about this decision greenlighting the city’s forcible relocation of the homeless residents of the Lucerne on the day before Thanksgiving.”

The decision is a blow to many of the men, who had said that they had found a sense of belonging and a measure of stability on the Upper West Side.

One of the men, who goes by the name Shams DaBaron and has become a spokesman for some of the men at the hotel, said in a statement, “We are hurt.”

“We have proven that the city does not care about our well-being, because if they did, we would be able to stay at a place where we are thriving,” Mr. DaBaron said.

Mr. Hiller said his clients were considering their legal options.

Mayor Bill de Blasio decided to move the men from the Lucerne Hotel in September after visiting the neighborhood and after a group formed by area residents hired Randy Mastro, a well-connected lawyer who has represented Mr. de Blasio in the past, to threaten a lawsuit against the city.

“The court recognized what we have been saying all along — that the city made the right decision here,” Mr. Mastro said in a statement.

The city first tried to move the men to a shelter for homeless families near the Empire State Building, but blowback from residents there led to the decision to send them to the Lower Manhattan hotel. The neighborhood group in the Financial District promptly sued the city to stop the move.

Mr. Mastro and lawyers for the city argued that the Radisson was a better option because it had more indoor space and more single rooms.

Mr. Hiller said that moving them would deprive them of services and jobs that they were able to get by being at the Lucerne.

Debra A. James, the Supreme Court justice who presided over the case, last week questioned the city’s rationale for moving the men.

“Because there were particularly powerful people, there was a decision made that the men have to go?” Judge James asked during the hearing, which lasted more than five hours spread over two days. “That’s a concern of mine.”

Soon after the men moved into the Lucerne, residents of the Upper West Side formed a private Facebook group that featured frequent posts blaming the men for public drug use, urinating in the street and harassment and at times described them using racist, dehumanizing language.

Other residents reached out to the men and formed a neighborhood group that worked with them to develop innovative services. Another organization arranged for a program that gave jobs to 50 men. Their lawyer said it would no longer be available if they had to leave the hotel.

According to the city’s Department of Homeless Services, moving about 9,500 people from shelters to hotels had saved many lives. The outlook for the residents in the main shelter system, which houses about 54,000 homeless people, was far more perilous earlier in the spring, when they were still living in dormitory-style shelters.

The mayor has defended his decision to relocate the men as part of an effort to return homeless people back to conventional shelters, but a more widespread effort to do so does not yet appear to be underway.

The men who had wanted to stay at the Lucerne may have, for the moment, lost in court, but Mr. DaBaron said, “By fighting and speaking out against this inhumanity, we have already won.”

He added: “Because we fought, we have maintained our dignity, to tell the city that while they may be able to move our bodies on a whim, they cannot silence our voices.”





No.24 article:
Family History, Uncovered in Quarantine

As Americans splinter into isolated Thanksgivings, some are taking the opportunity to examine their pasts.

Every Wednesday night at 8:15, 16 of my wife’s family members gather around computer screens in their homes in Washington, D.C.; Philadelphia; New York City; and Chapel Hill, N.C., to look into their collective past.

On a Zoom screen, we watch grainy Super-8 images of my mother-in-law, who died long before I met her daughter, as a young girl, a sassy teenager, a new mother dipping my wife’s tiny baby toes in the lake at Mohonk Mountain House in the early 1980s. We see my wife’s cousins, now middle-aged, as young girls, running through the sprinkler and mugging for the lens on the lawn of their childhood home in West Philly, the cars of the mid-’70s lining the street behind them. We see their grandparents in middle age, watching their teenage daughters splash in the ocean off Cape Cod sometime in the 1960s.

We listen to audiotapes of my wife’s aunt as a newlywed in Indiana, recounting the mundane details of a cross-country move for her own mother, as mailing a reel-to-reel came at significantly less cost than a regular long-distance call back then.

Several years ago, my wife’s cousin, Julie Rottenberg, a screenwriter, and her husband, Ben Rubin, an artist, were unloading an old family storage unit outside of Philadelphia when they uncovered four boxes brimming with Super-8 reels, audiotapes and thousands upon thousands of slides. They moved the boxes to their own storage unit in their Brooklyn building, promising to go through them soon. But as most relics often do, the boxes again sat unattended for years.

It wasn’t until last year, as Ms. Rottenberg and Mr. Rubin, parents of two preteenagers, were cleaning out their own storage unit, that they revisited the boxes.

Mr. Rubin sent their contents away to be digitized. Conveniently, the images returned right before lockdown. Now every week he searches for material, from five to 30 minutes, to broadcast to the extended family every Wednesday.

“This is the most time I’ve spent with my family in years,” my wife said recently, teary eyed after a particularly emotional viewing.

And we’re not alone — even though many of us are, now, technically, alone. As Thanksgiving approaches, people everywhere are looking for new ways to connect with their families beyond just waving hello on videoconference. Some are turning into amateur archivists, sifting through records they never would have had the time to examine otherwise.

Samneang Chheng, 39, is Cambodian-American but lives in London and works as a commerce sales partner lead at Google. Every week, she and her fiancé, John Burtt, join Ms. Chheng’s mother, Chuon Chin, on a Zoom call during which Ms. Chin teaches a traditional Cambodian recipe.

From her home in Fort Worth, where Ms. Chheng was raised after her family escaped a Cambodian refugee camp shortly after her birth, Ms. Chin explains the ingredients and methods behind the dishes Ms. Chheng grew up eating, along with stories of her youth.

“I was never interested in learning these recipes,” Ms. Chheng said. But the combination of her mother’s advanced age and the current difficulty of international travel led Ms. Chheng and Mr. Burtt to start scheduling regular Zoom calls, each covering a different recipe.

Ms. Chheng and Mr. Burtt are hoping to turn these recipes into a cookbook that their children may someday read. “It’s meant to preserve our history,” she said. “But it’s meant to preserve her story, too.”

In Los Angeles, Johnny North, 44, who owns a production company, recently confirmed a suspicion that he’s held since he was a teenager: that he was adopted.

Drawn to film, art and music, Mr. North always felt different from his more conventional family, growing up in Long Island. “I wasn’t unloved or uncared for,” he said. “I was just different.”

He was in high school when he noticed a picture of his mother dated shortly before his birth — glaringly not pregnant. He had also long wondered why he, their first child, was born 15 years after their marriage. “But there were just things we never talked about,” Mr. North said.

A year and a half ago, his wife gave him a DNA test kit, and the results were perplexing. Mr. North took another test in December 2019, administered by a different company, that revealed even more discrepancies.

Shortly afterward, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York signed a bill into law that made it easier for adoptees to obtain their birth certificates. Mr. North’s arrived in mid-March. It revealed that he had been born Jason Patrick Bouchard to a 16-year-old single mother who lived not far from where his parents raised him.

Mr. North’s emotions have since been running that gamut that could be expected with such a revelation. Restless days and sleepless nights were alleviated after he talked to his parents. It was a confrontation made easier by the fact that Mr. North is locked down at home in Los Angeles.

“It might have been harder if I actually had to go and sit face-to-face with my parents, to look them in the eye,” Mr. North said. “And the minute I did, I felt a thousand pounds lighter.”

Raymond Mantovani is a 66-year-old retired physician in Chapel Hill. He’s also my father.

And for as long as I can remember, he’s had a pair of government-issue duffel bags sitting in a closet corner, full of dusty letters from a bygone era.

Mere weeks after my grandparents were married, my grandfather, Ricalmo Mantovani, shipped to Chicago for basic training. From there, he sailed to the West African nation of Ghana, where, for two and a half years, he served as an airplane mechanic, fixing combat-wounded bombers after their runs over Africa and Southern Europe.

While he was deployed, Ricalmo and his wife, Anita, sent what my father describes as “at least a thousand letters” back and forth between Ghana and New York. As they had been married only weeks before being torn apart by a global conflict, much of the foundation of their early relationship was built through these regular letters.

Currently, my father is going through these duffel bags, undertaking a project he’s long dreamed of: to stitch together a narrative of the first few years of his parents’ marriage through their only means of correspondence.

My father is cataloging the correspondence by month and year, in hope that a story may coalesce over the more than a thousand letters. He’s been able to read only a handful of randomly selected letters here and there, which have revealed little more than the love for each other he saw growing up as their son.

Perhaps as my family takes to our own Zoom for a virtual Thanksgiving celebration this week, like so many others around the country, my father will have a better idea of the scope and direction of his project.

“So far, they’re basically love letters,” he said. “It doesn’t surprise me. My parents had a very loving marriage.”

Nonetheless, the pain of two people in their early 20s being pulled an ocean apart is apparent in the back and forth between my grandparents.

“They were very young,” he said. “They missed each other terribly and were concerned whether he would survive.”

One of the first things we were robbed of at the onset of the pandemic was human connection. Suddenly, and without warning, we became universal shut-ins, solitary citizens of our own little islands, stuck indefinitely with whoever was in our immediate orbits; spouses, children, roommates, pets.

But as social creatures, no sooner were we told to stay at home did we figure out how to reach out, how to virtually be with one another, how to raise a glass together (or, in the case of my wife’s family, to bond over the shared memories of the past as they skittered by on a grainy Super-8 reel).

We were forced to take to Zoom, FaceTime and the examination of old letters sent across the ocean nearly a hundred years ago in an effort to replicate those little interpersonal synapses that make us human, to make us feel normal in a time that is anything but. And in that process, at least a few of us have tapped into something that dwarfs the monolith of a world-halting pandemic. That is, our own personal histories.

Because as we sit virtually beside our family, watching my wife’s long-dead mother as a young woman, dancing in the surf off Cape Cod, long before marriage and children, multiple sclerosis and brain cancer, it’s clear that, while mandated space may exist between us, we’re holding it together.





No.25 article:
Ditching the Turkey: Thanksgiving Memories (and Misadventures) of Reporters Abroad

Some of our international journalists have gone to great lengths trying to bring a taste of home to their new locations. But it hasn’t always worked out.

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

When you’re a Times journalist spending Thanksgiving outside the United States, the day isn’t exactly all turkey and football. Improvisation replaces tradition, family is where you find it, and work comes first. We asked a few of our international correspondents about memorable holidays past.

Motoko Rich, Tokyo bureau chief

A few months after we arrived in Japan in 2016, my husband cooked a turkey. We were lucky to have an oven large enough to accommodate a small bird and invited Japanese friends of my parents’ generation to Thanksgiving dinner, offering culinary gratitude for the support they had given us when we first moved to Tokyo.

We shopped at a Western-style supermarket for brussels sprouts and imported cranberries, shutting our eyes to the exorbitant price. We mashed potatoes and toasted bread for stuffing, though it ended up too crunchy, like croutons. My Japanese godfather said they were his favorite part of the meal.

Our friends also brought Japanese side dishes: homemade pickles, plump inari (sweetened rice wrapped in fried tofu skins) and marinated enoki mushrooms. The flavors mingled on our plates. Our friends, who speak little English, managed to communicate with my husband and children, who spoke little Japanese. The following year, we dumped the turkey. The inari rolls and pickles stayed.

Vivian Yee, Cairo bureau chief

Thanksgiving 2019 fell on the one-year anniversary of my leaving New York for Beirut, Lebanon, where I had started covering the Middle East, and where I knew almost no one.

New York Thanksgivings, seven years running: a friend’s parents’ place on the Upper West Side, glugs of red wine, beagles barking, arguments about movies. Beirut Thanksgiving, Year 1: Unclear! I’d have to make it up.

Dinner for 10 other Americans and friends of Americans became dinner for 22 and then 30. Terrifying. Fortunately, my not-New York apartment could handle it.

Three of us ransacked the American Store, which deserves its nickname (a wall of imported cereal, a shelf of canned pumpkin). I spent the week beforehand immersed alternately in the antigovernment protests consuming Lebanon and in menu planning, enjoying the power to ban marshmallows. The day of, I considered a meltdown but decided against.

“Think quantity,” I pleaded to guests. Alex and Rami brought two turkeys, Helen and Felix cheese from Paris, Carly and Claire all their forks and knives. Chinese sticky-rice stuffing — my aunt’s recipe — thunked onto the table alongside Hwaida’s Lebanese meghli pudding, Signe’s Danish rye and Colin’s Irish whiskey, plus versions of all the classics. Eleven nationalities squeezed around four tables. Some of us danced.

Soon after that, I found out I was being transferred to Cairo, where I arrived, two weeks ago, with five suitcases and no turkey plans.

Make it up.

Jeffrey Gettleman, South Asia bureau chief

On Thanksgiving Day, 2002, I got a call from my boss, The Times’s national editor.

“Hey, Jeff, how are ya?”

“Um, fine, I guess …” (I suspected he wasn’t calling on one of the biggest holidays of the year just to say hi.)

“How would you like to go on a cruise?”

“You serious?” I asked, knowing there had to be a catch.

“Yes, I am. We need you to take a cruise to write about the Norwalk virus.”

The Norwalk virus! At the time, this stomach virus, like a faint prequel to Covid-19, was waylaying the cruise ship industry, sickening thousands of people and spreading a sense of paranoia across the Western world. The top symptom was diarrhea. And now my boss was asking me to intimately cover it!

But I’d just been hired by the paper and was game to do anything. So I started packing and soon left my family for a 10-day Caribbean cruise. I was one of the youngest people onboard, and I was instructed not to shake hands and to use lots of hand sanitizer.

Fortunately, no one got sick. The only outbreak onboard was a rash of white tuxedos in the dining room. Instead of a big news story, the assignment turned into a feature that ran on Page A37. 

Alissa J. Rubin, outgoing Baghdad bureau chief

As a foreign correspondent, I have spent every Thanksgiving for the last 20 years overseas, mostly in war zones where finding a turkey is pretty much impossible. Still, I don’t give up easily, and when no turkeys were readily available in Baghdad about 15 years ago, I decided to look in Jordan, the country we all stopped in for a day or two on our way into Iraq.

Since I was flying into Baghdad on a rotation in early November, I purchased a frozen 16-18 pounder at a Jordan supermarket right before boarding my flight, putting the bird into a plastic bag and then shoving it into the rucksack I always traveled with.

I settled myself in my seat and an Iraqi businessman sat down next to me. He spoke a little English and we exchanged cards. The plane pulled back from the gate, taxied to the runway and stopped. There was dust in Baghdad; we would have to wait until it settled. The plane began to get warm. Jordan can be in the 80s in November. Baghdad is even warmer.

After about an hour of sitting on the runway, the businessman turned to me and said, “Do you feel something wet?”

I looked around. “No,” I said.

“I think something just dripped on me,” he said, reaching up until he touched the overhead compartment.

I realized the turkey was defrosting. I looked up and saw a droplet forming just at the edge of the plastic where the lid of the overhead compartment clicked closed. I lunged up and brushed the drip away. The man was now staring at me a little nervously.

“Well, it’s not coming from up there. It’s dry,” I announced a little firmly. The plane was crowded, and there was nowhere he could move. If he had checked overhead, he might have realized it was defrosting meat — and not even halal.

I sat back down nervously watching for the next drop to form, preparing to lunge again. I did that one more time and then miraculously the plane took off.

As we spiraled down into Baghdad several more drops fell on my traveling companion, one landing on his temple, the other on his suit (I don’t think he felt the second one).

Finally, he got up to leave, waiting politely so I could go first. I shook my head firmly, pretending I needed to pack up my notebooks, opening and closing them busily. But, really, I didn’t want him to see me pull the sodden rucksack dripping with a defrosting turkey out of the overhead bin.





No.26 article:
Two Darwin Notebooks, Missing for Decades, Were Most Likely Stolen

Cambridge University Library, which long thought it had misplaced the cultural treasures, has now made a public appeal for information on their whereabouts. The local police have notified Interpol.

LONDON — Twenty years ago, two historic notebooks belonging to the renowned naturalist Charles Darwin were found missing from the archives at Cambridge University Library. The tiny books recorded Darwin’s thoughts after he returned to England from his famed voyage aboard H.M.S. Beagle, as he grasped toward ideas that would form the foundations of modern evolutionary biology.

Now, the library has said it believes the notebooks were most likely stolen, and it launched a public appeal for any information about their whereabouts on Tuesday. The local police say they have asked Interpol to place the items on its Stolen Works of Arts Register.

The library, which houses the largest collection of Darwin’s writings, has described the missing notebooks as “priceless” but nevertheless estimated their value at “millions of pounds.”

One page, reproduced around the world in museum exhibits, on schoolroom posters and on T-shirts, gives his first sketch of a “Tree of Life,” mapping out how related species could diverge from a common ancestor, much like the branches of a tree diverging from a trunk.

Jessica Gardner, Cambridge University’s librarian and director of library services, said the institution was “determined to do everything possible to discover what happened and will leave no stone unturned” to find the notebooks.

“Someone, somewhere, may have knowledge or insight that can help us return these notebooks to their proper place at the heart of the U.K.’s cultural and scientific heritage,” she said in a statement published by the library.

The notebooks were first listed as missing in January 2001, and staff at the library had long thought they had simply been misplaced among its vast collection of around 10 million books and objects. But after an exhaustive search which the library has said was the largest in its history, curators have concluded that they were likely stolen.

Dr. Gardner said library protocols at the time the books first went missing were very different, and new strong rooms, specialist reading rooms, CCTV monitoring and enhanced security have been added since 2001.

“Today, any such significant missing object would be reported as a potential theft immediately and a widespread search begun,” she said. “We keep all our precious collections under the tightest security, in dedicated, climate-controlled strong rooms, meeting national standards.”

The notebooks were long held in the Library’s Special Collections Strong Rooms, home to the most valuable and rare items in the collection, and in September 2000, they were taken out to be photographed. During a routine check a month later, a small box containing the two notebooks was found missing, the library said.

Despite years of searching, including a final specialist search Dr. Gardner organized earlier this year, they were never found.

This led the library and national experts in cultural heritage theft to conclude that they have likely been stolen. Dr. Gardner encouraged any current or former staff members, those in the book trade, researchers, or anyone in the public who may have information to get in touch.

The public appeal was launched to coincide with the anniversary of Darwin’s publication of his seminal work, “On the Origin of Species,” on Nov. 24, 1859.

Detective Sgt. Sharon Burrell of the Cambridgeshire Police said the stolen items had been reported to Interpol and she hoped publicizing the potential theft “jogs someone’s memory,” resulting in information that can secure their return.

“Due to the time since their disappearance, information from the public will be very important to this investigation,” she said in a statement.





No.27 article:
Holiday Windows Aren’t Over. Neither, They Say, Is New York.

It was just a little over a month ago that President Donald J. Trump declared in the final presidential debate that New York City was a “ghost town,” that it was “dying” and that “everyone is leaving.”

His statement — and the sentiment it reflects — provoked a social media storm of urban jingoism, rippling out in an even more visible, if unexpected, place: the holiday windows of our remaining department stores, those cornucopias of animated elves and festive candy canes dangling abundance like a promise.

Once upon a time vehicles for entertainment, they suddenly resemble nothing so much as statements of belief. They are a “light,” said Tony Spring, the chief executive of Bloomingdale’s, at “the end of a very difficult year.”

Linda Fargo, Bergdorf Goodman’s fashion director (and its former head of windows), agreed. “We believed it was more important than ever to stay our course this year,” she said.

In this, there are parallels with the holiday seasons after both 9/11 and the Great Recession of 2008, when dire predictions of New York’s demise filled the air, said Marc Metrick, the chief executive of Saks Fifth Avenue.

The windows are reminders, he said, “of the greatness of this city,” hence Saks’s decision to focus deliberately on New York-specific scenarios. The idea that Christmas windows could be canceled was never a possibility, he said.

You think it’s over? You think department stores are dead? You think this town is on its way out? Check the displays.

Though early on all the keepers of the window flame realized they would have to pivot to a different kind of experience. The Bergdorf windows, for example, are both bolder and simpler than any they have featured before, designed to be “read” even from across the street.

“The windows are a time to say: ‘Hey, we’re New York. We’re here. And we’re big,’” Mr. Metrick said.

Store windows first became a thing at the end of the 18th century, when glass manufacturers figured out how to make single panes large enough to provide a vista into a store, and a tailor named Francis Place used one in his establishment on Charing Cross. By the mid-1800s, mannequins had emerged to transform what was inside — and inspire the new art form of “window dressing.”

This art form was immortalized in Emile Zola’s 1883 ode to the department store, “The Ladies’ Paradise,” and L. Frank Baum’s “The Art of Decorating Dry Goods Windows and Interiors,” published in 1900. (Yes, the Wizard of Oz was a window dresser! Gives new meaning to that whole “man-behind-the-curtain” thing, doesn’t it?) Not to mention the 1947 film “Miracle on 34th Street.” Indeed, it was Macy’s that brought the holiday window to New York in 1874, when R.H. Macy used dolls to create scenes from Harriet Beecher Stowe’s “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”

If you think calling a shop window an art form is hyperbole, consider the fact that some of the names that have dabbled in the discipline include Salvador Dalí, Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, James Rosenquist and Andy Warhol.

The first time Simon Doonan came to New York City, he rushed straight from J.F.K. airport to Fifth Avenue to see the department store holiday windows. It was the 1970s, and they were a font of endless, glorious inspiration for a boy from Reading, England, in all their animated-elf and candy-cane-festooned glory.

“The visual enticement was extraordinary,” said Mr. Doonan, who grew up to spend decades as the maestro of the famous windows at Barneys New York and who is currently a judge on “Making It,” the craft competition show. “New York was the capital of window display.”

And from late November through New Year’s, the stretch of Fifth Avenue from 59th to 40th Streets, Bergdorf Goodman and Tiffany to Henri Bendel, Saks Fifth Avenue and Lord &amp; Taylor, was its beating heart: The front lines of an annual communal ritual that began every year around Thanksgiving time, as families bundled up and gathered en masse behind velvet ropes to marvel at the panoply of animated goodies arrayed before them, eye candy of the most delectable kind.

For as long as I can remember, I was one of them: a child with her nose pressed against the glass, clutching my mother’s hand with my mitten. Later I became that mother, toting my own children, wind-burned cheek to wind-burned cheek. We stared in somewhat stupefied awe at toy trains chugging around sugar-snow-dusted mini-Swiss Alps under flying Santa sleighs and traded longings.

Yet Mr. Doonan moved on from windows in 2011. Barneys itself declared bankruptcy last year (was it only last year? it seems like another world) and is no more. Neither is Lord &amp; Taylor nor Henri Bendel — all wiped from the map of New York. The new Neiman Marcus at Hudson Yards, opened only in 2019, has closed.

The department stores that are left, already weakened pre-pandemic by the rise of e-tail and the monobrand shop, are famously struggling after months of forced closure and city-mandated shopping restrictions, not to mention cowering behind plywood during protests.

Midtown is largely empty, the towering office buildings no longer spilling forth hordes of potential viewers primed for distraction on a lunch break or cocktail hour. Social distancing rules mean only a few individuals can linger outside any one space at any given time.

Not that there are that many individuals to do it anyway: The holiday tourists who used to flood to New York at Thanksgiving or before Christmas to take in a show, see the Rockettes or simply stroll the avenues, have been reduced to a moderate eddy.

So you can understand how this all could have gone very differently.

As George Berkeley, the 18th-century philosopher of immaterialism, might have asked: What are windows without window shoppers to see them?

It’s become a metaphysical question.

Most stores have canceled their famous celebrity-hosted unveiling festivities, which in the past shut down avenues as throngs gathered to ogle, or have transformed them into virtual events. But the windows persist.

“We knew this event would be the antithesis of what we used to do, which was very dense and crowded,” said Mr. Metrick of Saks. Past unveilings involved hundreds of people and bleachers on Fifth Avenue.

Last week, Bergdorf Goodman kicked things off with nine color-blocked vitrines, each celebrating a “core value” such as “love,” “harmony,” “equality” and so on, rendered in towering three dimensional letters and backed by fractured mirror, so they gleam like giant faceted jewels. Macy’s celebrated essential workers with gleaming Thank You-themed vistas of cheer.

On Monday, Saks Fifth Avenue unveiled their efforts: six vignettes in the six vitrines facing Fifth Avenue depicting “How we celebrate now,” including houses strung with holiday lights and other decorations in Dyker Heights; a family coming home with presents on the Roosevelt Island tram; a food truck parked outside an apartment building for a Covid-safe dinner party. Also a light show created with 600,000 bulbs on the entire facade that can be seen from not only in front of the store but up and down the avenue. (Alex Rodriguez flipped the switch.)

Further east, at Bloomingdale’s, another half-dozen windows are aglow, each bathed in its own primary color linked to emotion and illustration — “Give a Smile,” with a giant yellow smiley face and a hillock of gold disco balls; “Give Snuggles,” with a wreath made of evergreen plush teddy bears — all unveiled in conjunction with a virtual benefit featuring performances from American Ballet Theater and the singer Andra Day.

And as for Nordstrom — the biggest department store to land in New York in recent times — on Friday it will reveal 253,000 feet, or nearly 50 miles, of twinkling red and white lights covering its waveform facade (it doesn’t actually have classic windows).

That’s a lotta electricity.

Compared to recent extravaganzas, such as the Swarovski-studded “Greatest Showman” circus in 2017 at Bloomingdale’s, the macaron-and-creme-crammed fantasia of Bergdorf’s 2018 “Bergdorf Goodies” or the live performance by Idina Menzel that brought Fifth Avenue to a halt outside Saks last year, they are positively restrained: trading come-hither detail for socially distanced impact, as Mr. Spring of Bloomingdale’s said, in order to keep passers-by from “dwelling” in front of the displays.

And instead of talking about “art,” the executives talked about “responsibility” and “gifts to the city” and “community.”

It sounds a little maudlin, but they mean it, and have bet their budgets upon it. After all, holiday windows are the store windows that are in place for the longest period of time and cost the most. If Shakespeare was right and the eyes are the windows of the soul, maybe the windows of the stores are the eyes of the city’s spirit.

And now they are also a sort of metropolitan throw-down, in tinsel and gilt.

“People always think of ways to cope,” said Mr. Doonan. “I find it very life-affirming.”





No.28 article:
The N.B.A. Slam Dunk Champion Cashes In

In a Miami hotel room, Derrick Jones Jr. and his agent, Aaron Turner, sat on a gray, three-seat couch with a laptop propped open on a coffee table in front of them.

This was the start of N.B.A. free agency last weekend, compressed and frenzied, squeezed in just after the draft and right before training camp, when dozens of players mulled multimillion-dollar offers as they sat in hotel rooms, living rooms and bedrooms around the world.

For Jones, 23, the moment offered time to reflect on how he had carved a long route to stability. He would end the night with an agreement for his first guaranteed N.B.A. contract after being passed over in the 2016 draft out of U.N.L.V. He latched on in the N.B.A.’s developmental league before climbing his way to the Phoenix Suns and the Miami Heat, earning a reputation as a dynamic leaper and a grinding defender.

On this night, Turner, the 34-year-old president of Verus Basketball, had secured meetings with three teams he believed would be interested in offering the contract that Jones hoped for, a multiyear deal starting at the league’s midlevel exception of $9.76 million.

An article published the day before in The Miami Herald had stirred some anxiety. In it, an anonymous executive speculated about Jones: “If he got even $7 million a year, I would be shocked. If he gets $15 million over two years, his agent should get a bonus.” Turner preached confidence to Jones about his market value based on analytics.

The N.B.A. allowed teams to begin negotiations with free agents on Friday at 6 p.m. Eastern time. Turner checked in with the three teams he had planned on meeting with five minutes later to ensure they were indeed interested in offering a deal starting at the midlevel.

Returning to the Heat remained an option, although Turner predicted Miami would want Jones back on a one-year deal. The Charlotte Hornets could offer the largest contract. However, the Hornets had targeted Gordon Hayward, and Jones could not bypass other options to wait them out. (Charlotte agreed to a four-year, $120 million deal with Hayward later that weekend.)

Jones started his first meeting, with representatives of the Sacramento Kings on a video conference call at 6:28 p.m.

Jones, wearing a black T-shirt, listened quietly and intently, nodding during much of the eight-minute pitch.

“What’d you think?” Turner asked when it ended.

“If they’re going to let me play and let me be me,” Jones said, “then I’m with it … if the number’s right.”

Few N.B.A. players endured as much whiplash as Jones in 2020. He won the N.B.A. dunk contest in Chicago on his 23rd birthday; as a child, he had told his father he would win it one day.

The next month, the coronavirus pandemic shut down the league. Jones’s personal chef left Miami, forcing a diet change that caused him to drop several pounds. Then Jones tested positive for the virus but recovered in time to join the N.B.A. restart in a bubble at Walt Disney World near Orlando, Fla., where he struggled with being away from his three young sons for months.

In the final seeding game before the playoffs, Jones collided with Indiana Pacers center Goga Bitadze and was carted off the court on a stretcher with a sprained neck. Then he played only spot minutes as Miami advanced to the N.B.A. finals against the Lakers. He had averaged 23.3 minutes and 8.5 points per game during the regular season.

The setbacks stunted his momentum. Turner believed that Jones had untapped offensive potential and a high defensive ceiling. To demonstrate that ahead of free agency, he sent teams an informational packet showcasing Jones’s advanced defensive metrics.

“Talk about what you do offensively,” Turner said to Jones between meetings. “Let them know, too, whatever calls we have next, ‘I’m going to elevate this team defensively.’”

Jones smiled. “That’s something that they know that’s going to happen,” he said.

Still, Jones delivered the line in his next meeting, with a delegation from the Portland Trail Blazers.

“If I was to come there, I believe that me and Robert Covington could help the team a whole lot,” Jones said, adding that he hoped to be named defensive player of the year in the future. “On defense, I’m going to be guarding the best players. That’s what I want.”

The Portland call lasted nearly an hour, with Jones engaged and asking questions. He appeared ready to commit in the moment. “By the end of the night, we’ll get back to you,” Turner said, ending the call.

Jones received a delivery of chicken wings during a break before a final pitch from the Minnesota Timberwolves. After an encouraging meeting, Jones could envision himself as part of an organization that treats its players holistically, styling personalized nutrition, sleep and recovery plans.

“They made it a little harder,” Turner said after the call. “Just because I can tell they’re so creative. They’re different. I like that.”

“That made me start thinking a little bit more,” Jones said.

“They helped themselves a lot with that,” said Anthony Wells, Jones’s trainer, who was also in the hotel room.

“It all sounds good,” Jones said before listing some of Minnesota’s immovable components. The team featured a franchise player in center Karl-Anthony Towns; plus Malik Beasley; the No. 1 overall draft pick, Anthony Edwards; and the former All-Star point guard D’Angelo Russell.

“That’s four players ahead of me that’s going to touch the pill,” Jones said.

He returned to the Trail Blazers. Their organization is geared for the playoffs, built around guard cornerstones in Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum. Jones was looking to expand his offensive responsibilities, and he could reduce some of Lillard and McCollum’s offensive burden by bringing the ball up after grabbing a rebound.

The organization had a healthy track record of developing wing players like Nicolas Batum, Al-Farouq Aminu and Wesley Mathews Jr., leading to large contracts later in their basketball careers.

The Trail Blazers had inquired about Jones’s sons and detailed the area’s community and educational system, aspects that caught Jones’s attention. They also talked with Wells about how his work with Jones could be incorporated into the team’s program.

The meetings over, Jones declared Portland as the favorite, a place where he would be willing to sign a two-year deal with a player option for the second season.

“I might be able to get you more, but that’s $20 million,” Turner said. “Your life just changed for your kids completely.”

The Trail Blazers had cautioned that they would be talking to other free agents that night and would sign the first who called back agreeing to an offer.

Turner learned from other sources throughout the evening that the Trail Blazers were not bluffing.

Jones needed a couple of minutes. He had decided to listen to pitches at the hotel rather than at his residence because he wanted a quiet spot to contemplate with his team.

Now he had left the room and ventured outside for some fresh air and to consult with his father over the telephone.

Minutes ticked. Turner was antsy. He worried that the Portland deal could slip away.

Where we at? Turner texted.

Lock it in. Portland. Jones responded.

Good call. Come up. We’ve got to call them.

On my way.

Turner called the Timberwolves back, asking if their offer could be raised and, if not, to inform them, as a courtesy, that Jones would be headed elsewhere.

Once Jones returned to the room, Turner called the Trail Blazers.

“All right, DJ has something to tell you,” he said.

Jones looked down, grinned and said, “I’m coming to Portland.”





No.29 article:
Quotation of the Day: As Surge Spreads, No Corner of Nation Is Spared

“Covid didn’t care what I believed.”

ANIL GHARMALKAR, who lives in Oswego, Kan. He believed that the coronavirus pandemic was a “big city problem,” unlikely to affect him. Then he got infected.





No.30 article:
The Most Human of Immortals

The day that Diego Maradona said goodbye, as his voice cracked and the place that had always been home heaved and sobbed, his mind drifted to the mistakes that he had made, the price that he had paid.

In his valedictory moment, he did not seek absolution. All he asked, instead, was that the sport that he had loved and that had adored him in return, the one that he had mastered, the one he had illuminated, the one he lifted into an art, was not tarnished by all that he had done.

The last line of his speech that day — the final time he graced La Bombonera, home of Boca Juniors, the club that held him closest to its heart — became an Argentine aphorism: “La pelota no se mancha,” he told the adoring crowd. The ball does not show the dirt.

It is certainly possible that Diego Armando Maradona, who died Wednesday at age 60, was the finest soccer player ever to draw breath, though that is a subject of hot and unyielding debate. Less contentious is the idea that no other player has ever inspired such fierce devotion.

There is something approaching a cult in his name in Naples, the overlooked and demeaned port city that he transformed into the center of the soccer universe for a few, glorious years at the peak of his career. The city’s mayor on Wednesday suggested the stadium that houses his former club, Napoli, should be renamed for him. That privilege currently falls to St. Paul.

In Argentina, Maradona’s homeland — which declared three days of national mourning once his death was announced — there has long been a church in his honor. For many, Maradona was a quasi-religious experience.

He was no straightforward icon. He struggled with drug addiction for decades. He was thrown out of a World Cup in disgrace after testing positive for performance-enhancing drugs. Health troubles plagued him, testament to a life of excess. He did not acknowledge his son, Diego, for years. In his later life, he became estranged from his ex-wife, Claudia Villafañe, and from his two daughters, Giannina and Dalma. There were allegations of domestic abuse toward one former girlfriend. There were guns and associations with organized crime.

Maradona never shied away from acknowledging that he had made mistakes, even as he failed to stop making them. The tendency — understandable, sincere, unavoidable — as soccer reeled from the news of his death, as the eulogies flowed from Lionel Messi (“eternal”) and from Cristiano Ronaldo (“a genius”) and from Pelé (“a legend”), was to avoid his flaws and his weaknesses, to strike his demons from memory out of respect, out of affection.

And yet without mention of those troubles, Maradona’s story is not cleansed. It is contorted. Those struggles did not improve him as a player. Instead, they would prevent him from achieving all that he might have done and, eventually, shorten his career.

But if the flaws diminished what Maradona was, they burnished what he represented to those who watched him, those who adored him. That such beauty could emerge from such tumult made him mean something more; it gave him a resonance that stretched beyond even his outsize ability. His darkness sharpened the contours of his light.

Thirty-two years before Maradona was born, the writer Borocotó — editor of El Gráfico, the prestigious, trailblazing sports magazine — suggested the country should erect a statue to the so-called pibe: the dusty-faced street kid with the “trickster eyes,” “a mane of hair rebelling against the comb” and the “sparkling gaze” who represented not only Argentina’s soccer culture, but also its self-image as a nation.

Maradona was the platonic ideal of a pibe, all virtuoso skill and impetuous cunning. He captured the spirit Borocotó made immortal more than any player — more than anyone could have thought possible — not just when he was a teenager, fresh from the potrero, but throughout his career.

All of those iconic images of Maradona are monuments to the spirit of the pibe: leaping high above Peter Shilton, the England goalkeeper, the goal that he would joke — with the “Picaresque laugh” that met Borocotó’s description — was scored by the Hand of God; dancing, a couple of minutes later, through the entire England team to score “the goal of the century,” the strike that would prompt the commentator Victor Hugo Morales to declare him a “comet from the sky”; facing up to the entire Belgian team, the ball at his feet, a picture of fear on their faces.

No matter how high he flew, Maradona never strayed from his roots; he was a pibe when he first emerged, he was a pibe when he almost single-handedly dragged Argentina to the World Cup in 1986, and back to the final four years later. He was a pibe when Barcelona made him the most expensive player on the planet and when he took Napoli to not one, but two Serie A titles. He was a pibe even as he conquered the world.

That was his glory, and it was also his downfall. How, after all, could a boy who had never grown up expect to cope with the world he found himself in, with the expectation and the demands, with the idolization and the temptation? The light shone so brightly that the darkness in its wake could only grow.

Maradona himself never made excuses for his missteps, though that is not the same as atoning for them. As he told the filmmaker Emir Kusturica in 2008, he held himself responsible for all that he had done, good and bad. But he knew, too, that at some point a line had to be drawn between Maradona the person and Maradona the player.

His legacy as the former is a complex one: a brilliant, troubled individual, one who suffered pain but inflicted it, too, a boy and then a man who crumbled and cracked under the pressure of a situation he did not have the tools to survive.

But his meaning as the latter is more straightforward. Maradona encapsulated an ideal, he infatuated a nation, he turned a mere game into a form of art. The pibe is a quintessentially Argentine complex but it is one that generates global understanding: the impish, improvised brilliance of the innocent.

Maradona himself always saw soccer as his salvation, his deliverance. In 2005, in a brief phase as a television personality, he was asked what he might like to offer up as an epitaph. “Thanks to soccer,” he said. “It is the sport that gives me the greatest joy, the greatest freedom. It is like touching the sky with your hands. Thanks to the ball.”

His flaws and his demons will not be forgotten, not even with time. His memory will always be a complex one. But no matter how deep the darkness, it should not be allowed to obscure the light that he brought. “La pelota no se mancha.” The ball does not show the dirt.





No.31 article:
A Detailed Map of Where Americans Are Staying Home for Thanksgiving





No.32 article:
College Football Changes Thanksgiving Traditions Amid Pandemic

Some of the shifts come as universities deal with the prospect of students traveling as a coronavirus surge.

At Colorado, the Thanksgiving meal for football players, a ritual since at least the mid-1990s, will not happen. Ohio State’s seniors will miss out on a tradition of Thanksgiving practice. At Virginia, any players who attend a large Thanksgiving gathering could have to quarantine.

College football players across the country are accustomed to playing and practicing through Thanksgiving. But as with everything else during this season like no other, the coronavirus pandemic is forcing some teams to make changes large and small to their well-honed routines.

Public officials are warning this holiday that a potentially lethal combination of widespread travel and large indoor gatherings will rapidly increase the already surging spread of the virus. University administrators are scrambling to offer guidance to students.

John Thrasher, the president of Florida State University, is asking students not to return to campus if they leave for the holiday.

“Students, if you go home for the Thanksgiving break, please stay there until the start of the spring semester,” he wrote in a campuswide email last week. Florida State has two weeks remaining in the semester after Thanksgiving — two weeks Thrasher would prefer those students complete from home.

But his email does not apply to the Seminoles, Florida State’s 2-6 football team, who postponed last weekend’s game against Clemson over virus-related concerns. They face Virginia on Saturday.

“Our team will stay here in Tallahassee and practice before traveling on Friday,” a Florida State spokesman, Robert Wilson, said in an email.

Practicing during Thanksgiving week is typically one of the nuisances of being a college football player, a sacrifice made each autumn often in service of rivalry games. This season, however, skipping past Thanksgiving might be a saving grace for college football, which has already had more than 90 games canceled or postponed because of the coronavirus.

The New York Times contacted all 65 football programs in the Power 5 conferences — the Atlantic Coast (which includes Notre Dame this fall), the Big Ten, the Big 12, the Pac-12 and the Southeastern — to ask how they were handling Thanksgiving this season. Among the 47 that responded, the answers were quite similar: They are mostly treating this week like any other coronavirus-inflected week.

The University of Illinois doesn’t have classes during Thanksgiving week, but it is an otherwise normal week for the Fighting Illini, who will host the fourth-ranked Ohio State Buckeyes on Saturday. Players will be tested for the virus between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. on Thursday, practice at 8 a.m. and have a team Thanksgiving meal at 11 a.m., according to Kent Brown, an associate athletic director.

“The schedule isn’t much different than past seasons, although players were able to leave campus to gather for Thanksgiving at a local team member or coach’s house for Thanksgiving before reporting back Friday morning,” Brown said. “But in the past, players never had to test for Covid every morning.”

Colorado has had a game the weekend after Thanksgiving every year since 1996, when the Big 8 became the Big 12. There is traditionally a Thanksgiving meal for players and staff members, but it will be scrapped this year, said David Plati, an associate athletic director at Colorado. The team has dispensed with all communal meals this year.

“The team hasn’t even eaten a meal together — everything has been grab-and-go, even on the one road trip,” Plati said. Active players also have not been allowed to go home since training camp began on Oct. 9.

At Ohio State, adapting to the pandemic means postponing a beloved Thanksgiving rite.

The Buckeyes typically have their final regular-season practice on the morning of the holiday. After that weekend’s game, at least in an ordinary year, the only games left are the Big Ten championship (if they qualify, which they have in each of the last three seasons) and at least one bowl game. The Thanksgiving practice usually concludes with Senior Tackle, when each senior addresses the team and then hits a blocking sled or tackling dummy one final time.

Afterward, players who live in or near Columbus can take some teammates home for Thanksgiving, while others have their own families in town or go to a coach’s house.

“This year, however, no one will be going home for Thanksgiving and the team will dine together on Thursday,” Jerry Emig, an associate athletic director, wrote in an email. “Senior Tackle won’t take place until later. We fly to Illinois Friday afternoon.”

Most schools said they did not give their players any specific guidance for Thanksgiving, relying on the messages they have conveyed for months. That message, as John Bianco, an associate athletic director at Texas, put it: “They’re constantly reminded by our team medical personnel and coaches to always wear a mask, wash hands, stay at a safe distance and to not be in any large crowds.”

One of the few schools that did give players Thanksgiving travel guidance was Virginia, which updated the travel policy sent to all athletes in October, said Jim Daves, an assistant athletic director.

If a player has a Thanksgiving meal in a hotel with family members without social distancing? He will have to quarantine. If the gathering is small, with mask wearing and social distancing? No quarantining necessary. If a player visits home for just a day and social distancing is followed? No quarantine. But if he somehow finds enough time to go home for more than one day? Quarantine.

Travel- and family-related peril has been ever-present this season. With shorter schedules because of fewer, or no, nonconference games and some leagues starting the season late, as well as unexpected open weekends after games were postponed or canceled, athletic departments have fretted over off-days all season long.

“Quite frankly, it was more of a concern a few weeks ago when we had an open week and the players had several days off,” said Steve Fink, an assistant athletic director at South Carolina.

The coronavirus will threaten the season right until the end. The number of cases is spiking nationwide, and the virus has already killed more than 257,000 people in the United States. If the worst fears of public health officials are borne out, those numbers will only accelerate in December, when players are practicing for the extremely lucrative bowl games but also have unusual amounts of free time.

“Who knows what will happen with any type of bowl game events?” said Steve Roe, an assistant athletic director at Iowa.

Some bowl games have already been canceled. But on Tuesday night, the College Football Playoff’s selection committee released its first rankings of the season. Its semifinal matchups are scheduled for Jan. 1, and the national championship game is planned for Jan. 11.





No.33 article:
Turkey on the Brain

When Capital Letters Ruled the Earth.

So, what do you think Donald Trump is giving thanks for this year?

A) Peace and good fellowship throughout the land.

B) His thrilling campaign to overturn the election.

C) Melania’s new blond look.

I know, you’re hoping it’s going to be C. But the man is obsessed with his re-election resurrection.

“One thing has become clear these last few days, I am the American People’s ALL-TIME favorite President,” he wrote to his mailing list, a very large group of citizens who’ve gotten hundreds of missives along these lines since Election Day.

The all-important bottom line of this correspondence is that everyone should send Donald Trump $5 right away. And, of course, more is OK.

In his real outside life — the one he’ll be returning to in just a few weeks — Trump is definitely in need of those fivers. He owed tons of money when he first ran for office. Now a $400 million bill is coming due. And his prize customer, the Republican faithful, is looking a bit shaky. Republicans spent over $23 million at Trump-owned businesses since he started his campaign for president five years ago. That’s more than 100 times as much as in the five years prior. And not necessarily a sum that will continue through his Mar-a-Lago exile.

Something needs to be done! And you cannot help but notice that currently, Trump’s one absolute prize Guernsey of a cash cow seems to be his postelection re-election campaign, “Save America.”

“Friend,” he asks in another mass email, “Will you allow the CORRUPT Democrats to try to STEAL this Election and impart their RADICAL agenda on our Country? Or will you step UP and DEFEND your Country?” It’s both a plea for cash and a reminder that when the nation looks back on the Trump era it will see a time when capital letters ruled the earth.

But if an eager reader decided to send “Save America” a donation to “protect the integrity of this Election,” it’s hard to know where it’d go. According to an email sent under Eric’s name, the money is earmarked for “legal teams in each critical state.” Which is certainly possible. Although experts say the money could also pay consulting fees for the kids. Or even the kennel fees for the family pet, if only Trump didn’t hate dogs.

(This last bit of information has nothing to do with Save America. It’s just a sneaky way to work in another reminder that Joe Biden has two shepherds, Major, who came from a rescue center, and Champ.)

Back to the money.

Our president does have trouble hanging onto cash, whether it’s his or ours. The guy who vowed to eliminate the national debt if elected is leaving office in a fiscal year that recorded the biggest one-year debt figure ever, $3.1 trillion. And during the entire glorious four years, the national red ink went from $14.4 trillion to $21.1 trillion.

The return of Trump to his business empire is not going to solve its problems. First, because he seems very bad at handling money, and second, because he doesn’t really intend to go back to a civilian life. If he did, history suggests he’d only succeed in building another tower of overdue bills.

While the alleged Trump agenda right now is overturning the national election results, clearly the real plan is to gear up for a comeback in 2024. It’s a pretty dramatic goal. There has been only one president in U.S. history who lost re-election and then ran and won four years later. That would be Grover Cleveland.

If you’re ever talking about Trump’s political ambition, be sure to refer to it as “pulling a Grover.”

Almost everything Trump does to challenge the election returns or raise money for his next presidential campaign can trickle over to something more personal and short-term. For instance, is he going to try to collect cash for a presidential library? That’s normal for a person in his position. Even though the first noun you connect with Donald Trump is not “contemplation” or “scholarly research.”

Or even “book.”

It’s become expected for former presidents to raise money for a place to display their memorabilia, host gatherings and sponsor research. But if you get a request for a Donald Trump Library contribution, do not feel compelled to follow through. Even if they offer you a free copy of Ivanka’s “Women Who Work” or Donald Jr.’s magnum opus on “How the Left Thrives on Hate.”

Short-term, of course, it’s perfectly OK to blot this out. Spend the holidays on the easy stuff. Biden’s dogs. Don Jr.’s career options. And the inauguration — how do you think Trump will behave? Defeated presidents usually go to see their opponent get sworn in. Even Herbert Hoover, who really, really resented Franklin Roosevelt’s victory, rode with F.D.R. from the White House to the Capitol. Didn’t talk much, just sort of sulked and stared. F.D.R. found other ways to keep himself busy as he rode through the rapturous cheering crowd.

But Hoover-Trump is not a great comparison. Unless you can imagine Donald spending his post-presidential career working on famine relief projects.

Trump certainly regards himself now as a once and future candidate, and a recent Politico poll showed 53 percent of Republicans are ready to vote for him in the 2024 presidential primaries. Twelve percent prefer Mike Pence and 8 percent opt for Donald Jr.

I hope Pence is aware that only 4 percent of his party regards him as a better potential president than Junior. Really, if you want to invest in the future of any Trump minions, I’d go for a line of Rudy Giuliani hair products.





No.34 article:
Diego Maradona, One of Soccer’s Greatest Players, Is Dead at 60

He was ranked with Pelé among the best, and his ability to surprise and startle won over fans and even critics. But his excesses and addictions darkened his legacy.

Diego Maradona, the Argentine who became a national hero as one of soccer’s greatest players, performing with a roguish cunning and extravagant control while pursuing a personal life rife with drug and alcohol abuse and health problems, died on Wednesday in Tigre, Argentina, in Buenos Aires Province. He was 60.

His spokesman, Sebastián Sanchi, said the cause was a heart attack. Maradona had undergone brain surgery several weeks ago.

News of the death brought an outpouring of mourning and remembrance in Argentina, becoming virtually the sole topic of conversation. Such was his stature — in 2000, FIFA, soccer’s governing body, voted him and Pelé of Brazil the sport’s two greatest players — that the government declared three days of national mourning.

At Maradona’s feet, the ball seemed to obey his command like a pet. (He was said to do with an orange what others could only do with a ball.) And he played with a kind of brilliant camouflage, seeming to be somnolent for long stretches before asserting himself at urgent moments with a mesmerizing dribble, astounding pass or stabbing shot.

Wearing the traditional No. 10 jersey of a playmaker, Maradona led Argentina to soccer’s world championship in 1986, scoring one of the game’s most controversial goals and one of its most celebrated in the span of four minutes during the quarterfinals against England.

All the fame and infamy that attended his career and his life were on display in that quarterfinal match, on June 22, 1986, when Argentina faced England at Azteca Stadium in Mexico City. Tension from the Falklands war between the two countries, four years earlier, still lingered.

Six minutes into the second half of a scoreless match, Maradona plunged into the English defense and slid a short pass to a teammate. The ball ended up on the foot of the English midfielder Steve Hodge, who looped a pass back toward his goalkeeper, Peter Shilton, only to see the predatory Maradona intercede. Though he was only 5 feet 5 inches tall, Maradona jumped high into the air and punched the ball into the net.

He did not use his head, as it first appeared, but rather his left fist, a maneuver not allowed by any soccer player but the goalkeeper. The Tunisian referee should have waved off the goal but, perhaps having not seen the offense, did not.

Maradona later gave conflicting accounts of what had happened. At first he said he had never touched the ball with his fist; then he said he had done so accidentally; then he attributed the goal to divine intervention, to “the hand of God.”

This infuriated the English.

“Brazen and shameless, Maradona was all mock innocence, talking about the ‘hand of God,’” Brian Glanville wrote in his book “The History of the World Cup.” “For England, rather, it was the hand of the devil.”

Four minutes later, Maradona scored again, eventually giving Argentina a 2-1 victory. His second goal came after a dribble of 70 yards through five English players and a final feint past Shilton to power the ball into an empty net. Deftly, he changed directions like a slalom skier slashing from one gate to another.

In his book “The Simplest Game,” Paul Gardner described the run as “10 seconds of pure, unimaginable soccer skill to score one of the greatest goals in the history of the World Cup.”

In the 1986 final, Maradona’s pass through the middle of the West German defense set up the winning goal in a 3-2 victory for Argentina. “No player in the history of the World Cup had ever dominated in the way Maradona ruled over Mexico-86,” Gardner wrote.

Maradona threatened to will his way through the 1990 World Cup — gathering a loose ball, feinting around a defender and passing through a thicket of legs to assist on the only goal in a round of 16 win against Brazil. In the semifinals, against Italy, the host team, Maradona scored the penalty kick that put Argentina ahead as it won the shootout.

This was Maradona in his glory. The match was played in the raucous port city of Naples, where Maradona had played professionally and led Napoli to two titles in the Italian League. Audaciously, he had asked fans there to cheer for Argentina over Italy.

But there was no magic left for the 1990 final against West Germany. Maradona was bruised from being fouled repeatedly, and he lacked several prominent teammates, who had been suspended for committing flagrant fouls. Argentina lost, 1-0, on a penalty kick.

The Italians at Rome’s Olympic Stadium booed Maradona whenever he touched the ball. After all, he had eliminated Italy from the tournament. Afterward, he sourly charged that the penalty had been called as retaliation against Italy’s premature exit.

While Pelé’s legend grew into international reverence, Maradona’s ability to surprise and startle developed a darker edge as he became addicted to cocaine during his playing days in the 1980s.

In 1991, he tested positive for cocaine while playing for Napoli and received a 15-month suspension. His behavior grew erratic. In February 1994, he fired an air rifle at reporters outside his summer home in Argentina.

Later that year he was thrown out of the World Cup, held in the United States, after testing positive for a cocktail of stimulants. Aging by then, he apparently needed an energy boost for his tired legs, or desperate assistance in losing weight.

His thick musculature having bloated into unhealthy corpulence, Maradona was hospitalized in Buenos Aires in April 2004 with what doctors described as a weakened heart and acute breathing problems. He then entered a psychiatric hospital there and, that September, left for further rehabilitation treatment in Havana.

His numerous health issues also included gastric bypass surgery to contain his weight and treatment for alcohol abuse. As a spectator at the 2018 World Cup in Russia, Maradona appeared to collapse and was treated by paramedics as Argentina secured a dramatic late victory over Nigeria to advance to the second round of the tournament.

Speaking to an Argentine television channel in 2014, he said, “Do you know the player I could have been if I hadn’t taken drugs?”

He continued: “I am 53 going on 78 because my life hasn’t been normal. I’ve lived 80 with the life I’ve gone through.”

Such was the complexity of his personal life that, according to news accounts, he was the father of eight children, including two daughters with his wife at the time, Claudia Villafañe (they later divorced), and three children fathered while he was in Cuba undergoing treatment for his cocaine addiction.

His survivors include those daughters, Dalma and Gianinna, as well as three children from other relationships: Diego Armando Maradona Sinagra, an Italian soccer player; Jana Maradona; and Dieguito Fernando Maradona.

Diego Armando Maradona was born Oct. 30, 1960, in Lanus, Argentina, and raised in the Buenos Aires shantytown Villa Fiorito, where he took up soccer on dusty streets with an urchin’s resourcefulness. By age 15 he had turned professional. (In his autobiography, he wrote that he had become so skilled a player as a youth that opposing coaches sometimes accused him of being an adult midget.)

He later starred with the European club powers Napoli and Barcelona and, in 2010, coached Argentina at the World Cup, held in South Africa, though his team suffered an embarrassing 4-0 loss to Germany in the quarterfinals.

He had a peripatetic coaching career, taking over club teams in Argentina, the United Arab Emirates and Mexico. In September, he was hired to coach the Argentine club Gimnasia y Esgrima in La Plata. On his 60th birthday, he attended his team’s match against Patronato, but left early in what became a 3-0 victory, prompting questions about his health.

When he entered a clinic in La Plata on Nov. 2, his doctor, Leopoldo Luque, said Maradona had been experiencing depression, anemia and dehydration. He then underwent brain surgery for a subdural hematoma, bleeding that collects in tissue surrounding the brain and that can be caused by a head injury. Dr. Luque told reporters that the injury was most likely sustained in an accident that Maradona could not remember.

His death left both Argentina and the wider world of soccer grief-stricken.

Pelé tweeted, “I lost a great friend and the world lost a legend.”

Napoli, his former Italian club team, said in a statement, “We feel like a boxer who has been knocked out.”

President Alberto Fernández of Argentina said of Maradona: “You took us to the top of the world. You made us immensely happy. You were the greatest of all.”

And Reuters recalled the words of Pablo Alabarces, a professor of popular culture at Buenos Aires University, who once described Maradona’s bringing the 1986 World Cup title to Argentina as a national palliative for a country reeling from economic crises and a humiliating defeat in 1982 in the Falklands War.

“In our collective imagination,” Alabarces said, “Diego Maradona represents a certain glorious past. He’s a symbol of what we might have been.”





No.35 article:
It’s Time for a Digital Detox. (You Know You Need It.)

Excessive screen time can be harmful to our well-being, but we can free ourselves from tech’s hooks with goals, rules and boundaries.

When is enough enough?

Even though the presidential election is over, we’re still doomscrolling through gloomy news about the coronavirus surge. The rest of your daily routine is probably something like mine while stuck at home in the pandemic: Divided among streaming movies on Netflix, watching home improvement videos on YouTube and playing video games. All of these activities involve staring at a screen.

There has to be more to life than this. With the holiday season upon us, now is a good time to take a breather and consider a digital detox.

No, that doesn’t mean quitting the internet cold turkey. No one would expect that from us right now. Think of it as going on a diet and replacing bad habits with healthier ones to give our weary eyes some much needed downtime from tech.

“There’s lots of great things to do online, but moderation is often the best rule for life, and it’s no different when it comes to screens,” said Jean Twenge, a psychology professor at San Diego State University and the author of “iGen,” a book about younger generations growing up in the smartphone era.

Too much screen time can take a toll on our mental health, depriving us of sleep and more productive tasks, experts said. I, for one, am experiencing this. Before the pandemic, my average daily screen time on my phone was three and a half hours. Over the last eight months, that has nearly doubled.

So I turned to psychology experts for their advice. From setting limits to finding alternatives to being glued to our phones, here’s what we can do.

Not all screen time is bad — after all, many students are attending school via videoconferencing apps. So Step One is assessing which parts of screen time feel toxic and make you unhappy. That could be reading the news or scrolling through Twitter and Facebook. Step Two is creating a realistic plan to minimize consumption of the bad stuff.

You could set modest goals, such as a time limit of 20 minutes a day for reading news on weekends. If that feels doable, shorten the time limit and make it a daily goal. Repetition will help you form new habits.

That’s easier said than done. Adam Gazzaley, a neuroscientist and co-author of the book “The Distracted Mind: Ancient Brains in a High-Tech World,” recommended creating calendar events for just about everything, including browsing the web and taking breaks. This helps create structure.

For example, you could block off 8 a.m. to read the news for 10 minutes, and 20 minutes from 1 p.m. for riding the exercise bike. If you feel tempted to pick up your phone during your exercise break, you would be aware that any screen time would be violating the time you dedicated to exercise.

Most important, treat screen time as if it were a piece of candy that you occasionally allow yourself to indulge. Don’t think of it as taking a break as that may do the opposite of relaxing you.

“Not all breaks are created equal,” Dr. Gazzaley said. “If you take a break and go into social media or a news program, it can get hard to get out of that rabbit hole.”

We need to recharge our phones overnight, but that doesn’t mean the devices need to be next to us while we sleep. Many studies have shown that people who keep phones in their bedrooms sleep more poorly, according to Dr. Twenge.

Smartphones are harmful to our slumber in many ways. The blue light from screens can trick our brains into thinking it’s daytime, and some content we consume — especially news — can be psychologically stimulating and keep us awake. So it’s best not to look at phones within an hour before bed. What’s more, the phone’s proximity could tempt you to wake up and check it in the middle of the night.

“My No. 1 piece of advice is no phones in the bedroom overnight — this is for adults and teens,” Dr. Twenge said. “Have a charging station outside the bedroom.”

Outside of our bedrooms, we can create other No-Phone Zones. The dinner table, for example, is a prime opportunity for families to agree to put phones away for at least 30 minutes and reconnect.

Tech products have designed many mechanisms to keep us glued to our screens. Facebook and Twitter, for example, made their timelines so that you could scroll endlessly through updates, maximizing the amount of time you spend on their sites.

Adam Alter, a marketing professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business and author of the book “Irresistible: The Rise of Addictive Technology and the Business of Keeping Us Hooked,” said that tech companies employed techniques in behavioral psychology that make us addicted to their products.

He highlighted two major hooks:

What to do? For starters, we can resist the hooks by making our phones less intrusive. Turn off notifications for all apps except those that are essential for work and keeping in touch with people you care about. If you feel strongly addicted, take an extreme measure and turn the phone to grayscale mode, Dr. Alter said.

There’s also a simpler exercise. We can remind ourselves that outside of work, a lot of what we do online doesn’t matter, and it’s time that can be better spent elsewhere.

“The difference between getting 10 likes and 20 likes, it’s all just meaningless,” Dr. Alter said.





No.36 article:
A Thanksgiving Myth Debunked: People Aren’t Fighting About Politics

Smaller gatherings mean fewer chances to talk to relatives you disagree with. But most Americans prefer to skip partisan debates altogether, no matter how big the turkey.

With millions of Americans choosing not to visit loved ones this Thanksgiving out of caution over the coronavirus, a lot of small rituals will get passed over in the process.

No shared turkey dinners, no football-watching parties in the TV room, no wondering aloud what stuffing is actually made of. And none of those famous, knock-down-drag-out fights with your relatives over politics. Right?

Sort of. Those storied fights might never have been such a big part of the tradition to begin with. Like many aspects of the story that this holiday commemorates, brutal family infighting over politics is more myth than reality.

“I’m Italian, so my family fights about anything and everything,” said Matthew Dean, 34, a construction project manager living in Pittsburgh. “They can agree with each other and still be arguing.”

Mr. Dean is a Republican who supports President Trump, while other members of his family, including his father, dislike the president. He said they’re usually able to disagree without being too disagreeable.

“From an outsider’s perspective, it would be arguing, but it never ruined any family time together,” Mr. Dean said, describing the raucous scene at past Thanksgiving dinners. “I think we have a greater sense of the bonds that hold us together as family and friends. And we don’t allow the politics to get above that.”

Two years ago, a survey by The Associated Press and NORC, an independent research group at the University of Chicago, found that just 9 percent of American parents with adolescent or young-adult children reported having had a holiday gathering ruined by family disagreements over politics. Online, it was a different story: The same parents were twice as likely to say that they had unfriended or blocked a family member for political reasons.

“The vast majority of Americans have no interest in discussing politics,” Samara Klar, a professor of political science at the University of Arizona, said in an interview. “Politics is important when it arises, but for most people it’s not something that they are excited to bring up at dinner.”

For most Americans, politics isn’t anywhere near their favorite conversation topic. Dr. Klar said that while studies have shown that American parents would generally prefer to see their children marry someone of the same political persuasion, her own research went a level further — and found that the even stronger desire was for their children to marry someone who simply won’t force them to discuss politics all that much.

“They just don’t want somebody who talks about politics all the time,” she said. “Partisan identity will always fall dead last,” she added. “Behind their gender, family role, their nationality, their race.”

As a result, if coming together at the holidays means dealing with an outspoken relative of a different political stripe, the most common response may simply be flight — not fight.

A study of Thanksgiving diners in 2016 matched up anonymized smartphone-location data with precinct-level voting information, and found that when relatives visited each other from areas with opposite political leanings, their meals together tended to be measurably shorter.

This tracks with a separate study from 2016, “Political Chameleons: An Exploration of Conformity in Political Discussions,” finding that people would often prefer to avoid talking politics over openly disagreeing about them.

“If you have somebody who’s really vocal politically, they’re going to dominate the discussion,” said Yanna Krupnikov, a Stony Brook University political scientist who has collaborated with Dr. Klar. “You’re not necessarily going to have people fight with them — you’re more likely to have people agree politely and just leave a little early.”

Over the past few decades, as polarization has grown, families have in fact become more politically homogeneous.

Kent Tedin, a professor of political science at the University of Houston, cited research he has done in recent years picking up on data compiled since the 1960s by Kent Jennings at the University of Michigan. It found that married, heterosexual couples are now far more likely to be politically aligned than they were 50 years ago — or even a couple decades ago.

Dr. Klar said that her research has indicated that this trend is driven in part by the fact that, since the feminist movement’s second wave in the mid-20th century, women have grown more directly engaged in politics — and have become more likely to put a priority on finding a husband with whom they agree politically.

The same thing goes for parents and their children. On matters of partisanship and political views — including a measurement that academics call the “racial resentment scale” — young people are far more likely to hold similar views to their parents than they were in the mid-1970s, or even in the 1990s.

As a result, Dr. Tedin said, at the Thanksgiving table, “if there is a disagreement, almost anybody in the nuclear family — mom, dad and the kids — is going to be on one side, and the cousins are going to be on the other side.”

But mostly, they’re likely to tiptoe around one another. “Polarized politics increases avoidance within families,” he said. “You might think polarized politics means they’re going to be fighting at Thanksgiving, but no — it’s the reverse. Polarized politics increases the pressure to avoid conflict at the holiday.”

The inclination to avoid conflict doesn’t necessarily mean that disagreement is inevitable if the conversation does turn to politics. Matthew Levendusky, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania who studies political polarization, said that when those kinds of conflicts do come up, they aren’t necessarily likely to become hostile. And whether hard or easy, Dr. Levendusky added, those conversations are fundamental to the functioning of a democracy — especially in a time when social media and cable news often play up each party’s most extreme elements.

In 2016, Dr. Levendusky published a study showing that people tended to vastly overestimate the differences between the two parties. “We asked people where their position was, and where they thought the average Republican and Democratic positions were,” he said. “Basically, they thought the parties were twice as far apart as they are in reality, on a wide variety of issues.”

Now he is at work on a book about how people with differing perspectives might overcome their political animus. Simply talking to one another, he said, is essential to bridging the divide — and it’s often not as painful as people expect it to be. That’s because most Americans are not deeply ideological, so political disagreements are not terribly high-stakes for them. In completing the research for the book, he and his collaborators convened roughly 500 study participants from across the political spectrum, and invited them to talk about politics.

Dr. Levendusky found that participants were pleasantly surprised by the experience: “A number of people came up to me afterward and said, ‘I wasn’t sure I was going to like this, but I found all these people who thought like me, even if we weren’t on the same political side.’”

Still, for many families, the primary goal this holiday is to find anything other than politics to talk about.

Antonette Iverson, 27, said that her extended family in Detroit would be celebrating Thanksgiving remotely this year, saying grace over a Zoom call and then retreating to separate holiday meals. She doesn’t expect anyone would want to talk much about politics even if they were getting together, she said, adding that her family is mostly of a like mind about the presidential election anyway.

“I don’t think there needs to be a discussion,” she said. “We’re all pretty exhausted with the situation.”





No.37 article:
Eleanor Schano, Trailblazing Journalist in Pittsburgh, Dies at 88

Ms. Schano rose from “weather girl” to reporter to anchor in a series of firsts for the city, hiding three pregnancies along the way. She died of Covid-19.

This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others here.

In the male-dominated world of broadcast news in the 1950s and ’60s, Eleanor Schano became the first woman to solo as a television news anchor in Pittsburgh. It was only one of several television firsts for her in a six-decade career.

Ms. Schano (pronounced SHAY-no) was Pittsburgh’s first television “weather girl,” in the language of the 1950s. She pushed hard to become its first female television reporter. And she went on to be the host of a variety of talk shows on several of the city’s radio and television outlets.

She was 88 when she died of complications of Covid-19 in Pittsburgh on Nov. 9, her daughter Lorie Berrick said.

Ms. Schano began her pathbreaking anchor job, on WIIC-TV (now WPXI), in 1969 and held that spot until 1974. At the time, female news anchors — even female correspondents — were rare on both the local and national levels.

A winner of numerous local awards, she received a lifetime achievement Emmy in 2009 from the Mid-Atlantic chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts &amp; Sciences, joining earlier recipients like Fred Rogers.

In a steadfastly sexist profession, Ms. Schano repeatedly defied conventional wisdom about a woman’s role in television journalism. Having been warned, for example, that she would never hold a prime anchor position if she got pregnant, she had three children over the course of her career, hiding her pregnancy each time and getting back to work after just two weeks’ time off.

During one of those hidden pregnancies, in 1958, she was even corralled into doing the 11 p.m. weather in bed wearing a negligee. (A mattress company sponsored the news program.)

“You couldn’t use the word pregnant on the air,” she said in a 2007 interview with The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. “And God forbid if you were pregnant.”

Ms. Schano delivered the weather forecast one Friday night and gave birth to her daughter Lorie the next day.

Well past the time when many women in broadcast journalism retire, she was still hosting her own health and lifestyle show, “LifeQuest,” on WQED-TV. It was canceled in 2007 after a 16-year run, but she was back on the air the next year with “Live Well/Live Long With Eleanor Schano,” a segment of the noon news on WTAE; it ran until 2009.

Eleanor Martha Schano was born in Pittsburgh on July 31, 1932, to Joseph and Eleanor Schano. Her father owned a brick supply company, and her mother kept the books.

Ms. Schano took her first television job in 1951 as a weather girl and announcer (and modeling clothes as part of the job) while she was a student at Duquesne University. She graduated with a journalism degree in 1954.

In the 2007 Post-Gazette interview, she spoke of her love of words and the impact television had on her — and of her father’s skepticism.

“When I saw this medium, where people were going to be able to speak on television, I just knew this was going to be great,” she said. “My dad said it’s never going to work. He said, ‘Do you think, Eleanor, anybody is going to sit around in a room and stare at a box?’”

Her first husband, Warren Dana, died in 1969. She married John M. Feeney, a lawyer and judge, in the early 1980s. He died in 2011.

Along with Ms. Berrick, Ms. Schano is survived by another daughter, Jennifer Welch; eight grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren; and a sister, Clare Donahue.

Ms. Schano said she had wanted to be reporter early on, even though there were no women in television news at the time, according to notes Ms. Berrick found on her mother’s iPad after her death.

“Women like me stood alone,” she wrote. “No role model. No mentor. Just sheer determination and perseverance.”





No.38 article:
Eat Up! Drama is Served at These Family Dinners

With fewer guests at the table this Thanksgiving, theatrical reminders that food, drink and reminiscence can unsettle as well as comfort.

The stage loves a dining room table. This single piece of furniture represents sustenance and communion, and domestic dramas set at the table are — pun very much intended — the bread and butter of theater.

But for all the ways family plays reveal truths, trauma and traditions, they take on greater weight as I think about them this Thanksgiving, during a pandemic demanding all of us to figure out whether we can safely see our loved ones, and if so, how.

That’s not to say that family get-togethers onstage tend to go well. Tracy Letts’s Pulitzer Prize-winning “August: Osage County” is the contemporary standard-bearer for all hostile family dramas. We join the Westons, a trash fire of a family racked with bitterness, guilt and resentment, in their Oklahoma home on the occasion of the absence, then death, of the patriarch, Beverly Weston.

Fed up with the family’s cruelty, Ivy, the middle daughter, declares to her elder sister: “I can’t perpetuate these myths of family or sisterhood anymore. We’re all just people, some of us accidentally connected by genetics, a random selection of cells. Nothing more.”

Not exactly an episode of “Full House.” But she (and the play) are right that the myth of family often wilts before the real deal. The Westons twist their intimate knowledge of one another to degrade, intimidate and manipulate. Be careful what you’re wishing for this holiday season: “August: Osage County” shows us that a family around a dinner table can be a battlefield — but here the wounds are personal.

The same is true of Stephen Karam’s fantastically brutal (and simply fantastic) “The Humans,” in which the Blake family, natives of Scranton, Pa., convene at the Manhattan duplex apartment of their younger daughter Brigid and her boyfriend Richard. Erik, Brigid’s father, is remote, supposedly because he hasn’t been sleeping well, and her mother, Deirdre, tries to connect with her daughters but is often dismissed. Amy, the older daughter, is ill. And Momo, Erik’s aged mother, is barely lucid.

“The Humans” debuted Off Broadway in 2015 and went on to win the Tony Award for best play when it moved to Broadway. I saw a virtual production this fall courtesy of the Olney Theater Center, and found the limitations of the form to be surprisingly effective.

While dinner with the Blakes is full of passive-aggressiveness, outright insults and secrets, “The Humans” more subtly emphasizes divisions in the family, the way individuals move from room to room, level to level, never quite seeing eye to eye, despite the fact that they’re together.

Accommodating to the pandemic circumstances — each actor in his or her own Zoom window, superimposed over a model of what would have been the in-person set — the Olney’s production underscores the movement between congregation and separation, amplifying the sense of emotional distance among the members of the family.

One of my favorite recent family dramas — Zora Howard’s stunning “Stew” — isn’t set at the dining room table at all. This four-character play, a Page 73 production that I saw early in the year, is set around the kitchen table, a space where food is labored over and recipes are passed down.

In depicting three generations of Black women repeatedly preparing the dish of the title, the play makes clear how the domestic space can be a place of comfort and nourishment.

This is set against the troublingly repetitive patterns in their lives: The men are all absent, and each woman seems doomed to the same fate of an early pregnancy and a challenging life as a single Black mother.

When a family congregates at a table, the past never remains the past, but sidles up to the present. As with the cooking in “Stew,” we find cycles and repetition in the shuffling of chairs, the recounting of old stories, the echoes across generations.

Thornton Wilder’s one-act “The Long Christmas Dinner,” from 1931, is set in the dining room of the Bayard family home. Time passes discreetly, from one holiday dinner to the next, and characters enter from the wings, pass through, and exit, signifying the string of births and deaths that mark a life.

But Wilder takes this even further, showing how the family table is often where history repeats itself. As the generations progress in “Christmas Dinner,” the Bayards take the very seats of their predecessors, often repeating the very same sentiments. It’s a conceit that has been since borrowed by others, and speaks to a longstanding fear: How many times have you said, with whatever measure of humor or dread, that you’ve turned into your parents?

There is something holy to this, too. Wilder’s table marks a rite, like a sacrament, where a congregation of people figuratively and literally break bread. Reading the play recently, in light of surging Covid-19 cases and the seemingly endless deaths we’ve faced in 2020, I found its reflections on mortality darker than even the playwright may have intended. How many of our holiday dinner tables will have seats left empty for those absent, or passed?

For others, this holiday will mean virtual gathering or no celebration at all. Those obstacles have already reached the Apples, Richard Nelson’s imagined Rhinebeck, N.Y., family, who in a series of four plays first presented at the Public Theater, meet for meals and chat in real time (with food sometimes cooking as we watch).

“What Do We Need to Talk About?,” the first in a recent follow-up trilogy created for a virtual medium, proves that there need not be a physical table for telling exchanges to ring true.

Separated by the pandemic, the Apples now share a meal via Zoom, and though we can’t see every dimension of their interaction — the way they sit, where they sit, how they eat, how they move around each other — the interruptions and gaps in their conversations still have weight. So do the ways they talk about eating, and the stories they tell.

The Apple Family Plays have often felt trapped by the bubble of privilege in which the central white family lives. But the pandemic may have granted them a new heft, depicting a family meeting at a family table that no longer exists. Aspects of the ceremony of gathering and cooking and eating and cleaning up are stripped away, leaving only individuals and what they have to say to one another.

It’s a frightening place to be. And, yes, I say frightening, even in the context of a family that (unlike the Westons) is generally pleasant, well-adjusted and loving. To be with one’s family is to look at one’s past, present and future at the same time — to reckon with where you’ve come from and where you’d like to go.

For safety reasons, many of us will forego such gatherings this year, and for some there may be a relief in that. But despite the complaints and the car rides and the expensive airfare, many of us still find ourselves back at the table every year. And the table will be there whenever we can get back.




No.1 article:
Fugging hell: tired of mockery, Austrian village changes name

Mayor says residents, known as Fuckingers, ‘have had enough of visitors and their bad jokes’

Residents of an Austrian village will ring in the new year under a new name – Fugging – after ridicule of their signposts, especially on social media, became too much to bear.

They finally grew weary of Fucking, its current name, which some experts say dates back to the 11th century.

Minutes from a municipal council meeting published on Thursday showed that the village of about 100 people, 350km (215 miles) west of Vienna, will be named Fugging from 1 January 2021.

Increasing numbers of English-speaking tourists have made a point of stopping in to snap pictures of themselves by the signpost at the entrance to the village, sometimes striking lascivious poses for social media.

Some have reportedly even stolen the signposts, leading the local authorities to use theft-resistant concrete when putting up replacements.

Finally, a majority of the villagers decided they had had enough.

“I can confirm that the village is being renamed,” said Andrea Holzner, the mayor of Tarsdorf, the municipality to which the village belongs.

“I really don’t want to say anything more – we’ve had enough media frenzy about this in the past,” she told the regional daily Oberösterreichische Nachrichten (OOeN).

According to the Austrian daily Die Presse, the villagers, known as Fuckingers, “have had enough of visitors and their bad jokes”.

But not everybody seems happy about the impending change.

“Don’t people have any sense of humour these days?” asked one OOeN reader.

Another noted: “They’re getting free publicity – they ought to have been happy to have a funny name.”

Locals had previously found their village in the news after it was the backdrop for a book by Austrian novelist Kurt Palm, which was later turned into a film named Bad Fucking.

The village was first officially inhabited in about 1070, but local lore suggests that a sixth-century Bavarian nobleman called Focko actually founded the settlement. A map dating from 1825 used the spelling Fuking.

Just across the border in Bavaria in Germany there is a village called Petting.





No.2 article:
Chris Whitty, the government’s chief medical adviser, urged people to 'have sense' over the festive period, and bluntly warned against hugging and kissing elderly relatives at Christmas





No.3 article:
Most people are in higher tiers, which means no indoor mixing and strict limits on hospitality

On Thursday, ministers set out the places in England where millions of people will face stricter Covid restrictions when lockdown ends on 2 December.

So how will they work?

You are one of the very lucky ones. The only locations falling into this least restrictive tier, living under what the government terms as “medium alert”, are the Isle of Wight, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly.

Or, to put it another way, 1.27% of England’s population.

People can mix socially between households indoors but must abide by the “rule of six”. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs, restaurants and bars, can operate until 11pm with table service only, a tweak from the previous rules, but last orders must be made by 10pm. People are being encouraged to minimise travel and work from home where possible.

Spectator sport is set to resume, albeit with limits on numbers and abiding by social distancing. In tier 1, there will be a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of normal stadium occupancy or 4,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

More than 32 million people in England – or 57.25% of the population – including those living in London’s 32 boroughs, will fall into the “high alert” tier 2. Liverpool city region, York, North Yorkshire, Cambridgeshire, Norfolk, Essex, East Sussex, Surrey, Oxfordshire, Dorset and Devon are among other locations in tier 2. A full list of places can be found here.

As before, social mixing outside of households or support bubbles will not be allowed indoors. The rule of six will apply outdoors, including in gardens and public spaces. Although hospitality venues will be allowed to stay open until 11pm – with last orders at 10pm – only those that serve food can operate, and they can only serve alcohol with a substantial meal.

It means pubs and bars that do not serve meals will have to close.

Spectators will be allowed to watch sport, but with a maximum crowd outdoors of 50% of the stadium’s capacity or 2,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

This is the toughest tier. Two in five people in England, representing more than 23 million, will have to live under the country’s most restrictive tier. Like tier 2, people are not allowed to mix socially indoors with other households, unless it is with their support bubble. Up to six people can meet outdoors in some public places, such as parks, but not private gardens.

Hospitality venues will have to close, except for delivery and takeaway service. In tier 3, hotels and other accommodation providers must also close, except for specific work purposes where people cannot return home. Indoor entertainment venues, such as cinemas, casinos and bowling alleys, must also close. Unlike the first two tiers, spectators will not be allowed to watch sport in tier 3.

Schools, universities, colleges and nurseries all stay open. Everyone who can work from home should, the government says, but where people cannot they should continue to go in.

Essential and non-essential retail, including indoor and outdoor markets, as well as car boot sales, are allowed to open.

Organised outdoor sport, physical activity and exercise classes can take place in all tiers. However, the government has added a caveat in tier 3, saying: “higher-risk contact activity should not take place”. Gyms, sports courts and facilities, leisure centres, fitness and dance studios, swimming pools, riding centres and outdoor playgrounds can also open. Indoor group activities and classes are not allowed in tier 3. There are exceptions for indoor disability sport, sport for educational purposes, supervised sport and physical activity for under-18s, the government says.

Personal care and close-contact services – such as hairdressers, beauty salons, tattoo parlours, nail salons, spas and beauty services, massage parlours and tanning salons – are also allowed. Collective worship and weddings – with a maximum of 15 in attendance – can also resume, although wedding receptions are not permitted in tier 3.

If you live in tier 1 and travel to a higher tier, the government states: “you should follow the rules for that area while you are there”.

But it would rather you didn’t travel to areas with more virus.

 “Avoid travel to or overnight stays in tier 3 areas other than where necessary, such as for work, education, youth services, to receive medical treatment, or because of caring responsibilities. You can travel through a tier 3 area as part of a longer journey,” the government advice says.

If you live in a tier 2 area, the government says “you must continue to follow tier 2 rules when you travel to a tier 1 area”. It says people in tier 2 must also avoid travel to or overnight stays in tier 3 areas other than where necessary.

For those living in tier 3, the government states people should “avoid travelling to other parts of the UK, including for overnight stays other than where necessary”.

Asked specifically whether someone living in tier 3 can go on holiday in a lower tier, the Department of Health and Social Care told the Guardian: “In tier 3 the government strongly advises against travel and overnight stays in/out of the area, other than for reasons like work or education. This means that holidays – including internationally – are advised against, but are not prohibited.”

Pressed on this point by the Guardian, the DHSC pointed out that police and local authorities had been given £60m in additional funding in October to “step up their enforcement and compliance activities”, saying it would help the police to increase patrols, to enforce rules and “deploy to high-risk areas for targeted policing where there is a rising concern”.

A spokeswoman added: “And just as we’re supporting the police, we want to see local enforcement teams using the full weight of the new rules and regulations – and environmental health officers and trading standards officers should be using their powers to ensure businesses who are breaking the rules feel the full force of the law, working with the police where necessary.”

Yes. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, which have their own powers to set Covid-19 restrictions, have their own rules. Scotland, for example, has a five-level system of restrictions. Earlier this month, more than 2 million people in 11 council areas across western and central Scotland, including Glasgow, moved into level 4, the toughest category where non-essential shops, hospitality and gyms are all forced to shut. Level 4 restrictions will be lifted on 11 December. In Wales, where restrictions were eased on 9 November after a firebreak lockdown, two households have been able to form a bubble, and pubs, bars, restaurants and gyms are among businesses allowed to operate. Northern Ireland will go into a two-week circuit-breaker lockdown – including closure of non-essential shops, as well as a ban on households mixing socially indoors unless an exemption applies – from 27 November.

Yes, there will be a temporary let-up in restrictions across the UK to allow people to form bubbles of three households over Christmas so they can celebrate the festive season together. Restrictions will be lifted for a five-day period between 23-27 December so that people can mix indoors and stay overnight. In Scotland, a maximum of eight people will be allowed but that does not include under-12s. In Northern Ireland, the window has been extended to 22-28 December to allow for additional travel time between countries.





No.4 article:
Fury over constituencies being moved into tougher restrictions after lockdown

Boris Johnson faces a potentially perilous battle to get England’s new coronavirus tiers plan through parliament after dozens of Conservative MPs protested at the curbs for their areas and demanded to see the evidence behind them.

Some MPs predicted that, without significant change between now and Tuesday, when the vote on the system to replace the current England-wide lockdown takes place, as many as 70 Conservatives could vote against the plan or abstain. This could mean relying on Labour for the vote – which takes place on the day the lockdown lapses under law – to pass.

Particular vehemence came from Tories who found their areas moved from tier 1 under the pre-lockdown system to tier 2 or, in the case of Kent, to the most rigorous restrictions of tier 3 starting at 00.01 on Wednesday 2 December.

Tier 3 rules force the closure of pubs and restaurants, which can offer takeaways only, and ban indoor social mixing between households or bubbles.

“We went into lockdown at tier 1 and came out at tier 3,” said Tom Tugendhat, the senior backbencher who represents Tonbridge and Malling in Kent. “This isn’t working for us.”

Jonathan Djanogly, MP for Huntingdon in Cambridgeshire, who voted against the current lockdown, said he could oppose the government again.

“My constituency went into second lockdown, against my wishes, at tier 1 and, with great cost to the local economy, has come out of lockdown at tier 2 – am I missing something here? I will need to have this justified before voting for it.”

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

Former Foreign Office minister Harriett Baldwin said she had voted for the lockdown on the basis it would allow time to develop better strategies to live with Covid.

She said: “Over 23 million of us were living under tier 1 restrictions before the lockdown – that figure will be under 1 million in December. There is no logic whatsoever in having a month of lockdown only for people to have to live under an even more severe set of restrictions afterwards.”

While the government may need to rely on the opposition for the vote to pass, Alex Cunningham, Labour MP for Stockton North, said north-east England MPs were told during a call with the government that it was “unlikely” they could move to tier 2 before the new year. He said: “I can’t help but think the government have no intention of changing things for our region.”

Andy Burnham, the Greater Manchester mayor who clashed with ministers over the pre-lockdown tier 3 ruling, said he wanted the city to be moved to tier 2 after a fortnight this month, adding that the lack of extra economic support for tier 3 areas was “completely wrong”.

Other Labour leaders were openly furious. Paul Foster, head of South Ribble council in Lancashire, whose area was placed in tier 3, noted jocular scenes in the Commons during the debate on the tiers between Jeremy Hunt and Johnson, as the former health secretary welcomed the PM back from two weeks of self-isolation.

“To all the business owners out there struggling to survive; to all the pub landlords; to all the restaurants and cinemas, this is no joke,” Foster said. “This announcement could prove fatal for some businesses and that is truly devastating for both they and our communities.”

For Conservative MPs, two issues seem to be key to the discontent: the tier allocation taking place by county rather than by smaller geographical areas, and a perception that the decisions were made without clear evidence.

Steve Baker, deputy chair of the new Covid Recovery Group, the primary home for Tories concerned about the scale of restrictions, said the “truly appalling” restrictions had to be fully justified.

“I am open to supporting measures where it can clearly be demonstrated that the government intervention will save more lives than it costs – as long as this data and analysis is published in full and in time ahead of any votes in parliament, so that MPs and the public have a chance to scrutinise it,” he said.

After Matt Hancock, the health secretary, announced the plans in the Commons, a series of backbench Tories stood up to complain about the decision-making process and the county-scale tier boundaries.

Others sought assurance on how areas could switch tiers. Julian Sturdy, the York Outer MP, called for the announced fortnightly reviews to take place weekly, which Hancock agreed could potentially happen.





No.5 article:
Alex Bourne is supplying millions of vials for Covid tests, but has no previous experience of producing medical kit

Labour’s deputy leader, Angela Rayner, has described as “a disgrace” news that a former neighbour of the health secretary, Matt Hancock, is supplying millions of vials for NHS Covid-19 tests, despite having no previous experience of producing medical supplies.

“The government is making a mockery of the sacrifices that the British people have made, and taking the public for fools,” Rayner said.

The Guardian revealed on Thursday that Alex Bourne, who used to run the Cock Inn, a pub close to Hancock’s former constituency home in Thurlow, Suffolk, initially offered his services to the government in March by sending a WhatsApp message to Hancock.

At the time Bourne’s company, Hinpack, was producing plastic cups and takeaway boxes for the catering industry.

According to Bourne, Hancock messaged him back, directing him to a Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) website. In April his company, Hinpack, began discussions with a distributor that eventually led to it manufacturing millions of vials for coronavirus tests.

Bourne admitted to exchanging texts and emails and having discussions with Hancock, but he denies he benefited commercially from the contact.

The disclosure has nonetheless fuelled growing criticism of an alleged “chumocracy” of well–connected people who have benefited from the government during the pandemic, with senior appointments and multimillion-pound contracts.

Last week the National Audit Office revealed that people with political connections who offered to supply personal protective equipment (PPE) were placed in a “high priority channel” which had a 10 times stronger success rate for securing government contracts.

Bourne told the Guardian he did not believe he was added to any high priority route after his exchange of messages with Hancock, and the DHSC said Bourne had not received preferential treatment due to his contact with the health secretary.

However, Rayner said: “Friends of cabinet ministers with no experience or expertise appear to be lining their pockets during this crisis whilst our key workers are having their pay frozen and our care workers are not even being paid a living wage.

“It is a disgrace and the government needs to stop prioritising the profits of their mates and focus on protecting the lives and livelihoods of the British people.”

Jolyon Maugham QC, director of the Good Law Project, which is mounting legal challenges to some of the government’s procurement contracts, said: “The government’s insistence on procuring without competition and proper transparency, and at great haste, has created an environment redolent with red flags.

“Eventually you have to ask: where are the regulatory agencies in all of this? They have powers to investigate and compel the production of information. How are they acting to protect the public purse?”

Liz David-Barrett, director of the Centre for the Study of Corruption at the University of Sussex, said: “Even in an emergency, the government has a responsibility to identify and manage conflicts of interest, and to document how it does this. When a company has a personal contact to a minister, that should be a red flag.

“Sadly, emergency procurement of PPE in this country is full of these red flags. If people believe that having personal connections to those in power is the only way to get on, that is a huge threat to democracy and to the market economy. And it’s disastrous for Britain’s reputation in the world.”

The government has consistently defended its procurement practices in the pandemic, as it had to rapidly stock up on PPE and other equipment. After another NAO report this week, which found that the government had spent £10bn more on PPE than the same items would have cost at pre-pandemic prices, the DHSC emphasised that it had “robust processes in place”, including an eight-stage process, “to ensure the government paid competitive prices”.

Asked whether Hinpack received any preferential treatment because of Bourne’s contacts with the health secretary, a DHSC spokesperson said it had not: “There is no evidence to support these claims. As the National Audit Office report has made clear, ministers are not involved in procurement decisions or contract management and to suggest otherwise is wholly inaccurate.”

Bourne’s lawyers said it was “untrue” Bourne was helped “in any way, commercially or operationally” by Hancock.





No.6 article:
People in tiers 2 and 3 face tight restrictions while those in tier 1 worry of influx from outside 

While there was welcome relief at the news that England’s second national lockdown would finally end, Thursday’s announcement that it was to be replaced with only slightly milder restrictions across much of the country left many fearing a bleak winter in tiers 2 and 3.

Only three areas received a relative reprieve in tier 1, but, for many, happiness was tempered by a fear that an influx of visitor from riskier areas could leave them facing tougher restrictions too.

The pub landlords For Kieran Devine and his brother Conor, who have been in the pub trade for 34 years and run the Huntsman pub in Cheadle in Staffordshire, the new rules made little sense.

“It’s absolutely crazy that you can get a tattoo but not go to the pub,” said Kieran Devine. “You can have a facial where someone is standing inches away from you but you can’t go to a well-run pub with table service – it’s complete madness.”

Conor added that pubs had already had to take expensive steps to comply with Covid regulations and claimed they were now being singled out. “We’ve spent thousands of pounds making our pub Covid-safe. It’s like the government’s saying: ‘To hell with everybody else, we’ll just pick out the hospitality industry, as if it’s their fault’.”

The tearoom owner The news that the Blackburn with Darwen area was to return to the strictest lockdown conditions left Suzanne Halliwell wanting to cry. “I know I’m not going to take a penny home in December because we’ll just be paying the bills,” she said.

Since the start of the pandemic, her tearoom had operated as a bistro in the evenings. But tier 3 status meant it would be forced to remain closed altogether.

“I didn’t take any money for three months over the first lockdown. Our landlord has been good and halved the rent but there’s still half to pay, utilities, and glass washers and coffee machines I rent.”

Halliwell too felt her industry had been left to carry much of the burden, saying: “I cannot understand the rationale, because you can have beauty therapists and hairdressers open, but you can’t have people sitting at sanitised tables in a well-cleaned place with their household. It feels like businesses like ours are the sacrificial lamb.”

The police watchdog The West Midlands police and crime commissioner, David Jamieson, said the news had come as a shock to the region, adding: “While I support the government in its efforts to save lives and bring the spread of Covid under control, I feel for everyone in our region who has already sacrificed so much. I understand what a cruel blow this latest news will be.”

The independent business owner Matthew Fleming-Duffy, who runs mortgage broker Cherry Mortgage and Finance in Christchurch, Dorset, said the move was disappointing but that he would simply have to “grin and bear it for a little longer”.

He said: “We have adapted to work remotely, the property market is open and so we can continue to trade. I just feel for other types of business that cannot function without footfall.”

The pub landlord David Jobling, the owner of the Doghouse Micro Pub in Weymouth, Dorset, said tier 2 restrictions in the area would force his pub to close because it does not serve food. And he was exasperated about the application of the rules. “How can I be open in tier 1, have to close in tier 2, but can open again for take-outs in tier 3?”

He accused the government of failing to do enough to support the businesses that will be struggling. “The grant we received in first lockdown was a great help, the grants in this lockdown do cover existing bills, but not much else. So personally I have less cash.”

Workers in the City Lennie, who runs Lennie’s Sandwich Bar on Old Street in central London, said he feared the period of moribund trade his shop has suffered since the summer would be prolonged. “It is dead, dead, dead,” said Lennie, who declined to give his surname. “No one is at their work in offices so no one comes to buy their lunch.”

Catherine McGuinness, City of London Corporation policy chair, said: “Many businesses across London and the Square Mile will be breathing a collective sigh of relief. That said, as we look to the new year, firms in the City urgently need clarity on when office workers can return to Covid-secure workplaces.”

The worried resident Kathy Brown, a retiree from Cornwall, believes the very thing that benefits the area is the thing that poses the greatest danger.

“I live in a beautiful tiny fishing village and almost all the houses here are second homes. Everything is shut as there are no visitors but I am worried that people will now decide to travel here because they think it’s safe.

“They think I don’t know but I’ve heard people turn up quietly in the night so they can get away from the city. They’re cosmopolitan people. You don’t know where they’ve been or where they come from and I imagine they have friends who are not obeying the rules.”

The restaurateur Jack Stein, the chef director of the Stein group of restaurants, which was founded by his father, Rick Stein, who has several restaurants in Cornwall, said it was reassuring to be able to set out plans for the Christmas period.

“However, I feel the weight of the entire restaurant industry on my shoulders and for all those friends and colleagues who are having a very difficult time. The sector has been battered by Covid-19 and also has Brexit to worry about.”

The small business owners Natasha Edwards, who runs the Garlic Farm on the Isle of Wight, said: “What’s good for business may not be good for infection rates.” She said she felt lucky but hoped people would “continue to be sensible – both locals and visitors to the island”.

But Sam Smart, who co-owns the Smart surf school in Sennen Cove, Cornwall, was less concerned. He said thousands of holidaymakers visited west Cornwall earlier in the year, causing anxiety among locals. But he said he believed this was misplaced and, while he did not plan to reopen his business immediately, many others in the area certainly would.

The political leader Julian German, the leader of Cornwall council warned residents to be cautious, saying the local hospital and social care services were very stretched. “Going into tier 2 just ahead of Christmas will be a disaster for residents and businesses so please continue to follow the guidance and think seriously about any social mixing.”





No.7 article:
Jordan scrambles to affirm its custodianship of al-Aqsa mosque

Amman fears warming Israel-Saudi relations may threaten its hold on holy Islamic site

Jordan is scrambling to affirm its custodianship of the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem after a meeting between Israeli and Saudi leaders raised fears in Amman that the fate of one of Islam’s holiest sites could be up for grabs in a normalisation deal between the two countries.

Warming relations between Saudi Arabia and Israel, capped by a weekend visit by Benjamin Netanyahu to the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, have alarmed Jordanian leaders already unnerved by Riyadh’s regional posturing. They fear al-Aqsa could be in play as the Trump administration tries to secure a regional legacy in its dying weeks.

Without apparent prompting, the Jordanian foreign ministry released a statement on Wednesday night challenging “attempts to alter the historical and legal status quo” of the mosque. A spokesman, Daifallah al-Fayez, said: “The kingdom will continue its efforts to protect and care for the mosque, and preserve the rights of all Muslims to it in compliance with the Hashemite custodianship of Jerusalem’s Muslim and Christian holy sites.”

The statement followed a call between the US president-elect, Joe Biden, and Jordan’s King Abdullah II, a member of the Hashemite dynasty, which has governed the Jerusalem sites, known as Haram al-Sharif, since 1924, the same year the Saud dynasty was given control of Mecca and Medina.

Tutelage of al-Aqsa and the Dome of the Rock has been a key source of legitimacy for Jordan’s ruling Hashemite dynasty for nearly a century, pre-dating the creation of Jordan and Israel and prevailing throughout seven tumultuous decades of stalemate, war and eventually peace. In the quarter century since both sides formalised ties, the pact has been central to the deal’s stability.

Jordanian leaders now fear Donald Trump, his vice-president, Mike Pence, and the secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, along with Netanyahu, may be tempted to change that dynamic by offering the sites to Saudi Arabia as the centrepiece of a normalisation deal. The impact of such a move would dwarf that of the pacts signed in recent weeks between Israel, the UAE and Bahrain.

 Improving relations between Saudi Arabia and Israel have been near the top of the outgoing US president’s Middle East wish list, as has bolstering Riyadh at the expense of its foe Iran, which vies for supremacy as the standard bearer of Islam and disputes Saudi Arabia’s guardianship of the two holy shrines, Mecca and Medina.

Adnan Abu-Odeh, a former senior aide to both King Abdullah and his father, King Hussein, said guardianship of the Haram al-Sharif had been the cornerstone of the Hashemite dynasty and a sense of pride for Jordan. He said the arrangement was mentioned in the peace treaty signed between the two states, meaning Jordan’s claim on retaining the status quo was strong.

“Historically the religious aspect was key in the legitimacy of the ruler and the Hashemites, after leaving Hejaz, derive their legitimacy from Jerusalem,” he said. “Israel practises pressure and extortion over Jordan with the custodianship matter and they threaten to give it to the Saudis and it is not far fetched, and I believe his majesty the king understands that.”

The Hashemites, the rulers of modern-day Jordan, controlled the holy city of Mecca for centuries until it was conquered in 1924 by the House of Saud. The city and another of enormous religious significance, Medina, were incorporated into Saudi Arabia, while al-Aqsa fell under Hashemite control. Ever since, the two powerful bloodlines have been engaged in a struggle for influence, which has been increasingly dominated by Saudi Arabia, bolstered by oil dollars and US patronage that have transformed the kingdom into a regional heavyweight.

Another former senior royal aide and Jordanian foreign minister, Jawad Anani, said: “As far as Israel and Netanyahu is concerned Saudi Arabia is the big prize now.

“I don’t think the Saudis will be in a hurry to give Mr Netanyahu, or even Mr Trump right now, more credit because they have to deal with four years of a potentially not very friendly American administration [if they did].

“Many Jordanians … [are] being vigilant about this. Netanyahu … might find it to be worthwhile giving this to the Saudi royal family rather than keep it with the Hashemites because that would probably bring him the prize he’s seeking, which is open and declared normalisation with Saudi Arabia.”

Elie Podeh, a professor of Middle East studies at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, said the fate of the Haram al-Sharif had been tabled by the former Israeli leader Ehud Olmert during peace talks with the Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, in 2008. “Olmert was very forthcoming on this issue,” Podeh said. “He suggested the Old City of Jerusalem be an international city run by a committee of five – Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the Palestinians, the US and Israel. The idea was raised, but nothing substantial ever transpired.

“The question of Jerusalem might come up in the current context. The Saudis would want to have some role. There is now an opportunity to do something bilateral, and with Trump it would be much easier than under Biden. But whether it would be wise to do so is another thing.”

Sir John Jenkins, a former UK consul general to East Jerusalem and ex ambassador to Riyadh, said such a move would likely have widespread ramifications for Israeli security and for Jordan. “It would radically crush the Hashemite monarchy and it would change the guarantee of sorts that Jordan has been providing for Israeli and regional security. It would be like throwing a grenade into a crowded room.

“As for the Saudis, there would be some appeal there. Iran has always challenged them on the legitimacy of their custodianship of Mecca and Medina. If they were to add a third shrine to their list, it could enhance their claims to be the absolute leaders of the Islamic world.”

Additional reporting by Jassar al-Tahat in Amman





No.8 article:
Talks over other dual-national detainees risk encouraging Tehran to see hostage-taking as a winning strategy

The release of Kylie Moore-Gilbert, the British Australian academic, is a bittersweet moment for the relatives across the globe of other Iranian dual nationals still trapped in Iranian jails. Many families celebrated her release, but also asked themselves again whether their own governments are doing all they can to bring their loved ones home.

Sherry Izadi, the wife of a 66-year-old British-Iranian construction engineer, Anoosheh Ashoori, jailed for 10 years, told the Guardian: “It is extraordinary the lengths the Australian government was prepared to go to secure her release. They seem to have persuaded the Thai government to exchange three Iranians accused of terrorism in return for her release.” The three-way negotiations between the governments took six months.

“More than anything for me it shows how ineffective the British government has been and how little they are prepared to do in our case. They say to us they are doing everything they can to support us, but what does that support consist of? It is an occasional meeting in which they assure us they are doing everything possible. But what has been achieved? Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe for instance has nearly served her full five-year sentence.

“If you ask the Foreign Office anything specific they normally reply they cannot say, it is diplomatic, behind the scenes and do not want to raise our hopes.”

“If I ask about the debt the UK owes to Iran and the court case surrounding this, or whether the UK is thinking about how it might be paid to the Iranians, the Foreign Office simply refuses to discuss it. I know as much as you do.”

The Foreign Office says the debt from a decades-old military contract is not linked to the fate of British-Iranians, and the debt cannot be paid due to sanctions.

Izadi revealed her lawyers were preparing to ask the Foreign Office to afford her husband diplomatic protection in the same way it has for Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, the British-Iranian arrested in 2016 and currently under a form of arrest in Tehran at her parents’ home.

Izadi – who is in regular touch with Richard Ratcliffe – claims: “The Iranians see all this hostage-taking like a game of chess. Everything is calculated and the next move thought through. It is all coordinated.”

She judges that Moore-Gilbert has been released partly because Iran achieved a bargaining objective – the release of three Iranians in Thailand – and partly because Iran may be trying to distract from the plan to execute the Iranian-Swedish scholar Ahmadreza Djalali who was handed down the death penalty three months ago and is due to be executed shortly.

On Tuesday, Dr Djalali phoned his wife, Vida Mehrannia, with the message that he had to say goodbye. He was placed in isolation and informed that he would soon be executed. On Wednesday Dr Djalali’s lawyer confirmed that Iranian authorities have officially written a letter saying that they will carry out the death sentence against him. Iran this week rejected an “interference” by Sweden after its foreign minister, Ann Linde, called on Tehran not to execute him.

“The judicial power of the Islamic republic is independent – all interference in the issuance or carrying out of judicial decisions is rejected as unacceptable,” Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said on Tuesday.

Speculation is rife the Iranians are interested in bartering over Djalali and hope to secure the release of an Iranian diplomat in Belgium, Assadollah Assadi, detained over an abortive bomb plot and due to stand trial.

In France the support committee for Fariba Adelkhah, a prisoner in Iran since 5 June 2019, welcomed Moore-Gilbert’s release.

Adelkhah has been released from Evin prison but remains under house arrest, required to wear an electronic bracelet 24 hours a day.

Campaigners for German-Iranian Nahid Taghavi also welcomed Moore-Gilbert’s release. Taghavi was seized on 16 October at her Tehran apartment, accused of jeopardising Iranian security. Her daughter Mariam Claren makes daily video appeals for information about her mother’s welfare. Germany has now warned all its dual nationals not to visit Iran. As many as four German dual nationals may be in detention.

Others known to be arrested include the Iranian-American Siamak Namazi, his father, Bagher Namazi, and an American conservationist Morad Tahbaz. Others do not wish to be identified.

The release of detainees following negotiations raises complex moral issues notably whether Iran is being rewarded for its hostage diplomacy. Xiyue Wang – a Chinese-American Princeton academic who was arbitrarily detained by Iran before being released as part of a prisoner swap between America and Iran in 2019 – argues that the motives behind hostage-taking is not hard to discern.

He told the International Observatory on Human Rights: “I think the answer is rather simple, because it works. Because every single time you look at the successful solution of a hostage situation … every time the Iranians got something.”





No.9 article:
A tale of two cities: Manchester, Liverpool and the journey of Covid tiers

Analysis: the two regions have emerged with contrasting fortunes from their dealings with Westminster

As Matt Hancock put the final touches to England’s new lockdown regime on Wednesday night, the mood of leaders in Manchester and Liverpool could not have been more different.

On Merseyside the leaders felt they had done all they could to have become the first English region to leave the strictest coronavirus measures introduced six weeks ago. The Liverpool city region has now been moved down to tier 2.

Meanwhile, the Greater Manchester mayor, Andy Burnham, grimly expected yet another dose of punishment for 2.8 million people who have been unable to see loved ones indoors for a period of four months. Manchester was put back into tier 3.

The confirmation, when it came, told a tale of two cities that have each suffered a shocking human toll from Covid-19 but have emerged with contrasting fortunes from their dealings with Westminster.

Liverpool has become the unlikely poster child of the government’s coronavirus strategy, while Manchester is trapped in never-ending lockdown.

There are two ways to view the decision to keep Manchester in the harshest restrictions while relaxing the rules in Liverpool.

The more cynical view is that it is payback for Burnham’s refusal to accept tier 3 rules without sufficient financial support in October, which so clearly infuriated ministers. But hardly any senior figures in Greater Manchester see it this way.

“I don’t buy the punishment angle. Why are Lancashire in tier 3 if that’s the case? Probably more to do with our figures being worse than Liverpool and over a longer period of time,” said one.

A more clear-eyed view is that, while Greater Manchester’s infection rate is falling faster than that of any other part of England, it remains in a more difficult position than Liverpool. The numbers of cases among older people, in particular, is significantly higher there than in the rest of the country and there is therefore more risk of overwhelming an already strained NHS.

How both cities came to be in their situation does relate in part to the political decisions made in the crucial month of October.

The two Liverpool leaders – Joe Anderson, the city mayor, and Steve Rotheram, the metro mayor of the wider region – made no secret of their willingness to enter the tightest restrictions as soon as they were introduced on 14 October.

At that point, Liverpool and neighbouring Knowsley were the worst-hit areas of England with an infection rate 14 times that of London and quadruple the national average. Older people were catching the virus at a terrifying speed: the proportion of over-80s testing positive rose by a factor of 100, to 527 cases per 100,000 people, over six weeks to the beginning of October.

The city’s three main hospitals were taking in many Covid patients, reaching 85% capacity and treating more sick people by the end of October than they had been during their busiest period in the spring. They were so close to being overwhelmed that seriously ill patients were nearly rushed 40 miles along the motorway to Manchester’s Nightingale hospital.

Faced with an overwhelmed NHS, Liverpool leaders felt they had no alternative but to accept tier 3 restrictions.

In Manchester the second wave did not yet threaten to overwhelm hospitals, giving Burnham and his 10 council leaders more leeway to challenge the government.

At every opportunity, Boris Johnson and his ministers delighted in thanking Rotheram, a former Jeremy Corbyn aide, for his cooperation in contrast to his friend down the M62. It played badly in both Liverpool and Manchester. “He keeps being thrown under a Boris bus,” said one Liverpool adviser, while Burnham accused ministers of playing divide and rule with the regions.

Over the Halloween weekend, Anderson and Hancock signed off an ambitious programme for Liverpool to host the UK’s first citywide mass-testing pilot, which began on 6 November. By Thursday lunchtime one in three Liverpool residents had been tested under the programme, including 703 Covid-positive people who had no symptoms and would not otherwise have been tested and gone into self isolation.

The mass-testing scheme, which has raised eyebrows among some in the scientific community, had provably helped Liverpool’s infection rate fall by two-thirds from its height six weeks ago, said Matt Ashton, the city’s director of public health.

Ashton said: “It has massively raised awareness of Covid in the city. I know that sounds ridiculous – how can anyone not know? – but the reality is that this is more present in some people’s lives than it is in others. The big challenge is keeping the infection rate down. We’ve won this battle but we haven’t won the war yet. We’ve got a long winter ahead of us.”





No.10 article:
PM Abiy Ahmed makes order after dissident local leaders reject ultimatum to surrender

Ethiopia’s prime minister has ordered federal military forces to launch a “final offensive” on the capital of the restive Tigray region after his 72-hour ultimatum for dissident local leaders to surrender expired.

In a statement posted on social media, Abiy Ahmed said great care would be taken to protect innocent civilians from harm and said efforts would be made by government troops to ensure the city of Mekelle, which has a population of 500,000, was not “severely damaged”.

“We call on the people of Mekelle and its environs to disarm, stay at home and stay away from military targets [and] to do their part in reducing damages to be sustained because of a handful of criminal elements,” Ahmed said.

Earlier this week, military officials warned of “no mercy” if residents of Mekelle did not distance themselves from the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), the local ruling party.

By evening on Thursday, there were no reports of any attacks on the city though federal forces are believed to be within artillery range and have launched repeated airstrikes across Tigray.

Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the TPLF, said on Tuesday his people were “ready to die” defending their homeland.

Abiy launched the military campaign against the TPLF on 4 November, accusing it of attacking federal military camps in the northern region and seeking to destabilise the country.

The 44-year-old leader, who won the Nobel peace prize last year for his peace deal with neighbouring Eritrea, said the TPLF had orchestrated a “spate of violent attacks” across Ethiopia to “frustrate the democratisation process”.

Officials in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, describe the offensive in Tigray as a “law enforcement operation” aiming to remove “traitorous” rebel leaders and restore central authority. The TPLF says it is defending its legitimate rights under Ethiopia’s devolved constitutional system.

Hundreds, possibly thousands, have died in the conflict so far, with up to a million people displaced. At least one massacre has taken place, with allegations of atrocities made against both sides.

Fighting on Wednesday took place near the town of Yeha, on a main road linking two strategically important crossroads at Adigrat and Adwa, as well as on the ridges overlooking the plateau on which Mekelle lies. Clashes were reported north of the town of Tsigerada, around 20kms from the Tigrayan capital.

On Tuesday, fighting was reported south of Mekelle after federal forces broke through TPLF defensive lines on the main road linking the city with Amhara, the neighbouring province that served as a launchpad for the government offensive.

Analysts believe casualties on both sides have been heavy, but few reliable details of losses have emerged.

Last-minute efforts by the African Union and the United Nations to defuse the crisis have failed. Abiy has rejected international “interference” and insisted that the conflict is an internal matter.

The TPLF is thought to be ready to negotiate. Tessema Fesseha Asghedom, an adviser to the party, told the BBC that the conflict was a “political and constitutional crisis” and so could only have a “political solution”.

“Let’s go to mediation … Any minute, any place, without any condition, we want to stop this war, the people of Tigray are dying,” he said.

The UN says shortages have become “very critical” in the Tigray region, with fuel and cash running out. Food for nearly 100,000 refugees from Eritrea will be gone in a week, according to a report released overnight, and more than 600,000 people who rely on monthly food rations have not received them this month.

The lack of fuel is critical because with electricity cut in much of the region, diesel-powered generators have become essential.

Travel blockages are so dire that the UN World Food Programme has so far been unable to transport food from its warehouses even within Mekelle.

On Thursday, a spokesperson for Abiy said that humanitarian corridors would be opened under government supervision to allow aid to reach Tigray.

Communications and travel links remain severed with the Tigray region since the conflict broke out and though the UN has reported people fleeing Mekelle, it is unclear how many residents are aware of the impending assault.

More than 40,000 refugees had fled into Sudan by Thursday, according to latest data from the United Nations, but the flow has reduced dramatically in recent days. There are widespread reports that Ethiopian troops and paramilitaries are now preventing local people from reaching or crossing the border.

The head of the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission said that “extreme caution to avoid civilian harm is of even greater importance, now, at this stage of the conflict”.

Mekelle has remained a stronghold for the TPLF since the party took power nationally at the head of a coalition in 1991. But though Abiy has called on the TPLF leadership to surrender to prevent the assault on the city, some analysts believe top officials are likely to have moved to remote hiding places in Tigray’s mountains and gorges.

“We don’t even know if these guys are in Mekelle. Tigray is not very big but there are lots of places to hide. It would be very foolish if they are all in a bunker in the city. They are probably scattered, with some kind of communications system, and hiding, looking to transition to a people’s [guerrilla] war,” said Yohannes Woldemariam, a US-based academic specialising in the Horn of Africa.





No.11 article:
Footage shows victim, who was later released without charge, being punched, kicked and hit with truncheon

Three French police officers have been suspended after they were filmed beating and allegedly racially abusing a music producer in his Paris studio.

An official inquiry has been opened – the third such investigation in a week – into the officers’ behaviour. The latest incident comes after MPs in the French parliament voted to approve a new law increasing police powers.

The victim, identified only by his first name, Michel, was returning to his music studio in Paris’s 17th arrondissement last Saturday evening when police spotted he was not wearing a mask. Three officers, two in uniform and one in plain clothes, allegedly jumped from their car and pushed Michel through the front door of his property.

“Before I heard a word, I felt a hand pushing or pulling me, I didn’t know which. I didn’t know what was happening. I was shouting out for help,” Michel, the director of Black Gold Corp Studios, told the news website Loopsider.

The film shows police punching and kicking him, and hitting him over the head and body with a truncheon. As well as the physical blows, Michel, who said he was taken so much by surprise he was not even sure they were real police officers, said he was subjected to racist insults.

“I heard “dirty n****r. I heard it several times. They were hitting me with their truncheons. Over and over again,” he said.

After calling out for help to colleagues on a lower floor, and with blood pouring from his head, Michel and the others managed to push the three officers out of the front door.

The police then smashed a window and threw a teargas canister inside the property. After calling for reinforcements, they demanded Michel and the others came out, at gunpoint.

“I was afraid. I thought it was my last day … I kept saying, ‘I haven’t done anything’, and they kept shouting for me to get down on the ground.”

Once outside, police officers continued to beat Michel and the others.

“Suddenly someone shouted, ‘camera, camera’. It was someone filming from a window. As soon as the police heard this they stopped hitting us,” said one of the victims.

Michel was taken to the nearby police station and accused of insulting police and attempting to grab one of their guns.

Unknown to the officers, however, a camera inside the producer’s studio had captured the officers’ actions. Michel was held in custody for 48 hours then released without charge. The three officers are now being investigated for allegations of “violence by a public agent” and “making false statements”.

On Thursday, the interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, wrote on Twitter that an internal investigation was under way and that he had asked the Paris chief of police to suspend the offices concerned.

Anne Hidalgo, the mayor of Paris, tweeted: “Deeply shocked by this intolerable act. All the consequences must be drawn from these exceptionally serious facts. The rule of law is non-negotiable. All my support to Michel.”

Earlier this week, Darmanin expressed his confidence in the police after they came under fierce criticism for their use of teargas and truncheons to dismantle a migrant camp in central Paris.

Two official inquiries have been launched following the operation: one into a police officer filmed tripping up a migrant running away from officers causing him to fall heavily, and a second involving a police officer holding a journalist on the ground while appearing to threaten him with a truncheon.

The recent cases are just the latest examples of alleged French police brutality, often against non-white people.

In September, a French reporter who infiltrated the Paris police described a culture of racism and violence in which he claimed officers act with impunity. In his book, Flic (Cop), Valentin Gendrot said he had witnessed officers assaulting youngsters – many of them minors – on an almost daily basis.

In January a delivery driver, Cédric Chouviat, was filmed shouting “I’m suffocating” several times as police held him on the ground. Chouviat later died. In July, three police officers were put under official investigation for manslaughter.

Chouviat’s death came amid protests across France at the death of 24-year-old Adama Traoré in police custody in 2016.

Michel’s lawyer, Hafida El Ali, told AFP that her client had been detained for 48 hours on the basis of “lies by the police who had outrageously attacked him”.

Michel, who suffered multiple injuries to his face and body, including a head wound requiring stitches, was signed off work for six days and said he was still shocked by the attack. “If it hadn’t been for the camera I would be in prison today,” he told Loopsider.

“What did they want? If they’d wanted to check my [identity] papers they could have just asked. I have friends in the police. I like them a lot, they are not like these guys. And I refuse to believe any police officer could agree with guys like this.”

On Tuesday, French MPs approved a new security law that would place restrictions on identifying police officers involved in operations. Critics say article 24 of the new law, which makes it illegal to publish photographs or film footage of officers with “intent to harm”, is too open to interpretation by the police and could be a threat to press freedom.





No.12 article:
Daily deaths remain high, while 18,213 people reported positive for the virus on Wednesday

Coronavirus infections are largely levelling off in England although prevalence remains high, data suggests, as 99% of the country prepares to enter the two strictest tiers of control measures from next week.

Government data shows 18,213 people in England were reported to have tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, down from a high of 33,470 on 12 November. Reported deaths reached a second-wave peak of 604 on Wednesday – although trends in the number of deaths typically lag behind changes in case numbers.

From 2 December, England will be divided into three different tiers of restrictions. They are slightly amended from the previous system.

Across all tiers, shops, personal care, gyms and the wider leisure sector are set to reopen. Collective worship and weddings – with a maximum of 15 in attendance – can also resume.

Under the new system hospitality businesses in England can stay open until 11pm with table service only but last orders must be made by 10pm, in an effort to stagger departures. The&nbsp;“rule of six”&nbsp;will also remain in place indoors, meaning social household mixing is still allowed.

Spectator sport is set to resume, albeit with limits on numbers and abiding by social distancing. In tier 1, there will be a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of occupancy of the stadium or 4,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

In tier 1, people will be encouraged to minimise travel and work from home where possible. Support bubbles – which allowed a single household to join with another household – are also being broadened across all tiers. Parents with a child under one will be able to form a support bubble, as well as those with a child under five who needs continuous care, such as a child with a disability. Also, in cases where there is a single adult carer, for a partner with dementia for example, they would also be able to form a support bubble.

How was it before?

In the least restrictive tier, also known as alert level “medium”, the rule of six applied indoors and outdoors, meaning up to half a dozen people from different households could gather. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could stay open but were forced to shut by 10pm – a move that prompted much criticism, including from Conservative backbenchers.

Under the new system, although hospitality venues will be allowed to stay open until 11pm – with last orders at 10pm – only those that serve substantial meals can operate. It means pubs and bars that do not will have to close.

As before, social mixing outside of households or support bubbles will not be allowed indoors. The rule of six will apply outdoors.

Spectators will be allowed to watch sport in tier 2, with a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of the capacity of the stadium or 2,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

Indoor entertainment venues, such as cinemas, casinos and bowling alleys, must also close.

How was it before?

In the “high” alert level tier people were prohibited from mixing socially indoors with anybody outside of their household or support bubble but the rule of six remained in place outdoors. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could open until 10pm but people were only allowed to visit with their household or support bubble.

Hospitality venues will have to close, except for delivery and takeaway service. In tier 3, hotels and other accommodation providers must also close, except for specific work purposes where people cannot return home. Outdoor sports, including golf and tennis, will be allowed to continue in all tiers, as will amateur team sports such as football. Unlike the first two tiers, spectators will not be allowed to watch sport in tier 3.

How was it before?

In the most restrictive tier, known as the “very high” alert level that was endured by vast swathes of the north of England, mixing socially indoors between households – unless a support bubble was in place – was banned. Under baseline measures hospitality venues serving substantial food could remain open until 10pm. Up to six people from different households could socialise outdoors in public spaces, such as parks, beaches or public gardens.

Cases were falling in every English region between 19-21 November compared with a week earlier, according to data by specimen date, while test-and-trace figures show 8.8% of those tested having a positive result between 12-18 November, down from 9.6% the previous week.

Experts cautioned that such data might not give the full picture, however – not least as only symptomatic people are advised to get a test, while daily figures are also affected by the number of tests carried out in different areas.

Office for National Statistics (ONS) data from a survey of randomly selected households shows the positivity rate appeared to be levelling off in England in the week to 21 November, with about one in 85 people in the community thought to have Covid – a similar figure to the week before.

Cases are rising once again among secondary-school-aged children, although they have levelled off or fallen in other age groups, and there are regional variations, experts said.

“Over the last week, positivity rates have continued to increase in London, the east of England and the south-east. However, rates now appear to be decreasing in the north-west and the east Midlands,” the team reported.

Similarly, data released by the MRC Biostatistics Unit estimates that on 22 November, R (the reproduction number) was about 1 in most regions, and less than 1 in north-east England and Yorkshire and the north-west, although it could be above 1 in the south-east.

The number of deaths occurring each day has already reached a peak in most regions, data suggests – although delays in reporting mean figures may appear to increase for some weeks.

While Prof Daniela De Angelis, the programme leader and deputy director of the unit, said R was lower in all regions than the week before, she cautioned against relaxing restrictions too far.

“We remain concerned that R may not have fallen to a level sufficiently below 1, which strongly suggests that effective measures to control infection rates must continue to be in place after the end of the current lockdown period,” she said.

Prof Tim Spector of King’s College London, the lead scientist on the Zoe Covid Symptom Study app, said the latest data based on swab results from users of the app over the two weeks up to 22 November reveals that the nationwide R value is now about 0.9.

He voiced dismay at the new restrictions. “I’m disappointed to see so many regions going into tier 3 when the latest data suggests that symptomatic cases are continuing to fall,” he said. “We need to consider more carefully the wider physical, social and mental health implications of excessive mandatory restrictions if they are not justified by the recent data.”





No.13 article:
Lockerbie: court urged to use diaries to uphold Megrahi&#x27;s conviction

Scottish government lawyer says appeal judges should use evidence from second Libyan suspect

A government lawyer has urged a Scottish court to use incriminating evidence from the second Libyan accused of the Lockerbie bombing and uphold the conviction of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi.

Ronnie Clancy QC, an advocate depute for the Scottish government, said the five judges hearing an appeal against Megrahi’s conviction were entitled to use diary entries from his co-accused, Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, even though Fhimah was acquitted.

Fhimah’s diary had entries claiming he had acquired baggage tags which, Clancy said, would have allowed Megrahi to bypass security at Luqa airport in Malta and plant the suitcase bomb which later blew up on Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie, south-west Scotland.

Clancy told the appeal that the judges at their trial, held without a jury at Camp Ziest in the Netherlands from May 2000 until January 2001, were wrong to discard that simply because they had acquitted Fhimah.

Clancy told the court: “It’s for you to make of it what you will, in particular whether you’re impressed or agree with what the trial court said, which is it’s obviously capable of having a sinister connotation in the context of Mr Megrahi’s guilt.”

The lawyer’s recommendation came on the third day of a hearing into a posthumous appeal by Megrahi’s family, nearly 20 years after he was jailed for life for killing 270 passengers, crew and towns people after the 747 jet blew up on 21 December 1988.

Megrahi appealed in 2008 after the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC) found there were numerous grounds for suspecting his conviction was a miscarriage of justice. He abandoned that case in 2009 after finding he had terminal cancer and was offered compassionate release. He died in Tripoli in 2012.

After his family made a fresh application to the SCCRC, in May 2020, the commission again said his conviction could be unsafe due to significant doubts about the identification evidence against Megrahi, given by Tony Gauci, a Maltese shopkeeper, and issues with the non-disclosure of evidence.

Clancy rejected the attacks by the Megrahi family’s lawyers on Gauci’s evidence, insisting his identification of Megrahi as the man who bought the clothes used in the bomb was honest and unswayed by outside influence.

The trial judges took account of the difficulties with identification evidence, including the passage of time, the fallibility of identification evidence and suggestibility of witnesses.

“It is inconceivable that three experienced judges weren’t alive to these issues. There are plenty of indications in the text of their analysis which made it clear that they were,” Clancy said.

The SCCRC had discovered that after his trial Megrahi had an Air Libya uniform which allowed him to travel freely in and out of Malta, Clancy added. As a senior Libyan intelligence officer, who did business with the firm selling the bomb’s timer, Megrahi also had access to a fake passport, which was used in Malta on the dates the bomb was planted.

“It’s clear that the trial court explains in detail why it reached the conclusion that in did in its analysis of Tony Gauci’s evidence. The trial court’s reasoning is sensible, measured and well within the bounds of a reasonable fact-finding exercise,” he said.

Clancy finished his rebuttal on Thursday afternoon, and the appeal court announced it would give its decision at a later date.





No.14 article:
Processing plant on a Papua New Guinean island may bring more commercial pressure on fisheries in areas where regulation is uncertain 

A $200m Chinese-built fishery plant planned for a Papua New Guinean island could allow Chinese-backed commercial vessels to fish legally in the Torres Strait, and has raised concerns about unregulated fishing in the same waters, potentially threatening the Australian industry and local PNG fishers.

China’s ministry of commerce this month announced a $527m kina (A$204m) deal to establish a “comprehensive multi-functional fishery industrial park” project on Daru Island, in PNG’s Western Province.

The memorandum of understanding, which offered little detail, was signed by the Fujian Zhonghong Fishery Company, PNG’s fisheries minister, Lino Tom, and the governor of Western Province, Taboi Yoto. The plant is expected to serve as a hub for fishing vessels coming into the region, and to process catches taken from the Torres Strait.

Under the Torres Strait Treaty, Australia and PNG are allowed to fish a shared area of the waters known as the protected zone, which straddles the fishing zones of the two countries.

Inside Australia’s zone, PNG boats may take 25% of the permitted tropical lobster catch and 40% of Spanish mackerel.

To date PNG has not had the capacity to commercially fish its share of these quotas, but the deal could attract Chinese funding for PNG-flagged vessels.

Warren Entsch, the MP for the north Queensland electorate of Leichhardt, said: “It’s certainly going to impact on our side of the fishery … but at the end of the day there is a treaty arrangement there.

“The biggest losers are going to be the treaty villages [of PNG’s Western Province]. They have no welfare system and bugger-all support from the PNG government. When they go out to fish to feed their families, there’s going to be nothing left.”

The Fuzhou-based Fujian Zhonghong Fishery Company, established in 2011, has a long involvement with PNG, mainly in fishing and seafood processing.

But Entsch said he held concerns over China’s track record in the region.

“You only have to look at what China has done in other places in the Pacific to ask the question of whose best interest it is in,” he said. “Is it in the best interest of the broader PNG community? I suspect not.”

Torres Strait community fisheries representative Kenny Bedford said: “There are significant implications for Australian Torres Strait fisheries.

“Under the current catch sharing arrangements, it is likely PNG will be moving in this partnership to access their full entitlement rights [under] the Torres Strait treaty,” Bedford said.

Aside from the catches allowed under the treaty, fish resources on the PNG side of the border were “seriously depleted, unmonitored and poorly managed”, Bedford said.

“The traditional owners of land and sea along the Western Province treaty villages have no say or control over what is being harvested or by whom.”

Tom said the plant was a “priority project” for PNG.

“Under the influence of China’s ‘One Belt, One Road’ policy, Zhonghong Fishery Company decided to invest in PNG. This large investment project will bring employment to the local area and promote the economic development of Western Province and PNG.”

China’s ambassador to PNG, Xue Bing, said the company’s investment “will definitely enhance PNG’s ability to comprehensively develop and utilise its own fishery resources”.

The Fujian Zhonghong Fishery Company did not respond to a request for comment.

Chinese fishing fleets have devastated local fish stocks in other parts of the world. In August, just off the Galapagos Islands, an armada of nearly 300 Chinese vessels logged 73,000 hours of fishing in a month, hauling in thousands of tonnes of squid and fish.

At their closest point, PNG and Australia are separated by less than 4km of water: the border communities are deeply intertwined, with free movement between islands (outside Covid restrictions) and close sharing of resources.

The Torres Strait Sea and Land Council Gur A Baradharaw Kod represents traditional inhabitants throughout the island communities. Its chair, Ned David, said the organisation was “extremely concerned” with the implications of the plan, including an increased risk of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.

“We have raised a number of concerns over the years with Afma [the Australian Fisheries Management Authority] that we have had very little policing of the fishery,” David said.

“We already have a number of Chinese operators in some of our communities and I’ve asked that this is looked at and that some sort of due diligence be conducted around what I would categorise as a rogue element in the business.

“We’d like to see the level of monitoring and restrictions the commonwealth has taken on the border for Covid continued in terms of policing and presence to ensure that nobody is pillaging and plundering our resources, on our side of the border.”

Asked whether Afma had the capacity to monitor larger, professional fishing fleets in the strait, a spokesman said the existing legal framework would remain “the basis for continued successful management”.

An Australian Border Force spokesperson told the Guardian it worked closely with its PNG counterparts: “The ABF undertakes a range of enforcement action, including boarding vessels, to respond to any threat to civil maritime security.”

A north Queensland fishing industry source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said many in the industry were concerned by the proposed park on Daru, but noted the project was so far no more than a memorandum of understanding. 

“[But] this is definitely a warning shot across our bow. I think China will be watching closely how we will respond.”

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang





No.15 article:
Letter: Nick Beacock obituary

I was introduced to him – a striking figure – when I turned up for a Sunday evening service. He had just that day been ordained deacon, and I remember Nigel telling me that I should get Nick to sign my service sheet, as “This young man is going to go far”. How true were his words. 





No.16 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Guardians of Sleep project working with Canadian university to compile Covid-19 dreams

From tsunamis to perfectly formed egg sandwiches, vivid dreams appear to have become a familiar experience during the pandemic. Now these powerful, bizarre and sometimes unsettling thoughts and images are to be captured for posterity.

The Guardians of Sleep project by the Museum of London, working with the Museum of Dreams at Western University in Canada, is asking Londoners to get in touch to share the dreams they experienced as Covid-19 swept the world.

Foteini Aravani, the digital curator at the Museum of London, said the work is part of the museum’s efforts to tell the story of London through the pandemic.

“Sleep – and our sleep pattern – was one of the first things that shifted and changed, almost immediately after the lockdown happened,” she told the Guardian. “What I wanted to capture was the experience that possibly the pandemic is not only affecting our conscious lives, but also our subconscious, our dream life.”

The team are asking Londoners who would like to share their pandemic dreams to get in touch by email by 15 January 2021, via info@museumofdreams.org, with interviews expected to be conducted in February via Zoom in either audio or video format.

“Historically and traditionally, museums have been collecting dreams, but not as first-hand experience … mostly [as] depictions and visualisations – paintings and drawings,” said Aravani.

“What we wanted is to open up our collection to Londoners and include the dreams in their own words in our collection, challenging a little bit the definition of what a museum object is,” she added.

The project will capture dreams without interpretation or analysis, but the testimonies will be made available for research. “I want to have the voice of the dreamers in our collection,” said Aravani.

Researchers around the world are working on projects to unpick how Covid-19 is affecting people’s thoughts while they sleep.

callout-coronavirus

Dr Valdas Noreika, a lecturer in psychology at Queen Mary University of London, who is working on one such study, welcomed the museum project.

“There is already preliminary evidence that the Covid pandemic altered our sleep patterns as well as dream contents. For instance, people report more anger and sadness words, and there is a frequent mention of contamination and cleanness in pandemic dreams,” he said.

“Londoners’ dreams collected during the pandemic will be a very valuable source of information for future historians, scientists and artists interested in how the pandemic affected not only our waking thoughts but also our innermost experiencesof dreams and nightmares.”





No.17 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Much of north and Midlands placed in strictest tier of new coronavirus restrictions

Significant sections of England including much of the north and Midlands have been placed in the top tier of new coronavirus restrictions, the government has announced, potentially putting ministers on a collision course with Conservative MPs.

Only three areas – Cornwall, the Isle of Wight and Isles of Scilly – are in the lowest level of the new rules, which come into force when the England-wide lockdown ends on 2 December and are intended to stay in force to the spring. This means that, by population, almost 99% of England will be in the top two tiers.

Many areas are in tier 2, including London and Liverpool, the latter of which has been trialling mass, instant Covid tests as a way to reduce infection rates. All areas will have their tier status reviewed on 16 December, and then weekly thereafter.

Significant parts of England are in the top level, meaning almost all household mixing is barred, and pubs, restaurants and other hospitality businesses can only offer takeaway services, restrictions that industry bodies have warned could cause many to close.

Areas in tier 3 include Kent – where local Tory MPs had warned against a county-wide top-tier status – the Tees Valley, Newcastle, Sunderland and many other areas in the north-east; Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Blackpool and Blackburn; South and West Yorkshire and the Humber; Birmingham, Staffordshire, Warwickshire, Coventry and Solihull; Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire and Lincolnshire.

Slough is also in tier 3, as are Bristol, South Gloucestershire and North Somerset.

Addressing the Commons, Matt Hancock, the health secretary, stressed the country “must remain vigilant”, highlighting that there were still 16,570 people in hospital with Covid-19 in the UK, with 696 deaths reported on Wednesday.

“So, as tempting as it may be, we cannot simply flick a switch and try to return life straight back to normal, because if we did this we would undo the hard work of so many, and see the NHS overwhelmed, with all that that would entail,” he said.

But he came under immediate pressure from a series of Tory MPs, many of whom questioned the tier status for their local area, or sought details on the review. One, the Poole MP, Robert Syms, asked Hancock if there was “some kind of appeals process”.

Boris Johnson’s official spokesman denied that the allocation of tiers had been influenced by lobbying from MPs. Asked if London had been been given special treatment, remaining in tier 2 despite continuing high infection rates, he said: “No: we’ve based the tiers on the criteria we’ve set out.”

MPs are due to vote on the measures on Tuesday, only a day before they are due to come into force. A sufficiently big rebellion could force Boris Johnson to rely on Labour votes.

The news emerged amid some chaos: before the formal list was published, the government launched a web page on which people could check their tier status by postcode, but it promptly crashed.

Under the tiers, non-essential shops in all areas can reopen, as can gyms, hairdressers and other personal care businesses, with the formal instruction to stay at home coming to an end. The “rule of six” will again apply for outdoor gatherings.

In tier 1, the rule of six will be the same both indoors and outdoors, allowing people from across households to see each other indoors. In tiers 2 and 3, such meetings will only be allowed outdoors, and in the top tier, this can only happen in parks or public gardens. In the two higher levels, no household mixing will be permitted inside, beyond the expected relaxation of rules over Christmas.

For hospitality businesses in tier 2, alcohol can be served only with a “substantial meal”, while in tier 3 all pubs, restaurants and cafes must close except for delivery or takeaway.

Local authorities in tier 3 areas will be invited to apply for additional support with rapid, large-scale testing, including army backup on logistics – though the government is not publishing details of the scheme until next week.

The government faces a likely backlash from many of its own MPs, notably those from the newly formed Covid Recovery Group, which is pushing for looser restrictions.

Mark Harper, who chairs the group, said on Wednesday that he expected most of England to remain in tiers 2 or 3 “pretty much until we have a vaccine, which it doesn’t expect until the middle of next year”.

callout-coronavirus

MPs believe a vote on the measures next week may be their last chance to meaningfully affect the restrictions before spring, with some predicting a rebellion of up to 100 MPs depending on the scale of tier 3 measures announced. 

One key area of dispute had been the size of the geographic areas allocated to different tiers. MPs, particularly in north-west and south-east England, had been lobbying for smaller geographical areas to be used.

Seven Kent Conservative MPs, including the former cabinet ministers Greg Clark and Damian Green, wrote to Hancock on Wednesday lobbying for restrictions to be imposed on a more localised borough or district level.





No.18 article:
Chancellor suggests lockdown likely to be extended, with rules eased over Christmas

Germany’s “lockdown lite” is likely to go on into the new year, as Angela Merkel, said the country would have to live with restrictions “for the foreseeable future”, and her chief of staff said some restrictions would stay in place into March.

The German chancellor and the heads of the country’s 16 federal states thrashed out an agreement on Wednesday to extend and tighten measures against coronavirus, with rules eased over the Christmas holidays to let people celebrate together.

While the lockdown is officially due to end on 20 December, Merkel has indicated that another extension is likely. “We will have to continue living with restrictions for the foreseeable future,” Merkel told the BDA employers’ association.

In a TV interview on Thursday morning, the chancellor’s chief of staff, Helge Braun, said life would not immediately return to normal with the start of the new year. “Difficult winter months lie ahead of us,” Braun told the German broadcaster RTL. “That will continue until March.”

“This restraint that we all have had to show, will accompany us throughout January, February and March, involving restrictive measures if our individual behaviour doesn’t suffice”, added the politician for the conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU).

Under the lockdown rules agreed on Wednesday, bars and restaurants will remain open only for takeaway while nurseries, schools and shops will remain open.

From 1 December, private gatherings will be limited to five adults, with that number rising to 10 over Christmas. People are asked to avoid social contact for a week before visiting family at Christmas.

Merkel said the second lockdown that came into effect at the start of the month had had some effect in slowing down the spread of the virus. “It is unthinkable where we would be today if we hadn’t been ready for this … four weeks ago,” said the chancellor. By reducing social contact by about 40%, Merkel said, “the dramatic rise in infections has been stopped”.

But while exponential growth has been stopped, the daily numbers of infections remain at a high level.

Germany’s disease control agency said on Thursday it had recorded 22,268 new infections in the past 24 hours, down by about 300 compared with a week ago. For the past eight days in a row, Germany has recorded more than 200 Covid-related fatalities, with 389 confirmed deaths on Thursday.

The new lockdown rules have been received sceptically by German media, with many commentators voicing concerns about a lack of clear guidelines and lack of a measure drastic enough to guarantee a downward trend in infections rates. The extended lockdown, wrote Der Spiegel, showed “how even the indefatigable chancellor is running out of strength after eight months of the pandemic”.

The newspaper Die Welt questioned the government’s wisdom in trying to keep schools open at all costs, despite evidence pointing to older pupils being among those driving the pandemic’s spread. “In view of the implicit admission that schools could play a central role, the recent decisions concerning educational establishments are surprisingly moderate,” wrote the centre-right broadsheet.

In Germany’s coronavirus hotspot, the Thuringian district of Hildburghausen, authorities are to carry out mass tests on children to establish to what extent they have contributed to the region’s surge in infections.

The east German district reported a record 603 cases per 100,000 people in the past seven days, more than four times Germany’s average incidence of 140.

“We will now conduct the first mass test for children and young people, who can be tested for free, starting next Tuesday,” Bodo Ramelow told the broadcaster ARD. “Then we will know for the first time: how safe are schools and kindergartens?”

Since Wednesday, Hildburghausen has had a harder lockdown than elsewhere in the country, with nurseries and schools closed, and residents only allowed to leave their apartments if they have a good reason. The local lockdown is in place until 13 December.

On Wednesday night, about 400 people broke the local curfew to protest against the lockdown in Hildburghausen’s market square. Police said they used pepper spray to disperse protesters.





No.19 article:
The city where the Argentinian turned a football team into winners shows its affection 

Although his body is about 7,000 miles away from Naples, the wake for Diego Maradona in his adopted southern Italian city began on Wednesday and will continue throughout Thursday, after the mayor officially proclaimed a day of mourning for the death of the “greatest player of all time”.

This is not the only initiative that the town has in store to celebrate Maradona, who died on Wednesday of a heart attack in a house outside Buenos Aires where he was recovering from a brain operation.

The mayor, Luigi de Magistris, also proposed renaming the San Paolo stadium, home of the Napoli football team, after its legendary player. “I ask that our stadium, which has witnessed so many of his successes, bear his name. It will be called the Diego Armando Maradona. The people want it. They spoke unanimously,” he said.

The management of SCC Naples have agreed and the official announcement could arrive in the next few days.

But the greatest demonstration of the love and respect of the city towards the Argentine champion was thousands of mourners, minutes after the news of the footballer’s death was announced, taking to the streets to commemorate their adopted king of Naples.

“Tonight a piece of Naples has died forever,” said Antonio Esposito as he stared through his tears at the 6-metre (20ft) mural of Maradona overlooking his local piazza in the city’s Spanish quarter.

Esposito was surrounded by families with young children and groups of friends dressed in SSC Napoli’s club tracksuits, holding candles and taking videos, intermittently erupting into collective song and loud outpourings of grief. “It’s too sad for words, it’s just too sad,” said Esposito, who is the piazza’s informal custodian and set up a projector showing Maradona’s glory moments over and over to the crowd.

Red smoke usually set off from the stands at games billowed across the square. An elderly woman reached towards the sky from the balcony of her ground-floor apartment. “We have lost our angel,” she said. Grown men were on their knees. The open-air shrine to Maradona had transformed into an impromptu site of mourning: the screen its altarpiece.

Maradona, arriving from Barcelona, gave Napoli the most successful period in their history during his time there from 1984 to 1991, injecting a well-needed dose of purpose and pride into the veins of the city. “Every Sunday, I would skip Mum’s lunch to watch the game, climbing over the barriers to the stands and escaping the police,” said Ciro Pisante proudly to others who were itching to tell their own stories and sharing wine in plastic cups in a corner of the square. “We felt invincible in those days.”

Off the pitch Maradona’s life was mired in scandal, but this only made his fans adore him more. They found his rebelliousness and vulnerability evidence of the human beneath the star persona. They saw someone like them, who came from the streets and who embodied all the idiosyncrasies and contradictions they did. “He was just a Scugnizzo Napoletano [Neapolitan for naughty rascal] like us,” said Marco Pellegrini, who was plastering posters reading “Maradona, Naples is crying” on to a shopfront.

Authorities seemed to turn a blind eye to breaches of the city’s Covid restrictions. In Naples, he was venerated like a demigod, comparable only to the city’s patron saint, San Gennaro. 

In the seven years spent by Maradona in Naples, there were 515 newborns named after the Argentinian player. Many parents baptised their children simply Diego. Others went further, and gave them his full name, Diego Armando Maradona. Today, there are thousands of Diegos in the city.

“On a day like this, I wanted to thank my parents who named me after him,” one of the Diego Armando Maradonas told Sky News.

On Wednesday, to the eyes of Neapolitans, it was not only the greatest player of all time who had died.

“Maradona represented our redemption,’’ wrote the Neapolitan writer and author of Gomorrah, Roberto Saviano, in an article in La Repubblica. “Redemption, because a southern team had never won a Scudetto [the award given to the champions of Italy’s top division], a team from the south had never won the Uefa Cup, or ever been the centre of the world’s attention.’’

Maradona instilled a new pride among Neapolitans. Northern Italy had Juventus, Milan and star players such as Marco van Basten, as well as big companies such as Fiat and Ferrari – and lots of money. But Naples had Maradona.





No.20 article:
Turkish court jails hundreds for life over 2016 coup attempt

Army officers, pilots and civilians convicted of being leaders in plot to take power

A Turkish court has sentenced leaders of the attempted coup in 2016 to life imprisonment, convicting hundreds of army officers, pilots and civilians over the failed effort to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.

More than 250 people were killed on 15 July 2016 when rogue soldiers commandeered warplanes, helicopters and tanks to take control of institutions and overthrow the government, directed from an airbase near the capital, Ankara.

The trial of nearly 500 defendants was the highest profile of dozens of court cases targeting thousands of people accused of involvement in the coup attempt, which Erdoğan blamed on supporters of the US-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gülen. He has denied having any role.

Based at the Akıncı airbase, the defendants were accused of directing the coup and bombing government buildings, including parliament, and attempting to kill Erdoğan. Many of the military commanders involved have already been sentenced to life in jail.

“The treacherous network which rained bombs on parliament, the presidency and our people was convicted again before justice and our nation,” said Ömer Çelik, the spokesman for Erdoğan’s Justice and Development party (AK).

“It is continuing to organise every kind of treachery in various countries to harm Turkey,” he tweeted. “Our battle with putschist terrorism will continue.”

Four ringleaders, dubbed “civilian imams” over their ties to Gülen’s network, were among 19 defendants who received 79 aggravated life sentences for charges of attempting to assassinate the president, murder, and seeking to overthrow the constitutional order, the state-owned Anadolu news agency said.

F-16 pilots who carried out attacks were also among those given aggravated life sentences – the severest punishment in Turkish courts – meaning there is no possibility of parole.

Most of the other defendants also received life sentences, while 19 were jailed for aiding the coup and 41 for membership of a terrorist group. Seventy people were acquitted, Anadolu said.

Turkey’s military chief at the time and now defence minister, Hulusi Akar, and other commanders were held captive for several hours at the base on the night of the coup attempt. A total of 475 people were on trial, 365 of them in custody.

Gülen, 79, who was once an ally of Erdoğan and has denied any role in the coup, was one of six defendants tried in absentia. Their dossiers were separated from the main trial, media reports said.

The government declared a state of emergency in Turkey – a Nato member and a long-time candidate for EU membership – after the failed coup and carried out a large-scale crackdown that alarmed Ankara’s western allies.

About 292,000 people have been detained over alleged links to Gülen, with nearly 100,000 of them jailed pending trial, Anadolu cited the interior minister, Süleyman Soylu, as saying.

About 150,000 civil servants were sacked or suspended after the coup attempt, with 20,000 expelled from the military. Courts have handed down more than 2,500 life sentences.

Four years on, police operations targeting suspects accused of links to Gülen continue on a regular basis.

The government has said the crackdown was needed given the security challenges Turkey has faced in rooting out a network of alleged Gülen supporters deeply embedded in the state apparatus.





No.21 article:
England&#x27;s December Covid restrictions: how areas were allocated to tiers

Matt Hancock says five key indicators were a ‘framework for decision-making’ 

With the vast majority of England’s population set to wake up next Wednesday to life in the toughest two tiers of Covid-19 restrictions, millions may wonder how they got there.

Five key indicators form the basis of the criteria that the government has used to decide which locations are in which tiers, according to a written ministerial statement by the health secretary, Matt Hancock. They are:

Case detection rates in all age groups.

Case detection rates in the over-60s.

The rate at which cases are rising or falling.

The number of positive cases detected as a percentage of tests taken, known as positivity rate.

Pressure on the NHS.

There are not “rigid thresholds” for the indicators, Hancock said, stressing that they needed to be examined in context. “The indicators have been designed to give the government a picture of what is happening with the virus in any area so that suitable action can be taken.

“These key indicators need to be viewed in the context of how they interact with each other as well as the wider context, but provide an important framework for decision making – assessing the underlying prevalence in addition to how the spread of the disease is changing in areas. Given these sensitivities, it is not possible to set rigid thresholds for these indicators.”

Yes, it has published a table giving a brief account of its reasoning for how tiers have been allocated. However, in a sign of apparent confusion behind the scenes in government, when the table was initially published as part of Hancock’s written ministerial statement it included question marks against a series of the regions and tiers allocations.

The strengthened tiers system is set to replace the current England-wide lockdown and come into force on 2 December, with regulations requiring the government to conduct a review of allocations every 14 days. Hancock said the first review would be “complete by the end of 16 December”.

The government launched a postcode tracker designed to allow people to check which tier they will be in – but it crashed within minutes of going live on Thursday. There is also a published list here.





No.22 article:
US reported 181,490 new cases on Wednesday as millions defied official advice to travel and gather for Thanksgiving

The US reported 181,490 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, a third daily rise in a row, as hospitalisations hit a record for a 16th day in succession, at 89,959.

There were 2,297 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University, the largest single-day rise since May, bringing the pandemic toll to 262,065 out of nearly 12.8m cases. The death rate is still lower than in the spring.

The alarming numbers were reported as millions of Americans defied official advice against travel and gatherings for Thanksgiving.

In an address to the nation on Wednesday, Joe Biden appealed for resilience and sympathised with those contemplating a holiday without loved ones.

“I know this time of year can be especially difficult,” said the president-elect, whose wife and daughter were killed in a car crash in December 1972. “Believe me, I know. I remember that first Thanksgiving. The empty chair, silence that takes your breath away. It’s really hard to care. It’s hard to give thanks … It’s so hard to hope, to understand.

“I’ll be thinking and praying for each and every one of you this Thanksgiving.”

Biden’s transition team were unable to coordinate with federal authorities for two weeks after the election was called, as Donald Trump refused to concede. The president still has not taken that step, but has allowed transition funds to be released.

Biden heralded the approach of apparently effective vaccines. The US was “on track for the first immunisations to begin by late December, early January”, he said.

“We’ll need to put in place a distribution plan to get the entire country immunised as soon as possible, which we will do. It’s going to take time. And hopefully the news of the vaccine will serve as incentive to every American to take simple steps to get control of the virus.”

Biden listed such steps, including wearing a mask, social distancing and more, which the Trump administration has been loath to seek to enforce, even at its own events. Trump, members of his family, aides and senior Republicans have fallen sick.

“There’s real hope,” Biden insisted. “Tangible hope.”

Later, in Washington, the newly 6-3 conservative supreme court sided with religious communities who sued to block New York state Covid restrictions on attendance at houses of worship. Amy Coney Barrett, the devout Catholic justice who replaced Ruth Bader Ginsburg last month, sided with other conservatives on the ruling.

Avi Schick, an attorney for Agudath Israel of America, told the Associated Press: “This is an historic victory. This landmark decision will ensure that religious practices and religious institutions will be protected from government edicts that do not treat religion with the respect demanded by the constitution.”

On Wednesday, New York saw more than 6,000 daily Covid cases for the first time since late April. Pennsylvania recorded more than 7,000 cases, its second-highest total since the pandemic began. Massachusetts and Nevada saw record case numbers.

In Wyoming, the Republican governor, Mark Gordon, has opposed a mask mandate. On Wednesday, it was announced that he had tested positive.

US airports saw around 900,000 to 1 million people a day pass through checkpoints from Friday to Tuesday, down around 60% from last year but some of the biggest crowds seen since the pandemic took hold. Typically, more Americans drive for Thanksgiving than fly.

Officials – among them New York’s governor, Andrew Cuomo – have been forced to cancel their own Thanksgiving plans in order to set an example. One who did not, Denver’s mayor, Michael Hancock, issued an apology on Wednesday.

Having asked city staff and residents to avoid holiday travel, Hancock flew to Mississippi to spend the holiday with his wife and youngest daughter.

“I made my decision as a husband and father,” he said, “and for those who are angry and disappointed, I humbly ask you to forgive decisions that are born of my heart and not my head.”





No.23 article:
Italian state TV&#x27;s &#x27;sexy shopping&#x27; tutorial for women sparks outrage

Episode of Detto Fatto told women how to push a trolley and reach for items in an alluring way

A tutorial aired on public television that gave women tips on how to “shop in a sexy way” has sparked outrage in Italy.

The guide was transmitted during Detto Fatto, a programme on the state broadcaster’s Rai 2 channel, and featured the ballerina and pole dance teacher Emily Angelillo advising women on how to look sensual in the supermarket.

The segment began with Angelillo, dressed in leather mini-shorts and high heels, doing a dance before advising a young woman on how to wear heels. She then demonstrated how high heels could be worn in places where they wouldn’t ordinarily be worn, such as at the supermarket.

Tips included how to walk in an alluring way while pushing a shopping trolley and how to reach for a packet of crisps on a high shelf, all the while jauntily raising the leg for additional intrigue. Angelillo also demonstrated how to pick a product up from the floor, should one accidentally drop it, in a “non-vulgar” way.

Indignation over the episode was amplified by its scheduling on the eve of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against women. Some viewers were so shocked they initially thought the guide was a parody. Government ministers have demanded to know why it was shown on public television.

“For how long must we continue talking about women in a false, stereotypical way, with stiletto heels, sexy moves, always perfect, mermaids or witches?” Italy’s agricultural minister, Teresa Bellanova, wrote on Twitter.

Rai has cancelled Detto Fatto amid the backlash, and its chief executive, Fabrizio Salini, has ordered an investigation into the episode, which he said had “nothing to do with the spirit of the public service and with the editorial line of Rai”.

Bianca Guaccero, the show’s host, apologised for the episode’s “superficiality”.





No.24 article:
Germany, Italy and France in favour of resort closures but Austria and Switzerland fear economic damage

Governments are at odds over a Europe-wide plan to bar ski holidays over Christmas and new year, with Germany, Italy and France in favour but Austria and Switzerland reluctant to damage a sector worth billions to their economies.

The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, on Thursday joined Italy’s prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, and the French president, Emmanuel Macron, in calling for a Europe-wide shutdown of winter sports until 10 January to avert a fresh coronavirus wave.

“We will push for a vote in Europe on whether we can close all ski resorts,” Merkel told the German parliament. “If you listen to noises coming out of Austria, it sadly doesn’t currently look like we will find an easy solution – but we will try again.”

Markus Söder, the premier of Germany’s southernmost state, Bavaria, had already backed a concerted Europe-wide move mooted by Conte earlier this week, saying ski holidays could “thwart all the efforts made by the population at large”.

Coronavirus clusters in Alpine resorts such as Austria’s Ischgl played a key role in the exponential spread of the virus during the first wave of the pandemic earlier this year, with holidaymakers from several European countries bringing Covid-19 back home with them following ski trips abroad.

Conte has asked Italians not to take to the slopes at all during the Christmas holidays, and called on all other European countries with major winter sports sectors to agree on common rules to prevent cases being imported if Italy’s pistes stay closed.

“It will not be possible to allow holidays on the snow this year, we cannot afford it,” the Italian prime minister said after winter sports operators presented a new safety protocol limiting daily ski pass sales and ski-lift passenger numbers.

“Everything that revolves around holidays on the snow is uncontrollable,” he said, adding that the issue was a European problem. “If Italy closes its lifts without support from France, Austria and others,” he said, “Italians could go abroad and bring the disease back.”

Italy’s ski resorts earn annual revenues of about €11bn (£10bn), roughly a third generated during the days Italians spend in the Alps and Dolomites over Christmas and new year.

In France, Macron said this week it “will not be possible” to fully reopen the country’s resorts before the Christmas and new year holidays, adding that he “preferred a reopening in safe conditions” some time in January. France was “coordinating with our European neighbours” on the question, he said.

The prime minister, Jean Castex, on Thursday clarified that the resorts themselves would be accessible for those “wishing to benefit from our pure mountain air”, but ski lifts, cable cars and other ski infrastructure would be closed, as would cafes, bars and restaurants, with all affected businesses eligible for compensation.

The Haute-Savoie département, home to resorts such as Chamonix and Avoriaz, recorded the highest coronavirus incidence rate in France this week at 485 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, while neighbouring Savoie – which includes Val d’Isère, Meribel and Les Arcs – was just behind on 365.

The French winter sports sector had drawn up a coronavirus hygiene regime in hopes of reopening the country’s 350 resorts, which employ about 120,000 seasonal workers and generate about €10bn annually – a quarter of it over Christmas and new year.

“This is a cold shower for all of us,” said Jean-Luc Boch, mayor of La Plagne and president of the lobby group France Montagne. “We don’t understand. This is a huge blow for regions that rely on winter sports for up to 40% of their economy.”

Not all countries, however, are eager to fall in line. Switzerland, where some ski resorts have already reopened, is hoping social distancing in queues, strict limits or bans on après-ski gatherings, reduced numbers in cable cars and mandatory mask-wearing on lifts will allow at least domestic winter tourism to go ahead.

“Closing is simply not an option,” said Christophe Darbellay, president of Valais canton, home to resorts such as Verbier, Crans Montana and Zermatt. “People will be skiiing and eating in our resorts at Christmas.” Restaurants in the canton should be open again by mid-December, Darbellay said.

Austria, too, is lukewarm. “If the EU does in fact force skiing areas to stay closed, that will mean costs of up to €2bn” over the holiday period, the finance minister, Gernot Blümel, said. “If ski resorts have to stay shut, the EU has to offer compensation.”

Austria’s resorts, which contribute about 15% of the country’s GDP, are closed as part of a nationwide lockdown due to be lifted on 7 December, but the government has not yet announced when they can expect to reopen.

However, the tourism minister, Elisabeth Köstinger, said this week that “winter holidays in Austria will be safe” and authorities in the affected regions say they have learned their lesson from the Ischgl saga, with après-ski bars to remain closed and ski lifts putting strict hygiene rules in place.

But pictures of tightly packed queues outside Austrian ski-lift base stations in October have raised questions over the actual level of preparedness. Poland, meanwhile, has said its ski slopes will reopen this season – but only for local residents and during the school holidays, with resort hotels and restaurants remaining closed.





No.25 article:
Untested, untraced: how three-quarters of Covid contacts slip through cracks

It was in May that Boris Johnson promised the UK would have a “world-beating” test-and-trace operation in place within weeks.

“Our test-and-trace system is as good as, or better than, any other system anywhere in the world,” he doubled down in July.

But nearly half a year after the system was established, thousands of Covid-19 cases still go undetected each week, leaving severe lockdown restrictions as the only option to prevent hospitals across the country from collapsing.

The Guardian has analysed the latest figures on the performance of test and trace to show how people at risk of spreading the virus go missing at every step of the process.

Overall, the figures indicate that less than one in four contacts of those who are infected are reached, and just four in ten contacts of those who test positive for the virus.

This is despite the fact that the test and trace budget has now risen to a staggering £22bn, more than the combined funding for all police and fire services in the UK.

Health experts are calling for a radical reform of test and trace, large parts of which have been outsourced to private sector firms Serco and Sitel.

The appointment of Tory peer Dido Harding as the head of the scheme has also provoked fierce criticism. A legal challenge, mounted last week by campaign groups the Good Law Project and Runnymede Trust, alleges that it was personal connections rather than a formal application process that landed her the position.

“The wife of a Conservative MP and friend of former prime minister David Cameron, Dido Harding didn’t pip other candidates to the post at the interview. There weren’t any other candidates. She was just handed the job,” the campaigners’ crowdfunding appeal read.

Harding is currently self-isolating after being warned that she had come into close proximity with an infected person by the NHS test-and-trace smartphone app.





No.26 article:
Find out which coronavirus restrictions tier your local area is under from 2 December

The tiers of Covid restrictions that local authority areas in England will be placed in from 2 December have been announced. See them on the map or find the full list by tier below, as well as details of the restrictions which apply to each tier.

Tees Valley Combined Authority:

Hartlepool

Middlesbrough

Stockton-on-Tees

Redcar and Cleveland

Darlington

North East Combined Authority:

Sunderland

South Tyneside

Gateshead

Newcastle upon Tyne

North Tyneside

County Durham

Northumberland

Greater Manchester

Lancashire

Blackpool

Blackburn with Darwen

The Humber

West Yorkshire

South Yorkshire

Birmingham and Black Country

Staffordshire and Stoke-on-Trent

Warwickshire, Coventry and Solihull

Derby and Derbyshire

Nottingham and Nottinghamshire

Leicester and Leicestershire

Lincolnshire

Slough (remainder of Berkshire is tier 2: High alert)

Kent and Medway

Bristol

South Gloucestershire

North Somerset

Cumbria

Liverpool City Region

Warrington and Cheshire

York

North Yorkshire

Worcestershire

Herefordshire

Shropshire and Telford &amp; Wrekin

Rutland

Northamptonshire

Suffolk

Hertfordshire

Cambridgeshire, including Peterborough

Norfolk

Essex, Thurrock and Southend on Sea

Bedfordshire and Milton Keynes

all 32 boroughs plus the City of London

East Sussex

West Sussex

Brighton and Hove

Surrey

Reading

Wokingham

Bracknell Forest

Windsor and Maidenhead

West Berkshire

Hampshire, Portsmouth and Southampton

Buckinghamshire

Oxfordshire

South Somerset, Somerset West and Taunton, Mendip and Sedgemoor

Bath and North East Somerset

Dorset

Bournemouth

Christchurch

Poole

Gloucestershire

Wiltshire and Swindon

Devon

Isle of Wight

Cornwall

Isles of Scilly





No.27 article:
Four more students charged in France over Samuel Paty&#x27;s beheading

Three pupils charged for allegedly pointing out middle-school teacher to his murderer

Four teenage students have been charged in France over the killing of Samuel Paty, including three for allegedly pointing out the teacher to his murderer, a source said.

Three other pupils were charged with complicity earlier this month over the beheading last month of Paty, who had shown his students cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad as part of a lesson on free speech.

Three of the four students charged on Thursday were suspected of identifying Paty to his killer, 18-year-old Abdullakh Anzorov, who then tracked him down and beheaded him in a street near his school.

The three, who are between 13 and 14 years old, are being charged with “complicity in a terrorist murder”, the source said.

The fourth is the daughter of Brahim Chnina, who launched a virulent online campaign against Paty denouncing the teacher’s use of the cartoons published by the satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo.

She has been charged with “slanderous denunciation” of Paty after relating her version of events in the classroom, though she did not actually attended his civics lesson.

Paty’s murder sparked a torrent of outrage that prompted the president, Emmanuel Macron, to crack down on Islamist extremism and violence in a country reeling from a wave of jihadist attacks since 2015 that have killed more than 250 people.





No.28 article:
Tiny Kansas town cancels Christmas tradition as Covid upturns rural life

The Norcatur Christmas Drawing – an annual community potluck – has been cancelled ‘due to individuals who refuse to quarantine’

It’s barely a town any more, battered by time on the windswept prairie of north-west Kansas. Covid-19 still managed to find Norcatur.

Not much remains of the rural hamlet, save for a service station, a grain elevator, a little museum and a weekend hangout where the locals play pool, eat pizza and drink beer. The roof has collapsed on the crumbling building that once housed its bank and general store. Schools closed decades ago and the former high school building is used for city offices.

But for the 150 or so remaining residents, the cancellation of the beloved Norcatur Christmas Drawing has driven home how the coronavirus pandemic has reached deep into rural America.

“Due to individuals who have Covid and refuse to stay home and quarantine it has been determined it is not safe for the citizens of Norcatur and the area to proceed,” read the notice tucked in the town’s newsletter and posted on its Facebook page.

It blamed “negligent attitudes of lack of concern for others” for the cancellation. In a decades-old tradition that evokes Norman Rockwell nostalgia, the whole town typically gathers for a potluck dinner at Christmastime.

Its namesake drawing features a plethora of donated meats, crafts and other goodies so every family can go home with prizes. The local 4-H Club puts on its bake sale. Santa Claus comes riding the firetruck.

Decatur county has fewer than 3,000 people scattered across farms and small towns like Norcatur.

As of Monday, the county had reported 194 coronavirus cases and one death, although medical providers say there have been at least four more local deaths that have yet to be added to the official toll.

Carolyn Plotts, a 73-year-old Norcatur resident who never had symptoms and only found out she was positive for Covid-19 when tested for a medical procedure in October, said two of her former high school classmates who live in the county died because of the virus. Her husband also tested positive.

“It’s been very real to me,” she said.

Plotts wondered whether the cancellation notice was maybe “talking about me”. During her quarantine she would only leave her house, with her doctor’s permission and wearing a mask, she said pointedly, to care for a housebound friend who still believes the pandemic is a hoax.

Carl Lyon, the Norcatur mayor who takes on the annual Santa role, said while most residents are “pretty good” about social distancing and wearing a mask, some have caught the virus.

“I know a couple of people had it and they were still kind of running around and whatnot,” Lyon said. “Didn’t seem to bother them that they infected everybody else.”

The Decatur county sheriff, Ken Badsky, estimated that 5% of county residents who should quarantine violate the restrictions and go out.

His office has called some and “insisted they do what they are supposed to do”, but has taken no legal action.

“I have so much other stuff to do. I don’t have time to follow people around,” Badsky said. “We have 900 sq miles, we have three full-time officers and a part-time to take care of that and we are busy with everything else.”

Medical providers are angry as coronavirus cases surge and it gets more difficult to find beds for their sickest patients at hospitals across the state.

“We need some backing to stop this virus and we are looking to people that need to do their job to do it, and so otherwise this thing is going to run rampant and it is going to put more pressure on our hospital,” Kris Mathews, the administrator of Decatur Health, a small critical access hospital in Oberlin, 19 miles west of Norcatur.

Stan Miller, the announcer for the Christmas Drawing for more than 25 years, has mixed emotions.

The 63-year-old Norcatur resident said he understands there are elderly people whom you don’t want to get infected. But it’s also disappointing.

“I like to see all the joy, especially the little kids,” Miller said. “We have Santa Claus after the drawing is over and to see them sit on Santa’s lap and tell them what they want for Christmas, you know, always puts a smile on my face.”





No.29 article:
The new system comes into force in England from 2 December, replacing the national lockdown

The government has announced details of the new three-tier system that will come into effect in when the four-week national lockdown across England ends on 2 December.

Non-essential shops in all areas can reopen, as can gyms, hairdressers and other personal care businesses, with the formal instruction to stay at home coming to an end. The “rule of six” will again apply for outdoor gatherings in all areas.

Places of worship will be able to open and weddings will be allowed within local restrictions.

The system has been criticised in parliament by the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, saying that introducing a three-tier system without an effective test and trace system is a “major risk”.

The hospitality industry has also warned the stricter system of tiers will “ruin Christmas” for struggling restaurants, hotels and pubs.

Here are the rules in tier 1:

Under the new system hospitality businesses in England can stay open until 11pm with table service only but last orders must be made by 10pm, in an effort to stagger departures. The “rule of six” will also remain in place indoors, meaning social household mixing is still allowed.

Spectator sport is set to resume, albeit with limits on numbers and abiding by social distancing. In tier 1, there will be a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of occupancy of the stadium or 4,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

In tier 1, people will be encouraged to minimise travel and work from home where possible. Support bubbles – which allowed a single household to join with another household – are also being broadened across all tiers. Parents with a child under one will be able to form a support bubble, as well as those with a child under five who needs continuous care, such as a child with a disability. Also, in cases where there is a single adult carer, for a partner with dementia for example, they would also be able to form a support bubble.

How was it before?

In the least restrictive tier, also known as alert level “medium”, the rule of six applied indoors and outdoors, meaning up to half a dozen people from different households could gather. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could stay open but were forced to shut by 10pm – a move that prompted much criticism, including from Conservative backbenchers.

Due to the unprecedented and ongoing nature of the coronavirus outbreak, this article is being regularly updated to ensure that it reflects the current situation as best as possible. The most recent update will have been made at the date shown at the top of the article. Any significant corrections made to this or previous versions of the article will continue to be footnoted below in line with Guardian editorial policy.





No.30 article:
Volleyball star becomes surprising voice of anti-Bolsonaro Brazil

Carol Solberg faced backlash after shouting ‘Bolsonaro out!’ in a post-match interview but then an even bigger surge of support

For months Carol Solberg had been losing her patience with the “nightmare” that is Jair Bolsonaro’s Brazil: the burning rainforest, the attacks on culture, the catastrophic coronavirus response that has left more than 165,000 Brazilians dead. Finally, she snapped.

“Fora, Bolsonaro!” the Brazilian volleyball star shouted at the end of a live interview on Brazil’s most-watched sports channel, SporTV. “Bolsonaro out!”

When she uttered those few words one afternoon in late September, Solberg was best known for her on-court exploits.

Two months later the 33-year-old sportswoman has become a powerful symbol of opposition to Brazil’s far-right leader and an unlikely champion of free speech. Her image, and her opposition to Bolsonaro, have been splashed across newspaper and magazine front pages, with one weekly proclaiming her Brazil’s “Active Voice”.

“I wanted to use my voice for a cause I consider urgent,” Solberg said of her decision to speak out during a post-match interview after winning a bronze medal at a beach volleyball tournament in Rio.

“I’m utterly against everything that this government represents. What we are living through is a nightmare – a government that shows such contempt for its people and for human life.”

Solberg’s protest sparked an immediate and angry backlash from Bolsonaro supporters and sporting authorities alike.

The Brazilian Volleyball Confederation accused her of “staining the sport” with her “thoughtless act” and threatened action. Brazil’s court of sporting arbitration called for Solberg to be fined 100,000 reais (£14,000) and handed a six-match suspension, despite never having sanctioned athletes who voiced public support for Bolsonaro.

But attempts to punish Solberg backfired, serving only to amplify her cry.

“Right now, the world of sport is witnessing an attack on freedom of expression,” the magazine Istoé complained, condemning the “disproportionate and violent” reaction to Solberg’s move.

“Persecuting athletes for their political views is the stuff of repressive [regimes],” the magazine said, recalling how Brazil’s 1964-1985 dictatorship targeted the football player Afonsinho.

In one of more than 20 interviews Solberg has given since her post-match protest, she said being Brazilian had become “embarrassing” since Bolsonaro took office in January 2018 and declared war on the environment, media and the arts. “It should be forbidden for a president to be so bad.”

Solberg said she respected athletes who remained silent. “But for me, an athlete isn’t simply a body made to entertain others. They are part of society.

“They say that we athletes are supposed to be examples. But how can you set an example if you don’t have a voice?” asked Solberg, citing the basketball star and activist LeBron James as one of her inspirations.

Another role model is Solberg’s own mother, Isabel, a former volleyball star known for her pro-democracy activism.

In an interview with the newspaper O Globo she defended her daughter’s right to speak out. “What would make me ashamed would be her singing the praises of a torturer,” she said in reference to Bolsonaro’s tributes to the dictatorship-era torturer Carlos Brilhante Ustra, “or if she was homophobic or racist”.

Solberg, who was cleared of all wrongdoing last week after a public outcry, said she was encouraged by the political awakening young Brazilians were experiencing under Bolsonaro.

“Many people are coming together to change the country,” she said. “We will get through all this, and we will emerge a better country.”





No.31 article:
South Korean leader of online sexual abuse ring jailed for 40 years

Cho Ju-bin found guilty of tricking 74 women into ‘virtual enslavement’

The leader of a huge online sexual abuse ring that shocked South Korea has been sentenced to 40 years in prison.

A Seoul court found Cho Ju-bin guilty of targeting at least 74 women, including 16 minors, and tricking them into “virtual enslavement” in a case that led to calls for the government to crack down on sexual offences online.

Cho blackmailed his victims into sending degrading and in some cases violent sexual images of themselves between May 2019 and February this year.

The 24-year-old, who allegedly used the nickname “baksa”, meaning “doctor” in Korean, is accused of distributing and streaming the videos to members of Baksabang, a group chatroom on the messaging service Telegram.

The Seoul central district court found Cho guilty of violating laws protecting minors from sexual abuse and of operating a criminal ring to profit from producing and selling abusive videos.

“The defendant lured and threatened multiple victims in various ways to produce pornography and distributed it for a long time to many people,” the judge said, according to the Yonhap news agency. “He in particular inflicted irrecoverable damage to many victims by publishing their identities.”

The court said Cho’s sentence was appropriate given “the gravity of his crimes, the sheer number of victims and the damage done to them, his evil influence on society and his unrepentant attitude”, Yonhap reported.

Cho’s arrest in March prompted widespread anger in South Korea, which is battling an epidemic of digital sex crimes, including molka – the use of hidden cameras to spy on women and distribute images of a sexual nature.

Millions of people signed petitions urging authorities to release Cho’s identity and investigate not only the ring’s organisers but also the subscribers, who paid as much as 1.5m won (£1,014) to view the abusive images.

Cho, who apologised to his victims when he was taken into custody, claimed in court that he had “cheated” the women into filming the videos but denied he had blackmailed or coerced them. His denials meant some of the women were forced to testify in court.

Police have arrested more than 120 suspects, and 18 operators of chatrooms on Telegram and other social media, including Cho, have been detained following investigations into similar crimes since late last year.

Prosecutors had demanded a life sentence. Cho’s lawyers have a week to appeal against the verdict.





No.32 article:
We would like to hear how you feel about the new tiers, especially if you live in tier 1, and how they might affect you

When lockdown ends in England next week, a new three-tier system of restrictions in England has been set out by the prime minister, including the reopening of shops and gyms, and letting crowds return to sporting events. Pubs and restaurants, however, will face tougher measures.

For hospitality businesses in tier 2, alcohol can only be served with a “substantial meal”, while in tier 3 all pubs, restaurants and cafes must close apart from for delivery or takeaway.

We would like to hear your reaction to the latest announcement about tiers, especially from those who live in tier 1 – are you concerned about people visiting your area? If you live in tier 2, will you be planning a holiday to a place in tier 1? If you are a business owner or employee, how will being in tier 3 affect you? 

You can get in touch by filling in the form below or via WhatsApp by clicking here or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions. One of our journalists will be in contact before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.33 article:
Scott Morrison won’t confirm Iran’s claims three bombers who tried to kill Israeli diplomats have been freed in return for academic 

Australia has refused to be drawn on whether it was involved in a prisoner swap deal to release academic Kylie Moore-Gilbert in exchange for three Iranians involved in a botched attempt to kill Israeli diplomats eight years ago.

A British-Australian dual national, Moore-Gilbert was suddenly released from Tehran’s Evin prison on Wednesday after serving a little over two years of a 10-year sentence for espionage.

Her conviction in a secret trial was regarded internationally as without merit and politically motivated. No evidence of Moore-Gilbert’s alleged crimes has ever been publicly presented. She has denied the allegations against her, and the Australian government rejects them as baseless.

Her release was engineered in what Iran – but not Australia – acknowledged was an exchange for three men convicted of an attempted terrorist attack on Thai soil.

Chatchom Akapin, Thailand’s deputy attorney general, said that Thai authorities had approved the transfer of the prisoners under an agreement with Iran, but did not go so far as to call it a prisoner swap or say what involvement Australia might have had in the arrangement.

“These types of transfers aren’t unusual,” he said. “We transfer prisoners to other countries and at the same time receive Thais back under this type of agreement all the time.”

Tanee Sangrat, spokesperson for Thailand’s foreign ministry, said the decision to release the three men “had nothing to do with the release of the Australian academic in Iran”. He said that two of the men were released through a bilateral agreement on transfers of sentenced persons, and that the third man had completed his sentence.

The Israeli prime minister’s office said it had no comment when asked about a prisoner swap.

The Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison, declined to comment on the machinations of Moore-Gilbert’s release and the negotiations for her freedom. He would not confirm or deny whether her release was a prisoner exchange.

“We don’t confirm or make any comment on any of the suggestions that surround her release ... that practice is there for good reason and that is because Australia works through diplomatic channels to resolve many issues of this nature.”

Asked about Australia’s consultation with Israel and Thailand over the exchange the foreign affairs minister, Marise Payne, told reporters: “I’m not going to comment on diplomatic discussions with other governments.”

Iranian state media showed footage of the three men – Saeid Moradi, Mohammad Kharzei, Massoud Sedaghatzadeh – receiving garlands of flowers, draped in the national flag, on their return to Iran. They were involved in a calamitous bombing attack in Bangkok in February 2012 that aimed to kill Israeli diplomats but succeeded only in blowing up their own rented apartment and injuring five people.

Moradi lost his legs when a grenade he threw at police hit a tree and bounced back at him. He was later sentenced to life in prison.

Kharzei, arrested at Bangkok airport trying to flee the country, was later sentenced to 15 years in prison. Sedaghatzadeh, captured in Malaysia trying to return to Iran, was extradited to Thailand in 2017.

Iranian state media said they had engineered an “exchange” for Moore-Gilbert, whom they painted as a spy with links to MI6 and Israel’s “military intelligence service” and who had travelled to countries across the Middle East, Europe and west Asia at the behest of governments she was working for.

“And after two years of her sentence, the regime of the Islamic Republic finally decided to exchange her for three Iranian economic activists who were detained for attempting to circumvent sanctions,” a state-owned news agency said.

State TV Irib broadcast a short video, compiled with dramatic music and lighting effects, showing Moore-Gilbert leaving Tehran on Wednesday. Wearing a facemask and headscarf, she speaks with officials and travels in a van before boarding a plane marked with an Australian flag on its tail.

It’s not known where Moore-Gilbert has been flown. She is being returned to Australia where she will undertake two weeks of quarantine.

Leaving Iran after 804 days in prison, Moore-Gilbert praised the people of Iran.

“I have nothing but respect, love and admiration for the great nation of Iran and its warm-hearted, generous and brave people,” she said. “It is with bittersweet feelings that I depart your country, despite the injustices which I have been subjected to.

“I came to Iran as a friend and with friendly intentions, and depart Iran with those sentiments not only still intact, but strengthened.”

Moore-Gilbert thanked the Australian government and in particular diplomats in Australia’s embassy in Tehran “who have been working tirelessly these past two years and three months to secure my release”.

“Thank you also to all of you who have supported me and campaigned for my freedom, it has meant the world to me to have you behind me throughout what has been a long and traumatic ordeal.”

Moore-Gilbert’s family said they were “relieved and ecstatic” at her release. “We cannot convey the overwhelming happiness that each of us feel at this incredible news.”

Throughout her imprisonment, Moore-Gilbert had consistently denied the charges against her.

“I am an innocent woman,” she wrote in a letter smuggled out of prison last year, “[and] have been imprisoned for a crime I have not committed and for which there is no real evidence.

“This is a grave injustice, but unfortunately it is not a surprise to me – from the very beginning [of my arrest] it was clear that there was fabrications and trumped-up accusations.”

She also wrote that she’d rejected overtures from the Iranian government to spy for them in exchange for her freedom.

“I am not a spy. I have never been a spy and I have no interest in working for a spying organisation in any country. When I leave Iran, I want to be a free woman and live a free life, not under the shadow of extortion and threats.”

The prime minister spoke with Moore-Gilbert and said she was healthy and “in good spirits”, though cautioned her adjustment to liberty would take time.

Jason Rezaian, the Washington Post reporter who was held in Iran for 544 days, said he was thrilled to see Moore-Gilbert free “after over two years as a hostage of the regime in Iran”.

“As happy as I am, I know the trauma and bewilderment in her face all too well. I wish her health, recovery, privacy and patience.”

Rezaian said governments around the world needed to pressure Iran to abandon its practice of hostage diplomacy.

“It’s far past time for democratic allies – indeed all responsible governments – to work together to end state-sponsored hostage taking once and for all, beginning with Iran, long the world’s most egregious offender of this barbaric practice.”

Friends and colleagues of Moore-Gilbert who’d been campaigning for her freedom said while they were “over the moon” at her release “let’s be clear, this should never have happened”.

“Kylie was held to ransom by the Iranian regime which saw fit to take an innocent Australian woman hostage in order to bring its own convicted prisoners abroad home,” the campaign group said in a statement. “It’s a despicable business model with incalculable human consequences.”

Morrison left open the possibility of a revamped Iran nuclear deal – flagged for potential revitalisation by US president-elect Joe Biden – being used to pressure Iran to cease state-sanctioned hostage-taking. Australia is not a party to the deal – the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action – but supports it being reanimated after it was abandoned by the Trump administration.

“We have said openly that we believe there are improvements that can be made to that [agreement] ... we would welcome any improvements that would lead to the more lawful behaviour of states like Iran.”

Additional reporting by Rebecca Ratcliffe





No.34 article:
Five-day easing prompts warning that one guest could infect a third of people at a gathering

Ministers are facing calls to publish scientific advice on the relaxing of Covid-19 rules over Christmas amid warnings that a single infectious guest could infect a third of those at a household gathering.

Under rules revealed by the prime minister on Tuesday, up to three households can form a “bubble” for five days over Christmas. It prompted some scientists to speak out, warning that mixing will inevitably lead to an increase in infections come the new year, leading to deaths. Some said the government should have put greater emphasis on the dangers and potential control measures.

Now experts have called for the government to release advice given by the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage).

Prof Gabriel Scally, visiting professor of public health at the University of Bristol and a member of Independent Sage, said information from the government’s advisers was important to decisions about how to celebrate Christmas, adding: “People have got choice and agency in a lot of this and in order to be able to exercise those choices wisely they deserve to be able to see the scientific advice.” 

Dr Simon Clarke, associate professor of cellular microbiology at the University of Reading, said: “We need to see the science that all of [the government’s] decisions are made on and this is no different.”

Sage meeting documents are released each Friday but Clarke called for more detailed information to be made public. “We never get to see the raw data, the stuff that is informing their decisions,” he said, saying this hinders the ability of external experts to question or scrutinise whether regulations are overbearing or effective.

But Dr Julian Tang, clinical virologist at the University of Leicester, said: “I do not think Sage will have evidence to show that enhanced mixing is going to be beneficial in terms of stopping the virus from spreading, if anything it will increase the virus spread … The reason that the government and Sage are … giving this amnesty of five days is more of a psychosocial, emotional side of what Christmas means to people.”

A government Office for Science press officer said Sage advice would be released as part of one of the regular weekly tranche of documents.

The calls came as Dr Adam Kucharski, an associate professor at the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine, and a member of the government’s Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M), told the Guardian that studies from the UK and the US suggested that if there was a single infectious person within a household, each of their household contacts will have, on average, about a 35% chance of getting the coronavirus.

“If there are three other people then on average that is about one additional infection you are going to get, if there are six people then on average that is two additional infections,” he said. “And you can see that once you start scaling up the numbers you have in your bubbles, that one initial infection can generate potentially quite a lot of secondary transmission.”

Speaking in a personal capacity, Kurcharski said it was difficult to predict how many more infections might result from the festive period, noting that while schools and many workplaces will shut, there is likely to be greater mixing between households. Other important factors include how prevalent the virus is by Christmas, the number of households mixing and whether people stick to forming exclusive bubbles.

“There is no magic rule that will make you safe. It is very much a gradient of risk,” he said. But the situation in the aftermath of Christmas also matters. “If we have this period where there is more risk of household clusters in bubbles, the question is what do people do in the period after that, where does that infection go subsequently?” he said. “I think that is really going to influence where we are going to end up in January.”





No.35 article:
Exclusive: Liverpool will receive about half the support given to Kent or Isle of Wight

Liverpool will receive about half the support given to Kent or the Isle of Wight for the period spent in the highest coronavirus restrictions, analysis of a Treasury business support scheme has revealed.

The shadow chancellor, Anneliese Dodds, will call for an expansion of the support for areas with the strictest curbs when the final details of the tiered system are released on Thursday.

Councils in tier 3, where bars, pubs and restaurants must close, face the prospect of having to stretch the Treasury’s Additional Restrictions Grant (ARG) until March next year.

The ARG is a one-off allocation of £20-per-head of population in England, which the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) has confirmed will not be topped up and can be used till the end of the 2022 financial year.

It is available for local councils to distribute if businesses can prove restrictions have severely damaged their revenues and enables them to provide discretionary grants as well as fund wider support measures.

Labour said more support should be paid retrospectively to areas like Liverpool and Greater Manchester – which entered the highest restrictions weeks before the national lockdown – to make up for the shortfall in the ARG payment compared with tier 1 areas.

Areas such as the Isle of Wight and Kent, which were in tier 1 until the national lockdown, will have spent just 27 days under the highest restrictions by 2 December. In contrast, Liverpool will have spent 49 days, and Greater Manchester 40 days in the highest restrictions.

The analysis of the per-person ARG package found it will be worth £5.19 per week of restrictions for Kent or the Isle of Wight, but just £2.86 per week in Liverpool and £3.50 in Greater Manchester.

The government has indicated vast areas of the country are likely to be placed in the two highest tiers but no further support through this particular package has been announced for areas in tier 3, which involves only a slight easing of restrictions compared with a full lockdown.

Dodds said: “It is grossly unfair that local businesses in Liverpool and Greater Manchester are set to lose out compared with areas of the country which have spent less time in restrictions. Yet again, the Conservatives are forgetting the north.”

Dodds says the discrepancy would be “a kick in the teeth” for businesses that had faced constant changes to their plans because of the resurgence of the virus. “For every day that they are in the highest tiers after 2 December, they will be having to make that money stretch further,” she said.

“It’s time the chancellor set out a plan to address this injustice, with additional support for areas placed back into tier 3 and retrospective funding for those businesses that have already had to make this money stretch further than it should.”

 A BEIS spokesperson said the analysis “fails to take into account a host of other support measures that are available right across the UK”. 

The Treasury has said support is still available through a separate rolling fund in England, the Local Restrictions Support Grant, which applies to local authorities in tiers 2 or 3 and renews every 28 days that an area is in those tiers. It is intended to support hospitality, accommodation and leisure businesses that have been hardest hit by the restrictions imposed to combat the pandemic, though not forced to close.

Businesses in tier 2 and tier 3 that are forced to close can directly receive up to £1,500 every two weeks.

The BEIS spokesman said: “We understand the pressure businesses are currently under and have acted to support them through the pandemic with a £280bn support package, which is among the most generous in the world.”

The government has also announced plans to increase a separate pot for councils for public health measures, the £8-per-head Contain Outbreak Management Fund, which will receive an additional £900m.





No.36 article:
Xi Jinping congratulates Joe Biden on election win

Chinese president sends message to future counterpart saying he hopes two countries would ‘uphold sprit of non-conflict, focus on cooperation’

The Chinese president, Xi Jinping, has congratulated Joe Biden on winning the US election, leaving just a handful of world leaders, including Russia’s Vladimir Putin, who have not recognised Biden’s win.

Chinese state media said that Xi told Biden he hoped the two countries would “uphold the spirit of non-conflict, non-confrontation, mutual respect and win-win cooperation, [to] focus on cooperation, manage differences, advance the healthy and stable development of China-US ties, and join hands with other countries and the international community to promote the noble cause of world peace and development”.

Several world leaders, including those of Germany and Britain, congratulated Biden soon after he was deemed to have won on 8 November, but China appeared to have waited until the US General Services Administration made its declaration and Trump had ordered his team to cooperate with the transition process.

China’s vice-president, Wang Qishan, congratulated Biden’s running mate, Kamala Harris, Xinhua said, without providing details.

The US-China relationship Biden has inherited is markedly different from when he was vice-president to Barack Obama and met Xi on several occasions. Under the leadership of Trump and Xi the relationship deteriorated to its lowest point in decades, with analysts warning there was little chance of it returning to Obama-era levels of engagement.

In the past four years the US and China have feuded over trade, visas for journalists and diplomats, the coronavirus, human rights abuses in Xinjiang, the crackdown in Hong Kong, and the US’s growing friendship with Taiwan. Trump has overseen diplomatic, trade and economic sanctions on Chinese officials, which he has continued to expand since the election with the presidential powers he retains until Biden is inaugurated. While Biden has pledged to maintain a tough line on China, the tone of the relationship is expected to change.

PJ Crowley, the former assistant secretary of state for public affairs under Barack Obama, told The Guardian that while the two leaders know each other there was a growing gap in each government’s understanding of the other.

“Chinese leaders believe their star is rising and America’s is falling. American leaders, especially in Congress, are increasingly skeptical of Chinese motives and see a hidden hand in leading Chinese brands like Hauwei and TikTok,” Crowley said, adding that this would continue to damage the economic relationship.

“While there can be areas where the United States and China can cooperate, big power competition is more likely to dominate the relationship even with the existing familiarity that Biden and Xi have… The relationship is heading south and the best the two leaders can do is keep the rate of descent as gradual as possible.”

Jia Qingguo, professor at Peking University School of International Studies, said the delay in congratulations was to wait for the legal challenges.

“China does not want to express its attitude too early before the end of the US election, which is a kind of courtesy.”

Jia said Biden and Xi’s history will help repair the relationship. “Although there won’t be big changes in the short term, in the long term the China-US relationship will be more stable, and there would be more room for cooperation.”

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang

This article was amended on 28 November 2020 to clarify that Xi did not phone Biden, but sent a message.





No.37 article:
Thursday briefing: General pardon – Trump gets Michael Flynn off the hook

National security adviser had secretive talks with Russian envoy … football world remembers Maradona … and the man who came back from locked-in syndrome

by  Warren Murray

Good morning – Warren Murray here and we’ve rounded the corner now with Friday in sight.

The voted-out US president has pardoned Michael Flynn, one of the big figures of the Trump-Russia controversy. Donald Trump said it was his “great honour” to pardon the retired general. Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about secretive discussions with the Russian ambassador in 2016, when president-elect Trump had designated Flynn as his national security adviser. He later sought to withdraw his guilty plea, and the court process was continuing when Trump stepped in last night with the pardon. In the US a pardon constitutes forgiveness but does not signify innocence.

Trump is expected to offer pardons to a number of key aides before he leaves office on 20 January. He has commuted the sentence of Roger Stone, a longtime ally who like Flynn was convicted under special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian election interference and links between Trump and Moscow. Adam Schiff, the Democratic chair of the House intelligence committee, wrote: “Donald Trump has repeatedly abused the pardon power to reward friends and protect those who covered up for him. This time he pardons Michael Flynn, who lied to hide his dealings with the Russians. It’s no surprise that Trump would go out as he came in – Crooked to the end.”

Maradona mourned – Argentina, Naples and the world of football are in mourning after the death of Diego Maradona, in many people’s eyes the greatest player of all time, following a heart attack. He was 60. Argentina has declared three days of national mourning as tributes poured in from around the world for the player blessed with sublime talent developed in the slums of Buenos Aires, who went on to become everything that defined Argentina’s football principles.

“It’s difficult to convey how or why that sharing a nationality with an icon turns into such a big deal,” writes Marcela Mora y Araujo, who translated Maradona’s autobiography, El Diego. “Why claiming him as ours by virtue of being born in the same country is such a strong glue for notions of identity, cultural and sporting, but Maradona became an emblem of Argentinianess, more so than other sports stars or celebrities.”

Terrorists freed in Iran swap – Australia has refused to say whether it was involved in a prisoner swap deal to release the British-Australian academic Kylie Moore-Gilbert. Three Iranians involved in a botched attempt to kill Israeli diplomats eight years ago are believed to have been exchanged. Moore-Gilbert was suddenly released from Tehran’s Evin prison on Wednesday after serving a little over two years of a 10-year sentence for espionage.

Her conviction in a secret trial was regarded internationally as without merit and politically motivated; no evidence of her alleged crimes has ever been publicly presented. Iran has acknowledged her release was in exchange for three men convicted of an attempted terrorist attack on Thai soil. They succeeded only in blowing up their own Bangkok apartment and one of them blew his own feet off with a grenade while fleeing from police.

Hancock ex-neighbour’s Covid contract – An acquaintance and former neighbour of Matt Hancock is supplying the government with tens of millions of vials for NHS Covid-19 tests despite no previous experience of producing medical supplies. Alex Bourne, who had a pub near Hancock’s former constituency home in Suffolk, said he first offered his services to the health secretary several months ago via a personal WhatsApp message. Bourne’s company, Hinpack, produced plastic cups and takeaway boxes for caterers. Hancock messaged back, said Bourne, directing him to a health department website to register his services. Over subsequent weeks he was contacted by a supplier to the NHS and eventually contracted to produce medical vials. Bourne played down his relationship with Hancock: “I’ve never once been to his house … He’s never been to mine. I’ve never once had a drink with him.” A spokesperson from the health department said: “We do not comment on the secretary of state’s personal relationships.” Asked whether Bourne’s business received preferential treatment, the department said: “There is no evidence to support these claims.”

Despair as aid budget shrinks – A cut to UK foreign aid announced by Rishi Sunak could see a million girls lose out on schooling, nearly three million women and children go without life-saving nutrition and 5.6 million children left unvaccinated, leading to “tens of thousands” of deaths, charities, aid experts and MPs have said. They have called the cut “unprincipled, unjustified and harmful” just as a global health crisis reverses decades of progress on poverty, healthcare and education. They also come despite the World Food Programme warning of famines of “biblical proportions” in 2021 without billions in aid, while Unicef estimates 500 million children have been unable to access learning due to coronavirus. In other reaction to the chancellor’s mini-budget, unions have described the public sector pay freeze as a “kick in the teeth” for workers including firefighters, police, teachers and local authority staff. Sunak has warned the Covid-19 economic emergency has only just begun as he pledged a fresh £55bn to tackle the pandemic. The Office for Budget Responsibility says the government will need to find up to £27bn in spending cuts or tax rises by 2024 to address long-lasting damage to the economy and public finances.

Plastic sachet mountain – Environmental campaigners, politicians and business leaders are calling for an end to the distribution of billions of plastic “personal care” sachets of things like detergent, shower gel and perfume. The coalition A Plastic Planet says about 122bn sachets a year are distributed, often as giveaways, with the packaging thrown away and rarely recycled. More are used for single serves of ketchup and other condiments. The UK’s single-use plastics ban, introduced on 1 October, covers only plastic straws, stirrers and cotton buds. Similarly, sachets are not covered by the EU single-use plastics directive, which is set to outlaw a host of throwaway items from 2021. Sian Sutherland, a co-founder of A Plastic Planet, said: “The hundreds of billions of sample sachets pumped out by the personal and home care industries each year are used to drive instant sales but will pollute the planet for centuries.”

‘Nobody expected they were leaving for the last time’ – Azerbaijan’s victory in the six-week war for the Karabakh region has turned tens of thousands of Armenian residents into refugees. For the wave of 1990s Azeri exiles from Karabakh, who fled when Armenians wrested the territory in the post-Soviet turmoil, the recapture signals the end of a wait to go home. But it has turned Armenians like Irina Safaryan into the exiles this time, as they were forced to flee as Azeri soldiers advanced.

“We expected to go back to our houses in three or four days, maximum a week,” says Safaryan, whose family left their photo albums behind. “Nobody expected they were leaving their land, their house, for the last time.”

As high street rivals were forced to close this year, Amazon has gone from strength to strength. But reports of conditions in some of its huge warehouses have brought a new level of scrutiny, as John Harris explains.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/25-76533-20201126tifamazon.mp3 

Jake Haendel spent months trapped in his body, silent and unmoving but fully conscious. Most people never emerge from “locked-in syndrome”, but as a doctor told him, everything about his case is bizarre.

Goals from Atalanta’s Josip Ilicic and Robin Gosens denied a much-changed Liverpool side the chance to seal qualification for the Champions League knockout phase. But Phil Foden’s first-half strike was enough for Manchester City to beat Olympiakos 1-0 and qualify for the Champions League last 16. Elsewhere, Real Madrid claimed their first-ever win at San Siro, beating Internazionale 2-0 after the hosts’ Arturo Vidal was sent off for dissent in the first half.

Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton has been asked to intercede on behalf of three Bahraini citizens who claim to have been victims of human rights abuses. Lucas Moura says Tottenham can win the Premier League this season if they believe in themselves. As England’s defensive juggernaut rolls west towards Wales questions remain over what attacking weapons Eddie Jones’s side have in their armoury and when they may see fit to use them regularly. And Marcus Rashford will be honoured with a special award at the BBC Sports Personality of the Year but he has not made the shortlist for the main category, the winner of which is voted for by the public.

Asian shares have mostly been higher after Wall Street took a pause from the optimism underlined in a record-setting climb earlier in the week. A reality check appeared to be setting in amid the pandemic and a batch of discouraging data on the US economy, including jobless numbers. US markets will be closed today for Thanksgiving. The Nikkei 225 gained 0.7% in afternoon trading; Australia’s S&amp;P/ASX 200 slipped 0.7%; South Korea’s Kospi edged up 0.6% while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng rose 0.2% and Shanghai was up nearly 0.2%. The pound is worth $1.338 and €1.122 while the FTSE is trending 0.3% higher at time of writing.

We have special coverage of the reaction in the world’s press here today to the death of Maradona – the Briefing’s customary summary follows.

The Guardian’s front page today carries both a tribute to Maradona and the confirmation that Britain is in its deepest economic slump in more than 300 years. The Star says “Maradona in the hands of God” echoing Gary Lineker’s Twitter tribute to mixed reviews. It also jests “Where was VAR when we needed it”, showing the hand of god at work. The Mirror uses the “hands of god” line too and offers a mixed ovation to “a hero, a villain, a cheat and a genius”.

The Sun runs the same headline followed by “England’s World Cup nemesis and one of the all-time greats”. Same again in the Metro which calls him “Argentina’s football legend”. In the Telegraph he’s “Hero, villain, genius” – the splash though is the mini-budget: “Sunak – our economic emergency has only just begun”. The Mail notably does not mention Maradona at all on its front page – edition timing, or a bit of lingering ill sentiment? Generous coverage, though, from the back page inwards. The Mail’s splash is “This is going to hurt, Britain” and Sunak is shown having his blood pressure taken.

Diego’s on the front of the Times while the lead story is “Covid costs three years of growth to economy”. The i has “Adios Diego”, while “Sunak warns of emergency and raids aid for UK” tripped me up. The Express makes much of the mini-budget: “Rishi’s pledge to deliver on your priorities” while its front-page tribute to the footballer is “RIP: The eternal, flawed genius …” and the god reference again. The FT is straitlaced with “Maradona mourned: Football pays tribute as Argentina great dies at 60” and its splash is “Brexit impasse poses risk to London’s lead on derivatives”.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.38 article:
Many from the region’s Armenian population have become refugees, as previously displaced Azeris prepare to go home

Weeks of shelling could not force Irina Safaryan’s parents from their bunker in the southern Karabakh town of Hadrut. Only when Azerbaijan’s soldiers reached the settlement’s outskirts did the Armenian family agree to run.

“We expected to go back to our houses in three or four days, maximum a week,” Safaryan says. They left behind the family photo albums.

Fighting over the breakaway south Caucasus territory ended this month with Hadrut under Azeri control. “Nobody expected they were leaving their land, their house, for the last time,” Safaryan says.

The Armenian exodus mirrors another from three decades earlier, when 600,000 Azeris fled the first war between the post-Soviet republics over Karabakh, among them Hagigat Hajiyeva. She had also believed she was only temporarily leaving her home city of Shusha, less than 100km from Hadrut, when she fled in 1992.

“When we left Shusha we were thinking things would calm down and we would return,” Hajiyeva says. “Even after the Armenian occupation of the city, my family settled in [the Azerbaijan capital] Baku, but we still thought, ‘We’ll be back soon.’ It never happened.”

The Azeri victory over Armenia in the six-week war over Karabakh has turned tens of thousands of Armenian residents into refugees. For an earlier wave of Azeri exiles from Karabakh, the capture of the territory signals the end of a long wait to go home.

Safaryan, 28, says she was part of a “war generation”: both she and her sister were born in the underground bunker where her mother spent much of the 1988-1994 conflict over the mountainous territory. By the time it was over, most of the Azeri population had been forced out of Karabakh, and the Armenian victory over the area they call Artsakh was woven into the stories she heard as a child.

“I was always watching movies, documentaries, reading books about the war and the liberation of Artsakh,” she says.

Azerbaijan had sworn it would one day retake Karabakh, but Safaryan grew up feeling shielded by the mountains and tales of Armenian valour. “Geographically, Hadrut is very well protected and it was nearly impossible to take,” she says. “The feeling of being protected never left me. Even during this latest war, I was 100% sure our soldiers would do anything to win.”

The 1990s war over Karabakh was an escalation of nationalist sentiments that had been kept in check by decades of Soviet control. “Armenians and Azeris had been living together but there was no trust,” Safaryan says. “We had neighbours, maybe we had friends, but it wasn’t trustful coexistence.”

Speaking from her home in Baku, Hajiyeva, 72, remembers Armenians in the region holding protests as the USSR started to teeter. “I asked my Armenian neighbour what they were protesting for, and she said they wanted more theatres and cinemas,” she says. “Later we learned it was about unification with Armenia.”

By the late 1980s, violence was escalating, and the Armenian population of Shusha were ordered to leave. “We said goodbye to our Armenian neighbours in good spirits,” Hajiyeva says. “We even drove beside them as an escort out of the city.”

She assumed tensions would eventually die down, the way they usually did during the Soviet era. “Slowly, month-by-month, people started using guns and after some months, rocket systems,” she says.

“One day the Armenians fired a shell at the cinema outside our house and it was destroyed,” Hajiyeva recalls. “After that we decided to leave. It was too dangerous to live there.”

On the morning of 27 September this year, Safaryan woke to the sound of explosions near her home in Stepanakert, where she worked for the regional government. “I opened my window and saw the whole city was under shelling,” she says.

The first strikes on Hadrut were on military sites near her family’s home. “My parents just woke up and realised war had begun.”

Her parents spent the next weeks in the same bunker where the girls were born. “Some days they couldn’t even go outside to see the sun or breathe fresh air,” Safaryan says. “They were very bad, very harsh days.”

They were evacuated from Hadrut in the middle of October, two days before the town was overrun by Azeri soldiers. A buildup in military spending fuelled by oil wealth, including on Turkish and Israeli drone technology, helped to decisively turn the conflict in Azerbaijan’s favour.

“The whole street where we grew up and played, it was burned by Azeris,” she claims. “They left nothing from my childhood. People who came from there told us they burned everything.”

Several boys she had grown up playing with were among the more than 1,170 soldiers that Karabakh’s Armenian government says have been killed.

Safaryan’s parents are now staying with her grandparents in Yerevan. “They are just existing,” she says. “We are trying to figure out what we are going to do.”

After 1994, the plight of the Azeris who were displaced from Karabakh in the first war became a national cause in Azerbaijan, but the sense of being adrift never faded, Hajiyeva says. “Some people were saying, why have you left your city?” she recalls. “They were kind of blaming us. We felt ourselves insulted, humiliated, shy that we had been forced to leave our city.”

Her grandson, Suleyman, 25, was born after the family fled, but grew up hearing stories of their life in Shusha. He has tracked the fate of the family home using satellite maps and videos from the city posted online. “The house has survived the occupation,” he says. “I have always followed some Armenians from Shusha on social media to see what’s happening in my city.”

The reality of moving to the city may be more complicated than he imagined. “My friends, my work, everything in my life is in Baku,” he says. “But I’ve always prepared myself that once I’ll be back in Shusha, I’ll start my new life from zero.”

Hajiyeva says that after so many years she lost faith she would ever return. “I cried for hours when I heard that Shusha was liberated,” Hajizada said. “It is impossible to explain the feeling in words. We will kiss the soil there.”

Across the border in Armenia, refugees such as Safaryan have started their own long wait to go home. “I feel like I’m nobody now,” Safaryan says.

“Everything I was living and fighting for – making plans for big projects in Hadrut and every village and city in Artsakh – and now there’s nothing. Nothing to fight for, and nothing to live for.”





No.39 article:
Alex Bourne’s company producing millions of Covid vials despite no prior experience in medical supplies

An acquaintance and former neighbour of Matt Hancock is supplying the government with tens of millions of vials for NHS Covid-19 tests despite having had no previous experience of producing medical supplies.

Alex Bourne, who used to run a pub close to Hancock’s former constituency home in Suffolk, said he initially offered his services to the UK health secretary several months ago by sending him a personal WhatsApp message.

Bourne’s company, Hinpack, was at that time producing plastic cups and takeaway boxes for the catering industry. It is now supplying about 2m medical grade vials a week to the government via a distributor contracted by the NHS.

Bourne categorically denies he profited from his personal contact with Hancock. However, the case raises questions for the health secretary and is likely to reignite the row over alleged government cronyism during the pandemic.

Contacted last week by the Guardian, Bourne’s lawyers flatly denied that their client had any discussions with Hancock in relation to Covid-19 supplies.

However, on Monday, after being confronted with further details about his interactions with the health secretary, Bourne backtracked. In a phone call with the Guardian, he conceded that he has in fact exchanged text and email messages with Hancock over several months.

He also participated in an industry Zoom meeting in August attended by Hancock, Boris Johnson and several dozen suppliers in the Covid test-and-trace programme.

Bourne said he sent his WhatsApp message to Hancock’s mobile number on 30 March offering his services amid a nationwide call to arms to respond to the pandemic. Bourne said he opened the exchange: “Hello, it’s Alex Bourne from Thurlow.”

Until the end of 2017 when they leased it out, Bourne and his wife had run the Cock Inn, a village pub in Thurlow a few hundred yards from Hancock’s former constituency home. The Conservative cabinet minister was a supporter of the pub, attending its reopening after refurbishment in 2016 and nominating it for an award in 2017. Hancock posted a photo of himself pulling a pint with Bourne on his parliamentary website. Hancock moved in 2018.

Bourne said his initial hope was that his packaging firm might be able to retool to provide personal protective equipment (PPE). Hancock messaged back, according to Bourne, directing him to a Department of Health and Social Care website, where he formally submitted details of the work his firm could do. Bourne’s lawyers said there was no further follow-up with Hancock.

A week or two later, around mid-April, Bourne said a major distributor of medical products that he had never heard of called him asking if he could produce specialist Covid-related items such as drop-wells and pipette tips. His company Hinpack was not deemed suitable for that job.

Later that month, Bourne said he was called back by the same distributor. The firm, which already had a general government contract in place to supply the NHS regularly when Covid struck, said it had been asked by the government to supply test tubes. Bourne persuaded the firm he could produce the vials, and said he also discussed Hinpack’s work with two civil servants representing the DHSC.

By June, after engaging the assistance of external advisers and regulatory experts, Bourne was producing large quantities of medical vials. He said he was now making about 2m vials a week, as well as about 500,000 plastic funnels for test samples.

In August, he switched distributor, and is now supplying the same tubes via Alpha Laboratories, which also had a pre-existing contract with DHSC. In a statement, Alpha Laboratories said: “Although we were aware Alex Bourne had met Mr Hancock, this was irrelevant to our discussions as we were sourcing from Hinpack a price-competitive product for the NHS supply chain which fitted within our product range.”

A Suffolk local and friend of Bourne’s, Sukhvinder Dhat, said he had regularly seen Hancock in the pub when he lived in the village and claimed that Bourne and Hancock were “friends” and “buddies”. Bourne’s lawyers denied that characterisation, saying Bourne does not now have a “close personal connection” with the health secretary.

In his call with the Guardian, Bourne also played down his relationship with Hancock. “I’ve never once been to his house,” he said. “He’s never been to mine. I’ve never once had a drink with him.” A spokesperson from the DHSC said: “We do not comment on the secretary of state’s personal relationships.”

Dhat, a retired business consultant, said Bourne had been talking to him over the summer about being in touch with Hancock and sitting in on government meetings about Covid supplies, including a Zoom meeting with the prime minister.

Over the weekend, Dhat said Bourne had confided in him that the Guardian was investigating his relationship with the health secretary. Dhat said he asked Bourne if he was being caught up in “chumocracygate” – a reference to the growing row over government contracts being given to Tory-linked firms.

Dhat said of his conversation with Bourne: “He said he had been approached by the Guardian about being a friend of Hancock’s but he had said, no, he wasn’t a friend. It was sort of ‘how can they prove anything’.”

Dhat also questioned how Bourne managed to become involved in providing medical supplies to the government given his limited business experience. Prior to running the Cock Inn, which was sold in January, Bourne set up a string of companies that did not trade and were later dissolved. Hinpack was established in July 2018, trading in disposable items for the catering industry.

“How does someone like [Bourne] get a contract to do something like this?” Dhat asked. “I was in management consulting for decades and we had to show some sort of capability or at least a client reference to get business. Who knew him to say he was an appropriate person?”

While he had no prior experience in medical supplies, Bourne said a partner company in the disposable catering business did have relevant experience. He also stressed his company had hired industry experts and retired professors.

His lawyers said it was “untrue” Bourne was helped “in any way, commercially or operationally” by Hancock. “To suggest that our client has had political, indeed ministerial, help is to betray a deeply regrettable lack of understanding of how the supply chain works.”

They said that Bourne, a former captain in the British army, offered his services to the government out of a “sense of duty and willingness to serve, not obtaining financial advantage”, adding that UK companies had “retooled” during the pandemic. They said the medical devices Bourne manufactured were “by no means complicated and are well within our client’s existing skillset”.

New to the industry, Bourne has certainly displayed ingenuity. He initially did not have the “clean rooms” required for manufacturing medical products and so commissioned a series of inflatable rooms.

He also paid a manufacturer of bouncy castles and blimps to make him a specially commissioned inflatable structure to unpack and decontaminate incoming supplies, which his lawyers described as a room that was intended to be “comparatively contamination-free” but “not medical-grade sterile”.

They said their client’s decision to turn to the bouncy castle company showed “creative and lateral thinking in a time of crisis”.

It remains unclear precisely how, with no prior experience in the field, and without the pre-existing facilities in produce medical supplies, Bourne came to provide millions of test tubes via two distributors with pre-existing deals with the DHSC.

Last week, the National Audit Office revealed that PPE suppliers with political connections were directed to a “high-priority” channel for UK government contracts where bids were 10 times more likely to be successful.

However, Bourne did not have a direct contract with the DHSC and said he did not believe he was added to any high-priority lane after contacting Hancock and entering details of his company’s area of work on the department’s website in March.

Asked whether Hinpack received any preferential treatment because of Bourne’s contacts with the health secretary, a DHSC spokesperson said it had not: “There is no evidence to support these claims. As the National Audit Office report has made clear, ministers are not involved in procurement decisions or contract management and to suggest otherwise is wholly inaccurate.”





No.40 article:




No.41 article:
Politicians line up to embrace Ibrahim Omer after maiden speech in which he described perilous journey to a better life

New Zealand’s first African MP has reduced politicians to tears telling the story of his journey of “hope” from a war-torn Eritrea to a Sudanese refugee camp and eventually into government as a Labour MP.

“I’m an Eritrean. I’m a former refugee. I’m a Muslim. I’m a trade unionist and a living-wage advocate. But most importantly I stand here before you today as a Kiwi bursting with pride,” Ibrahim Omer said in his maiden speech following October’s election.

He is the second former refugee to become an MP in New Zealand, the first being Green party MP Golriz Gharaman, who fled Iran as a child.

Omer’s speech came after Jacinda Ardern made a half-hour opening address to parliament in which she reaffirmed her election pledge to declare a climate emergency, and said her priorities would be the housing crisis, managing Covid-19, and child poverty.

“We’ve always considered climate change to be a huge threat to our region, and it is something we must take immediate action on,” Ardern said of the climate declaration, to be formally unveiled on Wednesday.

Omer, recalling an initially happy childhood, said a brutal dictatorship killed the dreams he and his countrymen and women had. “I saw politics ruin people’s lives and hence I gave up my dream to be a politician,” he said.

“Nearly all my life in Eritrea there was a war.”

Omer recalled living with no power, little food, and constant fear and fighting in the street. In high school, he was drafted into the national service “with no way out”. 

“I knew I had no choice but to leave before my time came – so Mr Speaker I left behind everything that I loved, my family, friends, my home and my dreams.”

Omer made his way to Sudan, and took the risk of the crossing where patrolling fighters would shoot to kill. “I would rather take the risk dying, then die a slow death in Eritrea,” he said.

In Sudan he was accepted as a refugee and told by the UN he would be sent to New Zealand. Omer knew little about the country on the other side of the globe, but the immigration officer told him it was “one of the most peaceful countries in the world”.

“And that was good enough for me,” said Omer.

“My early life in New Zealand wasn’t easy,” he recalled, saying he worked as a fruit picker, security guard and cleaner, scraping together whatever he could from his minimum-wage earnings to send back to his family in Eritrea.

“I was doing 80 hours a week. Ten years ago all I did was clean, clean, clean, day and night. I didn’t have a life, I didn’t meet people, I wasn’t active in the community, I didn’t have time to think – let alone dream.” Omer said.

Omer’s life changed when a union organiser asked him to make a public address on calls for the living wage in front of Wellington mayoral candidates.

The speech was empowering, and after a pay rise, Omer decided to begin attending university, studying politics. He continued working as a cleaner at Victoria University at night while attending classes in the day, often sitting in lecture theatres he’d cleaned the night before.

The Christchurch terror attack in March last year was “terrifying”, Omer recalled, and he feared New Zealand would descend into violence against Muslims.

Instead, the community was showered with aroha [love] and Kiwis’ reaction reinforced his commitment to New Zealand and the politics of kindness espoused by Jacinda Ardern, whom he thanked for being of great “personal support”.

Omer said he loved that despite disagreeing in Parliament House, and holding fiery debates, New Zealand politicians would then “go and have a meal or a coffee together as friends”.

Omer said he would fight on behalf of workers, refugees, and “every New Zealander who is struggling on low wages”, or through a challenging time of life. “The reality is, many millions of people have not had the luck that I’ve had,” he said.

Speaking in his mother tongue, Omer said: “I see you, I feel you, I will be by your side and fight alongside you.”

Omer’s speech was met with strong emotion by New Zealand politicians, some of whom burst into song as politicians from every side of the house embraced the new MP, or bent their noses to his in a hongi, a traditional Māori greeting.

The speaker, Trevor Mallard, had to call for order three times before the long line of MPs lining up to hug Omer returned to their seat, amid laughter throughout the house.

Labour’s deputy leader, Kelvin Davis, said it was the strongest and most moving maiden speech he had ever heard, and Ardern gave the new MP a long hug.

Omer said he was proud to be part of a caucus “that looks so much like New Zealand”.





No.42 article:
Cambodia: mass trial begins of 130 government critics charged with treason

Defendants, who are largely former members or supporters of opposition National Rescue party, also charged with non-violent political activities

A Cambodian court has begun hearing the cases of nearly 130 opponents and government critics charged with treason for taking part in non-violent political activities over the past three years, in what one of them described as a sham trial.

Most of those being tried by the Phnom Penh municipal court are former members or supporters of the Cambodia National Rescue Party. As the sole opposition party in parliament, it had been expected to offer a strong challenge to the prime minister Hun Sen’s ruling Cambodian People’s party in the 2018 general election.

But in late 2017, Hun Sen launched a sweeping crackdown on his opponents. Virtually all critical media were pressured to close or tone down their coverage, and the Cambodia National Rescue party was forced by the high court to disband and its lawmakers were removed from parliament. Many people believe the court acted to ensure that Hun Sen’s party won by sweeping all the seats.

Virtually all the defendants have been charged with conspiracy to commit treason and incitement to commit a felony, which together carry a maximum penalty of 12 years in prison, according to defence lawyers and human rights activists. Not all are expected to be in court as some are believed to be living abroad.

Sam Sokong, one of the defence lawyers, said earlier this week that he feared his clients could not get a fair judgment because there are so many supposed to stand trial at the same time.

“It is the first time since I began representing opposition group members that such a huge number as nearly 130 are standing trial together,” he said. “I am very doubtful about this arrangement and whether fairness will be received by my clients according to the international standard.”

One of the best known defendants living in Cambodia is Theary Seng, a Cambodian-American lawyer who has long been one of the most outspoken critics of Hun Sen and his government.

“I feel at peace, because I’ve done nothing wrong. This is not a courtroom. This is a political theatre, it’s a political circus,” she told reporters outside the courtroom.

She described the trial as a sham scripted by Hun Sen’s regime. “It’s only a way to block the view of the international community of the really serious issues of human rights violations, of political repression.”

Am Sam Ath, who works with the Cambodian human rights group Licadho, said that according to copies of court summonses, many defendants are accused of being involved with organising a failed trip by former opposition leader Sam Rainsy that would have brought him back from exile last November.

Sam Rainsy, the co-founder of the Cambodia National Rescue party, has been in exile since 2016 to avoid serving prison sentences for defamation and other offences. He says the cases against him were politically motivated, and his attempted return last year was blocked by the government.

Hun Sen has been in power for 35 years and has often been accused of heading an authoritarian regime. Several Western nations have imposed sanctions on his government, mainly after concluding that the 2018 election was neither free nor fair. The harshest measure came from the European Union, which this year withdrew some preferential trading privileges.

Last week, the US embassy in Cambodia on its Facebook page urged the government to fully respect the freedoms of its people as cited in the country’s constitution.

“The United States is closely following a growing number of court cases targeting civil society activists, journalists, and supporters of Cambodia’s primary political opposition party, the Cambodia National Rescue Party,” said the statement.

“Freedoms of association and expression, and tolerance of dissenting views, are vital in a genuine democracy.”





No.43 article:
Racial segregation on US inter-state transport to end – archive, 1955

26 November 1955: The new rules put an end to the ‘separate but equal’ doctrine which had been in place for many years

Washington, November 25The Inter-state Commerce Commission ruled to-day that racial segregation on inter-state trains and passenger buses must end by January 10, 1956. It also ruled that segregation of inter-state travellers in public waiting-rooms is unlawful.

These two rulings put an end to the “separate but equal” doctrine which had guided the commission’s rulings for many years. Two months after the commission was established in 1887 it had its first case on racial discrimination. It then held that segregation would be most likely to produce peace and order and to promote “dignity of citizenship” in the United States.

In to-day’s opinion the commission said that “it is hardly open to question that much progress in improved race relations has been made since then.” When the Supreme Court outlawed compulsory segregation in state schools it ruled that segregation in itself excluded the concept of equality and imposed an inferior status on these American citizens. It is this new concept which has now prevailed with the commission.

In to-day’s ruling the commission said:

“The disadvantage to a traveller, who is assigned accommodations or facilities so designated as to imply his inherent inferiority solely because of his race, must be regarded under present conditions as unreasonable. Also, he is entitled to be free of annoyances, some petty and some substantial, which almost inevitably accompany segregation even though the rail carriers, as most of the defendants have done here, sincerely try to provide both races with equally convenient and comfortable cars and waiting rooms.”

Commissioner Johnson, of South Carolina, in a dissenting opinion, said “It is my opinion that the commission should not undertake to anticipate the Supreme Court and itself become a pioneer in the sociological field.”

Precautions in GeorgiaIt should be understood that to-day’s rulings apply only to travel between states. The rulings have no effect on travel within a Southern state. Mr Eugene Cook, Attorney-General for Georgia, said he would try to use all legal procedures to maintain racial segregation “on travel within Georgia itself.” He conceded the difficulties because it is often hard to separate inter-state travellers from those travelling within the state alone. However, he had asked his legal staff to study this problem while giving first priority to Georgia’s continued resistance to a unified public school system in the state.

The National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People also tried to have the commission end segregation in the lunch room at the Union Station in Richmond, Virginia. The commission said that this room was operated under lease by the Union News Company, which is not itself engaged in transportation, and therefore does not come within the commission’s jurisdiction. The commission also dismissed a complaint against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company because the evidence failed to show that the case involved inter-state travel.

Ten years ago, the commission authorised Southern Railways to serve Negro passengers in the dining-car behind a curtain in seats reserved exclusively for them. This method of segregation aroused intense public criticism and it was finally outlawed by the Supreme Court in 1950. To-day’s rulings are a notable advance of those started by the Court in 1950.







No.44 article:
Christchurch attacks: royal commission hands in report on New Zealand mosque shootings

Prime minister Jacinda Ardern will decide if the nearly 800-page report will be released publicly

The royal commission’s report into the Christchurch mosque shootings 2019 has been presented to the government, 20 months after it was first commissioned.

On 15 March last year a lone gunman shot and killed 51 worshippers at two inner-city Christchurch mosques. In August the man, Australian Brenton Tarrant, was sentenced to life in prison for his crimes, which were motivated by white supremacist ideology.

The prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, ordered a royal commission of inquiry into why and how the massacre took place, and whether there was anything government and police officials could have done to prevent it.

Prior to the attack the gunman posted multiple references to his plan online, was able to legally obtain a gun licence, and carried out reconnaissance missions to both mosques.

The inquiry took place behind closed doors and interviewed everyone from top security officials to survivors, current and former prime ministers.

The 792-page report was today presented to governor general, Dame Patsy Reddy, who will hand it over to the government to review.

It is up to the prime minister to decide when and how the report will be publicly released, but many are hoping for it to be made public before Christmas.

In a statement, the royal commission said it had written the report in a way that it could be made available for the public to read in full, without the need for redactions.

“Having completed 18 months of intense inquiry, engagement and analysis, we urge the government to consider the findings and act on the recommendations,” said Commissioner Sir William Young.

The minister for internal affairs, Jan Tinetti, said she had received the report and it must be presented to the House of Representatives as soon as practicable.

“We will share the report confidentially with families and victims ahead of the public release and work closely with them. It is only right that they have the space and opportunity to privately reflect on the findings,” Tinetti said. 

During the course of the inquiry, more than 400 meetings were held, 340 non-disclosure orders were made, 73,500 pages of evidence and submissions were analysed and 217 public sector agencies were asked to provide information.

More than 1100 people wrote formal submissions to the commission, while many more got in touch to share their thoughts, experiences, and suggestions.

Survivors of the massacre, the worst in modern New Zealand history, say they are hopeful the government will listen to the commission’s recommendations, as some in the Muslim community feel they were ignored in the lead-up to the massacre, after warning police and authorities repeatedly that hate crimes and abusive behaviour against their community was escalating.

“It has been an honour and privilege to undertake this inquiry,” said commissioners Young and Jacqui Caine.

“Our hope is that this report not only provides answers but also impetus for change and conversations about the kind of country we want to be.”





No.45 article:
New Zealand&#x27;s Muslims have put their faith in the Christchurch inquiry to help protect and heal

The Islamic Women’s Council of NZ gave more than 1,000 pages of evidence to the royal commission in the hope of a better country

By the time that you read this, New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, will have received a several-tome report from the royal Commission of Inquiry into the Terrorist Attack on Christchurch Mosques, which will provide findings on whether the government authorities could have prevented the horrific event and will offer recommendations to avert any terrorism in the future.

As the person charged with government engagement for the Islamic Women’s Council of New Zealand (IWCNZ), I have a keen interest in reading the commission’s conclusions given that our organisation had warned government authorities several times that our Muslim community was at risk and needed support. Importantly, the report has the potential to transform how the government interacts with all its communities. Harking back to the wise words of New Zealand’s “mother of the nation” Dame Whina Cooper, I hope that this report becomes the seed that plants in the hearts of Kiwis “a vision of Aotearoa where all our people can live together in harmony … and share the wisdom from each culture”.

At the outset, the royal commission appeared it would be fraught with challenges. Due to the way New Zealand’s Crown law drafted the terms of reference, much of the commission’s process has been shrouded in secrecy. The open and transparent processes on which New Zealand prides itself were omitted. In a first, no public hearings have been held, and the Muslim community has not been permitted to see, vet or challenge any evidence presented outside their own. Still, the two commissioners – a retired supreme court judge and a former ambassador – alongside the commission’s secretariat have slowly, yet surely, been able to gain the trust of many of those affected and those within our battered community.

The commission showed a willingness to listen, to learn, to adapt, and to correct when appropriate. As just one example of this, while the initial list of the ministries and agencies to be looked into was small, after listening to community, the commission expanded it to include more than 200. The commission reached out to the families, calling meetings where those directly affected could be updated and remain informed. Likewise, a Muslim reference group was created. Nine meetings followed over the next 15 months, with consultations on a variety of topics, where ideas and possible solutions were probed.

Simultaneous to this, IWCNZ sought and obtained “core participant” status after its evidence relating to years of government engagement was tested. IWCNZ leadership reviewed their government engagement over a five-year period and presented a submission bolstered by more than 1,000 pages of evidence supporting its position that the attacks were preventable. Members of IWCNZ leadership were interviewed and provided evidence over several days. We offered suggestions and recommendations. All sessions were emotionally challenging, deeply personal and raw. I can attest that we shared our stories and provided our evidence with sincerity, trust and hope for a better New Zealand.

The commission report was first due to be issued a year ago, but due to the depth of the inquiry, that date was extended and then with the pandemic, it was pushed back two more times. Thus, New Zealand as a nation and, within it, the Kiwi Muslim community have waited a long time for the answers we seek – was the Christchurch terrorist attack preventable and what can we as a nation do to stop another such act from occurring? The prime minister and her cabinet now know that answer. 

We anticipate the large report will not just provide a statement of facts and identify the causes of what happened on 15 March, but we hope it will also include thorough and substantive recommendations on how to avoid any such devastation again. We hope it will detail the lapses in the civil service in a way that will help those agencies to work with more agility and effectiveness for the public and the nation they are serving, and not just the people who directly appoint them.

We hope it includes recommendations on how the government can best support the wellbeing of those directly impacted by the attacks. We also hope the report includes clear ideas on how the government can address the rising hate and “othering”, and offers suggestions on how to maintain and further promote that togetherness that the nation showed immediately after the attack. Most of all, we hope it inspires this nation as a whole to do more, to do better and to put things right – not just for our Muslim community, but for all communities within this beautiful nation.

Aliya Danzeisen has led the government engagement for the Islamic Women’s Council of New Zealand for seven years and has played a key advocacy role in getting support for the Kiwi Muslim community.






