No.1 article:
Trump Targets Michigan in His Ploy to Subvert the Election

In a brazen step, the president invited Republican state leaders in Michigan to the White House as he and his allies try to prevent the state from certifying Joe Biden’s clear victory there.

President Trump on Thursday accelerated his efforts to interfere in the nation’s electoral process, taking the extraordinary step of reaching out directly to Republican state legislators from Michigan and inviting them to the White House on Friday for discussions as the state prepares to certify President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. the winner there.

For Mr. Trump and his Republican allies, Michigan has become the prime target in their campaign to subvert the will of voters backing Mr. Biden in the recent election. Mr. Trump called at least one G.O.P. elections official in the Detroit area this week after she voted to certify Mr. Biden’s overwhelming victory there, and he is now set to meet with legislators ahead of Michigan’s deadline on Monday to certify the results.

The president has also asked aides what Republican officials he could call in other battleground states in his effort to prevent the certification of results that would formalize his loss to Mr. Biden, several advisers said. Trump allies appear to be pursuing a highly dubious legal theory that if the results are not certified, Republican legislatures could intervene and appoint pro-Trump electors in states Mr. Biden won who would support the president when the Electoral College meets on Dec. 14.

The Republican effort to undo the popular vote is all but certain to fail, as even many Trump allies concede, and it has already suffered near-total defeats in courts in multiple states, including losses on Thursday when judges in Georgia and Arizona ruled against the Trump campaign and its allies. The president suffered another electoral blow on Thursday when Georgia announced the completion of a full recount, reaffirming Mr. Biden’s victory there.

Mr. Biden, whose transition has been hindered by Mr. Trump’s attempt to cling to power, on Thursday delivered his most forceful condemnation yet of the president’s refusal to acknowledge his loss, saying Mr. Trump would be remembered as “one of the most irresponsible presidents in American history.”

“It sends a horrible message about who we are as a country,” Mr. Biden said in remarks in Wilmington, Del., after a discussion about the economy with both Democratic and Republican governors.

“It’s hard to fathom how this man thinks,” Mr. Biden added. “I’m confident he knows he hasn’t won, and is not going to be able to win, and we’re going to be sworn in on Jan 20.”

Late Thursday, Senator Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah, joined Mr. Biden in criticizing the actions by Mr. Trump, saying in a statement that the president had tried to “subvert the will of the people” and that it was “difficult to imagine a worse, more undemocratic action by a sitting American president.” 

Election officials and legal experts say there is virtually no scenario in which a Republican-controlled state legislature could legitimately override the results of a properly held vote. And some G.O.P. legislators in battleground states said they would not intervene.

“Under our statutes, we have no part in the process,” said Robin Vos, the Republican speaker of the Wisconsin State Assembly.

In Arizona, the Republican speaker of the House, Rusty Bower, sent a letter to his Republican colleagues emphasizing that he had voted for Mr. Trump, but noting that the courts had already debunked some of the president’s claims and making clear that lawmakers could not interfere with the will of the voters.

“I wish to respond by simply saying — I took an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution and laws of the State of Arizona,” he wrote, according to a copy of the email obtained by Yellow Sheet Report, an Arizona political tipsheet.

Mr. Biden won Arizona by about 11,000 votes, the first time a Democratic presidential candidate had carried the state since 1996.

Despite Mr. Trump’s increasing brazenness, Republican leaders in Washington and in state capitals have mostly stayed quiet on his latest effort to interfere with the results of the election.

Aides to the Republican governors of Ohio and Maryland did not respond to messages, and a spokeswoman for Gov. Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, among the nation’s most anti-Trump elected Republicans, referred to remarks he made on Nov. 10 in which he asserted that Mr. Biden was the rightful winner of the election. (Larry Hogan, Maryland’s governor, later said on CNN that the president’s interference was “bad for the country and our standing in the world.”)

The Trump maneuvering has intensified in part because many states are now poised to certify their election vote totals; crucially, six key states that Mr. Biden won — Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona, Nevada and Wisconsin — have deadlines between Friday and Dec. 1 to certify his victories.

Facing those deadlines, the president has grown more strident with his false messages about a stolen election in a last-ditch bid to do nothing less than disenfranchise the legally registered votes of entire states and cities.

Mr. Trump’s outreach to Republican officials in Michigan represented a remarkable intrusion into state and local politics: a sitting president personally contacting officials who usually play a small and invisible role in a routine process.

The president requested the White House meeting with Mike Shirkey, the State Senate majority leader, and Lee Chatfield, the speaker of the Michigan House, and they will sit down with him on Friday afternoon, according to a person briefed on the arrangements. It is not clear what the president will discuss.

On Tuesday night, Mr. Trump called Monica Palmer, a Republican member of the canvassing board of Wayne County, which includes Detroit. Ms. Palmer was at the center of a fast-moving controversy over the routine certification of votes, when she and the other Republican board member at first declined to certify the county’s votes, then changed their minds under pressure from angry voters and officials.

Ms. Palmer told The Washington Post that Mr. Trump — who had celebrated on Twitter after her earlier vote against certification — called her after the meeting, to inquire about her safety. She said he did not pressure her to change her mind yet again.

Roughly 24 hours after that contact by the president, Ms. Palmer and the other Republican board member, William Hartmann, announced late Wednesday that they were reversing their move to certify the results.

The announcement of that decision was sent to reporters by a public relations firm called ProActive Communications. The firm, based in Virginia, has close ties to Mr. Trump and received about $2 million in payments from his campaign during the 2020 election cycle, according to records compiled by the campaign finance website OpenSecrets. The firm declined to answer questions about how it had come to represent Ms. Palmer and Mr. Hartmann.

ProActive later issued a statement explaining Ms. Palmer and Mr. Hartmann’s position from Phill Kline, the director of the Amistad Project, a legal initiative with the conservative public interest law firm the Thomas More Society. That firm lists Jenna Ellis, a senior legal adviser to the Trump campaign, as its “special counsel.”

In the statement, Mr. Kline said that the decisions by Ms. Palmer and Mr. Hartmann to rescind their votes for certification meant that Wayne County’s results remained uncertified.

But Michigan’s secretary of state, Jocelyn Benson, a Democrat, said he was wrong.

“There is no legal mechanism for them to rescind their vote,” Tracy Wimmer, a spokeswoman for Ms. Benson, said on Thursday. “Their job is done and the next step in the process is for the Board of State Canvassers to meet and certify.”

At the White House, Mr. Trump has been toggling between appearing to recognize his loss and expressing bitterness and disbelief that what he believed was a victory was being taken from him, aides said. Bolstered by some core supporters, he has hardened in his belief that state legislatures could hold the keys to his political salvation.

The few people who have tried to intervene and tell him that it is time to let Mr. Biden begin a transition have been shut down by Mr. Trump.

The president has been goaded along in particular by his personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has further stoked Mr. Trump’s fury, along with his hope of overcoming the reality of Mr. Biden’s victory, a half-dozen White House and campaign advisers said.

The president has become obsessed with a conspiracy theory advanced by one of his lawyers, Sidney Powell, about Dominion Voting Systems machines, aides said, asking one adviser after another about whether there is something to the theory that there was a global effort to hack the election. Cybersecurity officials have said that “there is no evidence” voting systems were compromised.

Though Mr. Trump has discussed reaching out to Republicans in other swing states, so far he has called officials only in Michigan, aides said.

The next step in the election process in Michigan comes on Monday, when the four-member state canvassing board faces a deadline to finalize the certification of the state’s vote, after the submission of all 83 county certifications that were completed by Tuesday.

During an interview on Thursday morning, one of the Republican members of the state board of canvassers, Norm Shinkle, said he had not made up his mind as to how he would vote, especially given the questions in Wayne County. He said he was being deluged with calls about his upcoming vote.

At a news briefing on Thursday, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, a Democrat, was asked about what her message to Mr. Trump would be on his election efforts.

“Stop spending energy to mislead about what happened in this election and spend it on a real Covid relief package,” she said. “This election was overwhelmingly decided. It was a safe, it was a secure, it was a fair election. Joe Biden won the state of Michigan by over 150,000 votes.”

She added: “The canvassers need to do their job. I expect that they will do their job and certify this result.”

Bob Bauer, a senior adviser to Mr. Biden and a longtime election lawyer, said there was no legal means by which Republicans in Michigan could cast aside a duly held election without violating the voting rights of the state’s entire electorate. “They cannot change the outcome after the fact,” he said.

Still, he acknowledged, Mr. Trump could try, and it could create “a disgraceful spectacle.”

Initially, Trump campaign aides favored a discreet series of challenges and recount requests, people briefed on the discussions said, saying they would have been long shots but would not have been laughed out of a courtroom.

Now, the effort has been taken over by Mr. Giuliani, who has embraced a scattershot strategy and promoted wild conspiracy theories — even in court proceedings, as he did at a hearing in Pennsylvania this week.

On Thursday, Mr. Giuliani appeared in a cramped room at the Republican National Committee headquarters in Washington, where he and his team of lawyers unspooled a meandering thread of conspiracies, alleging a “centralized” plot of widespread fraud with no evidence. (Though Mr. Giuliani said he had evidence, he said that he could not share it to protect personal identities, and that there were other allegations that “at this point, I really can’t reveal.”)

Ms. Powell, another lawyer for the Trump campaign, followed Mr. Giuliani and furthered the baseless claims, including a lengthy digression that involved Hugo Chávez, the Venezuelan leader who died in 2013.

Senator Joni Ernst, a Republican from Iowa who just won re-election, was sharply critical of Ms. Powell’s false allegations that both Republicans and Democrats had been paid to have the system rigged on their behalf.

“To insinuate that Republican and Democratic candidates paid to throw off this election, I think, is absolutely outrageous, and I do take offense to that,” Ms. Ernst said on Fox News Radio. “To have that accusation just offhandedly thrown out there just to confuse our voters across the United States, I think that is absolutely wrong.”





No.2 article:
Why Charges Against Protesters Are Being Dismissed by the Thousands

Prosecutors declined to pursue many of the cases because they concluded the protesters were exercising their basic civil rights.

LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Matt Kaufmann loved bringing real-world issues into his classroom, but he never expected he would become a lesson himself. The headlines, however, made it hard to avoid: “Kentucky High School Teacher of the Year Arrested,” blared the local news after he was detained on May 31.

An English teacher at Marion C. Moore School at that time, Mr. Kaufmann was among more than 800 people swept up by the police in Louisville during the many months of demonstrations prompted by the police killings of George Floyd in Minneapolis and Breonna Taylor in Louisville.

Mr. Kaufmann and his fiancée, protest novices, joined a large downtown crowd in late May, he said, when police officers began to break up the demonstration by firing tear gas and charging from all sides. With a helicopter thumping overhead, he suddenly found himself lined up on the ground with dozens of other protesters, then hauled off to a crowded jail cell.

“I had never experienced anything like that before,” Mr. Kaufmann, 41, said. “It was scary.”

Now, more than five months later, as Mr. Kaufmann’s case and those of thousands of others finally land in courts across the United States, a vast majority of cases against protesters are being dismissed. Only cases involving more substantial charges like property destruction or other violence remain.

Prosecutors called the scale of both the mass arrests and mass dismissals within a few short months unrivaled, at least since the civil rights protests of the early 1960s. With the police detaining hundreds of people in major cities, the arrests this year ended up colliding with the limitations of the court system.

In the aftermath, prosecutors declined to pursue many of the cases because they concluded that the protesters were exercising their basic civil rights. Cases involving free speech or free assembly rarely succeed in court, according to prosecutors across the country, and the coronavirus pandemic also played a role in the decision. A wave of thousands of minor cases threatened to capsize courts already floundering under hefty lockdown backlogs.

There was also the recognition that law enforcement officers often use mass arrests as a technique to help clear the streets, not to confront illegal behavior.

For those handling the cases, the task has felt Sisyphean. “Every day I would think I was done and the next morning there would be 50 or 100 cases to tally,” said Mary Ellen Heng, a deputy city attorney for Minneapolis. So far the city is pursuing about 75 of 666 cases.

“What’s happened in the last few months here is nothing like I have seen in my 23 years when it comes to the volume of cases,” she said.

Most charges in the almost 300 federal protest cases involve arson or assaulting police officers, as do the state and municipal cases.

“This is the hangover from months of protests,” said Ted Shouse, a criminal defense attorney in Louisville who helped to organize more than 100 volunteer defense attorneys.

Protest leaders and defense attorneys nationwide accuse the police of piling on charges to try to halt the demonstrations. “It was to squelch dissent,” said Attica Scott, the only Black woman in the Kentucky State Legislature and one of the protest organizers detained by the police.

The arrest of Ms. Scott in September has become one of the most contentious cases in Louisville because she and several other protest leaders were initially accused of trying to ignite a library, a felony, and of violating a 9 p.m. curfew.

The Jefferson County attorney, Mike O’Connell, appeared in court himself to ask that the felony charges be dropped after reviewing the evidence, including a live Instagram broadcast by Ms. Scott with a time stamp showing that the arrests came before curfew.

Defense attorneys working on cases in numerous cities said more people of color than white people were charged, but it was not a universal pattern. “Even adjusting for the racial makeup of the protests, Black people have been charged out of proportion,” Mr. Shouse in Louisville said.

A recent study by The Louisville Courier-Journal found that Black people constituted 53 percent of those arrested there during the four months starting May 29, but that they faced 69 percent of the felony charges. In Portland, Ore., which is predominantly white, white defendants constituted 65 percent of the more than 140 cases moving forward, while 32 percent were from other racial groups.

Sgt. John Bradley, a spokesman for the Louisville Metro Police Department, said that officers made arrests on the basis of Kentucky law, and that it was up to the county attorney whether to prosecute.

Precise numbers on both arrests and dismissals nationwide are elusive amid the complicated patchwork of law enforcement agencies and the state, county or city prosecutors involved.

In Los Angeles County, for example, the district attorney declined to file criminal charges against 334 people but is pursuing 257 cases of people arrested between the end of May and the beginning of August, said Greg Risling, a spokesman.

But not all jurisdictions in Los Angeles County are dismissing cases. Beverly Hills is pursuing misdemeanor charges against a group of 25 people stemming from one protest in June and plans to pursue others from another protest in July, said Rachel Steinback, the coordinator for the National Lawyers Guild of Los Angeles’s Mass Defense Committee.

In Portland, the Multnomah County District Attorney’s Office boiled its numbers down into a neat chart: District Attorney Mike Schmidt has rejected 721 cases, is pursuing 144 and has 165 under review.

Based on the example of Occupy Wall Street protesters a decade ago, Mr. Schmidt knew that judges would toss out most cases or impose small sentences. “Seventy to 80 percent would not survive constitutional challenges,” said Mr. Schmidt, who added that the costs far outweighed any benefit to public safety.

Adding 1,000 cases to the yearly average of under 20,000 would be daunting, he said. The same is true for the Minneapolis city attorney, whose office handles some 15,000 misdemeanors annually. “Even if Covid was not a problem, it would be a monstrous task for us to prosecute 500 additional cases,” Ms. Heng said.

Walk into virtually any large courthouse in America and the strain of dealing with the case backlog is palpable.

In Louisville, those cases are referred to as being in the “parking lot.” There are some 22,000 such cases over all, with just four of 10 trial courts functioning in the Jefferson County Courthouse. Across two days in late October, 300 protest case arraignments were jammed onto the calendar, about 10 times the normal rate.

Judge Lisa Langford briefly lost track of which cases were in the courtroom and which were on Zoom. “He has been waving at me, I thought he was just happy to see me,” she joked after locating a lawyer on Zoom.

Prosecutors have moved to dismiss 219 protest cases, said Josh Abner, the spokesman for the Jefferson County attorney.

“We don’t have a magic wand that we can wave in connection with all these cases,” said Mr. O’Connell, noting that a team of four prosecutors was combing through them.

After mass arrests during the 2000 Republican National Convention, Philadelphia legislated a lesser charge to get people off the streets. Police officers started issuing summonses outside regular courts. Misdemeanors and felonies go to the district attorney, while summonses do not.

Larry Krasner, the city’s district attorney, said that his office was reviewing 586 cases and that the city was dropping up to 2,000 summonses. Cases being reviewed involve incidents like breaking into stores or torching police vehicles.

Prosecutions there and elsewhere were also curtailed by the chaotic nature of the demonstrations, especially during the first few weeks when most arrests occurred. With the police working double shifts, paperwork lagged, so finding reports or witnesses for some cases proved impossible.

In Louisville, as the months drag on with the charges dangling overhead, many protesters feel stuck in limbo.

Kelly Parry, 33, both a volunteer defense attorney and a defendant, was among some 76 protesters arrested while blocking an avenue in July. “It is mentally draining not knowing what might happen to you,” she said. “You are constantly thinking, ‘Is this a small situation or will it become something bigger?’”

Mr. Kaufmann, the teacher, was charged with a curfew violation, a misdemeanor, but tried to ignore it. “I don’t want to give in to fear,” he said, focusing instead on his new job within the Jefferson County school system that involves helping to develop a social justice curriculum.

He and Stephanie Kornexl-Kaufmann, then his fiancée and now his wife, decided to join the protesters after hearing the recording of the 911 call that Kenneth Walker, Ms. Taylor’s boyfriend, made as the police broke into her apartment during a botched drug raid.

“We were dumbfounded, we were shocked,” Mr. Kaufmann said. “The country does not live up to the values that we have been teaching in class.”

Mr. Kaufmann had been named the state’s high school teacher of the year partly for building classroom discussions around real-world issues like the #MeToo movement. But none had hit quite so close to home.

News of his arrest spread at lightning speed.

Kaelyn Goatley, 17, a senior at Marion C. Moore School, had to explain to her grandmother, who was initially appalled, why Mr. Kaufmann’s arrest was a good thing.

“I was proud that I had a teacher who was out on the streets fighting for justice,” she said. “He has this big title being high school teacher of the year and the fact that he was out there protesting and being arrested meant that he risked that. It shows how adamant he is about making change.”

In late October, Mr. Kaufmann learned that the charges against him, his wife and a former student who was with them would be dropped. He was elated but noted that hundreds of cases were still pending.

“My young Black male and female friends who I met through the protests were in greater danger than I was and some of them are still dealing with these charges,” he said. “It is not fair, it is not consistent and we have to do better.”





No.3 article:
Trump’s Attempts to Overturn the Election Are Unparalleled in U.S. History

The president’s push to prevent states from certifying electors and get legislators to override voters’ choice eclipses even the bitter 1876 election as an audacious use of brute political force.

WASHINGTON — President Trump’s attempts to overturn the 2020 election are unprecedented in American history and an even more audacious use of brute political force to gain the White House than when Congress gave Rutherford B. Hayes the presidency during Reconstruction.

Mr. Trump’s chances of succeeding are somewhere between remote and impossible, and a sign of his desperation after President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. won by nearly six million popular votes and counting, as well as a clear Electoral College margin. Yet the fact that Mr. Trump is even trying has set off widespread alarms, not least in Mr. Biden’s camp.

“I’m confident he knows he hasn’t won,” Mr. Biden said at a news conference in Wilmington, Del., on Thursday, before adding, “It’s just outrageous what he’s doing.” Although Mr. Biden dismissed Mr. Trump’s behavior as embarrassing, he acknowledged that “incredibly damaging messages are being sent to the rest of the world about how democracy functions.”

Mr. Trump has only weeks to make his last-ditch effort work: Most of the states he needs to strip Mr. Biden of votes are scheduled to certify their electors by the beginning of next week. The electors cast their ballots on Dec. 14, and Congress opens them in a joint session on Jan. 6.

Even if Mr. Trump somehow pulled off his electoral vote switch, there are other safeguards in place, assuming people in power do not simply bend to the president’s will.

The first test will be Michigan, where Mr. Trump is trying to get the State Legislature to overturn Mr. Biden’s 157,000-vote margin of victory. He has taken the extraordinary step of inviting a delegation of state Republican leaders to the White House, hoping to persuade them to ignore the popular vote outcome.

“That’s not going to happen,” Mike Shirkey, the Republican leader of the Michigan State Senate, said on Tuesday. “We are going to follow the law and follow the process.”

Beyond that, Michigan’s Democratic governor, Gretchen Whitmer, could send Congress a competing electoral slate, based on the election vote, arguing that the proper procedures were ignored. That dispute would create just enough confusion, in Mr. Trump’s Hail Mary calculus, that the House and Senate together would have to resolve it in ways untested in modern times.

Federal law dating to 1887, passed in reaction to the Hayes election, provides the framework, but not specifics, of how it would be done. Edward B. Foley, a constitutional law and election law expert at Ohio State University, noted that the law only required Congress to consider all submissions “purporting to be the valid electoral votes.”

But Michigan alone would not be enough for Mr. Trump. He would also need at least two other states to fold to his pressure. The most likely candidates are Georgia and Arizona, which both went for Mr. Trump in 2016 and have Republican-controlled legislatures and Republican governors.

Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona has said he will accept the state election results, although only after all the campaign lawsuits are resolved. Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia, where a hand recount reaffirmed Mr. Biden’s victory on Thursday, has not publicly said one way or another who won his state.

Mr. Trump has said little in public apart from tweets endorsing wild conspiracy theories about how he was denied victory. Yet his strategy, if it can be called that, has become clear over two days of increasingly frenetic action by a president 62 days from losing power.

In just that time, Mr. Trump has fired the federal election official who has challenged his false claims of fraud, tried to halt the vote-certification process in Detroit to disenfranchise an overwhelmingly Black electorate that voted against him, and now is misusing the powers of his office in his effort to take Michigan’s 16 electoral votes away from Mr. Biden.

In many ways it is even more of an attempted power grab than the one in 1876. At the time, Hayes was governor of Ohio, not president of the United States. Ulysses S. Grant was, and when Hayes won — also by wrenching the vote around in three states — he became known as “His Fraudulency.”

“But this is far worse,” said Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian and author of “Presidents of War.” “In the case of Hayes, both sides agreed that the outcome in at least three states was in dispute. In this case, no serious person thinks enough votes are in dispute that Donald Trump could have been elected on Election Day.”

“This is a manufactured crisis. It is a president abusing his huge powers in order to stay in office after the voters clearly rejected him for re-election.”

He added: “This is what many of the founders dreaded.”

Mr. Trump telegraphed this strategy during the campaign. He told voters at a rally in Middletown, Pa., in September that he would win at the polls, or in the Supreme Court, or in the House — where, under the 12th Amendment, every state delegation gets one vote in choosing the president. (There are 26 delegations of 50 dominated by Republicans, even though the House is in the hands of the Democrats.)

“I don’t want to end up in the Supreme Court, and I don’t want to go back to Congress, even though we have an advantage if we go back to Congress,” he said then. “Does everyone understand that?”

Now that is clearly the Plan B, after the failure of Plan A, an improvisational legal strategy to overturn election results by invalidating ballots in key states. In state after state, the president’s lawyers have been laughed out of court, unable to provide evidence to back up his claims that mail-in ballots were falsified, or that glitches on voting machines with software from Dominion Voting Systems might, just might, have changed or deleted 2.7 million votes.

Those theories figured in a rambling news conference that Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, held with other members of his legal team on Thursday. The group threw out a series of disconnected arguments to try to make the case that Mr. Trump really won. The arguments included blaming mail-in ballots that they said were prone to fraud as well as Dominion, which they suggested was tied to former President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela (who died seven years ago), and had vague connections to the Clinton Foundation and George Soros, the philanthropist and billionaire Democratic fund-raiser.

“That press conference was the most dangerous 1hr 45 minutes of television in American history,” Christopher Krebs, who was fired Tuesday night by Mr. Trump as the director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security, tweeted Thursday afternoon.

“And possibly the craziest,” he went on. “If you don’t know what I’m talking about, you’re lucky.”

Mr. Krebs has often noted that the purpose of a reliable election system is to convince those who lost elections that they have, indeed, lost.

Even some of Mr. Trump’s onetime enthusiasts and former top aides have abandoned him on his claims, often with sarcastic derision. “Their basic argument is this was a conspiracy so vast and so successful that there’s no evidence of it,” said John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s third national security adviser, who was ousted last year.

“Now if that’s true, I really want to know who the people are who pulled this off,” he said on Sunday on ABC’s “This Week.” “We need to hire them at the C.I.A.”





No.4 article:
C.D.C. Pleads With Americans to Stay Home on Thanksgiving

Even as the White House downplays the coronavirus threat, health officials warned against traditional gatherings with those from outside the immediate household.

Faced with a seemingly unstoppable surge in coronavirus infections, officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday urged Americans to avoid travel for Thanksgiving and to celebrate only with members of their immediate households — a message sharply at odds with a White House eager to downplay the threat.

The plea, delivered at the first C.D.C. news briefing in months, arrived as many Americans were packing their bags for one of the most heavily traveled weeks of the year. It is the first time that the agency has warned people away from traditional holiday celebrations.

“The safest way to celebrate Thanksgiving this year is at home with members of your household,” said Erin Sauber-Schatz, who leads the agency’s community intervention and critical population task force. She urged Americans to reassess plans for the coming week.

The C.D.C.’s warning runs counter to messages from administration officials, who have denounced concerns that Thanksgiving celebrations will speed the virus’s spread.

“A lot of the guidelines you’re seeing are Orwellian,” Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press secretary, said on “Fox &amp; Friends,” singling out a requirement in Oregon that gatherings not exceed more than six people.

Members of the White House coronavirus task force did not even mention Thanksgiving at a news conference on Thursday, even as they warned of the hazards associated with indoor gatherings and urged “vigilance” in the face of rampant infections.

Earlier in the week, Dr. Scott Atlas, a scientific adviser to President Trump, mocked the idea that older relatives would be put at risk over the holiday weekend, although there is ample medical evidence that seniors are much more likely to become ill if they are exposed to the virus and to die if they become sick.

“This kind of isolation is one of the unspoken tragedies of the elderly, who are now being told, ‘Don’t see your family at Thanksgiving,’” Dr. Atlas said. “For many people, this is their final Thanksgiving, believe it or not.”

An estimated 55 million Americans had planned to travel for the holiday, according to AAA Travel. But rising coronavirus infections, new quarantine rules and increased unemployment have combined to deter travelers in the past few weeks, and that number will be at least 10 percent lower now, the largest year-over-year decrease since 2008.

United Airlines said recently that it expected Thanksgiving week to be its busiest period since the pandemic’s onset. But on Thursday, the airline reported that bookings had slowed and cancellations had risen. American Airlines has slashed flights between the United States and Europe as cases rise sharply on both sides of the Atlantic.

Emboldened C.D.C. officials, rarely heard from in recent months, have been speaking more forcefully since President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. won the election. On Thursday, agency researchers said they were alarmed by the “exponential” rise in coronavirus infections, hospitalizations and deaths across the country.

More than one million new cases have been reported in the past week alone. 

“Amid this critical phase, the C.D.C. is recommending against travel during the Thanksgiving period,” Dr. Henry Walke, Covid-19 incident manager at the agency, said at a news briefing. “All Americans want to do what they can to protect their loved ones.”

As of Wednesday, the seven-day average of daily new cases across the country had surpassed 162,000, an increase of 77 percent from the figure two weeks earlier. More than 79,000 hospitalizations were reported on Wednesday.

Officials in California on Thursday announced a curfew aimed at trying to quickly curb a surge of new coronavirus infections. Nearly all of the residents of the nation’s most populous state will be barred from leaving their homes to do nonessential work or to gather from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m.

Gov. Gavin Newsom’s order comes amid what state officials and experts have described as an alarming — but not yet irreversible — wave of new infections heading into a dangerous Thanksgiving week. 

Given the growing crisis, the C.D.C.’s timing confounded some scientists who have warned for weeks that the holiday gatherings may accelerate the pandemic.

“They’re a little late — everybody’s got their plane tickets,” said Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. “But better late than never.”

Dr. Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota and a member of Mr. Biden’s Covid-19 advisory board, warned that a Thanksgiving feast was the perfect setting for spreading the virus.

“This is a bad time to be swapping air with people that are not immediate household members,” he said. “You can have one person sitting at the table who appears to be perfectly healthy, and you can infect most the people, if not all of the people, sitting at that table.”

Small household gatherings help spread the virus, although their contribution to the overall toll has been hard to define. Older family members are particularly vulnerable to developing severe Covid-19, especially if they have chronic health conditions.

Traveling itself puts people at risk of exposure to the virus, regardless of how they travel. “What we’re concerned about is not only the actual mode of travel — whether it’s an airplane or bus or car — but also the transportation hubs,” Dr. Walke said.

“When people are in line to get on a bus or plane,” social distancing becomes difficult and viral transmission becomes more likely, he said.

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]

Even driving in a car poses risks, because travelers can be exposed at rest stops and gas stations. If Americans choose to travel, they must wash hands, wear masks and maintain social distancing, C.D.C. officials said.

Dr. Walke and others were at pains to differentiate between household members and family members. Many Americans believe that it is safe to gather with family, even if they don’t live together; in fact, most scientists say only other members of the household are safe company.

Researchers define a household as people who have been living together under the same roof for the last 14 days. That definition may apply to unrelated roommates who share living quarters but may exclude close family members who have been living apart from their parents.

The new recommendations pose a particular quandary for families anticipating the return of a college student or hoping to host an adult child who lives in a separate residence. Neither child is part of the household.

Colleges have encouraged students — many returning home for the remainder of the semester — to take a coronavirus test before they depart, but C.D.C. officials do not endorse testing before gathering for Thanksgiving.

Testing is far from foolproof, and a negative result indicates only that “you probably were not infected at the time your sample was collected,” according to the agency.

If members of different households are gathering in someone’s home for the Thanksgiving meal, they should all wear masks, except when eating, and remain six feet apart, federal officials said.

Guests should be encouraged to wash their hands with soap and water, and no one should hug or exchange handshakes. When gathering inside, attendees should wear masks as much as possible when not eating. Windows and doors should be kept open as much as possible to improve ventilation.

The C.D.C.’s advice went so far as to urge people to speak in low voices, because shouting — or singing — can spread the virus. Only one person should serve the food, federal officials said. If there are overnight guests, they should have their own bathroom.

Other medical organizations also issued dire warnings on Thursday. In an unusual “open letter to the American people,” groups representing physicians, nurses and hospitals jointly urged people to scale back holiday gatherings.

Though the letter did not explicitly discourage travel, the groups noted that Covid-19 cases had spiked after other holidays, like the Fourth of July and Labor Day, and that health care systems were already stretched to the limit in many parts of the country.





No.5 article:
A Timeline of the Certification Process That Trump Is Trying to Disrupt

Despite Republican efforts to undermine the process, state officials say they fully expect to meet their upcoming deadlines.

As President Trump and his Republican allies continue trying to undermine the election, the certification of the vote totals in each state is the next major step in formalizing President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory.

A key part of the Republican strategy has been to delay certification processes in battleground states that Mr. Biden won, in the hopes that, if state officials miss their deadlines, legislators will subvert the popular vote and appoint pro-Trump slates to the Electoral College. But that’s extremely unlikely to happen.

Here’s a breakdown of the certification deadlines and other key dates in battleground states, and what will happen between now and Inauguration Day.

Mr. Biden won these two states.

In Michigan, the Board of State Canvassers on Monday officially certified the results previously certified by canvassing boards in each county. Three of the four board members — two Democrats and one Republican — voted in favor, while the fourth, a Republican, abstained.

Among the decisive swing states Mr. Biden won, Michigan was the second to certify its results. It followed Georgia, where Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, signed off on Friday; a machine recount requested by the Trump campaign will begin this week, but Mr. Biden’s lead is much too large to expect a recount to overcome.

Mr. Trump’s campaign had tried to block the certification process in Michigan in the hopes of getting Republican state legislators to overrule millions of voters and appoint a pro-Trump slate to the Electoral College. The canvassing board’s vote on Monday torpedoed that effort. (Republicans could still sue, but such a lawsuit would be very unlikely to succeed.)

Monday is also the deadline for counties in Pennsylvania to certify their totals and send them to Kathy Boockvar, the secretary of the commonwealth, who will certify the state results. Pennsylvania doesn’t have a hard deadline for when Ms. Boockvar must sign off, but she is likely to do so by Nov. 30.

Last week, a court rejected a last-ditch effort by the Trump campaign to block certification in Pennsylvania. The campaign then filed an extremely narrow appeal that, even if accepted, would not delay the certification process, and that could be moot after certification. It is possible that, post-certification, the campaign could file a new lawsuit, but that, too, would be unlikely to succeed.

No current lawsuit that could change the results of the election, in Pennsylvania or elsewhere, is likely to make it to the Supreme Court at this point.

In Nevada, which Mr. Biden won, the state Supreme Court will meet on Nov. 24 to certify the results. Ultimately, the governor will need to confirm the outcome. The Trump campaign has filed a lawsuit baselessly claiming that Mr. Trump actually won Nevada, and conservative groups are trying to nullify the results, but these claims are highly unlikely to lead anywhere.

This is also the certification deadline for Minnesota and North Carolina, neither of which is expected to be contentious. Mr. Biden won Minnesota; Mr. Trump won North Carolina.

This is the deadline for Ohio, which Mr. Trump won, to certify its results. No challenges are expected.

Arizona has to certify its results by this date, as do Iowa and Nebraska. Mr. Biden won Arizona, Mr. Trump won Iowa, and in Nebraska, Mr. Trump won statewide but Mr. Biden won one electoral vote in the state’s Second Congressional District.

The Arizona Republican Party asked a court to postpone certification in Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix, but a judge rejected the request on Thursday.

Given this, counties are expected to certify on time and Katie Hobbs, the secretary of state and a Democrat, is expected to sign off on the final, statewide certification.

No disputes are expected in Iowa or Nebraska that could delay certification.

This is the deadline for Wisconsin, which Mr. Biden won, to certify its results.

Wisconsin has already completed county-level certification, but the Trump campaign is seeking a partial recount, which, if it proceeds, should be complete by the deadline and is not expected to alter the results significantly. Once the recount is completed, the Wisconsin Elections Commission will meet to certify the results statewide.

This is a key date in the democratic process: If states resolve all disputes and certify their results by Dec. 8, the results should be insulated from further legal challenges, ensuring that states won by Mr. Biden will send Biden delegates to the Electoral College.

The certification processes leading up to this date vary from state to state, but the final step is the same everywhere under federal law: The governor of each state must compile the certified results and send them to Congress, along with the names of the state’s Electoral College delegates.

Electors will meet on Dec. 14 in their respective states and cast their votes. This vote is, constitutionally, what determines the next president.

Mr. Biden has 306 electoral votes to Mr. Trump’s 232. Many states formally require their electors to vote for the candidate they pledged to vote for, generally the winner of the state’s popular vote. Historically, rogue electors have been few and far between, and have never altered the outcome.

Congress is ultimately responsible for counting and certifying the votes cast by the Electoral College, and it is scheduled to do so on Jan. 6.

If there are still disputes at this point — if Republican legislators in a state were to appoint a pro-Trump Electoral College slate in opposition to voters’ will, for instance, and the Democratic governor of the state were to appoint a pro-Biden slate — it would be Congress’s job to resolve them. Election law experts say that under federal statute, the governor’s slate should be favored.

Mr. Biden will be sworn in as the 46th president of the United States.





No.6 article:
Deadly Protests Erupt in Uganda After Arrest of 2 Opposition Figures

At least 16 people were killed in protests over the arrests. One of the detained presidential candidates, the popular musician-turned-lawmaker Bobi Wine, was accused of breaking coronavirus restrictions at campaign rallies.

NAIROBI, Kenya — The national police in Uganda said Thursday that at least 16 people had been killed and hundreds arrested in protests that erupted across the country after two presidential candidates were arrested while campaigning ahead of a highly anticipated January election.

The violence began Wednesday as word of the arrests spread in the East African nation, where President Yoweri Museveni is vying for a record sixth term in office.

A deputy police spokesman, Patrick Onyango, said in a statement broadcast on a Ugandan news station on Thursday that the death toll stood at 16, more than double the figure late Wednesday, and that rioting was continuing around the capital Kampala and elsewhere in the country. At least 300 people were arrested, the police said.

The unrest in Uganda echoes recent election-related violence in other African countries, including Guinea, Tanzania and Ivory Coast, where opposition figures accused entrenched leaders of having manipulated the rules and rigged the polls in order to extend their stay in power.

In Uganda, the arrest of Bobi Wine, one of the presidential candidates and a popular musician-turned-lawmaker, was based on accusations that his rallies had breached coronavirus rules. “The majority of the participants had no safeguards of face masks, physical distancing and proper hygiene,” a police statement said.

Another presidential contender, Patrick Amuriat, was arrested in the northwestern town of Gulu, accused of planning to hold an unauthorized assembly. He was later released.

It was the second time this month that the police had detained these same two candidates. The authorities had also previously arrested Mr. Wine, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, on several occasions, severely beat him in custody and even killed his driver. They had also raided his party offices and confiscated election materials.

The arrests on Wednesday fueled protests in major cities like Jinja and Masaka, and in the capital, Kampala, and its suburbs. Video and social media posts showed demonstrators burning tires, and there were reports of looting and vandalism as officers used tear gas to disperse the crowds.

The police said they had arrested several people in connection with the violence. A leading television station, NTV Uganda, said officers had confiscated equipment as one of its reporters covered the protests.

The demonstrations come barely two months before a general election in which Mr. Museveni will face off with 10 other candidates. Mr. Museveni, 76, is one of Africa’s longest-serving rulers and has presided over the East African nation since 1986, after the ouster of the dictator Idi Amin.

Although Mr. Museveni is credited with bringing peace, promoting economic growth and reducing rates of AIDS, his government has faced criticism over growing corruption, widespread surveillance tactics and intolerance of dissent. In 2017, he approved a measure that scrapped the presidential age limit of 75, allowing him to run for another term.

Mr. Wine, 38, is running on a platform of change and a promise to oversee a “people-centered” government that would ensure equal access to education, health care and economic development.

His rise exemplifies a standoff in recent years between aging despots and young voters in Africa, a trend also playing out in countries like Algeria, Cameroon, Sudan and Zimbabwe.

Mr. Wine has repeatedly said that he could be killed over his political efforts.

On Tuesday, in a video posted to his Facebook page, dozens of security officers could be seen surrounding his vehicle in Luuka before taking him to a detention van. In other footage posted by his political party, the National Unity Platform, Mr. Wine, with a red face mask dangling from his chin, urged officers to “be nonviolent.”

He was then transported to a police station, where the authorities said he was “interrogated on charges of negligent conduct likely to spread an infectious disease, obstruction, incitement to violence and holding unauthorized assemblies.”

The National Unity Platform tweeted out a charge sheet that said Mr. Wine was being detained for holding a rally of more than 200 people. Joel Ssenyonyi, a party spokesman, also said that Mr. Wine had been denied access to his lawyers, doctors, family and fellow party members.

“We are worried they could have tortured him and they don’t want the world to see the state in which he is,” Mr. Ssenyonyi said in an interview.

The authorities in Uganda have introduced strict measures to thwart the coronavirus, and rights organizations have accused them of using “excessive force” to ensure compliance. The country has reported 16,905 infections and 157 deaths from the virus.

Mr. Wine’s arrest drew condemnation from activists and opposition parties both in Uganda and across the continent who called for his release. Mugisha Muntu, the presidential candidate for the Alliance for National Transformation, said he would suspend his campaign until both detained candidates were released from police custody.

Several foreign diplomatic missions in Uganda, along with European Union officials, also voiced concerns about Wednesday’s violence. The United States Embassy said in a statement, “We urge all parties to renounce violence, undertake good-faith measures to reduce tensions and respect fundamental freedoms.”





No.7 article:
Corrections: Nov. 20, 2020

Corrections that appeared in print on Friday, Nov. 20, 2020

An article on Thursday about a threat by Mexico to expel American drug agents misstated Senator Bob Menendez’s role on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He is its top Democrat, not its chairman.

An article on Thursday about possible cuts to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s budget misstated McKinsey &amp; Company’s best-case scenario for ridership. It projected that by 2024 ridership would reach 90 percent of pre-pandemic levels, not 80 percent.

An article on Thursday about the language used by lawyers supporting President Trump misstated the circumstances in which they claimed that the election was stolen. They were in court, but they were not under oath at the time.

An article on Wednesday about the acquisition of Kind North America by Mars misstated the year that Kind was founded. It was 2004, not 2005.

An article on Thursday about the N.B.A. draft misstated when the Knicks moved up. It was Wednesday, not Monday.

An art entry in the Listings Pages on Nov. 13 about a gallery show featuring the work of Jonathan Lyndon Chase misstated the end date. It is Nov. 21, not Nov. 20.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com.

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.





No.8 article:
Drew Days, First Black Leader of Civil Rights Unit, Dies at 79

Born in the segregated South, Mr. Days, who later became solicitor general, knew from an early age that he wanted to work for civil rights.

Drew S. Days III, who was the first African-American to head the civil rights division of the Justice Department and later became solicitor general under President Bill Clinton, died on Sunday  in East Haven, Conn. He was 79. 

His wife, Ann Langdon-Days, said the cause was complications of dementia. He died in a long-term care facility.

Born in the segregated South, Mr. Days went to Yale Law School, fought for civil rights through the courts and enjoyed a meteoric career that might have led to a seat on the U.S. Supreme Court if not for his legal opinion in an obscure child pornography case.

He knew from an early age that he wanted to work for civil rights. “I rode segregated buses, and I was from the era with the segregated lunch counters and water fountains,” he recalled in a 2014 interview with the Touro Law Review. “I had a real feel for that. My mother was a schoolteacher, and she suffered from the fact that her aspirations were very limited because of segregation.”

He eschewed the path of clerking for an important judge or networking at a corporate firm. Rather, he started out working against housing discrimination in Chicago with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He later joined the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, for which he argued several school desegregation cases, including a lawsuit, which he won, to desegregate the same schools in Tampa, Fla., that he had attended as a boy.

President Jimmy Carter named Mr. Days assistant attorney general for civil rights in 1977, making him the first Black person to head any division in the Justice Department. His tenure was marked by aggressive enforcement of the nation’s civil rights laws in cases involving police misconduct and discrimination in employment, housing, voting and education.

He joined the Yale law faculty in 1981 and remained there for 35 years. During that time he testified before Congress against the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court, arguing that Justice Thomas — then a federal appeals court judge — lacked sensitivity and historical perspective on matters of discrimination.

It was while he was at Yale that Mr. Days took a three-year detour at the relatively young age of 51 to serve as solicitor general, the nation’s top courtroom advocate.

He was widely perceived as destined for a seat on the federal bench and possibly the Supreme Court. But a political uproar early in his tenure in the Clinton administration made such an elevation unlikely.

The case involved the 1991 conviction of a Pennsylvania man, Stephen A. Knox, for possessing videotapes of minors involved in sexually explicit conduct. “Sexually explicit” had been defined by Congress as “lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area.”

When Mr. Knox appealed his case to the Supreme Court, President George H.W. Bush’s Justice Department supported upholding the conviction. But three months into his new job, Mr. Days noted that the girls in Mr. Knox’s tapes were in fact clothed and not acting lasciviously, and so in his view the tapes did not meet the law’s definition of sexually explicit.

His “confessed error” — a legal practice in which the solicitor general admits that a lower court had decided a case incorrectly — reversed the Bush administration’s position, and Mr. Days recommended that the case be sent back to the lower court. The Supreme Court did so, but eventually reaffirmed the conviction.

Once Mr. Days said that the case had been wrongly decided, Republicans in Congress and their conservative allies pounced, accusing the new Clinton administration of being soft on crime and holding radical legal views.

The issue became so incendiary that Republicans denounced Mr. Days’s stance on the Senate floor. Democrats joined them, and the Senate voted unanimously to condemn his interpretation of the law.

President Clinton then sent a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno saying that he agreed with the Senate and that child pornography laws should be interpreted as broadly as possible. A senior Clinton official told Newsweek that the Knox case had “cost Days a seat on the Supreme Court.”

Mr. Clinton reversed other decisions by Mr. Days, who took the reversals with equanimity. “I did what I had to do, to the best of my ability and to my conviction,” he told Newsweek, “and the president exercised his authority.”

Some perceived Mr. Days as being politically tone-deaf, while others saw him as standing up for principle, even if that meant creating headaches for his boss.

“Drew was committed to principle, not politics,” Harold Hongju Koh, a former dean of Yale Law School, said in a phone interview.

“It would have been easy for him to do the politically expedient thing to get ahead,” Mr. Koh added, “but that was not in his DNA.”

Drew Saunders Days III was born on Aug. 29, 1941, in Atlanta. His father, Drew Saunders Days 2d, was an insurance executive and accountant. His mother, Dorothea (Jamerson) Days, was a schoolteacher.

He grew up in Tampa until the early 1950s, when his father landed an insurance job in New Rochelle, N.Y., and the family moved north.

He received his bachelor’s degree in English literature from Hamilton College, in upstate New York, in 1963 and his law degree from Yale in 1966.

Mr. Days had loved to sing — he practiced Renaissance madrigals in the shower — and, while at Yale, was a featured tenor in the Yale Russian Chorus. When the chorus sought out female singers for roles in the Mikhail Glinka opera “A Life for the Czar,” Ann Ramsay Langdon, a student at Connecticut College, volunteered. The two got to know each other during rehearsals, and they married in 1966.

While at law school, Mr. Days worked for a civil rights lawyer in Georgia and afterward briefly joined a small firm in Chicago. He and his wife then served in the Peace Corps for two years in Honduras.

Mr. Days came to the attention of President Carter when Mr. Carter appointed Griffin B. Bell as attorney general. Judge Bell, who had sat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, had been impressed with Mr. Days when the young lawyer was arguing school desegregation cases in the South. Mr. Days headed the civil rights division for the duration of the Carter administration.

During his later stint as solicitor general, he argued 17 cases before the Supreme Court and oversaw a group of government lawyers who made more than 180 appearances before it.

One of his most noted cases was his successful argument against term limits for members of Congress. The Supreme Court decision, U.S. Term Limits v. Thornton, in 1995 threw cold water on a popular movement that had been heralded by Newt Gingrich, the speaker of the House, in his Contract With America and that had nominal support from many politicians.

After serving as solicitor general, Mr. Days returned to Yale, where he hung a sign in his office saying, “No soliciting.” He continued to teach while practicing in Washington at a private firm, Morrison &amp; Foerster. He led the firm’s Supreme Court and appellate group from 1997 until his retirement in 2011. He retired from Yale in 2017.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Dr. Alison L. Days and Elizabeth J. Days; two granddaughters; and his sister, Jacquelyn D. Serwer.

Reflecting on his life in an interview with his daughter Elizabeth for StoryCorps in 2008, Mr. Days said he had been pleased that when he moved his family to New Haven in the early 1980s, his daughters were taking the bus to public schools.

“I put perhaps a million kids on school buses,” he said, referring to his involvement in school desegregation cases that led to mandatory busing. “To have my daughters take school buses voluntarily and enjoy it makes me feel better.”





No.9 article:
Making the Most of the Coming Biden Boom

The economic outlook is probably brighter than you think.

The next few months are going to be incredibly grim. The pandemic is exploding, but Donald Trump is tweeting while America burns. His officials, unwilling to admit that he lost the election, are refusing even to share coronavirus data with the Biden team.

As a result, many preventable deaths will occur before a vaccine’s widespread distribution. And the economy will take a hit, too; travel is declining, an early indicator of a slowdown in job growth and possibly even a return to job losses as virus fears cause consumers to hunker down again.

But a vaccine is coming. Nobody is sure which of the promising candidates will prevail, or when they’ll be widely available. But it’s a good guess that we’ll get this pandemic under control at some point next year.

And it’s also a good bet that when we do the economy will come roaring back.

OK, this is not the consensus view. Most economic forecasters appear to be quite pessimistic; they expect a long, sluggish recovery that will take years to bring us back to anything resembling full employment. They worry a lot about long-term “scarring” from unemployment and closed businesses. And they could be right.

But my sense is that many analysts have overlearned the lessons from the 2008 financial crisis, which was indeed followed by years of depressed employment, defying the predictions of economists who expected the kind of “V-shaped” recovery the economy experienced after earlier deep slumps. For what it’s worth, I was among those who dissented back then, arguing that this was a different kind of recession, and that recovery would take a long time.

And here’s the thing: The same logic that predicted sluggish recovery from the last big slump points to a much faster recovery this time around — again, once the pandemic is under control.

What held recovery back after 2008? Most obviously, the bursting of the housing bubble left households with high levels of debt and greatly weakened balance sheets that took years to recover.

This time, however, households entered the pandemic slump with much lower debt. Net worth took a brief hit but quickly recovered. And there’s probably a lot of pent-up demand: Americans who remained employed did a huge amount of saving in quarantine, accumulating a lot of liquid assets.

All of this suggests to me that spending will surge once the pandemic subsides and people feel safe to go out and about, just as spending surged in 1982 when the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates. And this in turn suggests that Joe Biden will eventually preside over a soaring, “morning in America”-type recovery.

Which brings me to the politics. How should Biden play the good economic news if and when it comes?

First of all, he should celebrate it. I don’t expect Biden to engage in Trump-like boasting; he’s not that kind of guy, and his economics team will be composed of people who care about their professional reputations, not the quacks and hacks who populate the current administration. But he can highlight the good news, and point out how it refutes claims that progressive policies somehow prevent prosperity.

Also, Biden and his surrogates shouldn’t hesitate to call out Republicans, both in Washington and in state governments, when they try to sabotage the economy — which, of course, they will. I won’t even be surprised if we see G.O.P. efforts to impede the wide distribution of a vaccine.

What, do you think there are some lines a party refusing to cooperate with the incoming administration — and, in fact, still trying to steal the election — won’t cross?

Finally, while Biden should make the most of good economic news, he should try to build on success, not rest on his laurels. Short-term booms are no guarantee of longer-term prosperity. Despite the rapid recovery of 1982-1984, the typical American worker earned less, adjusted for inflation, at the end of Reagan’s presidency in 1989 than in 1979.

And while I’m optimistic about the immediate outlook for a post-vaccine economy, we’ll still need to invest on a large scale to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, improve the condition of America’s families (especially children) and, above all, head off catastrophic climate change.

So even if I’m right about the prospects for a Biden boom, the political benefits of that boom shouldn’t be cause for complacency; they should be harnessed in the service of fixing America for the long run.

And the fact that Biden may be able to do that is reason for hope.

Those of us worried about the future were relieved to see Trump defeated (even though it’s possible he’ll have to be removed forcibly from the White House), but bitterly disappointed by the failure of the expected blue wave to materialize down-ballot.

If I’m right, however, the peculiar nature of the coronavirus slump may give Democrats another big political opportunity. There’s a pretty good chance that they’ll be able to run in the 2022 midterms as the party that brought the nation and the economy back from the depths of Covid despond. And they should seize that opportunity, not just for their own sake, but for the sake of the nation and the world.





No.10 article:
BuzzFeed to Acquire HuffPost From Verizon Media

Once they had digital media almost to themselves. Now, in a deal led by the BuzzFeed founder Jonah Peretti, two giants of the web plan to join forces to better compete in an increasingly crowded field.

After falling prey to some of the same business difficulties that have plagued newspapers and magazines, the digital-media giants BuzzFeed and HuffPost have decided to join forces, the companies announced on Thursday.

Under the plan, BuzzFeed will acquire HuffPost from its owner, Verizon Media, as part of a larger stock deal, the companies said. The BuzzFeed and HuffPost websites will remain distinct, each with its own editorial staff. The BuzzFeed founder Jonah Peretti, who helped found HuffPost 15 years ago, will serve as the chief executive.

As part of the arrangement, Verizon Media will become a minority shareholder in BuzzFeed, the companies said, but it will not have a seat on BuzzFeed’s board.

“We’re excited about our partnership with Verizon Media, and mutual benefits that will come from syndicating content across each other’s properties, collaborating on innovative ad products and the future of commerce, and tapping into the strength and creativity of Verizon Media Immersive,” Mr. Peretti said in a statement.

BuzzFeed and HuffPost have struggled, with both having gone through rounds of layoffs in recent years. Mr. Peretti believes that getting bigger is the right move for his business.

Digital media, a relatively open territory when HuffPost started in 2005, has grown crowded and more competitive. Google and Facebook have grabbed huge chunks of ad revenue from publishers; Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Twitch are taking would-be readers’ attention; and many legacy media outlets have gotten the hang of the web while also figuring out how to persuade readers to pay for content.

The deal between BuzzFeed and HuffPost marks the fourth significant merger among name-brand digital publishers, following the combination of Vox Media and New York Magazine, Vice Media’s acquisition of Refinery29, and Group Nine’s merger with PopSugar. Digital journalism needs size to survive — and even these deals may not be enough to sustain their operations.

Because BuzzFeed and HuffPost appeal to different readerships, they should complement each other as part of the same company, Mr. Peretti said in an interview on Thursday.

“We want HuffPost to be more HuffPosty, and BuzzFeed to be more BuzzFeedy — there’s not much audience overlap,” he said. “These are different audiences they serve. On the editorial side and the consumer side, we want to have a lot of independence and autonomy for HuffPost and for it to determine its own brand.”

Mr. Peretti, 46, also said HuffPost will have a new editor in chief. The site’s previous top editor, from 2016 until March of this year, was Lydia Polgreen, a former New York Times editor. She left HuffPost to become the head of content at the podcasting company Gimlet Media, and a successor has yet to be named. On the business side, operations are likely to be combined.

Mr. Peretti approached Verizon on several occasions about a possible HuffPost acquisition, he said in the interview. In 2018, shortly after Hans E. Vestberg was named Verizon’s chief executive, Mr. Peretti made an overture, only to be rebuffed.

He said he found a willing ear in January at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, the convention that draws digital publishers, tech companies and major advertisers who meet to broker multimillion-dollar marketing agreements between games of craps and blackjack.

In a suite at the Aria Resort and Casino on the 35th floor overlooking the Vegas Strip, Mr. Peretti met with Guru Gowrappan, the Verizon Media chief executive, who reports to Mr. Vestberg, to discuss ways the two companies could work together.

At first, they discussed how Verizon Media could help BuzzFeed with its ad technology, as well as the possibility of entering into a content-sharing arrangement. Some months later, the talk turned to an acquisition, Mr. Peretti said.

“While considering opportunities to work together, naturally, Jonah and I also discussed the property he co-founded, HuffPost,” Mr. Gowrappan said in a statement. “We quickly realized BuzzFeed’s strategy would complement HuffPost’s road map, injecting it with new energy and growing the brand into the future.”

HuffPost had seen a large drop in revenue because of the coronavirus pandemic, according to two people with knowledge of the company, who were not authorized to discuss it publicly. In an interview, Mr. Gowrappan said that the company believed in Mr. Peretti’s approach, which persuaded him that a merger deal would add value.

Once the deal goes through, BuzzFeed will have to find ways to cut costs, the two people said. Mr. Peretti’s company was on track to turn a profit this year, but the addition of HuffPost will add more costs starting next year. The deal includes some cash from Verizon that will help BuzzFeed pay for severance for possible layoffs and other costs associated with the merger, the two people said.

Both outlets share DNA. Along with the political power player Arianna Huffington and the investor Kenneth Lerer, Mr. Peretti was part of the team that created the original Huffington Post, as it was then known, in 2005. The driving idea was to build a liberal version of Drudge Report — an online gathering spot for readers fed up with the George W. Bush administration.

The site benefited from Ms. Huffington’s Rolodex, back when Rolodexes were still a thing: She was able to charm big-name contributors from Hollywood and the Beltway to write for free. Steeped in the Google algorithm, Mr. Peretti, the site’s chief technology officer, along with its editors, helped make Huffington Post into an online force, one that featured a new brand of journalism — unapologetically web-native, complete with slide shows, hot-take opinion pieces and curiosity-inducing headlines — that drew millions of clicks in the years before Twitter and other social media platforms took charge of the internet discourse.

In 2006, Mr. Peretti, a scientist of the web with a perennial interest in which pieces of online content proved most engaging to readers, started BuzzFeed while he was still HuffPost’s chief technology officer. At first, it was an experimental project that he ran out of a small office in Manhattan’s Chinatown. Mr. Peretti left HuffPost in 2011, after it was sold to AOL for $315 million, and with the help of $35 million from corporate investors, he transformed his side gig into a stand-alone media company.

BuzzFeed caught on as a website filled with features aimed at a largely millennial audience, things like “21 Pictures That Will Restore Your Faith in Humanity” and a video of BuzzFeeders trying to make a watermelon explode. As the site matured, it went deep into current-events coverage and investigative articles under BuzzFeed News, a division that was led for eight years by its founding editor, Ben Smith, before he joined The Times as its media columnist, and is now run by Mark Schoofs.

But struggles lay ahead.

In 2017, BuzzFeed cut 100 employees after missing revenue targets. Last year, it laid off more than 220 employees, or 15 percent of its work force. Amid the cost-cutting measures, BuzzFeed added banner ads, a form of advertising it once eschewed. It even expanded into the retail business, with branded products, including a recent partnership to create sex toys.

HuffPost cut 39 employees during a round of layoffs in 2017. In early 2019, Verizon said it would cut 800 positions, or 7 percent of its media divisions. Later that year, HuffPost let 11 video employees go.

In a 2018 interview with The Times, Mr. Peretti dropped huge hints that his site would be better off as part of a larger entity. “If BuzzFeed and five of the other biggest companies were combined into a bigger digital media company,” he said at the time, “you would probably be able to get paid more money.”

In the interview on Thursday, Mr. Peretti did not rule out another merger.

“We will continually look at opportunities, but I haven’t taken the approach of trying to rush it,” he said just before hopping off the call to lead an all-hands meeting of the HuffPost staff. “We’re building a real platform for digital media to get more value from content operations that we own, that everyone should be getting.”





No.11 article:
Derek Fordjour, From Anguish to Transcendence

In a bare room upstairs from his art studio inside an industrial building in the South Bronx, Derek Fordjour watched as three puppeteers brought a character drawn right out of his paintings to three-dimensional life. The artist was forging yet another branch of his multiform practice: a live show, inspired by Japanese puppet theater, to complement work in his upcoming gallery exhibition.

Mr. Fordjour often depicts Black athletes and performers — dancers, riders, rowers, drum-majors — as strivers who navigate the ambiguities that come with their achievement, and the racial scrutiny that accompanies visibility in the mainstream culture.

 The wood puppet was a vessel for these concerns. He had an athletic look, in breeches and a tunic. The top was a striped number in pink, blue, and brown, typical of the busy colors and patterns that energize Mr. Fordjour’s paintings. The character careened between triumph and slapstick abjection as the puppeteers moved him across a long table with artificial turf.

The puppet bent to pick up a ball; it stuck to his hand. As he tried to shake it off, a laugh track played — a crowd guffawing at his distress. Later he soared for a dunk, Jordan-style. He was mocked and applauded — the story suggested that what elevates Black achievers in our society can also erode their psyches.

“I love learning other ways to have a conversation,” Mr. Fordjour said after the rehearsal, a collaboration with the puppet artist Nick Lehane. “Painting has its utility, but performance is another register.”

At 46, by art-world metrics, Mr. Fordjour is already registering. He was a market sensation in 2019 with a noteworthy sale at Phillips, where “Agency and Regulation (study)” went for $137,500, double its estimate. At the Frieze art fair he sold a suite of 10 paintings to Jay-Z and Beyoncé.

This year brought his first full-fledged museum show, at the Contemporary Art Museum St. Louis, where paintings hung in a tropical environment that included corrugated metal walls and an ingenious method to replicate the sound of rain. “The idea was about creating a multisensory experience,” Wassan al-Khudhairi, the show’s curator, said of the immersive staging. She added, “He’s an extremely ambitious person; risk-taking is part of the journey.”

Mr. Fordjour’s solo show, “Self Must Die,” at Petzel Gallery is typically elaborate, with a walk-in installation, two new painting suites, a series of sculptures and the puppet show, performed twice daily.

His rise has been remarkable considering that his breakout show, in an artist-run space in Bushwick, was in 2014. Two years later, he was still completing his M.F.A. at Hunter College.

The sculptor Nari Ward, his teacher and adviser at Hunter, recalled that Mr. Fordjour, who was older than most other students — was driven with big ideas. “He came in hungry,” Mr. Ward said. “I was like, ooh, what’s going to happen to this guy?”

Woven into Mr. Fordjour’s work are lessons from his tortuous journey since committing to art back in high school, the son of Ghanaian immigrants in Memphis, Tenn.

But it was the events of 2020, between the pandemic and the police killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, that took his newest work on a bleaker path, one that digs deeper into the ceremony of Black grief and mourning. The focus of his art is shifting from the complexities of performative roles to include how we mark the lives that had been lost.

A new ensemble painting, “Chorus of Maternal Grief,” commemorates 14 women, from Mamie Till-Mobley, Emmett Till’s mother, to Tamika Palmer, Ms. Taylor’s mother, whom bereavement forced into public roles. It is a new move for him: specific portraits rather than archetypes.

“This year, I feel like memorial is important,” he said. “Black funerary tradition is on my mind,” he added. “Thinking about all the people who were not able to have funerals.”

The Petzel show arrives with an epigraph from “In the Wake: On Blackness and Being,” a 2016 book by the scholar Christina Sharpe, who refers to “wake work” — the ensemble of activities, grand and mundane, that acknowledge and address Black death, and in doing so, affirm Black life.

She writes: “What does it look like, entail and mean to attend to, care for, comfort, and defend, those already dead, those dying, and those living lives consigned to the possibility of always-imminent death, life lived in the presence of death … it means work.”

Mr. Fordjour was taken by that concept, he said, and he has also been reading Black liberation theory, by the theologian James H. Cone, and studies of Black mourning.

The artist recalled years ago criticisms of the funeral industry for inflating its prices. “And Black funeral directors really rebuffed it,” he said. “They said, this is the opportunity to celebrate. This is our chance to be ornate.”

One work in the show, “Pall Bearers,” is inspired by the lavish funeral given George Floyd in Houston. Struck by Mr. Floyd’s gold-finished casket, Mr. Fordjour researched recipients of similar gold coffins and found that they included Michael Jackson and Whitney Houston.

The painting presents men in top hats, in a flattened perspective that conveys rhythm and immediacy. “But the casket is probably the subject of the painting,” he said. “A man commemorated in a gold casket, contrasting so sharply with the way his life ended.”

Mr. Fordjour plays with the ornate; he is not afraid to dazzle.

“He’s a superb colorist,” said Manon Slome, the curator who developed with Mr. Fordjour a wild, funhouselike installation for kids (but not just) at the Sugar Hill Children’s Museum of Art &amp; Storytelling. “There’s a theatricality in the work; they’re showmen,” she added. “The light radiates from within.”

When depicting crowds, as in “Parade,” Mr. Fordjour’s 2018 mosaic series inside the 145th Street subway station of the No. 3 line, the artist shows the inspiration of Jacob Lawrence and Archibald Motley, though his palette is lighter, more variegated.

The process of painting is at once humble and intricate: He covers a canvas or wood board with cardboard tiles, foil and other materials, and wraps it in newspaper (always The Financial Times, for its warm, salmon hue). The process repeats several times, with Mr. Fordjour applying washes of paint, then tearing and carving the accumulating surface as he goes.

These days, Mr. Fordjour has assistants handle the preliminaries, which involves seven or eight layers. “This is where I start cooking.” He applies hundreds of small pieces of hand-cut paper, and sketches in charcoal. Then he moves to acrylic and oil pastel.

“He found a technique,” said Mr. Ward, who remains his friend and sounding board. “It’s a kind of seduction of the hand, but once you’re in it, you realize you’ve been brought to another space — of inquiry and realization of a kind of historical angst.”

Mr. Fordjour’s first round in art school in New York, back some 20 years earlier, wasn’t such a success. Set on his path by Bill Hicks, a local-legend art teacher at Central High School in Memphis, he enrolled at Pratt Institute, but now says, “I went way off track.”

He dropped out and hung out — at the Met, at the Art Students League, and had a brush with the justice system in Brooklyn. “The truth is that I ran into some trouble. I got arrested,” he said. The charge involved drugs but the case was dismissed. The incident left him shaken and reminded him of his middle class privilege.

“The thing that saved me was that my dad was an oral surgeon, and I had a cousin at Harvard Law School. But I saw what happens when someone like me gets into that system.” Long ashamed, he revealed the story when he participated in Project Reset, where artists mentor young people facing misdemeanor convictions.

Mr. Fordjour returned to Memphis and enrolled in community college, then had a baby with a girlfriend (his son is now a college student). “Living some life kind of got me on track,” he said. He began teaching art in day care centers. He then finished college at Morehouse University, continuing to Harvard, where he earned a master’s in art education.

A different path was germinating, that of the artist. At Morehouse, Akua McDaniel’s course in African-American art history awakened him to a lineage from slavery to the Harlem Renaissance to the scholarship of David Driskell and Richard J. Powell. “It opened me up to a whole world of possibility,” he said.

And a series of portrait commissions for bankers and others in Memphis’s Black professional circles showed that there could be money in painting. By the time Mr. Fordjour reappeared in New York and got married, settling into suburban life in Mount Vernon, he was steadily producing portraits and landscapes in his basement.

He hated it. “It was a lot of bad work, failed experiments,” he said. Things he cared about did not show up in his work. When his marriage fell apart, he found himself sleeping on an air mattress in a storage building.

But he found it liberating to work with charcoal on newspaper — the only surface he could afford for a time. And he was making friends on the art scene like Hank Willis Thomas. Mickalene Thomas let him help in the studio; her work with fractured surfaces, bright color, and neon, he said, unlocked his own imagination.

By the time Mr. Fordjour enrolled at Hunter, his friends were alerting collectors. The construction executive Joseph Mizzi offered him an exhibition in his office in 2013. He accepted, recalling advice from Mark Bradford: “Show anywhere.” The painter Henry Taylor turned up and bought a sculpture.

“It just started happening, man,” Mr. Fordjour said. “I haven’t even put it together for myself.”

In the studio last month, collaboration was in the air. Art by friends hung in the conference room. On Zoom, Mr. Fordjour checked in with Hollywood designers, one a friend from high school, who were crafting his new installation. The puppet artists worked upstairs.

Mr. Fordjour contemplated how this year had elevated the stakes.

Last March, he was sued by a former gallerist, Robert Blumenthal, who claimed that Mr. Fordjour reneged on a deal they agreed to in 2014, to deliver 20 canvases. Mr. Fordjour’s lawyers call the pending case “meritless,” and have filed for its dismissal.

It was not lost on him that as his prominence grows, his own position resembles more and more the archetypal performers he has painted balancing between anguish and transcendence.

“To some degree maybe these are self-portraits,” he said, showing a painting of an argyle-clad man on a unicycle, holding balls in both hands, with another ball on his neck.

“I’m benefiting from a moment,” he said. “I hope that my work is good. I recognize that I’m an artist in society, and when society goes and moves in another direction I’ve still got to be rooted in what I’m doing.”

To keep steady, he said, meant living on shifting boundaries: between exposure and vulnerability, close-knit community and the broader social sphere. It was a challenge for his art, and for his life.





No.12 article:
Ken Spears, Partner in an Animation Powerhouse, Dies at 82

Mr. Spears and Joe Ruby were best known for “Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!,” perhaps the most spun-off series in the history of television.

Ken Spears, who helped create “Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!,” the series starring a gang of mystery-solving teenagers and a hapless, hungry dog that became one of the most lucrative franchises in the history of animation, died on Nov. 6 in Brea, Calif. He was 82.

The cause was complications of Lewy body dementia, his son Kevin said. Mr. Spears died at an assisted-living facility.

Joe Ruby, “Scooby-Doo’s” co-creator and Mr. Spears’s longtime business partner, died in August.

Mr. Spears was just out of the Navy when a friend’s father, William Hanna, offered him a job in the editing studio of his new company, Hanna-Barbera. As Mr. Spears said later, he initially had no idea that Mr. Hanna was in the cartoon business; he just liked the salary — $104 a week.

At Hanna-Barbera, he met Mr. Ruby, also newly sprung from the Navy, and the two began writing gags and scripts. They soon caught the attention of Fred Silverman, then head of daytime programming at CBS. He charged them with creating a cartoon series that would be a blend of “I Love a Mystery,” a radio show popular in the 1940s about three friends looking for adventure; the 1948 comedy-horror movie “Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein”; and “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” the popular sitcom that ran from 1959 to 1963 about a teenager looking for love and his slacker beatnik sidekick.

Mr. Silverman also wanted the show to feature a pop song in each episode, just like “The Archie Show.” That didn’t work out, but Mr. Spears and Mr. Ruby, working with the artist Iwao Takamoto, created a half-hour comedy mystery with a quartet of teenagers and a goofy Great Dane with a gruff bark. After 15 or so drafts, they realized that the dog was the star.

In an oral history, Mr. Silverman said he had landed on the name Scooby-Doo after hearing Frank Sinatra sing the familiar riff from his 1966 hit “Strangers in the Night”: do-be-do-be-do.

Mr. Spears and Mr. Ruby worked for Mr. Silverman at CBS and then ABC before starting their own company, Ruby-Spears Productions, in 1977. Over the next two decades, they rolled out numerous animated shows, including the postapocalyptic “Thundarr the Barbarian” and “Fangface,” which starred a gang of teenagers and an adorable werewolf (like Scooby but weirder). The company also produced “Alvin and the Chipmunks,” a reboot of the 1961-62 series “The Alvin Show.”

“Ken was half of the most important creative team in Saturday-morning animation in the ’70s and ’80s,” Mark Evanier, a television writer who at one time worked for Mr. Spears and Mr. Ruby, said in an email. “He and Joe left behind hundreds of hours of cartoons that will rerun forever, featuring characters they created that were an important part of millions of childhoods.

“It’s amazing,” he added, “that two guys who met in the editing room while cutting film could wind up writing and producing so much material that would end up on film.”

Yet the pair never felt that they had received their creative due for inventing the powerhouse that was “Scooby-Doo,” which is considered the most spun-off series in the history of television, said Kevin Sandler, an associate professor of film and media studies at Arizona State University who is working on a book about the show. Animation is a collaborative business, and cartoons are considered work for hire, so it was often the studios — or the studio heads — who got the credit for the shows created under them.

Charles Kenneth Spears was born March 12, 1938, in Los Angeles and grew up in New York City and Los Angeles, where he went to high school with William Hanna’s son Dave. His mother, Edna (Graiver) Spears, died a month after his birth; his father, Harry, worked as a radio host and producer before becoming a real estate agent.

Ken Spears’s first wife, Sandra (Mathison) Spears, died in 2007. A second marriage ended in divorce. In addition to his son Kevin, Mr. Spears is survived by another son, Chris; two sisters, Sharon Holleran and Sudie Poggi; two brothers, Victor and Steven; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

Over their long career together, Mr. Spears and Mr. Ruby had a habit of working on weekends, alternating between each other’s backyard, armed with yellow legal pads and a tape recorder, and cracking each other up.

“I remember them just sitting there out the back, laughing,” Kevin Spears said. “They had a lot of fun together.”

He added that he had once asked his father if he had ever wanted another partner. The answer was an emphatic no: “Why would I ever want to work with anybody else but Joe?”





No.13 article:
Unemployment Claims Rise as Economic Worries Grow

With coronavirus cases increasing again in the United States, the “fragility of the recovery” is in jeopardy, one economist said.

The job market is showing signs of weakening again, as more Americans file for unemployment benefits amid a sharp rise in coronavirus cases and new restrictions on business aimed at curbing the outbreak.

Initial claims for state employment insurance jumped by more than 18,000 to over 743,000 last week, before adjusting for seasonal factors, the Labor Department reported Thursday. It was the first increase since early October and represented an ominous turn for a labor market that has struggled to recover fully from the huge layoffs that accompanied the pandemic’s arrival in March.

“The latest data points to the fragility of the recovery as the Covid crisis worsens,” said Gregory Daco, chief U.S. economist at Oxford Economics. “If this trend continues, it’s an indication that the labor market recovery has gone into reverse.”

New claims for Pandemic Unemployment Assistance — a federal program for gig workers, independent contractors and the self-employed — totaled 320,000, an increase of 24,000 from the week before.

Although the economy rebounded strongly in the third quarter and overall unemployment fell to a seasonally adjusted rate of 6.9 percent in October, that momentum has faded in the absence of new aid from Washington.

The latest wave of the outbreak threatens to further devastate big employers like airlines, restaurant chains and hotels, with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urging Americans on Thursday to avoid traveling for the Thanksgiving holiday.

Mobility — in terms of walking, driving and use of public transportation — is already showing a decline, as are restaurant bookings, according to Torsten Slok, chief economist at Apollo Global Management.

“If people are staying home, that means they are not shopping or going out, and that means less employment,” he said.

What’s more, two emergency federal programs to aid people thrown out of work by the pandemic are scheduled to expire at the end of next month.

A new study by the progressive Century Foundation found that 7.3 million workers would lose their benefits with the end of Pandemic Unemployment Assistance. An additional 4.6 million will be cut off from Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation, which kicks in when state employment benefits run out.

The programs represent “the last lifelines available to millions of Americans in desperate need,” said Andrew Stettner, a senior fellow with the Century Foundation and co-author of the study with Elizabeth Pancotti. “It will be a crippling end to one of our darkest years.”

A separate study by the California Policy Lab, a research group working with state and local governments, reported that nearly 45 percent of California workers had filed for unemployment benefits since March, with 83 percent of the Black labor force applying during that period. Many of those workers are back on the job, but the end of the two programs will affect 750,000 Californians.

A new aid package from Washington would provide critical support for the economy right now, according to many economists. But stimulus legislation has been held up by differences over its scale.

On Monday, President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. called on the two parties to “come together” and enact a stimulus package along the lines of a $3 trillion proposal passed by the Democratic-controlled House. The Senate’s Republican leadership backs a $500 billion outlay.

For all the body blows of the last year, consumer demand remains relatively healthy, according Michelle Meyer, head of U.S. economics at Bank of America. “We are still seeing incredible strength in housing, and auto sales remain strong,” she said. “Consumers are still spending on bigger-ticket items.”

Sales of existing homes rose last month at the highest rate in 14 years, the National Association of Realtors reported Thursday, fueled by rock-bottom interest rates that have encouraged house hunters to borrow and buy.

The Dickensian elements of the Covid-19 economy — unemployed workers facing a cutoff in benefits even as other Americans buy houses worth hundreds of thousands of dollars or more — underscore the unevenness of the recovery.

Lower-paid service workers have been hit especially hard, and the rise in virus cases threatens new pain. White-collar workers have fared better, with the unemployment rate for college graduates standing at just 4.2 percent.

Even for workers who have found jobs, the economy presents forbidding challenges. Some, like Christopher Crystal, have had to settle for paychecks that are a fraction of what they used to earn.

Mr. Crystal, 45, was furloughed in March from his job as a logistics manager at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, where he worked for 11 years and oversaw a staff of 500.

His furlough turned into a permanent layoff in September, and the $400 he was receiving each week in state unemployment benefits was not nearly enough to cover his family’s monthly bills, including $1,500 in rent for their apartment in Long Island, a $250 car payment and $250 for car insurance.

As his credit card bills grew, Mr. Crystal started looking for a job that would pay him more than his unemployment benefits.

In early October, he found a job as a delivery driver for Amazon. But he is earning $40,000 annually instead of his old $70,000 salary — and the job requires him to work 10-to-12-hour shifts lifting heavy boxes.

“I’ve been taking all the overtime they can give me just to try to catch up,” he said.

Mr. Crystal is glad to have a job, which has provided extra cash to buy clothes for his 5-year-old son. But he still feels mired in debt from the bills that stacked up while he was out of work.

“Now our savings are depleted, and my credit score has dropped like crazy,” he said. “It will take us a long time to dig ourselves out of this hole.”





No.14 article:
‘Remote Learning Is Not Working’: Shutdown Hurts Children, Parents Say

As schools close again, frustrated and angry parents say the decision does not make the city safer.

Laura Espinoza took an hourlong subway ride on Thursday morning from her Brooklyn neighborhood to City Hall, where she joined several dozen families gathered to protest Mayor Bill de Blasio’s decision to shut down the nation’s largest school system as virus cases have surged across the city.

Ms. Espinoza has 6-year-old twins, both of whom have disabilities. They were attending school five days a week, a rarity for city students, but now they will have classes at home indefinitely.

“They don’t adapt to change quickly, all this back and forth has not been good for them,” Ms. Espinoza said. She added that remote instruction is also taking a toll on her 15-year-old daughter.

“My daughter can’t go to class because she’s helping me with the twins,” she said. “Remote learning is not working.”

Across the city, parents and elected officials — including many who did not initially support the mayor’s push to get children back into schools — registered their dismay and frustration over the closure of all the city’s classrooms on Thursday.

Mr. de Blasio was the first big-city mayor in the country to reopen schools for all children who wanted to attend — but faced enormous headwinds and criticism from the teachers’ union, politicians and some parents who said they did not believe schools would be safe and that the city should have started the school year remote-only.

At that time, when skepticism about school safety was omnipresent, the mayor set the extremely conservative threshold of a 3 percent average test positivity rate — among the toughest standards in the country — as a trigger to close the schools.

But in more recent weeks, when so many of New York’s businesses and institutions remained dark or at least dimmed, the return of some children to school buildings offered a glimmer of hope that the city was slowly climbing its way back to normalcy. In some quarters at least, the hostility to reopening schools seemed to fade.

So when Mr. de Blasio refused to revisit the 3 percent metric this week, it clearly angered parents of many of the 300,000 students who had been going into classrooms for at least part of the week.

Some of those parents must now find child care until schools reopen, which could be weeks or even months away. And many worry deeply about the educational toll the chaos of this term is having on their children.

“The city is not any more safe today than yesterday because schools are closed,” said Daniela Jampel, a mother of two who lives in Washington Heights and who attended the rally Thursday.

“I am no longer content to let four men — Bill de Blasio, Michael Mulgrew, Richard Carranza and Andrew Cuomo — decide whether my children can go to school and whether I as a working mother can have a job and a career,” she added, referring to the president of the teachers’ union, the schools chancellor and the governor, along with the mayor.

Marilyn Martinez of Harlem said she and her wife, who both work full-time, were searching for a babysitter who could watch their 6-year-old daughter while she learned remotely.

“Does the mayor think we’re all stay-at-home moms?” Ms. Martinez asked. “I ran out of family leave.”

At a news conference, Mr. de Blasio defended his decision, saying it was justified by the steady increase in test positivity, which again topped 3 percent on Thursday. “We see a gathering storm, and we’re fighting back the second wave,” he said. “We are pausing. We are resetting the equation.”

The mayor vowed to reopen the city’s schools, but warned that it would require “even more stringent rules.” Those would include expanding coronavirus testing in school buildings and possibly mandating that all students who want to take in-person classes provide written consent to receive a coronavirus test.

The city has so far conducted random testing in school buildings once a month, but some educators have said that the testing is flawed because relatively few families have consented. About 117,000 of the roughly 300,000 children who have returned to classrooms have consented to testing.

It is also possible that the closure could be lengthy if virus cases continue to surge. The mayor said that the city had not completed a plan for reopening its 1,800 schools, but he promised to release one soon.

Mr. de Blasio has acknowledged that the 3 percent threshold is not a purely scientific metric. Instead, he has called the cutoff a “social contract” between the city and its educators and parents, evidence that City Hall was taking school safety seriously.

On Thursday, the mayor said that he and his top aides came up with the number at a time when the city’s transmission rate was remarkably low.

And most importantly, it was settled upon at a moment when the mayor appeared to have little political capital to actually reopen schools. The teachers’ union was openly threatening to strike, educators were discussing sickouts and other job actions and many parents said they did not feel comfortable sending their children back.

“You remember, so many people said, ‘Don’t open schools, it’s too dangerous to open schools,’” Mr. de Blasio said. “We said, ‘We’ll put together a gold standard, the cleaning, the ventilation, the social distancing, the mask wearing, all these things, the testing, and we’ll prove to you that schools can be safe.’ And we did.”

Yet politicians and parents have pleaded with the mayor to reset the threshold because of how little transmission there has been in city schools since they opened in late September. Random testing in schools conducted over the last several weeks has produced a positivity rate of about .23 percent.

That doesn’t mean there were no outbreaks: 89 school buildings temporarily closed in the weeks when schools were open because of two or more confirmed cases.

Now that the entire system of 1.1 million students is all-remote for an indefinite period of time, parents have raised urgent concerns about the quality of online instruction. Still, the vast majority of city students — about 700,000 — have been learning full-time from home anyway since schools opened, and almost all students spend at least part of their week learning online to allow for social distancing in schools.

But a number of politicians, almost all of whom criticized or opposed the mayor’s push to reopen over the summer, raised concerns about online learning this week.

“The ones who will suffer most from a full transition to remote learning are Black and Latino and lower-income families, who have been left behind without needed access to technology and the internet,” said Eric Adams, the Brooklyn borough president and a Democratic candidate for mayor, in a statement.

“The de Blasio administration also needs to present the public with a reopening plan,” said Corey Johnson, the City Council speaker. “This has been a disaster for parents and caregivers. The least the administration can do is to be honest about what to expect going forward.”

One group that did not express anger about the shutdown was the United Federation of Teachers. Mr. Mulgrew has said he was deeply frustrated that schools were closing so soon but did not encourage the city to change the threshold.

“The city established the 3 percent infection rate threshold to make sure that schools did not become centers to spread the coronavirus,” Mr. Mulgrew said in a statement. “Now it’s the job of all New Yorkers to maintain social distance, wear masks and take all other steps to substantially lower the infection rate so school buildings can reopen for in-person instruction.”

The union has received criticism from some parents for supporting the 3 percent metric. But the mayor made clear on Thursday that he and his top aides came up with the figure, not the union.

That doesn’t mean the U.F.T. didn’t play a role: The union accepted the number, and its concerns contributed to City Hall’s mad dash to create new safety measures over the summer.

But the political back-and-forth means little to parents who said they are devastated about the closures.

The shutdown “is a hardship, because now I have to take my kids with me everywhere I go,” said Nicole Subran as she walked to the hardware store where her husband works with her two children, ages 10 and 3, in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn.

“I consented to the testing, my kid wears a mask all day, I did everything my city asked me to do,” said Natalia Zatay, who lives in Forest Hills, Queens. “Blended learning was the only option given, and now we don’t even have that.”





No.15 article:
Under a Divisive Peace, Wartime Rifts Hobble Hope in Bosnia

The Dayton Accords, which ended fighting in the country 25 years ago, created a dysfunctional system that put power in the hands of politicians stoking ethnic division.

TRNOPOLJE, Bosnia and Herzegovina — Heartened by a peace deal between Bosnia’s warring ethnic groups brokered 25 years ago by the United States, Jusuf Arifagic, a Bosnian refugee sheltering in Norway, returned home to help rebuild his traumatized country. He took with him 100 Norwegian cows.

Mr. Arifagic took the cows to his home village — just down the road from the concentration camp where he and thousands of other local Muslims were herded in the summer of 1992 — and set up what became Bosnia’s biggest dairy farm.

The farm in Trnopolje now has 800 cows and 41 workers, a mix of Muslims, Orthodox Christian Serbs and other Christians. Mr. Arifagic, 59, said he did not know the precise number from each ethnic group because, “I don’t care.”

His refusal to put identity politics at the center of his business, however, has put him sharply at odds with a system created by the 1995 peace settlement that revolves around ethnicity and loyalty to one ethnonationalist authority or another. It has also crippled one of the few success stories in a country blighted by what reports to the United Nations Security Council in April and May described as “chronic dysfunctionality” and “the pandemic called corruption.”

Squeezed by requests for payoffs and other pressures from nationalist politicians pushing their own interests, Mr. Arifagic has decided to sell his cattle, lay off workers and shut the farm.

“Bosnia today is one big psychiatric ward and we are all its patients,” Mr. Arifagic said, bemoaning the tenacious grip of the hatred unleashed more than a quarter-century ago when multiethnic Yugoslavia fell apart, and neighbor set upon neighbor in a frenzy of fear-driven violence and nationalist passion.

War engulfed the Balkans for four years, ignited by the end of socialist dictatorship in Yugoslavia and the splintering of what had been a peaceful federal state. As nationalism took hold, Croats, Serbs and Muslims living in Bosnia — the most ethnically mixed and therefore most flammable part of the imploding Yugoslav state — took up arms, clamoring for their own states.

The bloodletting in Bosnia, which claimed around 100,000 lives and drove more than two million from their homes, came to an end with the Dayton Accords, reached at the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio on Nov. 21, 1995.

The agreement’s terms, however, entrenched ethnoreligious divisions that had driven the war, leaving Bosnia as an amalgamation of mini-states dominated by political parties that still win support by fanning fear and vowing to protect their own.

When the International Monetary Fund offered Bosnia $386 million in April to help fight the coronavirus, leaders of the three dominant parties, each representing a different ethnic group, spent weeks arguing about how to divide the money.

They eventually reached an agreement, but when the money arrived it sat idle for weeks in the central bank, stuck there by yet more squabbling instead of being used to buy badly needed ventilators and other equipment for the country’s ramshackle public health system.

“This is the real consequence of the Dayton model,” said Christopher Bennett, a former international official in Bosnia and author of the book “Bosnia’s Paralyzed Peace.” He added: “It simply does not work. It stopped a war but did not create conditions to make a life.”

That many ordinary Bosnians, irrespective of tribal identity, are fed up was made clear in local elections on Sunday when Muslim and Serb nationalist parties lost their grip on their respective city strongholds: Sarajevo and Banja Luka. Three ethnic parties — representing Croats, Muslims and Serbs — still control a majority of Bosnia’s towns, but their recent electoral setbacks have stirred some hope that politics and minds frozen by Dayton may one day thaw.

Instead of creating a single state populated by citizens with equal rights, Dayton divided Bosnia into two self-governing “entities” — the Serb-dominated Republika Srpska and a federation of 10 cantons controlled by Muslims and Croats.

Above this plethora of fiefs stands a weak and feud-ridden federal government headed by three presidents representing Croats, Muslims and Serbs. They all speak the same language and there is nothing to distinguish one group from another physically, but they are divided by religion, (though few actually worship), by politics and by rival narratives of the war, and they rarely agree on much.

For a time, the area in northwestern Bosnia where Mr. Arifagic established his farm encouraged hopes that wartime divisions could be overcome. Muslims who had been expelled returned in the years after the Dayton agreement, first in a nervous trickle then in a joyous flood.

Emptied of Muslim residents by ethnic cleansing and reduced to burned-out rubble in the early 1990s, the village district of Kozarac, which includes Mr. Arifagic’s hamlet, returned to life in the early 2000s. The school reopened, destroyed homes were rebuilt and the local soccer team re-formed, though it never recovered its previously multiethnic squad and became an almost entirely Muslim team. The population grew to around 10,000.

But most of the new houses, many exuberant mansions built with money earned from outposts of the Bosnian diaspora around Europe, are mostly shuttered. Their owners visit for a few weeks in summer but have given up on dreams of resettling permanently in Bosnia.

Among those who returned and stayed is Fikret Alic, who in 1992 played a role in awakening the world to the horrors of the Bosnian war when a British television station filmed and broadcast images of his emaciated body behind barbed wire at the Trnopolje concentration camp, where Mr. Arifagic was also interned.

Mr. Alic returned to Kozarac in 2009 with his wife and three children after 15 years in Denmark working in a meatpacking plant.

“I made a big mistake bringing the kids,” he said.

Worried that “a small spark could start a new war,” he is now trying to find a way for his two sons and daughter to return to Denmark “because there is no future for them here.”

Many Serbs, who often see themselves as victims and not perpetrators of past crimes, feel the same way and also want to leave.

“I am not proud of what we Serbs did, but terrible things happened to Serbs, too,” said Zdravka Karlica, whose husband was killed during the fighting in Prijedor, a city near Kozarac that was majority-Muslim before the war but is now 95 percent Serb.

Ms. Karlica plans to stay but her 12-year-old granddaughter, like many young people, wants to get out: “I love this place but I really want to leave,” she said.

The area is part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the overarching federal state created by Dayton, but the only flag that flies in local government buildings is that of the Republika Srpska, the Serb entity of which it is also part. Local Serb leaders have worked tirelessly to undermine the federal state and have even threatened to secede.

At the site of the former camp in Trnopolje, the Serb authorities have erected a brooding concrete monument only to the Serb fighters “whose lives are built into the foundations of the Republika Srpska.”

Milenko Djakovic, the relatively moderate Serb mayor of Prijedor, the area’s administrative center, said he saw no reason to build a memorial to Muslim victims because the site, in his view, was just “a place to shelter civilians.”

For many Muslims, the existence of the Republika Srpska is the single biggest injustice and flaw of the Dayton accords: It legitimized a political project born in blood with the wartime rule of Radovan Karadzic, the former leader of the Bosnian Serbs, and Ratko Mladic, the Serb former general, who were found guilty of genocide for the 1995 massacre of around 8,000 Muslim men and boys in the town of Srebrenica.

Mr. Arifagic, the dairy farmer, said he returned to Bosnia to build a future, not dwell on the past, but that he had quickly butted up against the reality of a country ruled by ethnonational political parties that thrive by keeping communities apart and promising to protect their own.

“It is all very tragic,” said Sebina Sivac, an anthropologist from the area who has written a book about its postwar struggles.

“Bosnia needs people like Arifagic to move beyond Dayton, which always reminds everyone that what counts is ethnicity,” she said. “All sides wanted him to show that he was on one side or another. But he wanted to change this mind-set.”

When Mr. Arifagic opened his farm, the local electricity company, owned by the Republika Srpska, refused to provide a transformer box to get power to his cow sheds. He installed his own but then spent three years in legal battles before he could get it connected to the network.

Then, last year, the Republika Srpska abruptly rewrote the rules governing milk subsidies, slashing Mr. Arifagic’s revenue but leaving intact the money received by smaller Serb-owned dairy farms. “If your name is Jusuf,” he said, referring to his name, which immediately identifies him as Muslim, “nothing is ever easy here.”

Mr. Djakovic, the Serb mayor of Prijedor, said that he had opposed the subsidy change and that he believed Mr. Arifagic’s travails stemmed from his frequent clashes with the dominant Serb party, led by the nationalist Milorad Dodik, rather than from his ethnicity.

“You can either struggle uphill or go downhill with ease,” Mr. Djakovic said. “If you criticize politicians, then you will have problems.”

Hoping to fare better outside the Republika Srpska, Mr. Arifagic set up a satellite farm with 400 cows in the territory of the entity led by Muslims and Croats.

But there, too, he ran into problems after refusing to support the dominant Muslim party, led by the son of the wartime leader Alija Izetbegovic. Instead, he joined a rival party that he felt was less focused on stoking ethnic grievances. A mysterious fire later burned down part of his property.

Mr. Arifagic said he planned to keep feeding his cows until his supplies ran out and then shut down the business, though he said he would remain in Bosnia for the time being: “I want to finish and close everything. After that, Dodik and Izetbegovic can milk cows themselves.”





No.16 article:
They Championed Venezuela’s Revolution. They Are Now Its Latest Victims.

GÜIRIA, Venezuela — The host of a popular radio show, “The People’s Combat,” had always diligently praised Venezuela’s governing Socialist Party, even as millions sank into penury under its rule. But when acute gasoline shortages paralyzed his remote fishing town this summer, he strayed from the party line.

On his show, the host, lifelong Socialist José Carmelo Bislick, accused local party chiefs of siphoning fuel, leaving most people queuing for days outside empty gasoline stations.

Just weeks later, on Aug. 17, four masked, armed men burst into Mr. Bislick’s house and told him he had “run the red light,” before beating him in front of his family and hauling him away into the night. He was found dead with gunshot wounds hours later, dressed in his favorite Che Guevara T-shirt.

Those responsible for Mr. Bislick’s death remain at large in the town of 30,000, where everyone knew of him, and of his lifelong dedication to Venezuela’s Socialist revolution. The Socialist mayor never spoke of the crime or visited the family, who said the killing had been politically motivated.

“Is denouncing wrongdoing so wicked that it should cost the life of a man who only wanted social well-being?” asked Mr. Bislick’s sister, Rosmery Bislick.

His death appears to be part of a wave of repression against leftist activists alienated by President Nicolás Maduro, who seems intent on consolidating power in parliamentary elections in December. The vote, boycotted by the opposition as a sham, could bring what used to be one of Latin America’s most established democracies to the verge of being a one-party state.

After having crushed the political parties opposed to his version of socialism, Mr. Maduro’s critics say, he has trained the state’s security apparatus on disillusioned ideological allies, repeating the path taken by leftist autocrats from the Soviet Union to Cuba.

Mr. Maduro’s office did not respond to a request for comment.

“Whoever makes any criticism is lumped with the opposition, the right, called a traitor,” said Ares Di Fazio, a former urban guerrilla and leader of the far-left Tupamaros Party, which was dismantled by the government in August after having voiced discontent. 

Longtime government supporters who in recent months flooded the streets of provincial towns to denounce the collapse of public services have been suppressed by security forces. Public employees who denounce corruption are charged with sabotage.

Members of the ruling electoral alliance who decided to run as independents are disqualified. Those who persevere are harassed by the police or charged with spurious crimes.

The repression is partly an outcome of Mr. Maduro’s decision to abandon the wealth redistribution policies of his late predecessor, Hugo Chávez, in favor of what amounts to crony capitalism to survive American sanctions. The change effectively legalized Venezuela’s sprawling black market economy and condoned the pervasive corruption, creating a new economic order that benefited the military and business elites loyal to Mr. Maduro.

The result has been a jarring chasm between the official rhetoric, which blames the national collapse on sanctions, and the extravagant lives flaunted by the government’s cronies in supermarkets stocked with expensive imports and luxury car showrooms.

“For some, there’s blockade, for others — boutiques,” said Oswaldo Rivero, a prominent Venezuelan left-wing activist and national television host, who had for years stoked attacks on the opposition on his program.

Those who question this “are turned into sawdust,” said Mr. Rivero, who is now being called a traitor and threatened on social media for speaking out against corruption.

For the past two decades, leftist parties represented by activists like Mr. Rivero had helped Mr. Chávez, and then Mr. Maduro, stay in power.

The parties, some dating to Cold War-era insurrections, campaigned for Mr. Maduro’s candidates, attended government rallies and sometimes harassed opposition protesters. Their message of radical change resonated in Venezuelan shanty towns and rural outposts fed up with ingrained inequality.

But these allies grew increasingly disillusioned with Mr. Maduro’s authoritarianism and corruption. This year, for the first time, they decided to field their own congressional candidates.

Mr. Maduro responded swiftly.

Courts in August installed Mr. Maduro’s loyalists at the top of the Tupamaros and three other dissident parties.

The police arrested the head of the Tupamaros party, José Pinto, on unproved murder charges, harassed the leaders the Communist Party and briefly detained a veteran leftist, Rafael Uzcátegui, 73, on accusations he had visited a brothel. All defendants have called the cases political persecution.

Mr. Uzcátegui claims 37 members of his party, Fatherland for All, have been detained for campaigning against the government in the upcoming elections. Four of them merely sprayed on a public wall the words “Dignified Salary Now,” a plea to raise Venezuela’s minimum monthly salary, which is the equivalent of $2 in local currency.

“The government no longer fears the right,” said Mr. Uzcátegui. They fear the left, he said, “because they know we’re telling people the truth.”

A Communist Party activist, Isabel Granado, 32, decided to run for congress against the government in December, because she said it no longer represented the poor.

Two years ago, she and two dozen small farmers from her town of El Vigía, in the Andean foothills, decided to take over a plot of land, which she said the authorities had declared idle since 2010. They called their farming group “The Powerful Hand of God,” and began cultivating crops to feed their families.

The government had long endorsed such takeovers to win rural support and attempt to reduce inequality.

Suddenly, on Sept. 24, Ms. Granado said a black-clad special operations police squad burst into her home, threw her 9-year-old daughter to the floor and threatened to beat the activist in front of the child if she didn’t come with them. She was taken to a police station and accused of illegal land occupation and livestock rustling, a charge Ms. Granado denied.

She was released the next day for lack of evidence, but was detained again two days later, this time by military commandos. Ms. Granado said in her time in custody she was handcuffed, threatened with phony drug charges, and told she would be executed.

It was not an idle threat in a country where the United Nations investigators have implicated Mr. Maduro’s special operations police, known as FAES, in thousands of extrajudicial executions in poor neighborhoods in recent years.

“I was truly terrified, because apart from being a social activist, I’m also a mother,” said Ms. Granado. “The only thing I could think of were my children.”

Ms. Granado said that the timing, the brutality and the arbitrary nature of her detentions pointed to a desire by the local authorities to deter her from running for congress. She said she lives in constant fear, frequently changing safe houses.

But she said she would carry on her campaign.

“The people’s support for us is what hurts them the most,” she said, referring to the government.

After a tense calm brought by the pandemic, the popular discontent with Mr. Maduro’s government erupted in more than 1,000 flash protests in September.

Unlike the previous waves of unrest, the latest were concentrated in the poor rural states, which have long formed the ruling party’s base. The protesters, many of them longtime government supporters, demanded food, fuel and electricity rather than political change, according to interviews in four affected towns.

Mr. Maduro responded to discontent in the socialist heartland with the same repression applied to opponents. More than 200 protesters were detained in the September protests, and one person was shot dead by the police, according to the Venezuelan Observatory of Social Conflict, a nonprofit group tracking the disturbances.

“What they are doing smells to us a lot like dictatorship,” said Edito Hidalgo, a veteran Tupamaro activist who led a protest in the western town of Urachiche in September. “They have the power and they won’t let it go.”

Urachiche, a close-knit farming community, had overwhelmingly voted for Socialist candidates since Mr. Chávez was first sworn in, in 1999, promising to govern for the people.

“This is a revolutionary town,” said Mr. Hidalgo, who proudly recounted Che Guevara’s visit to Urachiche in 1962.

After enduring Venezuela’s worsening economic conditions for seven years, the town finally raised its voice in September. Thousands of residents peacefully marched to the town hall singing the national anthem to give the mayor a proposal for improving food and fuel supplies.

A band appeared from the multitude with traditional instruments — miniature guitars and maracas — capping the rally with an impromptu concert, said Mr. Hidalgo. “Then everyone went to their homes without throwing a single rock.”

A few days later, the FAES police pulled up outside Mr. Hidalgo’s house, looking for him. Alerted by his wife, he fled and spent two weeks in hiding, while security forces harassed his neighborhood.

“They had decided they must get rid of Edito Hidalgo because he’s preaching the Revolution to the people,” he said.

Polls show the Socialist Party is now supported by just one in 10 Venezuelans.

Back in Güiria, the family of Mr. Bislick, the dead radio host, are still waiting for justice.

After the armed men abducted Mr. Bislick, his family ran to the police station — their car, like most in town, was out of gas.

Instead of immediately undertaking a search, the officers spent two hours taking down their details, said his family. In despair, the family then ran to the ruling party’s office, where Mr. Bislick had worked for two decades, to seek spare fuel to help the search. They were denied.

A neighbor eventually discovered Mr. Bislick’s body in the bushes.

Mr. Bislick’s denunciations of corruption had grown so popular that residents blasted his program in the streets from their car speakers during blackouts, said his radio colleague, José Alberto Frontén.

“We were giving it hard on the program and we knew our punches were landing where they should,” said Mr. Frontén. “But we never saw that hit coming to us.”





No.17 article:
A Chinese County Aims to Curb Dog Walking by Threatening to Kill the Dog

Restrictions on dogs are common in China. But one county’s plans to uniformly ban dog walking and kill the pets of rule-breaking owners has shocked the internet.

HONG KONG — In a southwestern corner of China, walking a dog can potentially get the animal killed by the authorities.

After receiving complaints of dogs biting children in Weixin County in Yunnan Province, officials have said they would ban dog walking and put in place a harsh three-strike penalty system.

For pet owners who flouted the ban the first strike would be a warning. Caught a second time, they would be fined. For a third offense, their dogs would be seized and killed, according to the new rules, and apparently regardless of the dogs’ behavior. The ban is set to take effect on Friday. 

The penalties are part of a regional effort to “correct uncivilized dog ownership in urban areas,” according to a joint notice issued last Friday by several Weixin County departments. “Residents must keep dogs tied up or in a pen. Dogs should not disrupt the normal order of the society or interfere with the daily life of others.”

When the notice began circulating on Chinese social media, it set off howls of outrage and fierce debate across the country, angering animal lovers and racking up thousands of comments and 100 million views on Weibo, a microblogging platform.

Many called the new regulations cruel and extreme.

“Why on earth should they be killed?” a user going by the name of Xuanji Yuheng Abilene wrote on Monday. “What did the dogs do wrong?” She added that even though she supported stricter punishments for irresponsible dog owners, she objected to the idea that the animals could not be walked in public at all.

Others said that specific rules on dog walking — such as keeping pets leashed and picking up after them — would be far more appropriate and effective.

“This is an unscientific and lazy way of dealing with it,” wrote one user, who goes by the name An Invisible Person.

A few people online voiced support for the regulations, saying that society has too often placed animal rights over human rights.

There are roughly 5.5 million pet dogs in China, according to the 2019 White Paper on China’s Pet Industry. Animal rights advocates said that fear and dislike of dogs may be aggravated by some owners who neglect to leash or muzzle their pets. Serious injuries and deaths have resulted from dog bites and scratches, and China has reported a few hundred deaths annually from rabies, a virus often transmitted through the saliva of dogs.

Pet dogs have come back into favor in China over the past 30 years. Dog restrictions date back decades. 

In the 1940s, barking dogs were blamed for revealing the movements of Communist fighters who resisted Japanese occupiers during World War II and were branded political enemies of the people. For decades, they were ridiculed as bourgeois house pets that wasted scarce resources. 

Dogs were banned in Beijing through the 1980s. Restrictions were gradually loosened after China’s economic reforms, and pet ownership became increasingly popular among the emerging middle class, with industries such as grooming services popping up in recent years. As China grew wealthier, many people began acquiring expensive breeds, taking overt pride in walking their pets.

Amid the boom in pet dogs, local governments have put in place ownership regulations. Several major cities now have restrictions on pet ownership, including rules that govern their size, breed and at what time of day they can be walked. In Beijing, dogs taller than 14 inches are banned.

As recently as 2014, an op-ed in People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s official newspaper, denounced pet dogs as a self-indulgent trend imported from the West and a blight on “social peace and harmony.” It said that the animals’ droppings were like “land mines” on China’s streets.

Weixin is not the only county to ban dog walking or place other restrictions on dog ownership. Hangzhou, a large city in eastern China, introduced a daytime dog-walking ban in 2018. Large dogs considered by some people as aggressive breeds, such as Rottweilers and German shepherds, are banned in Beijing and Shanghai.

But the internet backlash over Weixin’s new policy, which appears to go further than other jurisdictions, has prompted officials to say they may consider re-examining the ban on dog walking and the threatened death penalty, according to local news reports.

The county’s public security office declined further comment, and other departments could not be reached. But when reached by telephone on Wednesday, a representative of Weixin’s Ministry of Housing, who verified the regulations, said officials would begin counting the number of dogs in each household on Friday and the rules were still set to go into effect.





No.18 article:
As the Virus Surges, How Much Longer Can New York Avoid a Full Shutdown?

The state is banking on a variety of less disruptive mandates, even as public health experts and other officials warn that such measures may not be enough.

ALBANY, N.Y. — Michigan shut down indoor dining and in-person classes at high schools and colleges. Washington banned indoor gatherings with anyone outside your household without a weeklong quarantine. And officials in Oregon closed offices to the public and are limiting the number of people in grocery stores.

As record numbers of virus cases emerge across the United States, major cities and states are implementing tough new restrictions. But in New York State, once the epicenter of the pandemic, the response to a second wave has been far more measured, with officials banking on a variety of less disruptive, targeted actions, often reliant on voluntary compliance.

Ominous signs are everywhere: In New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio closed in-person classes at the city’s schools starting Thursday after the seven-day positivity rate rose above 3 percent. Thousands of new cases are emerging every day statewide, and hospitalizations have more than quintupled since early September, nearing 2,300 on Thursday. Deaths have also been trending upward, with the state reporting almost 200 deaths in the last week, and 35 just on Wednesday, the highest one-day total since mid-June.

The numbers are also spiking in some areas that were spared the worst in the spring: Western New York has seen more than 3,700 new cases in the last week alone, with rates of positive test results running at about 5 percent.

All told, more than a dozen counties around the state are seeing significant outbreaks, from Niagara County in the state’s northwest to New York City.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo says his response to the pandemic continues to be aggressive and highlights his state’s achievements: New York is still seeing much lower rates of infection than most states. And the number of daily deaths and hospitalizations pales in comparison to the spring, when thousands died for several weeks running, and tens of thousands were sickened.

Still, some public health experts and officials worry that without a broader shutdown, the state might not be able to limit the virus’s spread, particularly as residents tire of restrictions and the holidays near.

“The odds are against us at this stage in terms of keeping it under control,” said Dr. Isaac Weisfuse, a former New York City deputy health commissioner.

On Wednesday, during an unusually combative news conference with reporters in Albany, Mr. Cuomo displayed a slide that ranked New York among the states with the lowest positivity rates in the country.

“The whole world is going up,” Mr. Cuomo said, adding, “Every state is the nation is going up, right? So success becomes what? How you’re doing relative to everybody else.”

But when asked if the rising rates meant his current targeted approach was falling short, Mr. Cuomo took offense and, raising his voice, chided the reporter: “New Yorkers are doing a great job, and don’t demean them.”

The defensive posture from Mr. Cuomo, a third-term Democrat, is striking considering the confident air he’s projected since the early days of the pandemic.

For three months, the governor held daily news conferences, providing hard data and reassurance to the country, even as thousands died in New York. He closed schools and nonessential businesses, required masks and social distancing and ramped up testing and contact tracing.

The measures made New York’s approach a model for flattening the curve, but it also had a devastating effect on the economy: More than one million New Yorkers lost their jobs, and the city and state were saddled with multibillion-dollar budget deficits.

Now, as the virus has shown clear signs of a resurgence, Mayor de Blasio has closed school buildings and voiced concern about indoor dining, which resumed in limited fashion in the city at the end of September. But Mr. Cuomo, who has ultimate authority over closing restaurants and schools statewide, has not pushed for either.

This week, however, Mr. Cuomo disclosed that New York City could see new citywide restrictions, including the closure of hair salons, gyms and indoor dining, if the city’s seven-day average positivity rate surpassed 3 percent under the state’s metrics — something the mayor on Thursday suggested was almost inevitable. The rate is hovering at 2.5 percent as of Thursday. Such a move would be a significant step backward for state and city residents.

The governor, so far, is hoping to stanch the spread of the disease with a series of less disruptive gradated restrictions, including a 10 p.m. curfew for bars, restaurants and gyms statewide.

Mr. Cuomo also announced a ban on gatherings of more than 10 people in private residences, a rule that drew some angry rebuttals and could be difficult for families to comply with during Thanksgiving, Hanukkah and Christmas. Some upstate sheriffs have said they will not enforce the rule.

Mr. Cuomo addressed the challenges on Wednesday, saying, “Nobody’s saying ‘Knock on doors, count heads,’” while adding that authorities should enforce the rules, regardless of their political beliefs. “If you see it,” he said, “stop it.”

Some experts criticized the governor for not shutting the state down faster in March. And considering the toll of the virus in New York, his decisions this fall will again be under a microscope.

Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the former head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and former commissioner of the city’s Health Department, said that such “granular” approaches to shutdowns were valuable “as long as you don’t have widespread transmission.”

Dr. Frieden noted that California, which also resumed restrictions in many areas, made changes on a county level, not dissimilar to New York’s approach. “You want to balance any disruption that you cause by closures with being relatively nuanced,” he said, adding that “the reality is that the sooner you close, the softer you have to close.”

Mr. Cuomo has written a book on the state’s recovery and did a round of publicity interviews last month. But as virus cases rose again, the governor often seemed content to allow his profile to recede: Instead of daily televised news briefings, Mr. Cuomo now favors a less frequent batch of dial-in phone conferences. On some days, state statistics are merely issued by news release.

The governor’s strategy has largely been to focus on small areas he calls “microclusters,” attacking outbreaks through targeted actions. In those areas, Mr. Cuomo has been willing to close schools, as well as nonessential businesses, and limit attendance at houses of worship, mass gatherings and restaurants.

Mr. Cuomo says his localized approach has been successful with tamping down outbreaks, particularly in certain Orthodox Jewish communities in Brooklyn and the city’s northern suburbs, as well as in Broome County, on the border with Pennsylvania. But the number of clusters has continued to grow: This week, he announced new precautionary zones in parts of the Bronx, Queens, the Hudson Valley and Western New York, and more stringent restrictions in Erie County.

The holiday season is also worrying. State and local officials attribute part of the current spike to a “Halloween hangover,” resulting from parties and gatherings that people attended at the end of October. Public health experts and state officials say things may worsen after the flurry of travel expected during the next six weeks, including college students returning to New York from places with higher infection rates. On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo himself predicted a “tremendous spike after Thanksgiving.”

Dr. Weisfuse said that there were a “confluence of problems coming up” that Mr. Cuomo’s actions might not be able to address.

“The rules are good, although they may be more symbolic than anything else,” he said, adding, “It feels like they’re struggling to come up with applicable solutions, and it’s going to be harder and harder.”

While the state has issued hundreds of citations for bars and restaurants disobeying occupancy and mask rules, more recent dictums from Mr. Cuomo have been largely contingent on a honor system.

Chief among those is his Oct. 31 executive order that called for visitors from noncontiguous states to quarantine for three days and then submit a negative test to state authorities. The order includes a $10,000 penalty for noncompliance, but state officials haven’t said how many citations have been ordered since it took effect two weeks ago.

State officials argue that the governor’s more limited restrictions are meant to both encourage residents to re-engage and comply with safety measures and curb problematic behavior, with the implicit warning that harsher restrictions will come if rules aren’t followed.

At the same time, they recognize people were weary of Covid-related restrictions. “We see the fatigue,” said Gareth Rhodes, a member of New York State’s Covid-19 Task Force.

Already, local leaders across the state say residents are defying rules for weddings, sports and religious events and parties.

Dan McCoy, the county executive in Albany, the state capital, estimated that about 60 percent of people who are contacted by health officials for contact tracing either lie or omit facts. Part of that, he says, is stigma — “People say, ‘I don’t want my neighbors knowing I have it,” he said — as well as concern about missing work or important family occasions to quarantine.

At the same time, Mr. McCoy and other county executives are terrified that if the virus continues to spread, it could force Mr. Cuomo’s hand to reinstate his March 22 “On Pause” order.

“We can’t do another shutdown,” said Mr. McCoy, citing worries about issues like domestic violence, child neglect and substance abuse. “But we can’t do our job if people aren’t cooperating with us.”

Mr. Cuomo has been warning about a possible resurgence of the virus for months and has pressed local officials to enforce virus-related restrictions.

But many county officials say they are dealing with their own mounting problems, including understaffing and early retirements, lack of resources and residents who are increasingly reluctant to abide restrictions.

“A lot of these things we know how to do, but the scale of it is absolutely unsustainable,” said Jason T. Garnar, the county executive in Broome County, where a hot spot emerged last month. “A lot of my employees are getting burned out.”

Some public health experts agree that the “case-based interventions” that Mr. Cuomo is recommending are preferable to broader shutdowns, citing ancillary damage to the economy, public morale and education, as well as surges in social ills.

“We know they work, but they work like a sledgehammer,” said Dr. Jennifer Nuzzo, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. 

Still, the recent surge has given urgency to calls to not repeat the mistakes of last spring.

“I don’t think we need a full lockdown; on the other hand, I do think we need action,” said Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr, a professor of epidemiology and medicine at Columbia University, noting that political leaders had been suggesting for weeks that they are considering new restrictions. “I always say if you think you need to do something, it probably means you need to do it.”





No.19 article:
Republicans Supporting Trump, Remember: Lies Have a Long Half-Life

The president’s actions are disgraceful and damaging to our democracy.

“I WON THE ELECTION!” President Trump lied on Twitter on Sunday — as he has done over and over again since Joe Biden was declared the winner this month.

Voters gave Mr. Biden the highest margin of victory in a two-person race against a sitting president since Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932. He is on track to win 306 electoral votes and to win the popular vote by around seven million ballots.

“What is the downside for humoring him for this little bit of time?” a senior Republican official asked The Washington Post last week, referring to Mr. Trump. “No one seriously thinks the results will change.”

The downsides?

Lies have a long half-life, and Mr. Trump’s misinformation campaign will undermine the democratic legitimacy of the Biden administration. About half of all Republicans surveyed by a new Reuters/Ipsos poll said they believed that Mr. Trump had rightfully won the election. A poll from Monmouth University released Wednesday found that 77 percent of Mr. Trump’s supporters believe Mr. Biden won through fraud.

Mr. Trump is doing this with the help of nearly all of the national Republican leaders, who continue to show loyalty to the president at the expense of the nation. It is a pathetic display of cowardice to stand aside and watch as a sitting president salts American soil. Their actions stand in contrast to that of many Republicans at the state level, including the Georgia secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, who have shown their courage and patriotism in the conduct of their official election duties.

If you can’t see the con, the saying goes, you’re the mark: In this case, those who donate to Mr. Trump’s legal effort to overturn the election only to have the money go to paying off his outstanding debts, while Mr. Trump’s lawsuits are either dropped or laughed out of court.

The president’s raging against reality also is putting American lives at risk. The nation is in the grips of a generational economic collapse and shot through with a pandemic that has already killed more than a quarter million Americans and is on track to fell another 70,000 by Inauguration Day. Mr. Trump is refusing to allow the Biden transition team to gain access to national security briefings or details on the government’s pandemic response.

That refusal amounts to gross negligence with American lives, piled atop the gross negligence of the Trump administration’s handling of the pandemic. Dr. Scott Atlas, a member of the White House coronavirus task force, on Sunday called for Michigan residents to “rise up” against public health measures. The president reportedly hasn’t attended a meeting of that task force in several months.

The greatest damage of Mr. Trump’s recent actions, however, may come in future election seasons. Mr. Trump is establishing a vocabulary of denial to election results. He is training politicians to try to overturn outcomes they don’t like — to actively sabotage democracy.

Perhaps that sounds alarmist, but it is not. Consider what happened this week in Michigan, according to reporting by The Associated Press and The Washington Post. Two Republican canvassers in Wayne County (which includes Detroit), having already certified the count, signed affidavits on Wednesday saying they believe the county vote “should not be certified.” One had spoken with Mr. Trump on Tuesday night. The Times reported that the president offered to fly Republican state lawmakers to the White House on Friday in an attempt to overturn the vote in their state.

When Mr. Trump said the election was rigged, it apparently meant that he was trying to rig it by suppressing votes, preventing them from being counted and now trying to overturn the counts in court. An analysis from The Washington Post found that Mr. Trump and his allies have sought to throw out nearly one in 10 votes cast in states that decided the election. It is all too easy to imagine similar tactics becoming standard fare in future national, state and local elections.

Mr. Trump already has persuaded millions of people to disregard the dangers of the coronavirus and has made refusing to wear masks a point of pride for his supporters. Imagine what will happen when more Americans share his contempt for democracy.





No.20 article:
Nine Nonobvious Ways to Have Deeper Conversations

The art of making connection even in a time of dislocation.

After all we’ve been through this year, wouldn’t it be nice, even during a distanced holiday season, to be able to talk about this whole experience with others, in a deep, satisfying way? To help, I’ve put together a list of nonobvious lessons for how to have better conversations, which I’ve learned from people wiser than myself:

Approach with awe. C.S. Lewis once wrote that if you’d never met a human and suddenly encountered one, you’d be inclined to worship this creature. Every human being is a miracle, and your superior in some way. The people who have great conversations walk into the room expecting to be delighted by you and make you feel the beam of their affection and respect. Lady Randolph Churchill once said that when sitting next to the statesman William Gladstone she thought him the cleverest person in England, but when she sat next to Benjamin Disraeli she thought she was the cleverest person in England.

Ask elevating questions. All of us have developed a way of being that is our technique for getting through each day. But some questions, startling as they seem at first, compel us to see ourselves from a higher vantage: What crossroads are you at? What commitments have you made that you no longer believe in? Who do you feel most grateful to have in your life? What problem did you use to have but now have licked? In what ways are you sliding backward? What would you do if you weren’t afraid?

Ask open-ended questions. Many of us have a horrible tendency to ask questions that imply judgment: Where did you go to school? Or we ask yes/no questions: Did you have a good day? Which basically shut off interesting answers. Better questions start with “What was it like. …” or “Tell me about a time. …” or “How did you manage to cope while your wedding was postponed for a year?”

Make them authors, not witnesses. The important part of people’s lives is not what happened to them, but how they experienced what happened to them. So many of the best conversations are not just a recitation of events. They involve going over and over an event, seeing it from wider perspectives coating it with new layers of emotion, transforming it, so that, say, an event that was very hard to live through is now very satisfying to remember.

Treat attention as all or nothing. Of course, we all have divided attention. In “You’re Not Listening,” Kate Murphy writes that introverts have more divided attention than others while in conversation because there’s so much busyness going on in their own heads. But in conversation it’s best to act as if attention had an on/off switch with no dimmer. Total focus. I have a friend who listens to conversations the way congregants listen to sermons in charismatic churches — with amens, and approbations. The effect is magnetic.

Don’t fear the pause. Most of us stop listening to a comment about halfway through so we can be ready with a response. In Japan, Murphy writes, businesspeople are more likely to hear the whole comment and then pause, sometimes eight seconds, before responding, which is twice as long a silence as American businesspeople conventionally tolerate.

Keep the gem statement front and center. In the midst of many difficult conversations, there is what the mediator Adar Cohen calls the gem statement. This is the comment that keeps the relationship together: “Even when we can’t agree on Dad’s medical care, I’ve never doubted your good intentions. I know you want the best for him.” If you can both seize that gem statement it may point to a solution.

Find the disagreement under the disagreement. In the Talmudic tradition when two people disagree about something, it’s because there is some deeper philosophical or moral disagreement undergirding it. Conversation then becomes a shared process of trying to dig down to the underlying disagreement and then the underlying disagreement below that. There is no end. Conflict creates cooperative effort. As neuroscientist Lisa Feldman Barrett writes, “Being curious about your friend’s experience is more important than being right.”

The midwife model. Sometimes people talk to solve a person’s problem. The Rev. Margaret Guenther wrote that a good conversationalist in these cases is like a midwife, helping the other person give birth to her own child. That means spending a lot of time patiently listening to the other person teach herself through her narration, bringing forth her unthought thoughts, sitting with an issue as it slowly changes under the pressure of joint attention. “To influence actions,” neuroscientist Tali Sharot writes, “you need to give people a sense of control.”

Deeper conversations help people become explicable to each other and themselves. You can’t really know yourself until you know how you express yourself and find yourself in another’s eyes. Deeper conversation builds trust, the oxygen of society, exactly what we’re missing right now.

“Humans need to be heard before they will listen,” Amanda Ripley writes.

It’s been a rough year for all that, but this Thanksgiving, the possibility of deep talk is still out there, even over Zoom.





No.21 article:
When It Comes to Living With Uncertainty, Michael J. Fox Is a Pro

In his fourth memoir, “No Time Like the Future,” the actor and activist opens up about his newfound, uniquely upbeat brand of pessimism.

Two years ago, Michael J. Fox had surgery to remove a benign tumor on his spinal cord. The actor and activist, who had been living with Parkinson’s disease for nearly three decades, had to learn to walk all over again.

Four months later, he fell in the kitchen of his Upper East Side home and fractured his arm so badly that it had to be stabilized with 19 pins and a plate. Mired in grueling, back-to-back recoveries, he started to wonder if he had oversold the idea of hope in his first three memoirs, “Lucky Man,” “Always Looking Up” and “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Future.”

“I had this kind of crisis of conscience,” Fox said during a video interview last month from his Manhattan office, where pictures of Tracy Pollan, his wife of 31 years, and his dog, Gus, hung behind him. “I thought, what have I been telling people? I tell people it’s all going to be OK — and it might suck!”

His solution was to channel that honesty into a fourth memoir, “No Time Like the Future,” which Flatiron is publishing on Nov. 17. For an example of his new outlook, consider his perspective on traveling by wheelchair.

“It can be a frustrating and isolating experience, allowing someone else to determine the direction I’m going and the rate of speed I can travel. The pusher is in charge,” Fox writes. “From the point of view of the occupant of the chair, it’s a world of asses and elbows. No one can hear me. To compensate, I raise my voice and suddenly feel like Joan Crawford in ‘What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?,’ barking out orders.”

He continues: “Generally the person in control is a stranger, an airport or hotel employee. I’m sure that if we could look each other in the eye, we’d recognize our mutual humanity. But often in the wheelchair, I’m luggage. I’m not expected to say much. Just sit still.” Later, he adds, “No one listens to luggage.”

Before the spinal surgery, Fox was working on a book about golf. “Then life happened,” he said. “I started thinking about what it meant to be able to move and express myself physically, to have that taken away. And then dealing with the surrender it takes to lie down and say, ‘Cut me open.’ I don’t know what that’s like for anybody else, but I can figure out what it’s like for me and write it down.”

“No Time Like the Future” does delve into Fox’s favorite sport, which he plays on Long Island with his “uncles” — George Stephanopoulos, Harlan Coben, Jimmy Fallon and Bill Murray — “who look past my difficulties in playing golf with Parkinson’s and embrace the truth that golf is hell for everyone.”

The book also explores Fox’s separate but equal relationships with his four adult children (he said they were on high alert for evidence of favoritism); his decision to stop acting (“not being able to speak reliably is a game-breaker for an actor”); why he recently got a turtle tattooed on the inside of his right forearm (“a visual record of the power of resiliency”); and perhaps most movingly, the gradual progression of his disease.

He writes, “Absent a chemical intervention, Parkinson’s will render me frozen, immobile, stone-faced, and mute — entirely at the mercy of my environment. For someone for whom motion equals emotion, vibrance and relevance, it’s a lesson in humility.”

For a certain consumer of Generation X pop culture, Michael J. Fox calls to mind “Family Ties” in prime time, “Back to the Future” in movie theaters, interviews in Tiger Beat. The energy that made him such a riveting presence onscreen comes through in his book. It even comes through in the time he is on my screen — where I’ve watched different incarnations of him all my life, only this time he’s talking just to me — to the point I’m worried about getting in trouble with his mama-bear publicist if I take up more than the agreed-upon amount of time.

The only pause in momentum comes when he talks about Pollan. “The book is a love letter to Tracy. She really got me through” — he swallows, shakes his head, holds up a hand — “everything.”

The guiding principle for “No Time Like the Future” was inspired by Fox’s brother-in-law, Michael Pollan, a fellow writer known for his books “The Botany of Desire” and “How to Change Your Mind.” “He always says to me, ‘Velocity and truth. Velocity and truth. Keep it honest and keep it fast,’” Fox said. “I don’t want to be the guy who’s sitting on the pillow telling people, ‘Be the ball.’ I’m not going to tell anyone about anything other than my experience. I’m 59 years old, and I got no time for small talk.”

A draft of the book was underway when Fox and his family relocated to their house in Quogue, N.Y., to ride out the early months of the pandemic. From there, he continued to work six days a week via FaceTime with his longtime producing partner, Nelle Fortenberry, who was in Sag Harbor. Eventually the team rented an office, where their process was the same as it had been for previous books: Fortenberry plastered a wall with index cards listing themes Fox wanted to cover. Under each one was another row of color-coded cards containing stories pertaining to each subject.

“The way I work is, I write notes no one can read and then I dictate them to Nelle,” Fox said.

Fortenberry elaborated in a phone interview: “Michael’s handwriting has never been good,” she said. “So he talks and I type. I am not his ghostwriter or a co-writer. He is the writer of this book.”

The two have collaborated together for 25 years — on books, films and projects for the Michael J. Fox Foundation, a Parkinson’s research and advocacy organization. She first met Fox to talk about a job with his production company, a position she wasn’t even sure she wanted.

“Within five minutes, I could sense the deep friendship that would follow,” she said. “I don’t think I’d ever felt that way before, that sort of certainty you get when you meet your husband, or when you look at 50 houses and you finally walk into the one and you’re like, ‘Look no further. This is my house.’ I felt that way with Michael from the very beginning.”

Fortenberry said the foundation gets letters from Parkinson’s patients wanting to know what miracle drug Fox is taking. “There’s no miracle drug. That’s just who Michael is,” she said. “But this book gives a different side of him, and it’s not manufactured. It’s 100 percent real. And heart-wrenching.”

Fox writes, “Have I been an honest broker with the Parkinson’s community? The understanding I’ve reached with Parkinson’s is sincere, but the expression of it risks being glib.” He used to be a believer in making lemonade out of lemons, but now, he writes, “Screw it — I’m out of the lemonade business.”

Bob Miller, the president and publisher of Flatiron, who has also known Fox for 20 years, said “No Time Like the Future” is “more wistful, thoughtful and quiet. It’s a thinking person’s book about how you continue to find meaning through hard things.”

He initially thought Fox’s message would be useful counterprogramming to the political environment, but that was before the pandemic. Now, he said, “We’re surrounded by illness and the possibility of illness on a daily basis, so we can all join Michael in a way. We want his answers.”

People often ask Fox if he’s going to move back to Canada, or if he can help them make a move to Canada, where he was born and lived until he was 18. “I built a life here and became a citizen so I could vote,” he said. “And now I want to be here to help fix what’s going on. There’s a cleansing happening. Things are going to get better.”

These sound like the words of an optimist, don’t they? Fox laughed. “Optimism is informed hope,” he said. “You’ve been given something, you’ve accepted it and understood it, and then you have to pass it on.”

He does this through his foundation, which is now 20 years old and has funded more than $1 billion in Parkinson’s research. “I’d hoped we’d be out of business by now,” he said. “I thought we’d find a cure — oil and dog hair will fix it, or something like that.”

Still, Fox writes in his book, “In the quest to cure Parkinson’s, we’re absolutely certain we’re the tip of the spear.”

In his epilogue, he looks back on the first wave of the pandemic. He describes the sound of neighbors banging pots, blowing whistles and ringing cowbells in honor of health care workers, “a band of thousands, sending a message of thanks out to the universe.” He recalls his father-in-law, Stephen Pollan, who died in 2018, and was known for his trademark assurance, “Just wait, kiddo. It gets better.”

Or, as Fox puts it, “With gratitude, optimism becomes sustainable.”





No.22 article:
Knicks Get ‘Must-See TV’ Player in Obi Toppin

The Knicks selected Toppin, who is from Brooklyn, with the eighth overall pick in Wednesday’s N.B.A. draft. Toppin said he models his game after Anthony Davis.

Obi Toppin’s fairy-tale path from a skinny high school tweener without a single offer from a four-year college to an N.B.A. lottery pick began with a promise. He made it four years ago to Rodrick Harrison, the basketball coach at Mount Zion Prep near Washington.

It came after the disappointment of Toppin’s senior year at Ossining High School in Westchester County, N.Y., when, according to Harrison, Toppin did not get even get a scholarship offer from a Division II college. Toppin did have one option at a junior college, until a mutual friend suggested that Toppin deserved the chance at a year playing for Harrison at Mt. Zion in Lanham, Md.

Harrison watched one game at Ossining and instantly fell in love with Toppin’s ability and hard work. Later that day, the two spoke on the phone.

“He told me, ‘Coach, if you give me an opportunity, I promise I won’t fail,’ ” Harrison recalled during a telephone interview Thursday. “ ‘I’ll work as hard as a I can. I will do whatever you need me to do.’ That’s when it clicked for me. When someone is that humble and they have that much talent, it’s like he’s a blank canvas.”

Toppin made the most of his one year at Mt. Zion, parlaying it into an offer from the University of Dayton in Ohio, where he played two seasons, averaged 20 points per game in his final year, and then was drafted by his hometown Knicks with the No. 8 overall pick in the N.B.A. draft Wednesday night.

The Knicks also are expected to acquire Immanuel Quickley, a top shooting guard out of the University of Kentucky who was selected with the 25th pick by the Oklahoma City Thunder.

It was an unusual draft, held remotely because of the pandemic, and several players were overwhelmed on the occasion, including Toppin. He broke down in tears when he was interviewed on ESPN, both because he was returning to New York — he grew up in Brooklyn — and because he had emerged from almost total obscurity to become a top-10 pick.

“Hearing my name called is a blessing,” he told reporters. “A lot of people dream of this, and there’s only 60 picks, and I was one of those picks.”

When Toppin first walked through the doors at Mt. Zion, he stood 6-foot-5, weighed about 185 pounds and had trouble getting the attention of the best A.A.U. teams in his area. Today he is 6-foot-9, weighs 220 pounds and is the holder of the 2020 John R. Wooden Award for college player of the year after he led the Flyers to a 29-2 record last season.

He shoots from long range and midrange, and slashes to the rim, and he is known to electrify audiences with his innovative and acrobatic dunks.

“I don’t rank his dunks,” said Anthony Grant, the head coach at Dayton, “but he will definitely excite a crowd with his explosiveness, variety and showmanship. He’s fun to watch; must-see TV.”

Toppin tried to showcase his talent for years when few were watching, so when he does get the opportunity, he does not squander it. At Mt. Zion, when he had begun the process of stretching another four inches in height and blossoming into a remarkable player, he finally began to draw the attention of colleges around the country. A group of coaches from state universities like Minnesota and Wyoming came to watch him practice one day in February 2017. But Toppin had injured the thumb on his shooting hand during a tournament the day before. Harrison told all the disappointed coaches not to expect much.

Toppin practiced anyway and put on a show by shooting left-handed. Harrison said he went 6 for 8, all with his off hand.

“That’s unheard-of, right there,” Harrison said. “I was like, ‘Why didn’t you tell me you can shoot with your left hand, Obi?’ But he wasn’t afraid to do it.”

By April of that year, Toppin was still available, and that is when Grant persuaded him to go to Dayton.

Grant recalled a game last year at St. Louis, when Toppin had a poor first-half performance. The visitors’ bench was right next to the student section and the students were riding Toppin hard as the Billikens took a 13-point lead midway through the second half.

But Toppin was fueled by the taunts. During a timeout, he emphatically told his teammates that they would not lose the game. He scored 8 points in the final four minutes of regulation to help force overtime, and Dayton won. But it was more than just the points: His demeanor and confidence permeated the entire team.

“The things he did to get us to overtime and then win the game,” Grant said, “and to be able to handle what was coming at him, that really impressed me.

Toppin said he modeled his game after Anthony Davis, the multi-tooled center for the Los Angeles Lakers, but acknowledged that he has a long way to go before he can match Davis as a defensive stalwart.

Defense is indeed the one aspect of Toppin’s game that needs work, but he will be tutored by the Knicks’ Tom Thibodeau, one of the best defensive coaches in the N.B.A. A lot of defense is about hard work and commitment, and Grant said that when Toppin was at Dayton, he was always eager to learn and quick to figure things out.

“I don’t see Obi being the defensive player of the year in the league,” Grant said. “But I also think he can be a great player and an asset. He’ll be everything that he’ll need to be to help the Knicks be successful. I still think he hasn’t scratched the surface.”





No.23 article:
The Coronavirus Is Airborne Indoors. Why Are We Still Scrubbing Surfaces?

Scientists who initially warned about contaminated surfaces now say that the virus spreads primarily through inhaled droplets, and that there is little to no evidence that deep cleaning mitigates the threat indoors.

HONG KONG — At Hong Kong’s deserted airport, cleaning crews constantly spray baggage trolleys, elevator buttons and check-in counters with antimicrobial solutions. In New York City, workers continually disinfect surfaces on buses and subways. In London, many pubs spent lots of money on intensive surface cleaning to reopen after lockdown — before closing again in November.

All over the world, workers are soaping, wiping and fumigating surfaces with an urgent sense of purpose: to fight the coronavirus. But scientists increasingly say that there is little to no evidence that contaminated surfaces can spread the virus. In crowded indoor spaces like airports, they say, the virus that is exhaled by infected people and that lingers in the air is a much greater threat.

Hand washing with soap and water for 20 seconds — or sanitizer in the absence of soap — is still encouraged to stop the virus’s spread. But scrubbing surfaces does little to mitigate the virus threat indoors, experts say, and health officials are being urged to focus instead on improving ventilation and filtration of indoor air.

“In my opinion, a lot of time, energy and money is being wasted on surface disinfection and, more importantly, diverting attention and resources away from preventing airborne transmission,” said Dr. Kevin P. Fennelly, a respiratory infection specialist with the United States National Institutes of Health.

Some experts suggest that Hong Kong, a crowded city of 7.5 million residents and a long history of infectious disease outbreaks, is a case study for the kind of operatic surface cleaning that gives ordinary people a false sense of security about the coronavirus.

The Hong Kong Airport Authority has used a phone-booth-like “full-body disinfection channel” to spritz airport staff members in quarantine areas. The booth — which the airport says is the first in the world and is being used in trials only on its staff — is part of an all-out effort to make the facility a “safe environment for all users.”

Such displays can be comforting to the public because they seem to show that local officials are taking the fight to Covid-19. But Shelly Miller, an expert on aerosols at the University of Colorado Boulder, said that the booth made no practical sense from an infection-control standpoint.

Viruses are emitted through activities that spray respiratory droplets — talking, breathing, yelling, coughing, singing and sneezing. And disinfecting sprays are often made from toxic chemicals that can significantly affect indoor air quality and human health, Dr. Miller said.

“I can’t understand why anyone would think that disinfecting a whole person would reduce the risk of transmitting virus,” she said.

A range of respiratory ailments, including the common cold and influenza, are caused by germs that can spread from contaminated surfaces. So when the coronavirus outbreak emerged last winter in the Chinese mainland, it seemed logical to assume that these so-called fomites were a primary means for the pathogen to spread.

Studies soon found that the virus seemed to survive on some surfaces, including plastic and steel, for up to three days. (Studies later showed that much of this is likely to be dead fragments of the virus that are not infectious.) The World Health Organization also emphasized surface transmission as a risk, and said that airborne spread was a concern only when health care workers were engaged in certain medical procedures that produce aerosols.

But scientific evidence was growing that the virus could stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air, infecting people as they inhaled — particularly in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation.

In July, an essay in The Lancet medical journal argued that some scientists had exaggerated the risk of coronavirus infection from surfaces without considering evidence from studies of its closely related cousins, including SARS-CoV, the driver of the 2002-03 SARS epidemic.

“This is extremely strong evidence that at least for the original SARS virus, fomite transmission was very minor at most,” the essay’s author, the microbiologist Emanuel Goldman of Rutgers University, said in an email. “There is no reason to expect that the close relative SARS-CoV-2 would behave significantly different in this kind of experiment,” he added, referring to the new coronavirus.

A few days after Dr. Goldman’s Lancet essay appeared, more than 200 scientists called on the W.H.O. to acknowledge that the coronavirus could spread by air in any indoor setting. Bowing to enormous public pressure over the issue, the agency acknowledged that indoor aerosol transmission could lead to outbreaks in poorly ventilated indoor places like restaurants, nightclubs, offices and places of worship.

By October, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which had maintained since May that surfaces are “not the primary way the virus spreads,” was saying that transmission of infectious respiratory droplets was the “principal mode” through which it does.

But by then, paranoia about touching anything from handrails to grocery bags had taken off. And the instinct to scrub surfaces as a Covid precaution — “hygiene theater,” as The Atlantic magazine called it — was already deeply ingrained.

“My tennis partner and I have abandoned shaking hands at the end of a match — but, since I’ve touched the tennis balls that he has touched, what’s the point?” Geoff Dyer wrote in a March essay for The New Yorker magazine that captured the germaphobic zeitgeist.

From Nairobi to Milan to Seoul, cleaners in hazmat suits have been fumigating public areas despite W.H.O. warnings that the chemicals could do more harm than good.

In Hong Kong, where 299 people died during the original SARS epidemic, elevator buttons are often covered in plastic that is cleaned multiple times a day. Crews in some office buildings and subways wipe escalator handrails with disinfected rags as commuters ascend. Cleaners have blasted public places with antimicrobial coatings and added a fleet of robots to clean surfaces in subway cars.

Several Hong Kong-based scientists insist the deep cleaning can’t hurt, and supported the government’s strict social-distancing rules and its monthslong insistence on near-universal mask wearing.

Procter &amp; Gamble said sales of its personal cleansing products grew more than 30 percent in the quarter that ended in September, with double-digit growth in every region of the world, including more than 20 percent in greater China.

Hong Kong’s Covid-19 burden — more than 5,400 confirmed cases and 108 deaths — is relatively low for any city. Yet some experts say it has been slow to address the risks of indoor aerosol transmission.

Early on, officials required Hong Kong restaurants to install dividers between tables — the same sort of flimsy, and essentially useless, protection used at the U.S. vice-presidential debate in October.

But as the Hong Kong authorities have gradually eased restrictions on indoor gatherings, including allowing wedding parties of up to 50 people, there is a fear of potentially new outbreaks indoors.

Some experts say they are especially concerned that coronavirus droplets could spread through air vents in offices, which are crowded because the city has not yet developed a robust culture of remote work.

“People are removing masks for lunch or when they get back to their cubicle because they assume their cubicle is their private space,” said Yeung King-lun, a professor of chemical and biological engineering at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.

“But remember: The air you’re breathing in is basically communal.”





No.24 article:
Blood Lust and Demigods: Behind an Australian Force’s Slaughter of Helpless Afghans

The findings of a four-year military inquiry paint a brutal picture of a special forces culture of rewarding the killing of innocents and prisoners and methodically covering it up.

MELBOURNE, Australia — They were the elite of the elite among Australian soldiers, with a record of daring raids in Afghanistan. But a twisted and extreme warrior culture was being instilled, driving the commandos to glorify atrocity as they waged a methodical campaign to kill helpless Afghans and cover it up.

Commanders ordered junior soldiers to execute prisoners so they could record their first “kill.” Adolescents, farmers and other noncombatants were shot dead in circumstances clearly outside the heat of battle. Superior officers created such a godlike aura around themselves that troops dared not question them, even as 39 Afghans were unlawfully killed.

These are among the findings of battlefield misconduct, released on Thursday in a public accounting by the Australian military — a rare admission of abuses that often remain hidden during war.

The four-year examination by the inspector general of the Australian Defense Force is groundbreaking in its scope. It is the first time that a member of the American-led coalition in Afghanistan has so publicly, and at such a large scale, accused its troops of wrongdoing.

The inspector general’s inquiry, which examined the period from 2005 to 2016, stopped short of calling the killings war crimes. But the highly redacted report singles out “possibly the most disgraceful episode in Australia’s military history,” and calls for the criminal investigation of 19 soldiers.

The country’s military chief, Gen. Angus Campbell, said he accepted the findings and would eliminate an elite unit at the center of the investigation. The report also recommends that the Australian government pay compensation to the families of the Afghan victims.

“Today, the Australian Defense Force is rightly held to account for allegations of grave misconduct,” General Campbell said as he announced the findings of the inquiry. He called them “deeply disturbing” and “unreservedly” apologized to the Afghan people.

“It’s alleged that some patrols took the law into their own hands, rules were broken, stories concocted, lies told and prisoners killed,” he said. “Those who wished to speak up were allegedly discouraged, intimidated and discredited.”

The findings reflect the painful legacy of a wrenching 19-year conflict that has defied resolution, as violence continues unabated across Afghanistan. Peace talks are deadlocked between the Afghan government and the Taliban, and the country’s fate has been made all the more uncertain since President Trump’s order to further reduce American troops.

Australia’s military reckoning presents a stark contrast to how the United States has examined its own actions.

Mr. Trump recently pardoned three service members for war crimes and other unlawful acts. His administration has tried to block the work of an international investigator examining allegations of war crimes. And while there has been no small number of accusations of battlefield atrocities by U.S. service members, few have resulted in formal investigations, with American military officials portraying any such misconduct as rare.

U.S. investigations, when they have occurred, have generally centered not on entire units, but on individuals like Staff Sgt. Robert Bales, who pleaded guilty to killing 16 civilians and is serving life in prison without parole. The focus on individuals has allowed special operations groups like the one at the center of the Australian report to avoid broader scrutiny.

The Australian defense ministry, by contrast, went so far as to terminate the 2nd Squadron of the Army’s Special Air Service Regiment, a decision akin to disbanding a component of an elite American commando unit such as SEAL Team 6 or Delta Force.

While some countries may use Australia’s forthrightness against it, “if they’re honest, they’ll recognize Australia is being searingly tough on itself,” said John Blaxland, a defense expert at the Australian National University, noting that the inquiry had been initiated from within the defense force.

Before the release of the report on Thursday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison called Afghanistan’s government to express his “deepest sorrow” over the troops’ misconduct. A spokesman for the Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, said that Mr. Morrison had vowed that any soldier who committed crimes would face legal consequences.

In a statement, the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission said: “Only through a series of independent inquiries will we uncover the true extent of this disregard for Afghan life, which normalized murder, and resulted in war crimes. Only through further investigation, documentation and engagement with victims will victims’ right to truth and justice be met.”

Australia, a military ally of the United States for over a century, first joined American troops in Afghanistan shortly after they arrived in late 2001. Over the years that followed, more than 26,000 Australians have served in the country, including 3,000 special operations forces. The last combat troops left in late 2013, though several hundred support personnel remained.

The investigation into troops’ behavior was initiated in 2015 by the special forces commander at the time, Jeff Sengelman, who commissioned a confidential “cultural review.” Disturbing revelations of unlawful killings, “competition killing” and “blood lust” prompted the Army chief in 2016 to request that the inspector general conduct a formal inquiry.

Public awareness of potential abuses first emerged in 2017, when the Australian Broadcasting Corporation published allegations of unlawful killings of unarmed Afghan men and children after receiving hundreds of leaked Defense Force documents. This later prompted a raid on the office of the national broadcaster by the federal police and a failed attempt to prosecute the journalist who wrote the article.

The report released on Thursday documents a wide range of misconduct that the country’s defense chief called the product of a “distorted culture” in which “much of the good order and discipline of military life fell away.”

Some special forces members carried weapons or equipment that could be planted on corpses to make them look like legitimate targets. This practice most likely originated from a desire to avoid scrutiny when soldiers killed legitimate yet unarmed enemy combatants, but “evolved to be used for the purpose of concealing deliberate unlawful killings,” the report found.

It also presents a scathing assessment of an atmosphere of unquestioning loyalty in the special forces, in which superiors were considered “demigods” who could make or break someone’s career. That meant low-ranking soldiers did not question commands, even unlawful ones.

The report placed the most responsibility on a small number of midlevel sergeants and their protégés for instigating and covering up the wrongdoing. It suggested that their motives included a desire to outscore other patrols in the number of enemy combatants killed, to clear at all costs the battlefield of people believed to be insurgents and to initiate new soldiers into a brotherhood of combat.

Higher-level commanders bore responsibility for the culture that developed and for the abuse that happened on their watch, but criminal behavior was largely concealed from them, the report said.

Professor Blaxland said the report’s findings reflected an ill-conceived national policy governing Australia’s involvement in Afghanistan that bred cynicism among some soldiers.

Australia had committed “military forces to open-ended missions without compelling strategy that made an erosion of moral compass possible,” he said.

“Of fundamental importance is the recognition by Australian politicians and the public writ large that we cannot take a cavalier approach to the deployment of armed forces and expect to sustain that over a decade without moral injury,” Professor Blaxland added.





No.25 article:
How Sidney Powell inaccurately cited Venezuela’s elections as evidence of U.S. fraud.

Sidney Powell, a lawyer on President Trump’s election legal team who represented the former national security adviser Michael T. Flynn, has been a major source and promoter of viral conspiracy theories about vote switching.

Since the election, Ms. Powell has advanced claims of voluminous voter fraud and a rigged election. She falsely claimed that a supercomputer called Hammer hacked votes, that Mr. Trump won the election by “millions of votes” and that voting software company Dominion Voting Systems altered the tallies.

Last week, she promised that coming evidence would overturn the election’s results and said she would “release the Kraken,” a reference to the 1981 movie “The Clash of the Titans,” reprising a catchphrase that began trending on Twitter.

On Monday, Ms. Powell posted some of her so-called evidence on Twitter. It consisted of three screenshots of an affidavit that she said was signed by a former military official from Venezuela about elections there. The screenshots were incomplete and did not include a name or signature, and Ms. Powell did not respond to requests to view the full document.

But according to her and excerpts from the affidavit, the elections software company Smartmatic helped the Venezuelan government rig its elections by switching votes and leaving no trail. The military official said in the excerpts that the U.S. election was “eerily reminiscent” of what happened in Venezuela’s 2013 presidential election, though no evidence was provided that votes had been switched in the United States.

Ms. Powell promoted the affidavit and its claims in interviews on conservative media that have amassed at least four million views on YouTube.

“This person saw, by his own experience, exactly what was happening there was happening here,” Ms. Powell explained to Fox News on Monday.

Smartmatic does not provide technology to the battleground states that sealed President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory. And electronic voting security experts said they were unimpressed with what Ms. Powell presented.

“The essence of the affidavit is that voting machines could have been hacked. This is not news,” said David Dill, a computer scientist at Stanford University and founder of the Verified Voting Foundation. “Every single vote that has been counted by computer in the U.S. in the last 50 years was counted by a computer that ‘could have been hacked.’ So far as I know, none of them actually were.”

Dan Wallach, a professor of computer science at Rice University and an expert on electronic voting system security, said: “If this class of attack was happening, the odds of it going undetected is quite low. So far, we have no evidence suggesting an abnormal number of spoiled ballots.”

Previous claims that Smartmatic’s voting machines were rigged in Venezuela have been disputed and are “unsubstantiated,” according to The Associated Press. It’s worth noting that Smartmatic accused the Venezuelan government of election fraud in 2017, pointing out that its machines were used when the opposition party won a majority in the country’s National Assembly in 2015.

The excerpts from Ms. Powell also included numerous inaccurate claims to imply a similarity between Venezuela’s elections and the U.S. election, chiefly drawing dubious parallels between Smartmatic and Dominion, which was used in several key states. Ms. Powell took the claims one step further, telling the right-wing media company Newsmax that Venezuela’s vote counting system was then “exported” to the United States.

The official she cited also said that Dominion’s system was “a descendant” of Smartmatic’s system, that they “did business together” and that Mr. Biden had overtaken Mr. Trump only when “vote counting was stopped.”

Smartmatic and Dominion have denied any exchange of technology and maintain that they are competitors. Dominion bought assets from a company three years after Smartmatic sold the company. And Mr. Biden overtook Mr. Trump in Pennsylvania and Georgia after days of consistent counting, while maintaining a lead in Arizona that narrowed as tallying continued.

The official also claimed to Ms. Powell that voting machines display and print out a paper ballot showing the results the voter intended, while the software itself “changes the information electronically.” But Dominion’s system does not work like that.

“The process that we see happening in Georgia and elsewhere that use similar ‘ballot marking device’ systems,” Mr. Wallach said, “is that the voter selects their choices with a computer of some sort, which then prints their ballot. The voter then typically carries that ballot to a ballot box, often with a scanner on top, and deposits the ballot.”

Any difference or attack on the tabulation system would be caught in postelection recounts, and “so far, none of them have caught anything other than human errors in the tabulation process, such as forgetting to load a memory card,” he said.

Mr. Dill said: “Courts demand strong evidence to overturn an election. From that perspective, this affidavit does not help make a case.”





No.26 article:
About That Maligned Christmas Tree (and That Owl) at Rockefeller Center

The underwhelming first glimpse of the Norway spruce seemed a metaphor for 2020’s troubles. But perhaps the tree just needs a little time to relax.

It would be hard to find anyone in New York who has had an easy time of it in 2020.

With the coronavirus surging, the mayor shut the city’s schools down again. The governor set limits on the size of family gatherings as the holidays approach. Transit officials said that subway service could soon be cut nearly in half. And that was just the past week or so.

So when this year’s Rockefeller Center Christmas tree went up last weekend, maybe it made sense for some commenters on social media to pounce on what they perceived as the huge Norway spruce’s unusually scraggly state, and to see it as emblematic of the year overall.

“If it was a beautiful tree, that would have been surprising,” said Emily Brandwin, a podcaster, describing her immediate reaction to seeing an image of the tree. She continued: “2020 is a trash can. And it’s like, of course we can’t have nice things.”

Ms. Brandwin was among the many people with something to say about the tree. On Twitter, users wrote that the tree looked like it “had cut its own hair” and had “just like the rest of us, really been through things.” Another, echoing Ms. Brandwin, said it was “a metaphor for 2020.”

No, actually.

Although despair, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder, the 75-foot, 11-ton evergreen that arrived in Midtown Manhattan this year after a 200-mile trip from upstate Oneonta looked the same as its predecessors had in past years when they were being installed, said EB Kelly, a managing director at Tishman Speyer, the real estate firm that owns Rockefeller Center.

Workers had wrapped the tree tightly before making the long drive, Ms. Kelly said, and it would take the branches time to settle back into their usual position after the tree was unwrapped and placed upright.

What people were seeing, she said, were the “normal effects” of that process. She rejected the idea that the tree was any kind of metaphor for 2020.

“It is beautiful and full,” Ms. Kelly said. People would not be disappointed by the tree’s appearance, she added, when it was lit up on Dec. 2 in this year’s version of one of the city’s most enduring holiday traditions and, in typical times, one of its major tourist attractions.

Al Dick, whose Oneonta property the spruce came from and who donated it for the Christmas duty, also scoffed at the suggestion that the tree was somehow dispiriting in the same way the year had been.

“It was absolutely beautiful,” said Mr. Dick, who noted that someone connected to Rockefeller Center had first spotted the tree about four years ago while passing through the Oneonta area and that others had visited regularly to check on it before it was cut down last Thursday. “That’s why they took it. You know how many people they had check that tree out?”

Ms. Brandwin, who acknowledged that the tree’s appearance would surely improve in the days after it was erected, was one of many who likened it to the scrawny evergreen that figures prominently in the 1965 “Peanuts” holiday special, “A Charlie Brown Christmas.”

Anyone who has watched that special to the end, of course, knows that Charlie Brown’s “Peanuts” pals transform the sad sapling into something much more cheerful, which is what Rockefeller Center promised in response to naysayers.

“Wow, you all must look great right after a two-day drive, huh?” the property wrote on its Twitter account on Wednesday. “Just wait until I get my lights on. See you on December 2!”

Unlike the tree, though, the lighting ceremony will feel 2020’s effects: The public will not be allowed to attend in person. Those who want a close-up look will be able to get one after that until early January, although under more controlled circumstances than usual. Those logistics are still being worked out, Ms. Kelly said.

Online interest in this year’s tree took a more positive turn on Wednesday when it emerged that one of the workers who had helped transport and install it had found a small owl in its branches.

A message posted on the Facebook page of the Ravensbeard Wildlife Center in Saugerties, N.Y., said that the center had been contacted by the worker’s wife, who said that her husband was on his way home with the owl “in a box tucked in for the long ride.”

The woman subsequently delivered the bird to an employee at the center, who identified it as a saw-whet owl. Center employees were giving the owl, which they named “Rockefeller,” fluids and “all the mice he will eat,” the Facebook post said. They planned to release him “to continue his wild and wonderful journey” once he received “a clean bill of health.”

Ellen Kalish, the Ravensbeard center’s director, said the circumstances under which the owl had arrived were “very unusual.”

“I’ve been doing this 20 years and I’ve never had a case like this,” she said.

Had the owl traveled with the tree from Oneonta to Midtown?

Ms. Kelly, the Tishman Speyer executive, was skeptical. She said that the workers who wrap and transport Rockefeller Center’s trees are careful to make sure there is no wildlife in the boughs before a trip begins. She said the owl had probably flown into the tree in Manhattan.

Rita McMahon, the director of the Wild Bird Fund rehabilitation center in Manhattan, said that was possible. Saw-whet owls, she said, sometimes pass through the city while migrating south around this time of the year. She said the Wild Bird Fund was currently tending to one that had hurt itself crashing into a window.

Ms. Kalish said that she believed the owl had made the 200-mile trip south because “he was very hungry and dehydrated” when he got to the center.

Mr. Dick said he also thought it was possible that the owl had started out in Oneonta.

“At night,” he said, “we have them hooting all over the place.”

Maybe the hoot is mightier than the tweet.





No.27 article:
5 Things to Do This Weekend

Our critics and writers have selected noteworthy cultural events to experience virtually or in person in New York City.

The phone booths along Sixth Avenue from 51st to 56th Streets have been taken over by works from the outdoor exhibition “Titan,” on view until Jan. 3. Among them is Glenn Ligon’s text sculpture “Aftermath,” on the corner of 56th Street. It reads, “Nov. 4, 2020” — the day after the presidential election.

Words, which often reference politics, dominate here. Rirkrit Tiravanija’s piece, on 53rd Street, bears the phrase “Febreze for Fascism” in big block letters. Patti Smith’s presentation, two blocks north, depicts a peace flag. (A map can be found at titan.kurimanzutto.com/map.) A similar banner project is nearby at Lincoln Center, where Carrie Mae Weems, for her national campaign “Resist COVID/Take 6!,” created 10 installations that show how Covid-19 has impacted people of color (for more information, go to lincolncenter.org).MELISSA SMITH

When Lou Reed released “Berlin” in 1973, his label promoted it as a “film for the ear.” An ambitious concept album about addiction and the dissolution of a marriage, it did have a certain cinematic sprawl. But critically and commercially, “Berlin” was a bust.

Only decades later would it become a film for the eyes as well. Reed performed the album — which has been looked upon more favorably in recent years — live for the first time in 2006, at St. Ann’s Warehouse in Brooklyn. The painter Julian Schnabel directed the show and made it into a gritty concert documentary, splicing footage of the performance with dramatized B-roll depicting the ill-fated couple at the center of the album’s narrative.

St. Ann’s Warehouse will wrap up its virtual fall season with Schnabel’s film, “Lou Reed’s Berlin.” It will be available to stream free on St. Ann’s website starting on Friday at 7:30 p.m. Eastern time through Nov. 29 at midnight.OLIVIA HORN

Ohad Naharin, the house choreographer of the Batsheva Dance Company in Israel, is one of the most influential dance makers in the world. His uninhibited aesthetic — with its directness, loose-jointed eccentricity and oddball sex appeal — is often imitated, seldom equaled. And now, for the first time, he has adapted one of his works for film.

“YAG: The Movie” is streaming on Saturday at 9 p.m. Eastern time (tickets, around $15, are available through the Batsheva website). But don’t be misled by the title. This is a stage work: a 50-minute piece for six dancers, made in 1996 and filmed at one of Batsheva’s studios in October.

It’s an exemplary recording, though. A calm, close camera increases the intimacy, heightening the impact of the signature Naharin gaze, looking right at you. This is a work explicitly about family and the love of dance. Obliquely exposing tenderness and beauty, it sets dance against death.BRIAN SEIBERT

Most tween and teenage rockers make far more music than money. But the youth bands in a virtual concert on Sunday plan to earn plenty — all for a good cause.

At 6 p.m. Eastern time, they will star in an hourlong show streaming on the website and Facebook page of the nonprofit Kids Rock for Kids. Throughout the free performance, families will be encouraged to donate to this three-year-old organization, which Dave Miller and Lisa Schorr, who are each parents themselves, founded to benefit children’s charities. The event, Kids Rock for Kids World Encore, is the group’s second this year on behalf of UNICEF. (The first raised $5,000.)

Playing original material and covers, the 17 bands include Six Continents, whose name reflects its members’ origins. (It would be Seven Continents, but no one was rocking out in Antarctica.) Other groups hail from Australia, Argentina, India, Spain, Colombia, Britain and the United States. Young New Yorkers, take note: Three have roots in Brooklyn.LAUREL GRAEBER

In recent years, the saxophonist, composer and improviser Ingrid Laubrock has moved adroitly between writing for small ensembles and for orchestral groups. (In doing so, she has been following an example set by mentors like Anthony Braxton.) On her double album, “Dreamt Twice, Twice Dreamt,” due out on Friday, Laubrock gives listeners the best of both worlds.

On the first disc, Laubrock and some regular collaborators are joined by the conductor Susanne Blumenthal’s EOS Chamber Orchestra, of Cologne, Germany. The second disc includes earlier versions of some of the same compositional material in arrangements for more slender forces. The differences are intriguing throughout. The fitfully propulsive opening track, “Dreamt Twice,” features rich writing for the EOS players, starting in the third minute. (The finale also includes some sighing, songful string lines.) At the end of the double album, you can hear how the closely related work “Twice Dreamt” makes a more ambient impression.SETH COLTER WALLS





No.28 article:
G.M. Accelerates Its Ambitions for Electric Vehicles

General Motors says it will increase its investment and model offerings over the next five years “to expedite the transition to E.V.s.”

For the last few years, Tesla has not only dominated the market for electric cars but also captivated the imaginations of investors, a phenomenon that has lifted its market value to stratospheric heights even though it only just started turning consistent profits.

Now General Motors is planning an all-out push to catch up to Tesla, in E.V. sales and in catching investors’ eyes.

In a presentation to financial analysts on Thursday, the automaker said that it was expediting plans to introduce electric cars and trucks over the next five years, and expected to spend $27 billion by 2025 on the effort, up from a previous budget of $20 billion.

“We are all-in to establish leadership in electric vehicles,” the company’s chief executive, Mary T. Barra, said at a conference hosted by Barclays Capital. “E.V.s are core to growing our business and creating shareholder value.”

Ms. Barra said G.M. aimed to introduce 30 electric models around the world by 2025, about 10 more than it had previously disclosed. Twenty will be available in the United States. Among the first will be the Hummer electric sport utility vehicle planned to arrive in showrooms late next year. A Cadillac S.U.V., called the Lyriq, is now due in the first quarter of 2022, nine months earlier than previously planned, she said.

Other models will include an electric pickup truck and S.U.V. for its Chevrolet brand, as well as other models at a range of prices.

“Climate change is real, and we want to be part of the solution,” Ms. Barra said. “We are resolved as a management team to move even faster to expedite the transition to E.V.s.”

Although automakers are committing to producing E.V.s, the strength of consumer demand is less clear.

“You can invest all this money but someone has to buy these electric vehicles, and that’s still a question,” said Mike Ramsey, a Gartner analyst.

For the last five years, G.M., Ford Motor, Volkswagen and others have been trying to develop compelling and affordable electric vehicles, while watching with both envy and admiration as Tesla raced ahead. Tesla is on track to sell close to 500,000 E.V.s this year, far more than any rival, and is building factories in Germany and Texas that could fuel further growth.

Along the way, Tesla has cultivated an enthusiastic following of both fans and investors, who have rewarded the company by buying up its stock. On Thursday, Tesla was valued at $472 billion, dwarfing its older, bigger and more profitable rivals. In the third quarter, G.M. made $4 billion in profits, and Tesla only $331 million, yet G.M. has a market value of just $62 billion.

That has long been a source of frustration for traditional automakers and prompted increasing efforts to catch up. Ford has said it is spending $11.5 billion on electric vehicles in a five-year period ending in 2022. Volkswagen recently said it would spend 73 billion euros on electrification over the next five years.

In the next few months, Ford plans to start selling a key model in its E.V. push, a battery-powered S.U.V. under the Mustang name. V.W. will introduce an electric S.U.V., called the ID4, early next year.

BMW, Toyota, Nissan, Fiat Chrysler and others are also making substantial investments in E.V.s.

Ms. Barra said the company expected its Ultium modular battery packs to provide a range up to 450 miles before needing a recharge. Earlier this year G.M. said the maximum range would be about 400 miles.

G.M. hopes to produce the battery packs for other automakers and has formed a partnership to supply Honda Motor. “Scale can give us an incredible competitive advantage,” said Doug Parks, a G.M. executive vice president.

G.M. is building a factory near Lordstown, Ohio, to make Ultium packs. Last week, the company said it aimed to hire some 3,000 electrical and software engineers to support its E.V. effort.

“We want to lead in this space,” Mr. Parks said. “We think the industry is transforming, and to lead it, you’ve got to be better than other folks.”

Although Tesla “has got a good jump” and a number of start-ups are focused on electric vehicles, he said, “we’re not going to cede leadership.”





No.29 article:
Frederick Weston, Outsider Artist Who Was Finally Let In, Dies at 73

For decades he made his art in dingy Manhattan hotel rooms, living hand-to-mouth, hoping for his big break. It finally arrived, just a few years before his death.

Frederick Weston, a belatedly recognized New York artist who inhabited the cramped apartments of the city’s single-room occupancy hotels for decades, hermetically creating meticulous collages exploring the male body and Black queerness, died on Oct. 21 at his apartment in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. He was 73.

His cousin Denise Weston said the cause was complications of bladder cancer.

It was only in recent years that Mr. Weston’s art finally received critical attention. Before then he’d long existed on the margins of New York.

He arrived from Detroit in 1973, aspiring to enter the fashion world, but he retired his dream after encountering, as a Black man, stifling racism in the industry. In the 1980s, in a harsher Times Square than the one that exists today, he managed the concession stand at a pornography theater and checked coats at gay bars like Stella’s in the theater district. He learned he had AIDS in 1996 and lived sparsely off his disability assistance. And he resided in the bleak old S.R.O. hotels of Midtown, like the Esquire and the Senton, where rooms cost just a couple of dollars a night.

In the 1990s, Mr. Weston settled at the crumbling Breslin Hotel on Broadway at 29th Street and lived there until 2009, when it was converted into the sleek Ace Hotel and its longtime residents were forced out. A buyout deal provided him with a one-bedroom apartment in Chelsea. One afternoon last month, a friend and his gallerist went to visit him there, but no one answered the buzzer, so 911 was called. Upstairs, Mr. Weston was found to have been taking a bath when he died.

As he survived day-to-day in New York, Mr. Weston created his art privately.

He worked on his bed, trimming clippings from magazines, fabrics and Polaroid photos to use in his collages. Almost daily he visited Kinko’s to photocopy money, body parts, sunglasses and practically anything else he could slide under the machine’s lid. His rooms were heaped with his ephemera, but he was as organized as an archivist, labeling boxes and files with descriptions like “Taxi,” “Clubland,” “Bears” and “Hobo.”

“A true artist can be creative with whatever is available,” Mr. Weston said in 2008 in an interview with Visual AIDS, an organization that promotes the work of artists living with the disease. “If I am not creating art, I am not living. Being able to create is real power.”

He explored the male form, and the mass media’s representation of it, as his subject matter. Two typical collages, titled “Dark Meat” and “Tops and Bottoms,” used clippings of erotic male escort ads; another, “Body Map,” featured headshots of Hollywood actors. Mr. Weston also explored consumerism, gluing logos from food and cleaning products into his elaborate collages.

“The one thing I have never been able to get around is being Black and male in this world,” he said in the 2008 interview. “It colors my every dream.”

Mr. Weston didn’t think of himself as a professional artist until 1996, however, when he learned he had AIDS and discovered more meaning in life through creative expression. Soon, his work was discovered by Visual AIDS, and he started exhibiting his collages in gay bars and day-treatment centers.

“I am sure if you look long and hard enough, you may see some references to the virus,” he said of his art. “It is just another coin in the pouch. Sometimes it comes out heads; it’s a blessing. Sometimes it comes out tails; it’s a curse. There are a lot of coins in my pouch.”

The Gordon Robichaux gallery in Manhattan began representing Mr. Weston in 2017, and last year he had his first solo show in New York. Last winter, a series of his collages were exhibited to favorable reviews at the Ace Hotel as part of the city’s annual Outsider Art Fair. (Arrangements were made for Mr. Weston to spend a night in his old room, which now had a minibar.) Last January he was recognized with a Roy Lichtenstein Award, granting him $40,000, from the Foundation for Contemporary Arts.

The author Samuel R. Delany interviewed Mr. Weston last year about his experiences in the Times Square of the 1980s for a book that Visual AIDS plans to publish this January.

“He was like a much less known Keith Haring,” Mr. Delany said of Mr. Weston in a phone interview. “Most artists don’t become known, or they become known very late. Art is a disproportionate enterprise.” He added, “I think Fred Weston was that kind of an artist.”

In recent years, Mr. Weston was glad to see his art receive attention, but he couldn’t help but consider the long path he had walked to get there. Speaking last year to Senior Planet, an organization that teaches technology to older adults, he said, “I’m getting recognition as an artist now basically because I’m 73 and a professional AIDS patient who has managed to survive and has been practicing art all this time.”

Frederick Eugene Weston was born on Dec. 9, 1946, in Memphis. An only child, he briefly met his father when he was a boy. His mother, Freda Weston Morman, who worked in a children’s hospital, raised him in Detroit, where they lived in his grandparents’ house. A seamstress as well, she taught him how to make clothes.

After graduating from the High School of Commerce in Detroit, Mr. Weston earned a bachelor’s degree in marketing from Ferris State University in Big Rapids, Mich., where he had helped found its first Black fraternity.

He dreamed of entering the fashion industry, however, and headed to New York in 1973, where he immersed himself in the city’s Black creative scene and its gay nightlife.

Aspiring to be a fashion critic, he became disillusioned when he couldn’t land a job, his calls going mostly unreturned. “There’s already André Leon Talley,” one magazine editor told him, referring to the Black fashion writer and Vogue editor. “Why would we need you?”

When the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan introduced a men’s wear major, Mr. Weston joined the program and graduated with honors. But he struggled to find work as a designer and ultimately abandoned his fashion ambitions.

To make ends meet, he worked night shifts in Times Square, selling hot dogs at the X-rated Big Top movie house and assisting at the Broadway Arms steam baths. While managing the coat check at Trix, a theater district gay bar, his boss paid him to wallpaper the place with his erotic collages — possibly his first artistic commission.

As New York entered the new millennium, Mr. Weston became part of a vanishing side of the city. He was living in the decaying Breslin Hotel, where elevators malfunctioned and broken faucets in shared bathrooms were mended with duct tape. Real-estate developers eyed the building. In a short documentary film made at the time, “Voices of the Breslin,” Mr. Weston acknowledged that New York was changing.

“I remember sitting looking at the newspaper at all these places that were going to become high-rises,” he said, “and I felt like at the time, ‘Well, this is going to happen, but by that time I’ll be making so much money, and I’ll be able to stay in the neighborhood.’ Well, that hasn’t happened. But I’m determined not to leave without a fight.”

He won his fight. After developers acquired the Breslin’s lease for $40 million, he was offered a buyout deal that provided him with an apartment in the Penn South housing complex in Chelsea.

Soon, his new home filled up with his diaries, sculptures and collages. He became a recognizable neighborhood character, with his natty attire and pencil-thin mustache, and a fixture at a nearby FedEx Office, where he used its copy machine.

Mr. Weston learned he had an advanced stage of bladder cancer this year. He was wary of chemotherapy, worried that it might interfere with his H.I.V. medications. He was also willfully optimistic: His next solo show was on the horizon, he’d just won a prestigious grant and a Manhattan gallery was finally representing him. He decided not to seek more hospital treatment, and he remained at home focusing on his art.

“He had faith,” said Denise Weston, one of four cousins who survive him. “He didn’t believe it was terminal. He had goals he planned to make.”

She added, “He was determined to make it to his next show.”





No.30 article:
‘Belushi’ Finds the Sensitive Man Inside the Wild Persona

The new Showtime documentary aims to present a more complex view of John Belushi, the tragically fated star of “Animal House,” “The Blues Brothers” and “S.N.L.,” beyond the stunts and hard partying.

In 1978, the Blues Brothers album “Briefcase Full of Blues” topped the Billboard charts, “Animal House” became the highest grossing comedy to that point and “Saturday Night Live” soared to a new high in the ratings. These jolts to American pop culture shared one thing: the norm-shattering, can’t-look-away whirlwind known as John Belushi.

Four decades on, memories of this human dynamo are often overshadowed by Belushi’s death in 1982 from a drug overdose at age 33. The director R.J. Cutler’s new documentary, “Belushi,” debuting Sunday on Showtime, aims to right that ratio, creating an intimate portrait of Belushi as a fully fleshed-out man while emphasizing his oh-so-vivid life over his terrible death.

“One of the important aspirations was to capture the lightness and the joy that John not only experienced but that he brought to the world,” Cutler said in a recent phone interview. He hopes Belushi’s longtime fans discover he “was more than just an awesomely funny guy and fearless comedian,” he said.

“He was a writer, a director and a visionary,” Cutler continued. “He was forever reinventing himself and forever stretching.”

Opening with Belushi’s “S.N.L.” audition tape, in which he flaunts his expressive eyebrows and does his Marlon Brando impression, the movie captures his charisma immediately. “John had that connection with the audience where they could see right into his heart,” Lorne Michaels, the “S.N.L.” creator who hired him, with some trepidation, says in the film. “There was so much vulnerability that you thought you knew who he was.”

Family interviews and love letters to his future wife build a complex portrait of his early life as the ambitious son of an Albanian immigrant, hinting at the success and difficulties to come.

“John was his own kind of comic genius and also an Everyman,” said Sean Daniel, a Universal Pictures executive on “Animal House” who bought “The Blues Brothers” movie after a phone call with Belushi and his co-star and former “S.N.L.” castmate, Dan Aykroyd.

“John had a true exuberance and it informed his performances,” Daniel added. “But he took his work really seriously and was every ounce a creator, a real artist.”

The documentary was a long time in the making — in fact, its first seeds were planted with the 1984 Bob Woodward book about Belushi, “Wired,” which his widow, Judith Belushi Pisano, and many friends and family members viewed as a sensationalist and distorted view of the actor’s life. In response, Belushi Pisano began recording interviews with Belushi’s friends and family, hoping to someday present a different view.

For nearly two decades, Belushi Pisano sat on those tapes before deciding to bring in a friend, the writer Tanner Colby, to collaborate on an oral biography. To that already rich trove of material Colby added new interviews with people like Michaels, Robin Williams, Christopher Guest and Carrie Fisher, which the two assembled into their book, “Belushi: A Biography,” published in 2005.

Shortly after the book came out, Belushi Pisano met the documentary producer John Battsek, who said that he would love to tell John’s story on film. She said no.

“What was holding me back was my second marriage,” she recalled. “I didn’t think it would be a good thing for me again to be putting my time and attention to my late husband.”

Battsek was undeterred, calling every six months, always graciously accepting her “now’s not the time” response. “I felt really passionately that there was a great story to be told, not just a tragic story,” Battsek said. “With enough complexity to make a really interesting film.”

Then in 2015, five years after divorcing her second husband, she finally said yes … to someone else.

The Oscar-winning documentary producer Bill Couturié pitched a film idea and said he would bring in Daniel, the executive who bought “The Blues Brothers.”

“So I said, ‘This is kismet,’” Belushi Pisano recalled (although she wasn’t thrilled with Couturié’s original concept, which was a docudrama with re-enactments). Shortly after, Battsek checked in.

“When I heard John’s voice I said, ‘Oh my god, I can’t believe I didn’t talk to him before I did this,” Judy remembered about her conversation with Battsek. “We had become quite friendly by then.”

Battsek “was devastated,” he said, but he kept calling. When the project stagnated without financing, he persuaded them to hand over the reins to produce if he could quickly obtain backing. Showtime, for whom he had just produced “Listen to Me Marlon,” a documentary based on Marlon Brando’s personal tapes, immediately signed on. (Couturié and Daniel stayed on as executive producers.)

To direct, Battsek brought in Cutler, a fellow producer on the Brando documentary, who had already directed documentaries on Oliver North, Anna Wintour and Dick Cheney and had a good relationship with Showtime. Cutler set to work, unaware of the trove of tapes and letters amassed by Belushi Pisano and Colby. His initial conversations with Belushi’s friends and colleagues frustrated him.

“Some stories were lost in the foggy haze of memory and some felt like they were merely telling their ‘John Belushi stories’ and they were performative,” Cutler said. “How I would bring this story to life became a big question.”

Cutler cracked the conundrum when he and Battsek visited Belushi Pisano’s home in Martha’s Vineyard. She showed them her basement room that Battsek describes as a John Belushi museum. “It’s one of those out-of-body moments — there’s the original, typed-out cheeseburger skit” from “S.N.L.,” he said. “And she had all these letters and all the audiotapes from those interviews.”

The letters John had written to her (read in the film by Bill Hader) offered a rare glimpse into a private man who gave away little to the media. But the cache of recorded interviews with friends and family were “the key that unlocked the riddle,” Cutler said. “They were raw and had an immediacy.”

Belushi Pisano turned over the material and put her trust in Cutler, but she worried about the family getting hurt again. Jim Belushi, the most famous of John’s three siblings, was nervous but not hesitant.

“I’m always wary,” he said, toward anybody who wanted to dig into his brother’s life. “But I support Judy,” he added, “in any decision she makes about her husband. All I said to Judy was, ‘Please tell them not to show the body coming out of the [expletive] hotel.’”

In the finished film, friends and former colleagues like Aykroyd, Fisher and Harold Ramis are heard recounting the good and bad times, often accompanied by animation; Fisher talks unflinchingly about how for someone without the proper coping skills and support groups, sobriety can be more hellish than addiction.

The film doesn’t shy from Belushi’s difficult side. He could be moody and unreliable, picking fights with “S.N.L.” castmates, showing up late or missing work. He could be insecure, racked with jealousy when Chevy Chase became the show’s first breakout star. In one segment, Belushi’s castmate Jane Curtin and others are heard criticizing his attitude toward female colleagues. (“It was difficult working with John,” Curtin says in the film. “He didn’t seem to respect the women on the show.”)

In recordings, Michaels recounts their tumultuous work relationship on “S.N.L.” By Belushi’s fourth and final season, as stardom and drug abuse took its toll, Michaels appears to have reached his limit. When a doctor told him one Saturday that there was a 50-50 chance Belushi would die if he performed that night, Michaels recalls in the documentary, he replied, “I can live with those odds.”

Unlike the Woodward book, which seemed eager to dive into the image of Belushi as a hard-partying druggie, the movie frames Belushi’s final days more as what Battsek described as “a fight he’s having with the drugs — he’s in so much pain, but there’s an inability to stop.” We read Belushi’s desperate, heart-rending letters to Judy (“I’m afraid I’m too far gone”) as he was swallowed up by addiction. We hear Aykroyd’s regret-filled remembrances. We listen to Belushi’s mournful rendition of the song “Guilty,” singing “it takes a whole lot of medicine for me to pretend to be somebody else.”

Jim Belushi said he was largely happy with Cutler’s telling. “I’m just so thrilled because finally they explored who John was, his talent, his struggles, his drive,” he said, “and then the last half-hour was just heartbreaking. I cried my eyes out.”

“The feelings you have watching the last half-hour I’ve been sitting on for decades,” he continued. “But what I really liked about it was that they muted the sensational aspects of the end and lean into the inspiring beginnings.”

Belushi Pisano mostly agreed but still felt the movie was too heavy. “John thought his purpose on earth, his talent and his gift, was that he could make people laugh and feel good,” she said. “I feel the weight of sadness overall in the film, and I don’t think that represents his life so well.”

Cutler understands that everyone brings a unique perspective: “Judy’s response is 100 percent valid,” he said. “I’m not trying to please anybody; I’m making a work of art that’s going to speak to everybody in a very specific way.”

In the end, Belushi should be remembered for performances that were timeless but captured the anarchic spirit of the 1970s, Cutler said.

“John was a radical artist who was not limited by form or expectation,” he said. “He was very much of his moment, but he broke new ground and was very much ahead of his time.”





No.31 article:
Air Travel Was Gaining Momentum. Now What?

Confidence about the course of the coronavirus pandemic has helped put passengers back on planes in recent months, and Thanksgiving week is shaping up to be one of the busiest periods for U.S. air travel since it came to a near-standstill in the spring. News that effective vaccines may be close at hand lifted airline stocks.

But new concerns over the spread of the virus are rattling travelers and threatening airlines’ hopes for the months ahead.

United Airlines said Thursday that bookings had slowed and cancellations had risen in recent days because of the surge in virus cases. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urged Americans to avoid holiday travel altogether, presenting the industry with its latest wrenching question: How dark can this winter get?

“There’s two trains running toward us,” said John Grant, a senior analyst with OAG, an aviation data firm based near London. “One is full of optimism on a vaccine, and the other is, sadly, full of more caution. Who gets there first?”

When Angela Henry booked her Thanksgiving flights months ago, she had no idea that the United States would be setting new coronavirus infection records as the holiday approached. She also didn’t know that she would be pregnant.

[Read more on travel insurance during the coronavirus pandemic.]

Ms. Henry, 30, and her husband agonized over whether to stick to their plan to fly to Atlanta from Northern California to spend Thanksgiving with his family. After soliciting advice from loved ones and medical professionals and weighing the risks, they recently decided to go through with it.

“It’s been tough,” she said. “I was just trying to find that rational middle ground.”

Airlines argue that flying is generally safe because of the various policies put in place to limit contagion, high-end air filtration aboard planes and the relatively few published cases of coronavirus spread in flight. But the science is far from settled, travelers are still at risk throughout their journey and many would-be passengers have been discouraged by lockdowns and outbreaks in the places they hoped to visit.

Passenger volumes remain down more than 60 percent from last year, and the industry is losing tens of millions of dollars a day.

Airlines for America, a group representing the nation’s largest carriers, said it expected more people to fly around Thanksgiving than in the weeks before or after, though it estimated that the number of seats for sale will still be down about 40 percent compared to last year. American Airlines said it expected to operate about 15 percent more flights around the holiday than in the rest of the month. Delta Air Lines said it expects to fly about two million passengers over the holiday period, and United expects Thanksgiving week to be the busiest one since the pandemic began, crediting measures to guard against the virus’s spread that it says have put passengers at ease.

“They see that mask compliance is really good; they’ve seen how clean the planes are; they’ve maybe even seen the electrostatic sprayers in action; they’ve seen us board the plane back to front, they’ve seen social distancing on the jet bridge — all of that has contributed to greater confidence in air travel,” said Josh Earnest, United’s chief communications officer.

Thanksgiving may improve the airline industry’s fortunes, but prospects for passenger demand in the weeks ahead are dimming. Southwest Airlines said last week that booking momentum seemed to be slowing for the rest of the year. American Airlines, which has also seen demand dip because of the virus, has slashed December flights between the United States and Europe, leaving just two daily flights out of Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, to London and Frankfurt.

To some extent, the unevenness of the travel recovery comes as little surprise, said Helane Becker, managing director and senior airline analyst at Cowen.

“We always knew that it would be choppy, but that said, we think that people want to travel and they’re looking for ways to get out,” Ms. Becker said during a Thursday panel at the Skift Aviation Forum.

In Europe, the mood is far bleaker, with hopes of a revival over the holiday season largely dashed by the resurgence of infections and the lockdown measures reintroduced this month to curb the spread of the virus.

Ski resorts in the United States remain hopeful for winter travel, but those in France, Austria and Italy are closed until at least the end of November. Thousands of Christmas markets — which attract millions of visitors each year with mulled wine, roasted chestnuts and handmade holiday gifts — have been canceled, and Santa Claus displays have been taken online.

“Looking at the landscape across Europe now, we do not have high expectations for the winter season,” said Eric Dresin, secretary general of the European Travel Agents’ and Tour Operators’ Association. “We are in a situation where we can’t plan anything, and naturally that is crippling for the industry.”

The European Union uses a traffic light system for determining travel restrictions, labeling countries and individual regions green, amber or red, based on the rate of new infections, test rates and incidence per 100,000 inhabitants in the previous 14 days. Most member states require travelers arriving from high-risk red areas to take a coronavirus test or quarantine themselves upon arrival. At the end of last week, all European countries were labeled red, except Norway and Finland.

Travel and airline associations across Europe are calling for coordinated testing and contact tracing protocols to replace blanket quarantine measures, arguing that they cause uncertainty and confusion among travelers and have a limited effect on the spread of the virus.

Elsbeth McGawley, a restaurant manager from London, had to rush back to Britain from France in August to avoid a two-week quarantine requirement that was announced just 24 hours before it went into effect. She had six days remaining on her hotel booking, but she had to cancel because she could not afford to take time off from work because of a quarantine.

“It was a nightmare, trying to get my ticket changed and make it back in time,” she said in a telephone interview. “I just wanted a small break, a change of scene after being cooped up at home for months, but it turned into an ordeal and it wasn’t worth the hassle.”

Ms. McGawley usually books her Christmas travel to European cities a year in advance, but this year she canceled her plans and has decided to stay in Britain to avoid any last-minute disappointment.

“It’s impossible to book even now, a month in advance,” she said. “There are restrictions everywhere, and even if one place opens up, there is no way of knowing if things will stay that way. It’s a big gamble and it’s not worth the risk, because there are no guarantees that you will get a refund if things go wrong.”

Travel operators across Europe said they had seen an increase in people searching for winter holiday destinations in recent weeks, but few of those inquiries have turned into bookings because of the uncertainty about travel restrictions. The lack of such strict restrictions has kept travel flowing in the United States, but for how long is anyone’s guess.

“It’s just such a difficult situation for everyone at the moment,” said Mr. Grant of OAG, the aviation data firm. “We are all sitting here waiting to see how the next couple of weeks shake out, not just from Thanksgiving, but also likely Covid infection rates.”





No.32 article:
A New U.S. Law Would Target Doping’s Enablers. International Watchdogs Don’t Like It.

The Rodchenkov Act, awaiting President Trump’s signature, would allow American law enforcement authorities to go after the people who facilitate doping. The World Anti-Doping Agency says it will cause confusion.

New legislation that would expand the ability of law enforcement officials in the United States to prosecute people who participate in doping is garnering criticism from an unexpected quarter: international doping watchdogs.

Backers of the bill, the Rodchenkov Act, say it would serve as a major deterrent to doping and provide an important weapon in the battle for clean sport because it would enhance prosecutors’ efforts to charge networks of cheaters, including the coaches, trainers, scientists and sports officials who enable it, with federal crimes even if they did not take place in the United States.

This law would not apply to athletes because it targets large, organized doping conspiracies rather than simple violations, which can be prosecuted under other laws. But the law treats athletes who lose to competitors who are later shown to have cheated, as well as sponsors and broadcasters of tainted competitions, as the victims of fraud. That allows them to receive restitution as part of a conviction or plea deal from the people who have fostered the schemes.

The bill, which had broad bipartisan support, is on President Trump’s desk. He is expected to sign it though the timing is unclear.

No one expects the United States to begin extraditing facilitators of doping from nations like Russia, whose state intelligence services participated in systematic cheating during the Sochi Olympics in 2014 and at other events.

However, being formally charged can make it risky for those officials to travel outside their countries to competitions and prevent them from using American financial institutions. Those factors give the law teeth beyond the geographical and geopolitical constraints of the United States criminal justice system, the law’s supporters say.

The bill, which passed the Senate on Monday and had previously passed the House, is named for Grigory Rodchenkov, the former director of Russia’s antidoping laboratory who helped mastermind the system that allowed Russian athletes to use performance-enhancing drugs without getting caught. Rodchenkov fled Russia after the Sochi Olympics, where Russian officials swapped dirty urine samples for stored clean ones. He exposed one of the largest doping schemes in sports history and now lives in the United States in an undisclosed location.

But instead of gaining support from all the major sports organizations that have long condemned the use of performance-enhancing drugs, the Rodchenkov Act has become the latest skirmish in a long-running turf war that has pitted antidoping leaders in the United States and their allies in government and law enforcement against international antidoping and sports officials.

“It is a monumental day in the fight for clean sport worldwide,” Travis Tygart, the chief executive of the United States Antidoping Agency who lobbied hard for the bill’s passage, said on the day Congress approved it.

For its part, the World Anti-Doping Agency, which acts as the global leader in the fight against drugs in sports, opposed the Rodchenkov Act, as did the International Olympic Committee, WADA’s leading benefactor, and other international sports organizations.

As the bill was working its way through Congress, Witold Banka, the president of WADA, said if the United States acted alone in criminalizing international doping it would compromise WADA’s efforts to maintain one set of rules for sports everywhere. “This harmonization of rules is at the very core of the global antidoping program,” Banka said.

After Congress approved the bill, Banka and WADA went further and said the law could foster discrimination of athletes from certain countries. Also, the law applies only to schemes connected with sports organizations that are signatories to the WADA code, which sets international standards for testing, investigations, laboratories, exemptions, prohibited drugs, privacy protection and compliance.

That provision excludes American college sports and most of the professional leagues and associations that are based in North America, including the N.F.L., N.BA., Major League Baseball and the N.H.L., except when athletes from those sports are participating in international competitions.

Because drug policies are collectively bargained in the North American pro sports leagues, penalties for doping violations in those organizations are far less stringent than they are for international sports. Professional athletes in the North American leagues who fail doping tests are usually suspended for a portion of a season. International violations usually bring suspensions of at least two years. Also, the professional sports leagues are not signatories to the WADA code, something that has garnered criticism from both WADA and the I.O.C.

“WADA wishes also to understand why this legislation excludes vast areas of U.S. sport, in particular the professional leagues and all college sport,” read a statement from the organization upon the passage of the law. “If it is not good enough for American sports, why is it fine for the rest of the world?”

WADA has also predicted that the Rodchenkov Act may make life more complicated for whistle blowers, who theoretically could be exposed to prosecution if they were participating in the scheme before offering information about it.  

The law’s supporters say that claim is baseless because the bill provides federal witness protection for whistle blowers and a process that helps them deal with the legal ramifications of their actions.

Also, they say criticism of the law because it includes only people who are signatories to the WADA code is a red herring because the existing criminal statutes for fraud, conspiracy and illegal drug distribution already allow law enforcement in the United States to go after those who facilitate and enable doping within the pro sports leagues and college sports.

In a statement, the I.O.C. applauded the strategy of targeting doping networks but echoed the criticism from others about overlapping authorities and the exemptions for the North American pro leagues and the N.C.A.A.

The hope, supporters of the new law say, is that it will help make the Summer Olympics in Los Angeles in 2028 the cleanest ever because the consequences of coming to the United States for anyone involved in doping anywhere are so substantial.

Jim Walden, a lawyer representing Rodchenkov, said the passage of the law represented “the dawn of a new day” for athletes dedicated to competing without doping. “This will be an immediate worldwide deterrent.”





No.33 article:
W.H.O. Rejects Antiviral Drug Remdesivir as a Covid Treatment

In a review of several trials, the World Health Organization found that Gilead’s drug did not improve survival rates for patients nor did it help them recover.

The World Health Organization on Thursday recommended against using the antiviral remdesivir, a drug that had generated intense interest as a treatment for Covid-19.

An expert panel “concluded that remdesivir has no meaningful effect on mortality or on other important outcomes for patients, such as the need for mechanical ventilation or time to clinical improvement,” the W.H.O. announced. The panel published its review in the journal The BMJ. The report did not rule out the use of the drug altogether as a Covid treatment, but said evidence was lacking to recommend its use.

Gilead Sciences, manufacturer of remdesivir, whose trade name is Veklury, said in a statement that its drug “is recognized as a standard of care for the treatment of hospitalized patients with Covid-19 in guidelines from numerous credible national organizations, including the U.S. National Institutes of Health and Infectious Diseases Society of America, Japan, U.K., and Germany.” It added that there are “multiple randomized, controlled studies published in peer-reviewed journals that demonstrate the clinical benefits of Veklury.”

The potential utility of remdesivir had been the subject of debate and skepticism for months, and especially in recent weeks, after the Food and Drug Administration approved it as the first treatment for Covid-19 in late October. One large study, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, found that the drug reduced recovery time in hospitalized patients from 15 to 11 days. Two other trials the agency considered, sponsored by Gilead, did not include placebo controls, which are considered critical to judging effectiveness.

President Trump was administered remdesivir along with other treatments last month when he was hospitalized with Covid.

Since at least March, when the pandemic began spreading from China to Europe to the United States, drug companies and researchers have been working on the fly, and practicing doctors have experimented with any treatment that looks promising, including steroids. In September, the W.H.O. expert panel strongly recommended the use of steroids for patients in critical condition.

For the new analysis, the panel reviewed evidence from four trials, including one conducted by the N.I.H. and another sponsored by the W.H.O. and recently posted to a preprint server, which included some 5,000 patients, the largest to date. The paper has not been peer-reviewed or published in a scientific journal.

The results from that trial “brought into question some of the benefit that had been seen earlier, in the N.I.H. study,” said Dr. Bram Rochwerg, an associate professor of medicine at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, and a co-chair of the W.H.O. panel.

Dr. Rochwerg said that the panel “made explicit in the document that trials of remdesivir should continue, and there may be specific populations that could benefit.” But the drug is expensive and administered intravenously, he noted. Using it could divert resources that could be deployed more effectively, Dr. Rochwerg said.

Remdesivir has been authorized for emergency use since the spring in the United States, and in October, Gilead reported that it had generated $873 million in revenue thus far this year.

The drug’s widely adopted use for Covid symptoms had baffled some experts well before the F.D.A. approval.

“This is an entirely appropriate decision by the W.H.O.,” Dr. Peter Bach, director of the Center for Health Policy and Outcomes at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, wrote in an email. “Remdesivir costs thousands of dollars, the largest randomized trial examining its use in Covid suggests it may have no benefit of any kind, and the one positive study dates back to a time before we were using dexamethasone for severe disease,” he added, referring to a steroid now commonly used in hospitals.

Dexamethasone is a treatment that has been shown to help Covid-19 patients at certain stages of the disease.

The W.H.O. expert panel report, called a “living guideline,” is an initiative to continually update doctors and patients when new evidence emerges that changes current medical practice.

“It’s a little unsettling that we haven’t found much that works yet,” Dr. Rochwerg said. “But I am hopeful that ongoing research will identify other drugs which improve survival and symptoms.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]





No.34 article:
With Senate Control Hanging in Balance, ‘Crazytown’ Cash Floods Georgia

After the state went blue in the presidential race, more than $135 million in TV ads have been booked in two Senate runoff elections.

The two Georgia runoff elections that will determine control of the Senate, and much of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s ability to enact a Democratic agenda, are already drawing enormous sums of cash, with more than $125 million pouring into the state in only two weeks.

The two Democratic challengers, the Rev. Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, have each raised huge amounts since Nov. 3, with Dr. Warnock collecting around $40 million and Mr. Ossoff a little less than that, according to two people familiar with their fund-raising hauls. The Senate arm of the Republican Party and the two Republican incumbents, Senators Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue, announced they had pulled in $32 million in just the first six days after the election. And Ms. Loeffler, one of the wealthiest members of Congress who spent $23 million of her own money to make the runoff and can inject millions more at a moment’s notice, has already booked $40 million in television time.

Super PACs on both sides are racing to lock up a shrinking supply of television airtime as ad rates in the Atlanta market skyrocket, with prices this week already higher than in some of the top presidential battlegrounds in October.

The twin Georgia races have swiftly taken center stage in American politics, with campaign visits by potential 2024 Republican candidates like Senators Tom Cotton and Marco Rubio and Vice President Mike Pence. Mr. Biden himself is planning a trip closer to the Jan. 5 runoffs, as both parties vie for supremacy in a state that voted for a Democratic presidential candidate for the first time since 1992.

If both Democrats win the runoffs, they would pull the Senate into a 50-50 tie, which would give Democrats de facto control of the chamber because Kamala Harris, as vice president, would cast the tiebreaking vote.

Even the narrowest of Democratic majorities would considerably ease Mr. Biden’s path to confirming his cabinet picks, appointing judges and advancing his policies. Conversely, a Republican majority would give Senator Mitch McConnell, the G.O.P. leader, an effective veto over many of Mr. Biden’s ambitions.

“This is for all the marbles,” said Steven Law, the president of the Senate Leadership Fund, the leading Senate Republican super PAC, which has reserved at least $9 million in ads with allied groups, a sum seen as just a down payment. “Usually, the last thing you want to do is ask for money right after an election, but the donors are unbelievably revved up and ready to give again.”

Political strategists say they cannot recall any modern time when so much was on the line in a runoff election in a single state. Major Democratic and Republican donors alike are responding by opening their checkbooks, and small donors are rushing to contribute online, officials said. The result is a financial arms race unlikely to have a clear winner — except perhaps the local TV stations cashing the checks.

“It’s the Super Bowl of American politics,” said Ralph Reed, the founder of the Georgia-based Faith and Freedom Coalition, a conservative group that is planning to visit 500,000 homes in the coming weeks and follow up with digital ads, phone calls and texts.

“Everybody’s hopped up with the U.S. Senate on the line and in many ways the fate of the presidency and the courts,” said Mr. Reed, who predicted with more than a little hyperbole that $500 million could be spent on the election. “It’s crazytown.”

Unrelenting waves of negative ads have already begun. Roughly $135 million has already been booked in television spending during the nine-week sprint — even as some of the biggest expected spenders have not yet reserved time beyond the next week. Ms. Loeffler alone has about $40 million reserved, so far mostly attacking her opponent, Mr. Warnock.

“The commercials are running nonstop 24/7 on all the stations,” said Michael Thurmond, a Democrat and the chief executive of DeKalb County in the Atlanta area. “But what’s different is what you can’t see yet and you can feel: that the armies are being built, the resources are being stored up, you can feel the anticipation and excitement.”

Georgia was called for Mr. Biden by a margin of a little over 14,000 vote out of nearly five million cast, with the Atlanta suburbs delivering huge Democratic margins compared with 2016. But the political dynamics are expected to be very different in January.

Republicans are hoping to duplicate their turnout in rural and conservative-leaning areas, despite not having President Trump on the ballot to pull his impassioned supporters to the polls. And Democrats worry that Black voters will not come out in the same numbers as they did this month — turnout in runoffs almost always falls sharply — and that white suburban voters around Atlanta, who rejected Mr. Trump so resoundingly, will not be as eager to deliver a Democratic Senate to Mr. Biden.

“There will be some dissipation of the anti-Trump venom in Georgia,” Mr. Perdue predicted in a private call last week with donors and Ms. Loeffler, according to someone on the call who shared details of what was said. Some elements of the call were first reported by The Washington Post.

In a sign of the uphill fight for Democrats, Mr. Ossoff received nearly 100,000 fewer votes than Mr. Biden on Nov. 3, while his opponent, Mr. Perdue, received 700 more votes than Mr. Trump. Closing that gap is one reason Mr. Ossoff recently aired an ad linking himself to Mr. Biden, promising to work with the president-elect on issues like managing the coronavirus pandemic.

Some major Democratic donors, who requested anonymity to speak candidly, are downbeat on their party’s chances. Despite out-raising Republicans across most of the Senate map in 2020, Democrats lost several key races on Nov. 3 that party strategists had seen as winnable, including in Iowa, Maine, North Carolina and Montana. Yet those same donors said they were continuing to contribute to the Georgia contests because of the sheer significance of the outcome.

“The result of these two races is going to determine the majority in the United States Senate, which is going to determine the success or failure of the Biden policies in the next four years,” said Saxby Chambliss, a Republican former senator from Georgia. “You can’t spend enough money if you’re a Republican or a Democrat to ensure your side wins.”

Mr. Chambliss is familiar with the spotlight of a Georgia runoff. In 2008, he won one to deny Democrats a 60th Senate seat and a filibuster-proof majority after he campaigned calling himself “the firewall.” Now Mr. Chambliss predicted that a similar message promising to be a Republican check on the most liberal impulses of the left would prove persuasive.

“People like divided government,” he said.

Karl Rove, the veteran Republican strategist who is overseeing Republican fund-raising efforts for the two campaigns and the party, made a similar case in the donor call last week with Ms. Loeffler and Mr. Perdue. “This is the last line of defense for conservatives,” Mr. Rove said.

But Mr. Trump’s continued refusal to concede has complicated that messaging, since it depends on accepting his loss. Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler, in a move widely seen as currying the president’s favor, recently demanded the resignation of Brad Raffensperger, Georgia’s Republican secretary of state, which has spurred something of a Republican civil war in the state.

Nationally, the Georgia races offer Republicans a chance to bring together both more establishment-aligned contributors, who were cool to the departing president, and pro-Trump financiers. One upcoming fund-raiser is being organized by Stephen Schwarzman, the chief executive of Blackstone, who gave about $30 million to Republican candidates and super PACs this cycle, mostly focused on the Senate, according to a person familiar with the matter.

The National Republican Senatorial Committee has already invested in a presidential-level ground operation in the state, putting 1,000 paid staff members on the ground and divided into 21 regions. Republicans across the ideological spectrum are involved in the Rove-led “Georgia Battleground Fund” fund-raising effort, including former Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, the former United Nations ambassador Nikki R. Haley and Nick Ayers, a Georgia Republican who served as chief of staff to Mr. Pence.

“Democrats had a significant financial advantage down the homestretch during this election season,” said Jesse Hunt, the communications director for the N.R.S.C. “The entire Republican ecosystem is working together to ensure the tables are turned.”

Democrats are hoping the political organization and movement created by Stacey Abrams, who nearly won her race for governor in 2018 by driving up turnout among the party’s base, will recapture that energy and especially help mobilize Black voters.

In only four days, Ms. Abrams spearheaded an effort that raised nearly $10 million online for Mr. Ossoff, Mr. Warnock and a voting rights group she founded, Fair Fight. On Tuesday, she headlined a virtual fund-raiser for larger donors to both candidates, who are doing much of their fund-raising in tandem.

After the losses on Nov. 3, some Democrats said that focusing so publicly on their fund-raising successes had proved to be a distraction, as top fund-raisers like Amy McGrath in Kentucky and Jaime Harrison in South Carolina lost by large margins. Ms. Abrams’s group declined to comment on its fund-raising since those first four days, as did both the Ossoff and Warnock campaigns.

In 2017, Mr. Ossoff ran in a special election for one of Georgia’s 14 House seats that broke financial records, topping $55 million in overall spending. That contest, which Mr. Ossoff lost, had so much ad spending that one local television station added an entire newscast to its evening lineup to make room for all the extra campaign advertising dollars.

That has not yet happened this time. But ad rates are soaring, and super PACs are being forced to pay drastically more than candidates are for the same television ads, because candidates are guaranteed the lowest rates. One 30-second prime-time ad on Thursday on the ABC affiliate in Atlanta was  sold for $22,900 to a super PAC and $11,000 to Ms. Loeffler, according to Federal Communications Commission disclosures.

On the donor call, Mr. Rove said that he had heard a friendly complaint by a donor that the twin runoffs were “going to cost me a fortune.”

“Just think about it as protecting your pocketbook — the rest of your pocketbook,” Mr. Rove replied.





No.35 article:
Despite Uncertainty, Tokyo Olympics Promoted as Light at End of Pandemic Tunnel

Infection rates are rising in the United States and parts of Europe are back in lockdown. Yet the International Olympic Committee president, Thomas Bach, said the Games would take measures to go on.

TOKYO — Thomas Bach, the president of the International Olympic Committee, this week articulated nothing but optimism for a glorious Summer Games next year in Tokyo, where the world, in his view, will reunite after conquering the coronavirus pandemic.

The Games, he said during a visit to Tokyo, “would be the light at the end of this dark tunnel.”

Yet nine months after the I.O.C. and organizers in Tokyo agreed to postpone the 2020 Summer Games for one year, the level of uncertainty surrounding the event has barely waned, even as hopes for a successful Olympics have never been higher.

The pharmaceutical companies Pfizer and Moderna have announced successful trials for their coronavirus vaccines, with initial distribution expected to begin next month. But no one can say how many Olympians, spectators or volunteers will have access to a vaccine by next summer.

Will Japan open its borders, which have been largely closed since April, and allow the friends and families of Olympians, or any fans for that matter, to attend the Games? Will the Olympic Village, where most of the athletes and support staff usually live during the Games, function as a kind of bubble, with access to the city cut off? Will athletes have to quarantine either in their home countries ahead of the Games or in Japan once they arrive?

Organizers said Wednesday that they might limit the number of nights athletes could stay in the Olympic Village, asking them to leave immediately after their competitions because that is when athletes tend to venture into the city to celebrate. The opening ceremony is scheduled for July 23.

The Games’ organizers next month plan to outline the range of countermeasures they intend to pursue, but everyone involved knows that everything is subject to change, requiring those aiming to attend to be able to pivot from one plan to another likely up until the final months.

“Anything I say today is probably going to change tomorrow,” said Lindsay Mintenko, the managing director for the U.S. national swim team. “We have heard very little from Tokyo on their countermeasures.”

As for vaccinations, preliminary distribution plans in the United States place healthy young adults last in line, unless they work in health care or education, or are considered an essential worker. Olympians are not.

“We are working under the assumption that not everyone will have a vaccine,” Mintenko said.

And yet, Bach this week sketched a scenario of a halcyon and healthy Games, sending an unsubtle but important message to corporate sponsors to plan on being in Tokyo in July.

Speaking at a news conference on Monday after meeting with Japan’s prime minister, Yoshihide Suga, and the Tokyo governor, Yuriko Koike, Bach seemed to float the idea that the I.O.C. could pay for vaccines for visitors to Japan, although he said the inoculations would not be a requirement for attending the Olympics next summer. I.O.C. officials later sought to clarify that the organization had no concrete plan to acquire or distribute a vaccine.

“If a vaccine should be available, then the I.O.C. would take this cost and then we can cooperate with the National Olympic Committees because we see this effort as a sign of respect for our gracious Japanese hosts,” Bach said. “We want to make sure that as many people as possible coming to Japan on the occasion of the Games accept a vaccine so that the Japanese people can feel confident and protected.”

Japan has already hosted numerous professional sporting events with spectators, albeit not to the full capacity of stadiums or arenas. Fans have been required to wear masks and refrain from loud cheering and have been seated at a social distance.

Japan, where ubiquitous mask wearing has long been a popular strategy for avoiding infection, has been one of the more successful industrialized nations in combating the coronavirus. Even with a population of roughly 125 million and its proximity to China, the origin of the virus, Japan has recorded just over 120,000 coronavirus cases and just under 2,000 deaths.

Concerns, however, are rising, as it is experiencing a third wave, with infections and deaths slowly increasing and the government considering the reintroduction of stricter measures.

In a briefing in Tokyo this month, Toshiro Muto, chief executive of the Tokyo 2020 organizing committee, said that recent experiments allowing larger crowds than have been permitted in recent months at Tokyo Dome and Yokohama Stadium had given Olympic officials confidence that they could put enough measures in place to curtail the spread of the coronavirus.

A decision on spectators from overseas — how many to admit and under what conditions — will be made by the spring, Mr. Muto said.

Some measures being considered include requiring visitors to take a test for the virus before getting on a plane and screening them upon arrival at Japan’s airports, rather than requiring the standard 14-day quarantine.

Public polls in Japan suggest that support for the Olympics is mixed. A survey by the Kyodo News wire service last month showed that about 38 percent supported hosting the Games next summer while close to 32 percent said they should be postponed again. Nearly a quarter said they should be canceled altogether.

“If you look at other countries, you can’t be so optimistic,” said Jun Saito, a senior research fellow at the Japan Center for Economic Research. “If you allow more people to move around across borders, then that’s going to worsen the situation. It won’t improve the situation anyway.”

Japan has spent more than $12 billion preparing for the Olympics, though some estimates have put the actual figure at roughly $26 billion, including infrastructure projects. Postponing the Games for a year has cost organizers more than $1 billion. The I.O.C. doubled its contribution to Tokyo organizers to $1.6 billion, to help defray the costs.

The overall budget includes $800 million from sales of some 7.8 million in tickets. For a typical Summer Games, overseas customers can account for roughly 30 percent of ticket sales.

It’s hard to gauge just how substantial the financial hit to Japan will be with a dearth of overseas travelers to the Olympics.

Jesper Koll, who heads the investment firm WisdomTree’s Japan office, said a traditional Olympics would have produced about $10 billion in economic activity. Koll called that a “rounding error” for Japan’s $5 trillion economy. But for organizers it is a significant justification for the cost of staging the Games.

Alan Dizdarevic, whose company, CoSport, handles Olympic ticket sales for the United States, Australia and six other countries, said that although Tokyo organizers offered refunds early in the pandemic, the vast majority of people who bought tickets decided to keep at least some of them.

CoSport does not release specific figures, but, Dizdarevic said: “At this point after the returns and new purchases, the number of spectators who are holding tickets for Tokyo 2020, from the countries in which we sell tickets, is slightly lower than that before the pandemic. However, as long as conditions allow, we expect the U.S. to have a strong showing, with the number of Americans attending Tokyo 2020 likely to eclipse the number who attended Rio 2016 and London 2012.”

Michael Lynch, who previously led Visa’s global sponsorship programs and remains close with several Olympic sponsors, said companies were still holding out hope that they would be able to bring hundreds of clients and customers to the Games.

“The smart ones all have extensive contingency plans,” Lynch said. “Bach is saying the right words so there is a sense of optimism in the sponsor community.”

Optimism, though, can go only so far, especially in the United States, which usually takes more than 500 athletes to the Games. 

Sports leaders in the United States and elsewhere are pursuing a number of alternative plans based on a range of scenarios. Some alternatives involve immediately putting an athlete who qualifies for the Olympics in a controlled environment, though that would be difficult for track and field athletes, who generally compete in Europe in the weeks leading up to the Olympics.

Other plans might require cutting back on who competes in the Olympic trials. Some 2,000 swimmers normally participate in them, even though no more than about 75 to 100, at most, have a realistic chance of making the team.

Everyone is dreading the nightmare possibility of a superstar like Katie Ledecky, the world’s most dominant swimmer, getting infected just ahead of the trials, making it impossible for her to compete and make the team.

“We are constantly working with our doctors and coaches,” said Mintenko, the U.S.A. Swimming director. “The question is what is the best and safest way to keep athletes healthy and conducive to fast swimming in Tokyo.”





No.36 article:
Trump Tax Write-Offs Are Ensnared in 2 New York Fraud Investigations

Inquiries into the president and his businesses, one criminal and one civil, are now looking at tax deductions taken on consulting fees. Some of the payments appear to have gone to Ivanka Trump.

Two separate New York State fraud investigations into President Trump and his businesses, one criminal and one civil, have expanded to include tax write-offs on millions of dollars in consulting fees, some of which appear to have gone to Ivanka Trump, according to people with knowledge of the matter.

The inquiries — a criminal investigation by the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., and a civil one by the state attorney general, Letitia James — are being conducted independently. But both offices issued subpoenas to the Trump Organization in recent weeks for records related to the fees, the people said.

The subpoenas were the latest steps in the two investigations of the Trump Organization, and underscore the legal challenges awaiting the president when he leaves office in January. There is no indication that his daughter is a focus of either inquiry, which the Trump Organization has derided as politically motivated.

The development follows a recent New York Times examination of more than two decades of Mr. Trump’s tax records, which found that he had paid little or no federal income taxes in most years, largely because of his chronic business losses.

Among the revelations was that Mr. Trump reduced his taxable income by deducting about $26 million in fees to unidentified consultants as a business expense on numerous projects between 2010 and 2018.

Some of those fees appear to have been paid to Ms. Trump, The Times found. On a 2017 disclosure she filed when joining the White House as a presidential adviser, she reported receiving payments from a consulting company she co-owned, totaling $747,622, that exactly matched consulting fees claimed as tax deductions by the Trump Organization for hotel projects in Hawaii and Vancouver, British Columbia.

The subpoenas were focused on fees paid to the firm on her disclosures, TTT Consulting L.L.C., and represented just a portion of the $26 million, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The name of the firm appears to be a reference to Ms. Trump and other members of her family.

Ms. Trump was an executive officer of the Trump companies that made the payments, meaning she appears to have been treated as a consultant while also working for the company. While companies can deduct professional fees, the Internal Revenue Service requires that consulting arrangements be market-based and reasonable, as well as “ordinary and necessary” to running a business.

Alan Garten, general counsel for the Trump Organization, said in a statement that “this is just the latest fishing expedition in an ongoing attempt to harass the company.”

“Everything was done in strict compliance with applicable law and under the advice of counsel and tax experts,” he added. “All applicable taxes were paid and no party received any undue benefit.”

The I.R.S. has sometimes rejected attempts to write off consulting fees if they were meant to avoid taxes and did not reflect arms-length business relationships. It is not known if the I.R.S. has ever questioned the Trump Organization about the practice. The tax benefit to Mr. Trump from deducting the fees on his companies’ federal returns would also be reflected on his New York returns, making it of possible interest to the state.

A tax adviser who has worked with the Trump Organization said that such consulting fees were not uncommon.

The offices of the district attorney and the attorney general declined to comment. Ms. Trump did not respond to requests for comment but said on Twitter after publication that “there was no tax benefit whatsoever.”

Few details have been publicly disclosed about the district attorney’s investigation, the only known active criminal case involving Mr. Trump. Mr. Vance’s office began the inquiry more than two years ago, initially focusing on the Trump Organization’s role in hush money paid during the 2016 presidential campaign to Stormy Daniels, a pornographic film actress who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump.

The investigation has been stalled since last fall, after the president filed a lawsuit to block a subpoena for his tax returns and other financial records.

The legal fight is before the United States Supreme Court for a second time, with a ruling expected soon. Prosecutors have suggested in court filings that their investigation has expanded far beyond the hush money and is focused on a number of potential financial crimes, including insurance and bank-related fraud, tax evasion and grand larceny.

Mr. Trump has said the investigation is part of “the greatest witch hunt in history.” Both Mr. Vance and Ms. James are Democrats.

Ms. James’s civil investigation is focused on the Trump Organization’s business practices, though she can make a criminal referral and can seek authority from Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s administration or the state comptroller to bring charges on her own.

Her inquiry began last year in March, after Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer, told Congress that Mr. Trump had inflated his assets in financial statements to secure bank loans and understated them elsewhere to reduce his tax bill. In August, the attorney general’s office asked a judge to force the president’s son Eric Trump to testify in the inquiry, and he did so last month. Eric Trump is an executive vice president at the Trump Organization, running its day-to-day operations.

Investigators in Ms. James’s office have scrutinized a widening array of transactions. One of them is a 2010 financial restructuring of the Trump Hotel &amp; Tower in Chicago, when the Fortress Credit Corporation forgave debt worth more than $100 million. The attorney general’s office said in court documents filed in August that the Trump Organization had thwarted efforts to determine how that money was reflected in its tax filings, and whether it was declared as income, as the law requires in most instances. The Times’s analysis of Mr. Trump’s financial records found that he had avoided federal income tax on almost all of the forgiven debt.

The attorney general’s office is also examining whether the Trump Organization used inflated appraisals when it received large tax breaks for promising to conserve land where its development efforts faltered, including at its Seven Springs estate in Westchester County, N.Y.

“The outcome of the election will have no impact on our investigations,” Ms. James said in a television interview this month, adding: “No one is above the law. We will just follow the facts and the evidence, wherever they lead us.”

Mr. Trump has frequently assailed Ms. James, the latest in a string of New York attorneys general with whom he has clashed. Ms. James presided over the final stages of an investigation that led to the closing of his scandal-marred charitable foundation. She is also seeking to dissolve the National Rifle Association, a key ally of the president.

“They sue on everything, always in search of a crime,” he tweeted last year, though his own litigiousness is legendary. His campaign and its allies have filed more than two dozen lawsuits in recent days aimed at overturning the results of the election he lost this month.

The examination of fees apparently paid to his older daughter is likely to arouse even more vitriol from the outgoing president. And it raises questions about whether the payments were a tax-deductible way for him to compensate his children, or avoid gift taxes he might incur from transferring wealth to them, something Mr. Trump’s father had done through legally questionable schemes uncovered by The Times in 2018.

This is not the first investigation from the attorney general’s office to involve Mr. Trump’s children. As part of the settlement that led to the shuttering of the president’s charitable foundation, Ms. Trump and her brothers, who were board members, were to receive “training on the duties of officers and directors of charities so that they cannot allow the illegal activity they oversaw at the Trump Foundation to take place again,” according to the terms of the agreement.

In September, after a state judge rejected arguments from Trump lawyers to further delay a deposition of Eric Trump, the president’s son called the investigation “a continued political vendetta.”




No.1 article:
Daniel Cordier, one of last heroes of French resistance, dies aged 100

As secretary to the great resistance leader, Jean Moulin, he helped organise fight against Nazi occupation

One of France’s last remaining French resistance heroes Daniel Cordier, has died aged 100.

One of only two remaining Compagnons de la Libération, an honour awarded by France’s exiled wartime leader, Charles de Gaulle, to those who risked their lives to liberate France from Nazi occupation, Emmanuel Macron said there would be a national ceremony to honour his memory.

“When France was in danger, he and his compagnons took every risk so that France remained France. We owe them our freedom and our honour,” Macron wrote in a tweet.

Cordier was secretary to the French resistance leader, Jean Moulin, who was killed by the Gestapo in 1943.

Born into a wealthy family in Bordeaux, Cordier admitted he was a monarchist and in his own words “fiercely antisemitic” before the war when he was a member of the ultra-nationalist Action Française.

After the German invasion in 1940, Cordier was appalled as he listened to the radio address by Marshal Philippe Pétain, leader of the collaborationist Vichy government, calling on the French army to surrender, a decision he considered a disgraceful betrayal.

“I raced upstairs and flung myself on my bed and I sobbed. But then it must have been half an hour later, I suddenly drew myself up, and I said to myself: ‘But no, this is ridiculous. He (Pétain) is just a stupid old fool! We have to do something,” he later recalled.

He and 16 friends immediately set off aboard a ship from Bayonne to join De Gaulle in London, landing in Falmouth seven days later. Cordier underwent military training in the UK and then transferred to the secret intelligence service of the Free French, learning sabotage, radio transmission and parachuting.

He was parachuted into France in 1942, aged 22, with the codename Bip W, and ordered to make contact in Lyon with a man known only as “Rex”. The man he made contact with was, in fact, Moulin, who had organised and unified the Conseil National de la Résistance (National Resistance Council).

For a year he was Moulin’s right-hand man, drafting his correspondence and liaising with other resistance leaders. Moulin died after he was arrested by the Gestapo in July 1943, having been betrayed to the Nazis and tortured. He died onboard a train to Germany.

Cordier continued to rally and organise resistance fighters while dodging the Germans himself, finally fleeing over the Pyrenees where he was arrested and interned before being transferred to London in May 1944.

After the war, Cordier opened a gallery in Paris – described by newspapers at the time as the “most original” in the French capital for its promotion of previously little-known contemporary artists.

He also wrote a bestselling and award-winning memoir, Alias Caracalla, based on his wartime experiences with Moulin. His death leaves only one surviving member of the 1,038 Companions of the Liberation, Hubert Germain, who is also 100 years old.

In 2018, Cordier was awarded the Grand Croix of the Légion d’honneur, the highest decoration of the French state. As he decorated him, Macron told Cordier: “To be face to face with you is to find oneself immediately and compellingly face to face with history.”

Cordier, who was living in Cannes on the French Riviera at the time of his death, told Le Monde in 2018: “I’m an old but very, very happy old man,” and described his experience as not one life but “successive lives that were so different from one another”.

• This article was amended on 22 November 2020 because an earlier version mistakenly referred to Daniel Cordier’s memoir Alias Caracalla as a novel. 





No.2 article:
NHS staff face burnout as Covid Christmas nears

Neurosurgeon Alistair Jenkins thinks Nightingale hospitals are an expensive PR stunt that cannot possibly be utilised, Jonathan Humphreys says NHS workers are utterly defeated and a five-day festive jolly is selfish, while Sue Sedgwick wants to start a ‘do Christmas differently’ campaign 

During this second lockdown, it is notable that while deaths from Covid-19 as a percentage appear to have fallen, hospital admissions are rising rapidly. In some parts of the country, we are once again facing the possibility that hospitals will be overwhelmed. Operating lists have been cut – I write this having had to cancel three brain operations today, thus having time on my hands – and cancer treatments are in freefall. But this time we have the shiny Nightingale hospitals – don’t we?

If this resource is to be deployed, now is the time to do it. One of the main problems in our hospitals, already struggling to cope before the pandemic due to years of cuts, is the segregation of Covid and non-Covid patients, and this is where the Nightingale hospitals should come in. But there is a curious reluctance to use them: at the height of the first wave, there were only a few token admissions, and this time – nothing. Government and local NHS managers are curiously silent.

The reality is that these “hospitals” are empty shells: an expensive PR stunt that cannot possibly be utilised because the staff simply don’t exist. Where would they come from? Medical, nursing and other personnel – in many cases approaching burnout – cannot be in two places at once, and the brave retirees who have volunteered would be a drop in the ocean.

Is there a role for this resource? Perhaps – but first there needs to be an honest admission of the problem, and a desire to compromise. Beds and ventilators gather dust while the pandemic marches on.Alistair JenkinsConsultant neurosurgeon, Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle

• This obsession with finding a way to save Christmas (England told to expect tougher Covid rules to allow for Christmas gatherings, 18 November) strikes me as profoundly disrespectful to the NHS that this government and the public were so keen to applaud. My wife is a GP and, like so many of her colleagues, is experiencing extreme burnout due to the incredible stress that the pandemic has placed upon her. Every day, she is treating other health workers experiencing the same. Workers are utterly defeated.

The idea that we can trade a spike in cases, and potential further lockdowns, for a five-day jolly, leaving our overstretched medical workers to pick up the pieces on the other side, strikes me as shamefully selfish. Rather than desperately seeking the affection and adoration of the public, surely our prime minister should abandon his role as the seediest Santa in Lapland and help the country face the fact that the loss of one Christmas is a small price to pay for the health and wellbeing of our health workers?Jonathan HumphreysLondon

• All four governments of the UK are reportedly tying themselves in knots to “save Christmas,” but it’s becoming clear that if the festival goes ahead as they seem to anticipate – with lots of family gatherings at least, and possibly all the usual high-street shopping sprees as well – it will be at huge risk to us all. I can think of lots of ways to enjoy Christmas without mixing outside my household, or exchanging loads of presents, and I’m sure other people can too.

People who live alone may feel differently, but hopefully they have the support bubble system to compensate; and students should be allowed to return home. Otherwise, I’d like to start a “Do Christmas differently in 2020 to save Christmas in 2021” campaign, and encourage people to share their ideas for a non-traditional but still enjoyable and memorable Covid-safe Christmas. Sue Sedgwick Bath





No.3 article:
PM must decide whether to listen to Tory MPs or his scientific advisers on relaxing restrictions

When Boris Johnson ordered the phased reopening of England’s shops and schools in July after a gruelling three-month lockdown, he gave the public permission to hope for a “more significant return to normality” in time for Christmas.

Four months on, and as so often in this crisis, the prime minister’s optimism appears at best premature.

With England in a second lockdown and about 54,000 people having died so far, he is approaching one of the most difficult decisions of the pandemic.

Business groups and a rump of Tory MPs have been warning of the catastrophic impact of the second shutdown on jobs and livelihoods – so does Johnson end the restrictions, as planned, on 2 December? Or does he replace them? 

And if he does that, should the rules on household mixing be flexed, perhaps for a five-day period, to allow families to meet over turkey and crackers?

Government insiders expect the prime minister to make a statement early next week setting out a new system of tiers, potentially with a tougher top level – but to wait for more data before deciding which areas should fall under which rules.

Public health officials say only by next weekend will they have enough information to be able to see how much impact England’s lockdown has had in suppressing the virus.

Johnson’s spokesman has repeatedly stressed this week that the prime minister is determined to ensure people can celebrate, but the festive season remains a real worry for scientists and public health officials.

“These are really difficult decisions, and no one wants to say we shouldn’t celebrate at Christmas,” said one expert working on the pandemic.

“We all get that, but in some ways they’re making it so much worse by being so bullish about the subject. It’s almost as if everyone is expected to do something risky at Christmas to make up for the dreadful year we’ve had. It’s all presented as so black and white, as if you either do Christmas or you don’t. But there are ways you can do Christmas that minimise risk.”

Downing Street is not facing the dilemma in isolation. Officials from Westminster have been working with their counterparts from Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland on expectations for Christmas.

They hope to give a unified set of rules across the UK, unlike earlier phases of the pandemic when Cardiff and Edinburgh have complained vociferously about lack of consultation.

Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland on Friday morning, the Scottish health secretary, Jeane Freeman, said talks were continuing between the four nations and that “behind the scenes a great deal of work is going on”.

“They will be looking at advice from their chief medical officers and scientific advisers, and looking at the data as we approach Christmas ... then looking at the modelling that says if you ease restrictions in various different ways what that would do to the case numbers.”

Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, has suggested there could be a system of bubbles – Christmas baubles, she joked – that would allow separate households to gather.

The Welsh first minister, Mark Drakeford, who imposed a strict “firebreak” last month, warned on Friday: “If we do have a period of relaxation around Christmas ... coronavirus will thrive. We need a plan for how we will respond to that.”

For Johnson, this will be one of the first major decisions about the management of the pandemic taken without two of his key lieutenants – Dominic Cummings and Lee Cain.

And just as in September, when he had to decide whether to order a “circuit breaker” lockdown, the prime minister is caught between his scientific advisers and much of the Tory party.

Back then, he decided to disregard the clear advice of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) and take what he called a “balanced” approach, between protecting lives and safeguarding the economy.

In practice, that meant implementing a complex regional tier system, with varying levels of restrictions that involved fraught negotiations with local leaders and a very public falling out with the mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham.

Just 10 days after that unedifying row, rocked by warnings that the NHS risked being overwhelmed by the rapid increase in Covid cases, Johnson executed a dramatic U-turn and ordered a four-week shutdown of pubs, restaurants and non-essential shops in England.

As he pushed that decision through the House of Commons, he faced a furious backlash from an increasingly vocal and organised group of Conservative backbenchers, who believe the government must find a way to live with the virus long term instead of resorting to “draconian” restrictions.

Many of them warned they could not support any further extension of lockdown – and they have since formed themselves into a “Covid recovery group”, led by the former chief whip Mark Harper and the former European Research Group chair Steve Baker, who last week said “freedom cannot just be for Christmas”.

Having promised a vote on the new regime Johnson faces the embarrassing prospect of having to rely on Labour votes to get it through the Commons if he cannot win over Tory doubters, despite repeatedly attacking Keir Starmer for not being supportive enough of the government’s approach.

Cummings was often blamed for Johnson’s dire relationship with his own parliamentary party, but lockdown sceptics are spread widely across the party and this week’s announcement will be a key test of whether they feel any less blindsided by No 10.

The upbeat backdrop of potentially successful vaccines, which ministers plan to start rolling out as quickly as possible, will allow Johnson to point towards a more optimistic 2021. But for the moment, government scientific advisers are far from full of Christmas cheer.

Dr Susan Hopkins of Public Health England (PHE) warned at a briefing on Wednesday that each day of looser rules would have to be balanced by two days of tighter restrictions in the new year. PHE later issued a statement correcting that to five.

Prof Gabriel Scally of the rival Independent Sage group, went further, saying: “There is no point in having a very merry Christmas and then burying friends and relations in January and February.”

With Rishi Sunak expected to announce a bleak outlook for the public finances at next week’s spending review, the Treasury and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills are keen for businesses to reopen wherever possible after 2 December.

One Whitehall official acknowledged there was a “natural tension” between departments over how tough to make restrictions: “It’s not blazing rows, it’s just that one side thinks about the economy, the other thinks about public health. And it’s down to No 10 to bring the two together.”





No.4 article:
Brazil accused of holding up UN biodiversity talks

Objection to virtual meetings threatens next year’s conference in China, say environmental campaigners 

Brazil has been accused of obstructing global efforts to protect nature following a row over the use of virtual meeting technology to overcome Covid-19 restrictions.

The dispute threatens a key United Nations conference in Kunming, China, next year, which aims to set new targets to protect the Earth’s natural life support systems.

Environmental campaigners said the world’s forests and wildlife cannot afford any delay and accused Brazil – home to the world’s biggest rainforest – of disrupting negotiations under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in the same way that Saudi Arabia – the world’s biggest oil producer – has held up progress in climate talks.

Frustrations reached a pitch on Thursday, when the president of the CBD announced the suspension of budget talks due to an objection by Brazil.

The main issue of contention was a reference to online negotiations in the 2021 budget.

Many countries want to negotiate in virtual meetings to make up lost time because the Kunming conference has been postponed due to the pandemic and may need to be pushed back again from the rescheduled date next May. The longer an agreement is delayed, the harder it will be to reach proposed targets for 2030.

Brazil opposes formal online negotiations which, it says, would put poorer nations at a disadvantage because they are more likely to have interconnectivity problems. Several developing nations have expressed similar doubts but none has used this as a reason to hold up talks on the budget, without which the CBD cannot operate.

The head of Brazil’s CBD negotiating team, Leonardo de Athayde, said his country was not blocking the budget, merely proposing a minor amendment. “We have to be careful about process. If we want a good outcome, it must be inclusive, transparent and fair,” he said.

But longtime observers of the negotiations said Brazil’s actions were a concern for many other nations, including China, which is co-chairing the CBD and will host next year’s meeting.

“This is a hot potato for the incoming president, China,” said Li Shuo, Greenpeace China policy adviser. “We have to think of Brazil as the Saudi Arabia in the CBD in terms of the distance they are willing to travel to make their point, their radical approach and their destructive strategy. They are showing they are a formidable player trying to rally Kunming in a negative direction.”

Campaigners said Brazil’s actions showed the country was taking a less cooperative stance under the presidency of Jair Bolsonaro, who wants to open the Amazon rainforest, Pantanal wetlands and Cerrado savannah to farming, mining and logging interests.

Oscar Soria, campaign director of activism site Avaaz, said: “This a deliberate strategy to avoid negotiations on new targets for nature. While we share concerns over the technical challenges for some countries and observers to consistently hold online meetings, we don’t forget past efforts from Bolsonaro’s administration to limit the participation of civil society in the CBD talks, so for us, it’s hard to believe that the Bolsonaro’s diplomacy is advocating for inclusiveness.”

Brazilian negotiators denied their country was putting a brake on progress.

“I categorically reject these accusations. They is a completely unfair and deleterious depiction. We are not obstructing the process at all,” said de Athayde. 

Brazil’s position was put in less diplomatic language by the Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, at a virtual summit of world leaders in September. He accused NGOs and foreign governments of “interfering” with Brazil’s sovereignty and rejected what he called “unfair” rules on the extraction of resources. “That’s precisely what we intend to do with the huge wealth of resources in the Brazilian territory,” he said.





No.5 article:




No.6 article:
Thursday saw 2,015 deaths from Covid and more than 187,000 new cases, another daily record

The US recorded 2,015 deaths from Covid-19 on Thursday, the highest number of new deaths in a single day since May, according to data from Johns Hopkins University, as a top White House expert warned of worsening spread of the disease – even as America is just weeks away from the expected beginnings of vaccinating its people.

The country also saw more than 187,000 new confirmed cases on Thursday, another record for the daily count of infections.

Just weeks after the US first exceeded 100,000 new cases in a single day earlier this month, new cases are now on track to reach a grim daily milestone of 200,000.

On Wednesday, total US deaths due to Covid-19 reached 250,000 – the most seen of any country in the world. At least 11 million Americans have been infected with the virus over the course of the pandemic, which began hitting the US in January.

This month, the number of Americans currently hospitalized with the coronavirus has been the highest it has ever been, surpassing 80,000 people across the country on Thursday, according to the Covid Tracking Project.

Unlike previous surges of the virus, the uptick in cases is not concentrated in a single region. Cases have been rising in nearly every state, a concerning scenario as the US holiday season kicks into gear.

Dr Deborah Birx, a senior scientist on the White House’s coronavirus taskforce, told CNN Friday morning that more than half of the country is in the “red zone”, meaning more than 101 new cases per 100,000 residents.

“It’s faster, it’s broader and what worries me is it could be longer,” Birx said of the spread of the virus.

Public health experts have been pleading with the American public for weeks to limit or cancel any gatherings typically seen around Thanksgiving. A new ad campaign from a coalition of healthcare systems across the country begs Americans to wear masks, as hospitals become more overwhelmed.

“I’m making personal sacrifices not to infect my parents and my pregnant daughter,” Birx said. “It’s on all of us now to make sure [the spread] is not longer.”

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released new guidelines around Thanksgiving that reiterates that “staying home is the best way to protect yourself and others this year”. Most states have some type of mandatory quarantine for travelers, with some exceptions to those who test negative for the virus.

On Thursday, Dr Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, made his first appearance at a White House coronavirus press briefing after months of being sidelined by Donald Trump and steering clear of infections in Trump top circles. At the podium, Fauci emphasized the importance of “simple public health measures” as the country comes closer to a vaccine for the virus.

“Mask wearing, social distance, avoiding congregant settings, doing things to the extent that we can outdoors versus indoors,” Fauci said. “If we do that, we’ll be able to hold things off until the vaccine comes.”

Public health experts believe a vaccine could be available to Americans with the highest priority by the end of this calendar year. On Friday, drugmaker Pfizer said it has asked the Food and Drug Administration to approve emergency use of its Covid-19 vaccine. At the White House press briefing, Fauci praised the vaccines developed by Pfizer and Moderna, another drug company, seen in clinical trials.

“We need to actually double down on the public health measures as we’re waiting for that help to come, which will be soon,” he said. 





No.7 article:
German doctor arrested on suspicion of killing two Covid patients

Essen medic suspected of giving lethal injections to two men who were severely ill

German police have opened a murder inquiry against a senior doctor in the western city of Essen over the deaths of two seriously ill coronavirus patients who were given lethal injections.

The doctor, 44, who has been working at Essen university hospital since February, is suspected of having killed two men aged 47 and 50 who were in intensive care with very severe cases of the disease, Essen police said on Friday.

They said the man, who was arrested on Wednesday, had confessed to one of the killings, saying he had wanted to spare the patient and his relatives further suffering. The Bild daily reported that the doctor informed the patients’ families before administering the injections.

Ill patients can request help in ending their lives in Germany under a court ruling issued last year, but it is unclear if this happened in these cases.

All forms of assisted death are particularly sensitive in Germany due to the legacy of the Holocaust, when the Nazi regime killed 6 million Jews and carried out inhumane experiments on a number of them.

The Essen hospital said the doctor had been suspended and it was helping police with their inquiries.

The western industrial region of which Essen is a part is experiencing one of Germany’s most severe outbreaks of the pandemic, with 166 cases diagnosed per 100,000 population over the past week, far above the government’s target of 50.





No.8 article:
First Americans may get Covid vaccine in December if US approves Pfizer request

Pharmaceutical partners submitted bid to the FDA for vaccine to be reviewed and emergency authorization may occur within weeks

It could take as little as three weeks for US regulators to approve Pfizer and partner BioNTech’s emergency authorization request for their Covid-19 vaccine – with the first Americans being offered the first inoculation outside clinical trials in early December.

The major turning point in the worsening coronavirus pandemic came on Friday morning when the pharmaceutical partners submitted their bid to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for their vaccine to be reviewed.

Under that schedule, the vaccine, which the developers claim to be 95% effective and without any major safety issues, could be cleared for use after a meeting with outside infectious disease advisors to the FDA scheduled for 8-10 December.

Dean of Brown University school of public health Ashish Jha, interviewed on the NBC Today show, said it’s probably going to take “a couple of weeks” for the FDA to issue emergency use authorization for this vaccine.

Jha raised the prospect that the agency could bring forward its meeting schedule to discuss the vaccine. “Obviously these are extraordinary times so it may get reviewed before that but I’m expecting early December really as the time when we will have authorization and it will start getting distributed hours after that.”

Other experts echoed Jha’s analysis. “I don’t find that time frame to be unreasonable in light of the amount of data the agency needs to analyze and in order to ensure full participation by all stakeholders in the advisory committee,” said John Taylor, who served as counselor to the head of the FDA during the Obama administration, told Bloomberg.

In the interim, Taylor said: “The agency can conduct a well run, well attended advisory committee in order to ensure maximum transparency, which I think will be an important factor in patients’ willingness to take the vaccine.”

Pfizer/BioNTech’s emergency authorization request for its vaccine, registered as BNT162b2, could significantly speed up FDA approval, which typically takes six to 10 months depending on priority.

This week, FDA commissioner Stephen Hahn said the agency will post documents related to its review with the aim of “contributing “to the public’s confidence in the agency’s rigorous review of scientific data and the appropriate use of authorized products.”

General Gustave Perna of the Trump administration’s Operation Warp Speed coronavirus vaccine program told ABC’s Good Morning America on Friday that states would decide, with guidance from the FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), who will first get the vaccine.“States are going to tell us exactly where they want it to be ... and as soon as they figure out their distribution plan across their states, we will ensure that the vaccine gets there in a timely manner,” Perna said.

Healthcare workers and those in nursing homes and other vulnerable people are expected to get the first vaccines. Health experts say it likely will be spring or later before there’s enough vaccine for early distribution to the general public.

Perna added that the speed of Pfizer’s application for emergency use authorization was “remarkable”, and said that within 24 hours of the hoped-for authorization being issued his team would have vaccines “moving throughout the country”.

The four-star general indicated that the Trump administration’s refusal to cooperate with Joe Biden’s transition speed would “absolutely not” hinder his distribution mission: “I have clear guidance: ‘get the vaccine to the American people’,” he said.





No.9 article:
Bobi Wine charged with Covid rule breach after Uganda protests

Singer’s arrest led to unrest in which live ammunition was used against demonstrators

A court in Uganda has charged the popular musician and prominent opposition leader Bobi Wine with breaching Covid regulations, after two days of spontaneous protests in which between 28 and 35 people are thought to have died.

The arrest of Wine in eastern Uganda on Wednesday led to the worst unrest seen in Uganda for many years. The army was deployed to the streets of many cities, and live ammunition was used against unarmed demonstrators.

Magistrates granted Wine, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, bail of 1m shillings (£203) and told the 38-year-old politician to limit rallies to a maximum of 200 people and avoid any “processions to or from the campaign venue”.

Wine told the court that Yoweri Museveni, the veteran leader of Uganda who is seeking a sixth term in office, should be in the dock, not him.

“It’s in my opinion that this case shouldn’t be Uganda versus Kyagulanyi. This case should be Uganda versus Museveni,” said Wine.

“I am not here because I committed a crime. I am here because I offered myself to lead Ugandans into ending 35 years of a dictatorship,” Wine said. “Let Museveni know that we are not slaves and we shall not accept to be slaves. We shall be free.”

Wine has been attracting massive crowds and his campaign has rattled the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM).

Museveni, 76, told a rally in Karamoja region on Thursday that the protesters were “being used by outsiders … homosexuals and others who don’t like the stability and independence of Uganda. But they will discover what they are looking for. We shall not tolerate confused people. They are playing with fire.”

Earlier this month, Wine was temporarily blinded by police when he was arrested moments after being successfully certified as a candidate in next year’s election.

Security forces have frequently fired teargas at his rallies and detained and beaten his supporters.

Known by supporters as “the ghetto president”, Wine is one of a new generation of politicians across Africa who are challenging longtime leaders, hoping to harness deep dissatisfaction among younger, more educated and often urban voters.

He broke into formal politics in 2017 when he won a seat in Uganda’s national assembly, and has been since been badly assaulted and detained many times.

Fred Enanga, Uganda’s police spokesperson, said the death toll in the unrest had reached 28. Other estimates put the total higher.

A total of 577 suspects were arrested and police seized bows and arrows, piles of tyres, bottles, drums of fuel, and evidence of mobile money transactions funding the rioters, Enanga claimed.

“As you all know, the joint task force respects freedom of assembly and people’s democratic rights but will not allow for violent demonstrators and criminal opportunists to disrupt the peaceful environment we have had over the years,” he said.

Enanga said the police would try to avoid the use of “indiscriminate” teargas in favour of “the use of batons, which are more specific”.

Deo Akiiki, Uganda’s deputy military spokesperson said troops would “respond quickly and effectively to any incident of criminality across levels”.

“Surveillance mechanisms have been put in place to nip in the bud all evil plans by the already identified groups and individuals bent [on bringing] chaos to Ugandans,” Akiiki said.

Museveni is eligible to seek another term next year after lawmakers removed constitutional age limits on the presidency. The former rebel leader’s party insists he remains its most popular member.

Uganda has never witnessed a peaceful transfer of power since independence in 1962.





No.10 article:
Scientists say letting households mix will cause more deaths in January

The health secretary has said the government hopes to implement “UK-wide” measures to allow people to see some family members from different households over Christmas, as scientists stressed allowing households to mix could lead to more infections and deaths come January.

Describing Christmas as “the most important holiday for people in this country”, Matt Hancock said the government was in talks with leaders in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland to agree a united front that would allow festive cross-border travel within the UK.

However scientists warned, in increasingly stark terms, that relaxation of restrictions to the point where households can mix would most likely lead to increased infections and deaths come the new year.

“The best Christmas present ever is the promise of a new effective Covid-19 vaccine for everyone. It would be foolish to spoil this by relaxing measures too far and causing unnecessary deaths,” said Prof Brendan Wren, professor of vaccinology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

“Time and time again it has been demonstrated worldwide that premature exits from lockdown have fatal consequences and we end up back in lockdown. This Christmas has to be different as the science shows us that a few days of fun can have dire consequences later on.”

Dr Julian Tang, honorary associate professor in respiratory sciences and clinical virologist at the University of Leicester, also stressed the potential for the virus to spread with festive get-togethers. He said that while some sort of “limited” Christmas may be possible if R gets closer to 1, provided homes are well ventilated and risk to the most vulnerable family members is minimised, the festivities would still come at a price.

“Any measures may be adhered to in a highly variable manner during the ‘festive atmosphere’ of any Christmas period if households are allowed to mix. So unfortunately, there would be some fallout of this, with surges of the virus likely in the new year,” he said.

Wales’s first minister, Mark Drakeford, said he had held discussions with the Cabinet Office minister, Michael Gove, and the other first ministers of the devolved administrations on Wednesday about a UK-wide approach to Christmas restrictions, with another meeting planned for next week.

Drakeford told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme that an agreement on permitting travel across the UK during the Christmas season was “top of the list of things to agree”, even if a wider agreement was not possible.

“It is very important for people in Wales. So many families here will have families in England and elsewhere and will be hoping to have visits from family members who live outside Wales,” he said.

Talking to Times Radio, Hancock said: “I think it is important that we have an agreed set of rules over Christmas. It is the most important holiday for people in this country. What we’re trying to do over Christmas is ensure we have a set of rules across the whole UK so there’s talks going on with the devolved authorities as well to try to agree a common set of rules over Christmas. I think people would welcome that.”

He told Sky News: “It won’t of course be like a normal Christmas, there will have to be rules in place, but we hope that they’ll allow for a bit more of that normal Christmas that people really look forward to.”

He added that he hoped the rules would allow people to see “some of their loved ones, but still keep the virus under control”.

Prof David Heymann, an infectious disease epidemiologist at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, told the Guardian that at some point it would be necessary to empower people to assess risks themselves to protect people in their households – an approach some countries are already taking.

“That is the way it should be done,” he added. “But then there needs to be clear, regular daily communication from the government, or from whoever is the spokesperson and the trusted person in the pandemic, about doing a personal risk assessment, how you do this risk assessment, and what that can lead to.”





No.11 article:
Boring, draughty: this lockdown is a flashback to the 50s

Nothing is open and there is no excitement to be had. This is what Britain must have been like 70 years ago

In the spring, the question when you met an acquaintance was: “How are you finding lockdown?” Or, for the more formal encounter: “How is lockdown treating you?” No one asks that any more. It may have something to do with the answers, which were only ever smugness or lies, although you could say the same about: “How are you?”

However, I said it on a reflex the other day, and my neighbour replied cheerfully: “My life feels exactly the same.” I took his point. A lot of social life is speculative. We think we will have people over, but don’t get round to it. We appreciate the proximity to the V&amp;A, while rarely availing ourselves of its services. The thing I mind about inessential shops being closed is not the lack of stuff, but how life is for the people who worked in them.

Yet my life is not the same. The streets are pretty full, but feel different. Every day is like Sunday, but I don’t mean a modern Sunday, which is very similar to Saturday. I mean an 80s, Morrissey Sunday.

Actually, what it is really like is the 50s: you can do the boring stuff. You can go about your business. You can get on a bus. There isn’t a war on. But nothing is open. Wherever is open, it is a bit draughtier than you would prefer. Maybe in a fortnight, you will be able to go for a port and lemon, but right now, there is just going out into the city’s early dark and coming home again. 

I know this because I have read The End of the Affair and The L-Shaped Room (sure, published in 1960, don’t @me), not because I was there. Unlike, plainly, my neighbour. He did not mean: “My life feels the same as 2019.” He meant: “My life feels the same as when I was 21, and the world was my oyster, and the low availability of unusual luxury items was as nothing, set against the sheer human vigour coursing through my veins.” I said: “No wonder you’re in such a good mood – it’s because you’re so old”, and walked away, glad to have at least sown some confusion.





No.12 article:




No.13 article:
Dutch euthanasia rules changed after acquittal in sedative case

Doctors allowed to put sedative in patient’s food or drink if they might become agitated

Doctors euthanising a patient with severe dementia may slip a sedative into their food or drink if there are concerns they will become “disturbed, agitated or aggressive”, under a change to the codes of practice in the Netherlands.

The review committee for cases of euthanasia refreshed its guidance in response to the case of a former nursing home doctor, Marinou Arends, who was prosecuted for murder and cleared after putting a sedative in her 74-year-old patient’s coffee before giving a lethal injection.

Arends was given a written reprimand by the Dutch medical board for acting on the basis of two “advance directives” in which the patient said only that she wished to die when she considered the time was right.

But in April the supreme court ruled that no laws had been broken and dismissed the medical board’s decision, ruling that if a patient is no longer capable of giving assent, a doctor need not take a literal interpretation of an advance directive if the circumstances do not match the eventual scenario.

In response to the court, Jacob Kohnstamm, the chair of the euthanasia review committee, said his body needed to update its code for doctors involved in euthanasia.

The new code says that in cases where a patient has advanced dementia, “it is not necessary for the doctor to agree with the patient the time or manner in which euthanasia will be given”.

Kohnstamm said: “Doctors now have less to worry about putting their necks in a noose with euthanasia. They need less fear of justice. Or for the review committee.”

The decision has not been unanimously welcomed. When the 2018 case was first made public, 220 doctors put their name to an advert in which they condemned any medical practitioner who “secretly” sedated patients being helped to die.

Bert Keizer, a nursing home manager, told the Volkskrant newspaper that he opposed the changes but the clarity was welcome. He said: “This isn’t going to take off. There are very few doctors who want to do this, but it is good for those who do do this to have this clearly written down on paper.”

Since 2002, doctors have been able to euthanise adults in the Netherlands in cases where it is regarded as a voluntary and well-considered request in the context of unbearable suffering from which there is no prospect of improvement or alternative remedy.

Last year there were 6,361 cases of euthanasia in the Netherlands – just over 4% of the country’s total deaths. Of these, 91% were in cases of terminal medical conditions. The remainder of the cases involved severe psychiatric illness, including dementia.

This month the Dutch government said it would change the regulations to permit doctors to euthanise terminally ill children aged between one and 12, after months of debate within the ruling coalition government.

The health minister, Hugo de Jonge, said a change in regulations was necessary to help “a small group of terminally ill children who agonise with no hope and unbearable suffering”.





No.14 article:
Some GOP governors who for months toed Trump’s line on coronavirus, are performing U-turns on mask-wearing

After Republicans won big on election night in the state of Iowa, in America’s heartland, Governor Kim Reynolds claimed vindication for her light-handed approach to the coronavirus pandemic.

“It was a validation of our balanced response to Covid-19,” Reynolds said of the vote. “One that is mindful of both public health and economic health.”

That was two weeks ago. Since then, the trajectory of the pandemic in Iowa, as elsewhere in the American midwest, has taken a sharp and tragic turn.

Daily confirmed cases of Covid-19 and hospitalizations are up 100% in Iowa since election night, and daily deaths are up more than 50%, hitting 41 on Tuesday. Nationwide, the United States has passed 250,000 confirmed deaths – about twice as many as any other country.

Like other Republicans torn between fighting the pandemic and fighting the culture wars, Reynolds spent months dismissing the need for a mask mandate in her state, calling it a “feelgood” measure. But new warnings from local hospitals of a dangerous overload finally drove Reynolds to reverse course this week.

“The pandemic in Iowa is the worst it has ever been,” she said. “No one wants to do this. I don’t want to do this.”

The reluctance to “do this” is not exclusive to Reynolds – but it is exclusive to one of America’s two major political parties.

Since the start of the pandemic, Republican officials across the country, cowed by Donald Trump, conspiracy-swayed constituents and lesser political calculations, have resisted asking voters to take personal action to stop the spread of Covid-19. Until recently, many of those states had escaped the worst consequences of the official dereliction, enjoying some luck in the mysterious dynamics of the virus’s spread.

But with the arrival of cooler temperatures, an increase in indoor activity and widespread pandemic fatigue, that story has changed terribly this fall, as public health experts predicted it would. With each passing week, the unwillingness of elected Republicans to act against the virus is taking an increasing toll, health experts say.

And the mistrust in basic public health guidelines that Republicans have sown has a further, potentially destructive cost yet to be paid: the climate of mistrust seems likely to hamper the country’s imminent effort to escape the virus’s clutches through universal vaccination.

“It’s not just that the anti-mask, anti-distancing, anti-testing Republicans are wrong as a matter of public policy,” tweeted Bill Kristol, editor of the conservative anti-Trump Bulwark. “It’s not even that they lack empathy for those who suffer. They relish their lack of empathy. They glory in their callousness. They are proud of their inhumanity.”

Daily coronavirus-related deaths since the election are up by more than 50% in western states with Republican leadership including North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming and Nebraska, according to the Covid Tracking Project – and like Iowa, those states have been flooded with new infections.

Some Republican governors, such as Reynolds and the North Dakota governor, Doug Burgum, have been driven by desperation to reverse themselves on masks. But others, such as Nebraska’s governor, Pete Ricketts, a major Trump backer, have resisted a general mask mandate.

In lieu of such a mandate, hundreds of Nebraska healthcare workers signed an open letter published on Wednesday by the Omaha World-Herald, pleading with the public to mask up.

“Your frontline health care workers are exhausted,” they wrote. “We are scared that the hospitals won’t have the space and people to meet the ever-growing demand. We are seeing many deaths and will continue to see many more.”

There is no clear map of the United States overlaying holes in political leadership with spikes in coronavirus cases, because the virus does not respect political boundaries, said Lawrence O Gostin, founding O’Neill Chair in global health law at Georgetown University and a professor of public health at Johns Hopkins University.

“It’s really hard to make a direct and causal connection between governors in conservative states that refuse to order masks, distancing, or send out mixed messages” – and cases, Gostin told the Guardian.

“But make no mistake about it, those are causing enormous flare-ups in the United States, because we can’t think of the state as some self-contained unit. They affect other states and they affect the entire country.”

Republican resistance to masks, social distancing and other coronavirus mitigation measures began early on in the pandemic. The purely political prism through which Trump saw the pandemic set the tone.

In private, Trump said the virus was “deadly stuff” that “goes through the air” – while in public he said the virus was a “hoax” that would “disappear”. Any Republican governor who dared split with the party line, such as Ohio’s Mike DeWine and Maryland’s Larry Hogan, drew wrathful Twitter fire from the White House.

Republicans also took up coronavirus rejectionism as an ideological battle, equating basic health precautions with existential threats to personal freedom.

The conservative supreme court justice Samuel Alito said last week that safety measures had exacted “previously unimaginable restrictions on individual liberty”. The attorney general, William Barr, called prospective stay-at-home orders “the greatest intrusion on civil liberties in American history” apart from slavery.

The partisan chasm produced a striking scene on the Senate floor this week, when the Ohio Democrat Sherrod Brown asked the presiding senator, the Alaska Republican Dan Sullivan, to wear a mask to protect the health of staff members required to be present in the chamber – including one staffer seated directly underneath Sullivan.

“I don’t need your instruction,” Sullivan barked in refusal.

Ted Cruz, another Republican senator, piled on. “Sherrod Brown is being a complete ass,” he tweeted.

The senators had been called to the chamber to confirm a final few Trump judges. But that fact only underscored the Republican failure, in the eyes of critics, to meet Democrats halfway on a new and direly needed coronavirus relief bill, which appears a dead letter.

For millions of American lives touched by the coronavirus, it was too late to correct the failure to stand up protocols for masking and social distancing, testing and contact-tracing. But negative consequences of the culture war around the pandemic could still lie ahead, damaging the national vaccination effort.

“The primary responsibility for prioritizing vaccines and distributing them [lies with] state and local health departments,” said Gostin. “Even though you’re going to probably have leadership that values science, you’re nonetheless going to have state and local government that are resistant, and are not effectively distributing the vaccine and not encouraging their citizenry to get the vaccine.

“And so the splintered, fragmented approach in the United States will only look worse when it comes to a vaccine distribution.”

Gostin said he hoped that Biden would convene a Covid-19 summit at the White House including all the governors and public health commissioners.

“It’s going to be hard,” said Gostin, “but I think that’s our only hope to meet what we face: the most daunting logistical challenge for a vaccine campaign in our lifetime.”





No.15 article:
Remains in German murder case show signs of cannibalism

Berlin prosecutors say suspect in death of 44-year-old man had interest in the subject

German prosecutors say there is evidence of cannibalism in the killing of a 44-year-old man whose remains were found in Berlin this month.

A 41-year-old man was arrested at his home on Thursday on suspicion of murder with sexual motives, close to the site where the victim’s bones were found.

“The suspect had an interest in cannibalism,” Berlin prosecutors’ office spokesman Martin Steltner said. “He searched online for the topic.”

Steltner said it was unclear whether the victim had also had an interest in cannibalism. The two men, both Germans, had been in touch with each other online via a chat forum called Planet Romeo, according to a report in Der Spiegel.

On 8 November a walker had chanced upon the skeletal remains of a human leg on a field on the northern outskirts of Berlin, near the border with Brandenburg state.

On the bones investigators discovered bite marks, though they said it was still unclear if they were human or from an animal.

The remains were those of a 44-year-old high-voltage technician who had gone missing from his shared apartment in Berlin’s Lichtenberg district on 5 September.

A search involving specially trained sniffer dogs eventually led police to the apartment of the 41-year-old suspect, a maths and chemistry teacher at a secondary school, where they discovered knives, a bone cutter saw used by surgeons, and an oversized cooling box.

The Bild newspaper reported that investigators had also discovered 25kg of sodium hydroxide, a reagent that can be used to dissolve bodily tissue. The suspect reportedly claimed he had wanted to make soap.

The full names of the victim and the suspect haven’t been released for privacy reasons.

Reports of the arrest have evoked parallels to the infamous case of the “Rotenburg cannibal”. In 2006, a German court convicted Armin Meiwes of murder and disturbing the peace for killing a man he had met online and eating him. Meiwes is serving a life sentence.

Unlike the suspect arrested over the Berlin murder, Meiwes had been quick to talk to prosecutors and share details of his obsession.

In 2015, a German police officer was convicted of murder for killing a man he met in an internet chat forum devoted to cannibalism. Prosecutors said the victim had fantasised about being eaten but there was no evidence the suspect actually did so.





No.16 article:
Officials warn that number of refugees crossing border already surpassing preparations

Violence in northern Ethiopia will probably drive 200,000 people into neighbouring Sudan over the coming months, UN agencies have warned, where food, shelter and medicine are urgently needed.

The number of refugees streaming across the border has already surpassed agency preparations by 11,000 people, a UN refugee agency official said.

“Together with all the agencies, we built a response plan for about 20,000 people and currently we are at about 31,000, so it has already surpassed that figure,” Axel Bisschop told a Geneva briefing. “The new planning figure is around 200,000.”

Fighting in the Tigray region has also left more than 2 million children in urgent need of assistance, with thousands more at risk in Sudanese refugee camps, Unicef said.

The agency is particularly worried over the possible spread of disease among the refugees, nearly half of whom are children.

“Inside the Tigray region, restricted access and the ongoing communication blackout have left an estimated 2.3 million children in need of humanitarian assistance and out of reach,” Unicef executive director Henrietta Fore said.

An additional 12,000 children – some of them are without parents or relatives – are “among those sheltering in camps and registration centres and are at risk”, Fore added.

Earlier this month, the Ethiopian government announced a six-month state of emergency in Tigray where a telecommunications and electricity blackout, coupled with limited fuel and cash, has in effect blocked humanitarian access.

For those who fled to Sudan, life is not much easier. Camps are overcrowded and refugees have been struggling with unsanitary conditions, and limited access to water, and food, UNHCR said.

Unicef is trying to provide urgent assistance and life-saving support for children living in “extremely harsh” conditions in the camps. UN agencies are seeking $50m in immediate funding which will go towards providing food and setting up new camps.

Fore called on all parties to the conflict to allow humanitarian access. “Every effort should be made to keep children out of harm’s way, and to ensure that they are protected from recruitment and use in the conflict,” she said.

Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, launched military operations two weeks ago after he accused the Tigray People’s Liberation Front, which runs Tigray, of attacking a military camp and attempting to seize military hardware. The TPLF denies the charge and has accused the prime minister of concocting the story to justify the offensive.

The open hostilities are the culmination of months, even years, of rising tensions between the TPLF’s leadership and the ruling coalition in Addis Ababa, the national capital.

Few observers believe there will be an end to hostilities soon and senior US diplomats said on Thursday evening that neither party was interested in mediation. “Anybody who has worked with these two sides I think can appreciate the fact that they have very, very strong opinions on what they want to do and when they want to do it,” Tibor Nagy, the US assistant secretary for African affairs, told reporters. “Mediation, in fact, is a very good tactic, but it can only be used when the people involved or the sides involved are prepared for mediation.”

The US ambassador to Ethiopia, Michael Raynor, said his recent conversations with Abiy and with Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the TPLF, had convinced him there was “a strong commitment on both sides to see the military conflict through”.Ethiopia has long been a lynchpin of US policy in the fragile east African region and so far Washington has supported Ahmed.“There is no equivalency here,” said Nagy “This is not two sovereign states fighting against each other. This is a faction of the government running a region in Ethiopia that has decided to undertake hostilities against the central government, and it has not … had the effect that they thought that they were going to get.”Aid workers described pregnant women, separated families and sick elderly people among thousands of refugees continuing to arrive daily into Sudan from Ethiopia.“People are sleeping out in the open. There are no tents, just blankets. There is some food, like porridge and water, but there are no toilets, showers or health services. Many families arrived with nothing more than the clothes on their back. They are essentially arriving with nothing, to nothing,” said Will Carter, country director for the Norwegian Refugee Council in Sudan.“There are pregnant women in the camp, diabetics with no insulin, people living with HIV/Aids with no medical care, and children without parents. It’s a deeply traumatic and depressing time for many,” Carter added.

Agencies contributed to this report





No.17 article:
Military moves into first of districts handed over under Russia-brokered peace deal

Azerbaijan forces have entered a district bordering Nagorno-Karabakh as the country begins retaking territory held for nearly 30 years by the Armenian-backed government as part of a Russian-brokered peace deal.

Video showed troops and armoured vehicles moving into the district of Aghdam, which Armenia conceded in a controversial armistice, one day after columns of its soldiers and tanks rolled out of the territory.

Armenia will also hand over the Kalbajar district wedged between Nagorno-Karabakh and Armenia on 25 November and the Lachin district by 1 December.

On Thursday, Armenian residents of Aghdam hurriedly picked pomegranates and persimmons from trees surrounding their homes and packed vans with furniture, before fleeing in the run-up to the official deadline to cede the mountainous province.

“We wanted to build a sauna, kitchen. But now I had to dismantle everything. And I’ll burn down the house with everything I own when I leave,” Gagik Grigoryan, a 40-year-old electrical worker, told Reuters before abandoning his home.

Tens of thousands of Azerbaijanis are expected to return to the region. On Friday, Azerbaijan quickly organised prayers at a local mosque to signal the return of the city to the control of the mostly Muslim country.

Political tensions have remained high in Armenia, where the truce was viewed by many as a capitulation by the government of prime minister, Nikol Pashinyan.

On Friday, several Armenian news sources reported that the minister of defence, David Tonoyan, had tendered his resignation in what, if confirmed, would be another exit of a high-ranking official from his cabinet. 

The country’s foreign minister resigned earlier this week and its president, Armen Sarkisian, had called for Pashinyan to step down and allow snap elections to lead the country out of the crisis.

Pashinyan has responded with calls for unity and has issued a government roadmap out of the crisis that include returning refugees to the Karabakh region, which Armenia calls Artsakh, and modernising the country’s military. He has called for greater development in Stepanakert and those territories remaining under Armenian control.

Fierce clashes between Azerbaijan’s forces and Armenian separatists broke out in late September in the Nagorno-Karabakh region. The war lasted six weeks, leaving thousands dead and displacing many more.

The longstanding ex-Soviet rivals finally agreed to end hostilities last week under the framework of a Russian-brokered accord under which Moscow will deploy peacekeepers to the region and Armenia must cede swathes of territory.

Separatists in Nagorno-Karabakh and several surrounding districts captured the territory and claimed independence that has not been recognised internationally, even by Armenia, after a post-Soviet 1990s war that left 30,000 dead.

As part of last week’s peace deal, Armenia agreed to return 15-20% of the Nagorno-Karabakh territory captured by Azerbaijan in recent fighting, including the historical town of Shusha.

The exchange of territory was originally expected to begin on Sunday, with Armenians in the Kalbajar district fleeing en masse before the official deadline for Azerbaijan’s takeover.

But Azerbaijan’s president, Ilham Aliyev, postponed the deadline by one week over “humanitarian” considerations.

The Russian peacekeeping force of 2,000 troops has deployed to the administrative centre of the region, Stepanakert, and set up checkpoints and observation posts along the strategic Lachin corridor connecting Nagorno-Karabakh with Armenia.

While Armenians in the provinces to be handed over to Azerbaijan have left in an exodus, the Russian mission on Thursday said it had bussed 3,000 residents back to Stepanakert and other regions who had fled during the six weeks of heavy shelling.

Most of Azerbaijan’s south-western district of Aghdam has been under the control of Armenian separatists since 1993. Before the post-Soviet war it was inhabited by 130,000 people – mostly ethnic Azerbaijanis who were expelled from their homes.

Armenia’s health ministry said this week that more than 2,400 of the country’s fighters had been killed in the clashes. Azerbaijan has not revealed its military fatalities.

After the peace accord was signed last week, the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, said total fatalities that included dozens of civilians had surpassed 4,000 people.

Russia’s decisive role in the settlement has sidelined the United States and France, which brokered a ceasefire in the 1990s but failed to deliver a long-term resolution.

During the most recent conflict, France, the US and Russia attempted to broker three separate ceasefires that collapsed as Armenia and Azerbaijan accused the other of violations.

The French president, Emmanuel Macron, this week urged Russia to clarify “ambiguities” over the ceasefire, including Turkey’s role in the peacekeeping mission.

Azerbaijan has insisted on a prominent role for its staunch ally Turkey, which was widely accused by western countries, Russia and Armenia of supplying Baku with mercenary fighters from Syria over the weeks of fighting.

The Kremlin has poured cold water on Ankara’s hopes of deploying peacekeepers alongside Russian troops in Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding provinces and instead insisted that Turkey observe the truce from monitoring posts in Azerbaijan.

Reuters contributed to this report





No.18 article:
'It gave me hope in democracy': how French citizens are embracing people power

Towns, cities and regions around France are turning to assemblies of unelected citizens to guide them on everything from climate to coronavirus

by  Peter Yeung

Angela Brito was driving back to her home in the Parisian suburb of Seine-et-Marne one day in September 2019 when the phone rang. The 47-year-old caregiver, accustomed to emergency calls, pulled over in her old Renault Megane to answer. The voice on the other end of the line informed her she had been randomly selected to take part in a French citizens’ convention on climate. Would she, the caller asked, be interested?

“I thought it was a real prank,” says Brito, a single mother of four who was born in the south of Portugal. “I’d never heard anything about it before. But I said yes, without asking any details. I didn’t believe it.’”

Brito received a letter confirming her participation but she still didn’t really take it seriously. On 4 October, the official launch day, she got up at 7am as usual and, while driving to meet her first patient of the day, heard a radio news item on how 150 ordinary citizens had been randomly chosen for this new climate convention. “I said to myself, ah, maybe it was true,” she recalls.

At the home of her second patient, a good-humoured old man in a wheelchair, the TV news was on. Images of the grand Art Déco-style Palais d’Iéna, home of the citizens’ gathering, filled the screen. “I looked at him and said, ‘I’m supposed to be one of those 150,’” says Brito. “He told me, ‘What are you doing here then? Leave, get out, go there!’”

 Brito had two hours to get to the Palais d’Iéna. “I arrived a little late, but I arrived!” she says.

Over the next nine months, Brito would take part in the French citizens’ convention for the climate, touted by Emmanuel Macron as an “unprecedented democratic experiment”, which would bring together 150 people aged 16 upwards, from all over France and all walks of French life – to learn, debate and then propose measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030. By the end of the process, Brito and her fellow participants had convinced Macron to pledge an additional €15bn (£13.4bn) to the climate cause and to accept all but three of the group’s 149 recommendations.

The climate convention made headlines with recommendations such as making ecocide a crime; enshrining climate goals into the French constitution; banning domestic flights on journeys that can be done by train in under two and a half hours; cutting VAT on train tickets and making a vegetarian option compulsory in public catering. But it also showed how, against a collapse of trust in traditional politics, directly involving citizens could improve community cohesion and reinvigorate democracy both locally and nationally. Macron pledged to put the key proposals drafted by Brito and her fellow citizens to a referendum by 2021.

The French revolution may have introduced the modern concept of citizen democracy to Europe. But the Greeks invented the citizens’ assembly: as far back as 621BC the ecclesia, or popular assembly of ancient Athens was a forum in which any male citizen regardless of class could participate.

Now, with a pandemic-induced economic and social crisis looming, this ancient democratic tool is being updated for the 21st century. Towns, cities and regions across France are increasingly turning to their citizens to help steer them towards a more egalitarian future.

Last month around 100 citizens from the Occitane region – spanning the cities of Toulouse, Montpellier and Carcassonne – completed a convention aimed at “improving the lives of inhabitants”. It was France’s first regional citizens’ convention.

“We are a large region, so we must make sure we are not disconnected and that politics is adapted to the feelings and desires of the people,” says Carole Delga, president of Occitane and a Socialist party MP. 

Ahead of regional elections due next spring, other cities are following suit. Nantes is convening an assembly between this month and February 2021, in which 80 locals will assess the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, record their concerns and priorities and outline courses of action. Nancy plans to convene at least 200 residents in January, Poitiers aims for one in September 2021, and Marseille is considering the creation of a “parliament of the future”, bringing together residents, politicians and experts to forge policy.

“Conventions intervene in the political process so that ordinary citizens can be heard and can counteract powerful interest groups,” says Loïc Blondiaux, a professor of political science at the University of Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne and a member of the climate convention’s governance committee. “With the collapse of democracy as we know it, the political system will have to change in the coming years. What conventions do is they represent all citizens and they re-legitimise the process of decision-making.”

Occitane’s citizens covered a broad range of topics including the environment, transport, the digital economy, healthy food, and the rural/urban divide, and despite being hamstrung and truncated by the pandemic has been heralded as a success.

Detailed discussions were conducted in smaller breakout groups, with evidence provided by independent experts and votes on proposals such as encouraging companies to hire graduates, putting local railway lines back into circulation, helping farmers to market their products locally and revitalising ailing town centres.“We can’t become experts in a matter of weeks, but there were many things I learnt,” says Gérard Pithon, 70, a retired social psychology teacher from Montpellier who took part in the convention.

“It was a very enriching experience,” adds Clarisse Pintat, 31-year-old Franco-Brasilian chef from Toulouse. “It’s the closest I’ve been in my life to political power. It gave me, to a certain extent, hope in the dynamics of democracy.”

This sentiment was echoed by Brito of the climate convention, who says her initial disbelief was due to the fact “politics doesn’t usually give a voice to people like me”.

The spread of citizens’ conventions in France can be seen partly as a response to the gilets jaunes crisis, which was triggered by a popular backlash against fuel taxes linked to climate policy and morphed into a more complex grassroots revolt against a range of social and economic pressures and inequalities.

“The French [political] model is very presidential and majoritarian,” says Camille Bedock, a sociologist at the University of Bordeaux’s Emile Durkheim Centre. “There is a big gap between expectations of what democracy should be and the reality – it’s a much greater gap than in other countries. That was a significant factor in the [emergence of the] gilets jaunes.”

President Macron’s initial reaction to the gilets jaunes protests was to launch a series of nationwide grands débats about public policy. This failed, says Bedock, because participation was self-selecting and it came to represent “the opposite of the gilets jaunes”. Participants were older, richer and seen as more privileged. “By ensuring citizens’ conventions are based on random selection and that they reflect society, this issue was solved,” she says.

For many,the inspirational modern example is Ireland’s 2016-2018 citizens’ assembly, which broke years of political deadlock, leading to a referendum and repeal of the country’s longstanding constitutional ban on abortion.

“It was a very tricky issue,” says Jane Suiter, who worked as a senior research fellow on the Irish citizens’ assembly. “But I think it worked because the public sees that it’s everyday people – the unemployed, bus drivers, all kinds of society – who decide. They aren’t the usual suspects, the talking heads on television. That tends to increase trust.”

Belgium’s German-speaking region last year set up a permanent 24-person citizen’s council, chosen by lottery, to work alongside the region’s parliament. Its members in turn organise citizens’ assemblies of up to 50 people, which meet for three weekends over three months on specific policy issues chosen by the citizens’ council.

In an era of extreme polarisation on everything from Brexit, immigration and secularism to the Covid-19 response – some believe citizens’ conventions are a priceless tool.

“They can help resolve issues that usually polarise people,” says George Zarkadakis, author of Cyber Republic, a new book exploring how to make democracies more inclusive in the digital age. “What’s happened with Covid-19 is that it’s been polarised and politicised. There are people opposed to and in favour of lockdown, but if you look at the arguments they aren’t really scientific. Citizens’ conventions offer de-polarisation by removing ulterior motives.”

Zarkadakis argues that in future citizens’ conventions will also hugely benefit from the deployment of technologies such as crypto-currencies, artificial intelligence and blockchain – which would in turn give them greater autonomy, better learning tools and smart contracts that will make it easier for political pledges to be held to account. “Technology can help that transformation,” he says.

Yet, questions remain, from relatively technicalities to more fundamental issues about legitimacy and whether citizens’ conventions can have genuine political bite.

Claudia Chwalisz, main author of an OECD report published in June, which studied nearly 300 examples of citizens’ assemblies says that participants and organisers often complain about a basic lack of time and funding – the French climate convention was, for example, held over 10 three-day sessions, but Occitane’s lasted just 10 days.

There are thorny issues too, she adds, including how to select participants fairly, how to select the experts that assist them, and how to ensure governments and public authorities commit to genuine action. This point was underlined when on 12 October, the 150 citizens of the climate convention, who despite acknowledging some progress, wrote a tense letter demanding Macron “reaffirm formal and public commitment in favour of the unfiltered examination of [their] proposals”.

“It’s a work in progress,” says Chwalisz. “They cannot completely replace the traditional representative system. But we must look to the future: how do we institutionalise these forms of public deliberation so that citizens can play a role?”

Others are concerned that without guarantees and funding put in place by authorities, the role of citizens’ conventions could be superficial. A UK citizens’ assembly on climate which met in the spring of 2020 put forward a range of recommendations but, unlike in France, there is no obligation on the UK parliament or government to even consider them.

“You need a legal contract between the politicians and the citizens, otherwise I fear that they will remain marginal and their effect will be only cosmetic,” says Prof Blondiaux. “And there’s a risk of politically marginalising these conventions if there’s not enough support to ensure the wider public understands and agrees with the process.”

For all the caveats, many of France’s participants now eulogise the assemblies as a step into a brave new world of togetherness.

“I learnt a lot of things,” says Eloise, a 17-year-old from Dunkirk who was one of the six minors who took part in the climate convention. “I learnt about the environment. I learnt how to listen to other people. I learnt how to debate. But the most important thing I learnt was the force of collective intelligence. We must invest in it.”





No.19 article:
An upside to lockdown? It may be updating the idea of fatherhood

Sometimes it takes a shocker of an event to catalyse social change – and Covid fits the bill

Someone told me this week that you can never start a sentence with the word “than”. “Is that so?” I said. “Because you know, this pandemic is changing our world in more ways than you might think. Than you might ever have thought possible.”

Indeed, Covid-19 has changed so much about our world (though perhaps not the basics of good grammar). And not all of it for the bad. This year, the Upside has already delved into the revival of community, the brilliance of teachers, the environmental positives and the greatness of dogs, volunteers, even neighbours.

But is there something more profound going on within our homes, our families? Sometimes it takes a huge shocker of an event to catalyse big social transformation. And many people who know about parenting believe that Covid may be changing fatherhood in significant ways.

My colleague Alexandra Topping has been looking into the ways in which lockdown, furlough and working from home could be quietly revolutionising the whole idea of fatherhood, which, let’s face it, has not evolved hugely from 1950s ideals.

You can read her article (three-minute read) here. Do let us know if you’ve been affected this way: have you spent more time with the kids in lockdown? What was the upshot? Do you think we’ll look back on this year as a turning point for fatherhood?

When you’ve done that, feast your eyes on this week’s lineup, which includes:

• Prize-winning inventors: what happened next after they won the James Dyson award. Three-minute read

… plus a quickie on this year’s award winner. 90-second read

• In praise of the cheerful amateur over the joyless perfectionist. Two-minute OpEd

• The rise and rise of low-traffic neighbourhoods. Mini-series

• Can video gaming benefit mental health? Two-minute read

• The latest vaccine hopes. Two-minute read

• An unusual Syrian exhibition … in Paisley, Scotland. 90-second read

• Another unusual “exhibition” … on the seabed… to stop trawler fishing. Four-minute read

• And a gratuitous one from Hannah Jane Parkinson: the joy of the TV blooper (ie when actors get the giggles …) Many minutes of funny clips

More than nine out of 10 train passengers in London are complying with face-covering rules, according to new figures.

Elsewhere, the EU is planning a huge increase in offshore wind capacity in coming years. And US greenhouse gas emissions are set to fall almost 10 percent this year.

This is lovely, from the Thomson Reuters Foundation: the cleaner who became a fabulous baker boy in lockdown.

We are captivated by the tale of the British plumber who appears to work for free for older customers in need. And we like the idea of George Clooney giving $1m each to 14 friends who helped him during his early years, as reported in this GQ profile.

Oh, and this is a feast: the top shots from the 2020 International Landscape Photographer of the year, courtesy of the Atlantic.

Anya Hart Dyke is an Upside regular who urges people to give time, not stuff, when it comes to Christmas gifts:

Last November/December I got inside a cardboard box to look like a Christmas present, talking to shoppers about giving the ‘gift of time’ at Christmas instead of quite so many physical presents, especially to children, who are often the target of excessive amounts of stuff.

The idea this year – at 10am on Sunday 6 December specifically – is a coordinated #wrapyourselfupthisChristmas fancy dress hill walk.

The basic idea is to: 1. Get dressed up (as much or as little as you like) and climb a hill of your choice at 10am on Sunday 6 December.

2. Take a selfie at the top – then send it to me please, if you’re happy for me to put in on my website/potentially have it published by news outlets.

3. Make a pledge to ask for/give one ‘gift of time’ present this Christmas in place of a physical present, preferably one for a child (as they are often the target of too many things).

But please, readers: no fancy dress that might get you arrested.

In the South Atlantic, where sightings of dozens of blue whales have raised hopes of the species’ recovery.





No.20 article:
China has given almost a million people experimental Covid vaccine, says company

Sinopharm chairman claims there has not been a single case of infection after inoculation of officials, students and workers heading overseas

Almost a million people in China have taken an emergency Covid-19 vaccine that is still in its testing phase, the company that developed the vaccine has said.

Chinese authorities released the vaccine, developed by China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm), to select groups of people in July including Chinese government officials, students, and workers travelling overseas, before the vaccines had been proven to work.

Sinopharm’s claims, made in an interview with chairman Liu Jingzhen posted on WeChat, did not specify which of its vaccines had been given, but said the individuals had travelled to more than 150 countries around the world and “there has not been a single case of infection after inoculation”.

“Only individual patients have had some mild symptoms,” he said.

Sinopharm’s two vaccine candidates are among five Chinese candidates undergoing international clinical trials because the domestic prevalence of the disease is so low. At least three – all inactivated vaccines from Sinopharm and Sinovac – have been approved for emergency use outside the clinical trials, and some local governments have reportedly allowed residents to take the Sinovac vaccine.

In September, the United Arab Emirates was the first country outside China to approve emergency use of Sinopharm’s vaccine.

The overseas trials have caused some controversy, in part because of a lack of communication from Chinese authorities. In August, 48 Chinese construction workers was barred from entry to Papua New Guinea over concerns they had been given an unnamed experimental vaccine.

More widely, however, the decision by countries like China and Russia to go ahead with vaccination programmes before completing full testing, including large scale Phase 3 trials, has been viewed with concern elsewhere.

Experts have warned that taking short cuts to internationally accepted approaches to testing and regulation could fuel a wider public mistrust over coronavirus vaccines and potentially reduce the uptake required for effective protection of populations.

China has promised to supply multiple countries with its vaccines, delivering potentially conflicting promises to prioritise places such as the Philippines and nations in Africa. Addressing the Apec conference on Thursday, Chinese president Xi Jinping pledged closer international coordination on policies for development and distribution of a vaccine.

About a dozen vaccine candidates around the world are in the late stages of testing, and as the mass production of vaccines gets closer, governments have begun prioritising recipients.

Pfizer/BioNTech has already published interim data last week and final data this week showing its vaccine protects nearly 95% of people from getting sick. US company Moderna has shown similar results in interim data.

Alex Azar, the US health secretary, said this week Pfizer would seek an emergency use authorisation on Friday for its vaccine. Infectious diseases expert Dr Anthony Fauci said both Pfizer and Moderna had shown “extraordinarily impressive” efficacy, and the US government “will be getting vaccine doses into people at a high priority at the end of December”.

Meanwhile, the UK’s Oxford vaccine group has hosed down expectations that the 100m doses ordered by the UK will be ready by Christmas, saying it is not in competition with the other companies.

The UK’s order for 40m doses of the Pfizer vaccine may arrive sooner, but its 5m Moderna doses likely won’t arrive until early next year.

Additional reporting by Lillian Yang





No.21 article:
Coronavirus Australia: the week at a glance

A summary of the major developments in the coronavirus outbreak across the country

Here are all the latest developments in the coronavirus pandemic in Australia. This is Mostafa Rachwani and it’s Friday 20 November. This is the final edition of Coronavirus Australia: the week at a glance, for now. We are putting the series on hold.

South Australia has had a rollercoaster week, announcing Friday that restrictions will ease after it emerged someone in the so-called Parafield cluster lied to the contact-tracing team.

A security guard at a quarantine hotel who tested positive misled contact tracers by saying he had gone to the Woodville Pizza Bar to buy a pizza – when he had in fact been working multiple shifts there.

The fuming premier, Steven Marshall, explained that health authorities mistakenly thought the outbreak was worse than it was because the man claimed to have been a customer and not a close contact of another positive worker at the pizza shop.

The week saw escalating restrictions in SA as it seemed the state was going the way of Victoria and heading towards a second wave.

But from midnight on Saturday, restrictions will return to where they were on Monday 16 November, with schools, hospitality venues, and gyms to reopen. Weddings, funerals and public gatherings will all return to their caps pre-lockdown.

The state-wide lockdown began on Thursday with South Australians facing some of the toughest restrictions in the country. The initial plan was to have a “circuit breaker” for six days before revising restrictions thereafter.

The Parafield cluster currently stands at 25 cases with thousands of close contacts being tested.

Victoria, Western Australia, Tasmania, Queensland and the Northern Territory closed their borders to South Australians earlier in the week, when the growing cluster initially emerged.

People on some flights to those states from South Australia were asked to either return or enter quarantine upon arrival.

Victoria initiated a 48-hour hard border on Thursday, with the state government announcing it would set up a permit scheme for those needing to cross the border.

New South Wales, on the other hand, didn’t close its borders, instead screening arrivals by train, plane and bus, and asking arrivals to monitor for symptoms and get tested if any emerged.

It not yet clear states will reopen their borders now that restrictions in South Australia are set to ease.

Although Victoria has now gone 21 days without a locally acquired case, it did find fragments of the virus in wastewater at Portland and Benalla, 65km from the South Australian border.

Victorian authorities have asked anyone who is a resident of either town and anyone who visited or passed through between 15 and 17 November, to be alert for Covid-19 symptoms and get a test if anything comes up.

The New South Wales premier, Gladys Berejiklian, announced that the state would ease some restrictions and introduce special rules for New Year’s Eve.

Designated areas will be set up for frontline workers to attend the celebrations in premium locations across the harbour.

Up to 3,000 people will be able to attend outdoor events on the night, as long as Covid guidelines are met.

Anyone visiting friends or family in the Sydney CBD will require a permit to do so. A special public order will be introduced to create a restricted zone around the CBD, and anyone hoping to attend functions within it must apply through Services NSW to do so.

To reduce congestion, the midnight fireworks have also been reduced to seven minutes.

NSW police will have the power to move people on without a permit, should they gather in large numbers across the CBD.

NSW has now recorded 13 straight days without a locally acquired case, with the premier also announcing further restrictions being eased from 23 November, including increased caps to outdoor gatherings, religious services, and funerals.

Melbourne will become home to the southern hemisphere’s largest influenza vaccine manufacturing centre with an $800m investment from CSL subsidiary Seqirus.

The deal was brokered to ensure the long-term supply of vaccines and critical health products, including influenza vaccines and anti-venoms.

The centre will be supported by a $1bn 12-year supply agreement with the federal government and is expected to be operational by 2026.

Full Australian coronavirus stats interactive: charts, graphs and state by state data

NSW Covid hotspots list

Victoria Covid hotspots list

Australia’s Covid restrictions and lockdown rules – state by state

What kind of face mask best protects against coronavirus?

Covid vaccine tracker: when will we have a coronavirus vaccine?

Looking for more coverage? Read the latest news from across the Guardian’s global network.

This is our final Coronavirus Australia: the week at a glance. We are putting the newsletter on pause but may be back with major developments in the future. Thanks very much to everyone who signed up to receive this newsletter.

To stay in touch you can sign up for Guardian Australia’s Morning Mail, which is delivered every weekday morning, or Guardian Today, for the day’s top news and commentary.

You can find a full list of our Guardian Australia newsletters here.





No.22 article:
Friday briefing: The return of Dr Fauci

Covid expert back at White House podium after Trump purgatory … Booker prize winner announced … cracks in core spell end for nuclear plant

by  Warren Murray

Hello, Warren Murray here. You deserve to know, so here we go …

Dr Anthony Fauci, America’s top infectious diseases expert, has returned to the White House podium after months of being sidelined by Donald Trump. He promised “the cavalry is on the way” in the form of coronavirus vaccines – but urged one last great effort to stop the spread. Fauci enthused over the likely rollout of Pfizer and Moderna vaccines that have shown more than 90% efficacy – “We’ll be getting vaccine doses into people at a high priority at the end of December.” Fauci was speaking at the White House coronavirus taskforce’s first press briefing since July, and was joined by its chair – the vice-president, Mike Pence – and others. There was no sign of voted-out president Donald Trump.

Fauci warned that until a vaccine came “we need to actually double down on the public health measures … We’re not talking about shutting down the country, we’re not talking about locking down. We’re talking about intensifying the simple public health measures that we all talk about: mask wearing, [social] distance, avoiding congregant settings … If we do that, we’ll be able to hold things off until the vaccine comes.”

Joe Biden meanwhile has castigated Trump as one of the “most irresponsible presidents in American history”. The election winner said the president’s refusal to give access to key federal agencies was affecting the Biden team’s ability to create a plan to respond to the coronavirus pandemic, particularly around vaccine distribution. In Michigan, Trump has mounted an all-out assault on the election result, reportedly planning to fly state lawmakers to meet with him in Washington on Friday after he phoned county officials in an apparent attempt to derail the certification of Biden’s 150,000-vote victory. Trump has been pressuring Republican state lawmakers to try to hijack the electoral college by advancing their own slates of electors, rather than the Democrat electors that the state voted for. Biden has been confirmed as the winner in the state of Georgia after a recount reaffirmed the original result. Nationwide the Democrat is nearing a record 80m votes as counting continues.

Equal Pay Day – Women in their mid-30s will never know equal pay in their working lives if progress towards tackling the gender gap is not accelerated, according to new analysis. To mark Equal Pay Day, the day each year that women in the UK effectively stop being paid because of the gap, Labour has said 8.5 million women will go their entire careers without receiving equal pay. It comes as research from the Fawcett Society reveals 43% of working women, and 50% of black and minority ethnic working women – compared with 35% of white working men – are worried about their job and promotion prospects because of coronavirus, while one-third of working women have lost work or hours because of pandemic-related childcare issues. The Office for National Statistics says the mean gender pay gap is 14.6%, down from 16.3% last year. Fawcett calculates it differently at 11.5%, down from 13.1%, but says figures are less reliable this year because the pandemic meant less data was gathered.

Sunak’s sights on public servant pay – Rishi Sunak is preparing to announce a squeeze on public sector pay in response to the economic shock of the pandemic. Government sources said pay restraint would be part of Sunak’s mini-budget on Wednesday. The belt-tightening for public servants – many of them at the pandemic frontline, although NHS workers for example are expected to be exempt – is likely to contrast sharply with Boris Johnson’s generous four-year settlement for the armed forces. The prime minister told the Commons he wanted the UK to be Europe’s leading naval power, and said the budget increase would help to equip the Ministry of Defence with swarms of drones, and “directed energy weapons”. Johnson declined to confirm whether the government would abide by its manifesto commitment to maintain overseas aid spending at 0.7% of national income. Leaders of nearly 200 charities have written to the PM urging him to ditch a plan to cut the target to 0.5%.

Booker for Shuggie Bain writer – The Scottish-American author Douglas Stuart has won the Booker prize for his first novel, Shuggie Bain, a story based on his own life that follows a boy growing up in poverty in 1980s Glasgow with a mother who is battling addiction. Stuart, 44, has described himself as “a working-class kid who had a different career and came to writing late”.

He is the second Scot to win the £50,000 award after James Kelman took the prize in 1994 with How Late It Was, How Late, a book Stuart said “changed his life” because it was the first time he saw “my people, my dialect, on the page”. After last year’s judges provoked controversy by flouting the rules to choose two winners, Margaret Atwood and Bernardine Evaristo, this year’s judges’ meeting was “unanimous and quick”, said the Booker’s literary director, Gaby Wood.

Evidence weighs against Patel – A Cabinet Office inquiry into allegations of bullying by Priti Patel has found evidence she broke the ministerial code, the Guardian has been told. Sources familiar with the inquiry said it had found evidence that civil servants were treated poorly by Patel, as well as compelling evidence of bullying. Boris Johnson is expected to release a decision on the inquiry within weeks but it is not likely to demand the home secretary’s resignation. He has been criticised for compromising the inquiry by insisting he would continue to support Patel.

Patel is also facing possible questioning at an employment tribunal hearing next September over alleged constructive dismissal of Philip Rutnam. The former Home Office permanent secretary quit over what he described as a “vicious and orchestrated campaign” against him for challenging alleged mistreatment of civil servants.

Premature end for nuclear plant – The Hinkley Point B nuclear power plant in Somerset is to close down in the first half of 2022, a year earlier than scheduled. Matt Sykes, the managing director of EDF Generation, said an inspection of graphite blocks in the reactor core revealed cracks – “exactly the sort of condition” expected after 40 years of operation. EDF had expected the shutdown to take place after the start-up of Hinkley Point C, the first new nuclear power plant being built in the UK in a generation. It was due to begin generating “well before 2020” but has been the subject of hold-ups over what price the government will guarantee for the electricity it produces.

The killing of a teacher who had shown his class cartoons of the prophet Muhammad during a lesson on free speech has rekindled a debate in France over secularism and the state’s role in regulating free expression.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/19-70428-20201119tiffrance.mp3 

Human rights abuses, the Jamal Khashoggi murder and fuelling a destructive war in Yemen have left the kingdom a pariah as it hosts a global showpiece that has been pared back to a webinar by Covid-19. Patrick Wintour examines a critical moment for Saudi Arabia in which the cover provided by Donald Trump’s indifference to the excesses of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is soon to expire.

And in case you missed it, Martin Chulov relays detainees’ stories from the “Night of the Beatings” in which nearly 400 of Saudi Arabia’s most powerful people, among them princes, tycoons and ministers, were rounded up and detained in the Ritz-Carlton hotel, in the biggest and most contentious purge in the modern kingdom’s history.

Top-ranked England and France have been drawn in the same pool for next year’s Women’s Rugby World Cup, while the hosts and holders, New Zealand, were drawn with Australia at a ceremony in Auckland. Eddie Jones has questioned the legality of Ireland’s scrummaging on the eve of a Twickenham showdown he has billed as England’s most important game of the year. Premiership Rugby will have access to WhatsApp messages as well as players’ bank statements and tax returns following the introduction of far-reaching powers aimed at catching salary cap cheats.

Rafael Nadal has beaten the ebullient young incumbent, Stefanos Tsitsipas, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2, on Thursday night to move to within two wins of lifting only the second indoor hardcourt title of his career. Not for the first time, Conor McGregor has decided his UFC career is not over after all and will return to the octagon to face Dustin Poirier on 23 January. Dawid Malan may be No 1 in the global Twenty20 batting rankings but he insists this lofty position comes with no guarantees – not least as regards his place in the England team for their forthcoming series against South Africa.

Asian stock markets have struggled again overnight after US Treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin called for an end to coronavirus pandemic relief for struggling businesses. He has written to the US Federal Reserve saying that the $450bn allocated to Treasury for assistance should be handed back to Congress to reallocate. The S&amp;P 500 on Wall Street will open 0.5% lower later as a result but the FTSE 100 is on course for a 0.2% rise at the opening. The pound is on $1.327 and €1.117.

The Guardian’s splash is “New spending row as Sunak puts squeeze on public sector salaries” with Priti Patel the picture lead alongside “Cuts and Covid delay court cases until 2023”. James Mulholland QC, chair of the Criminal Bar Association, has told the Guardian that the already critically underfunded criminal justice system has been brought “on its knees” by the pandemic’s impact: “We are holding people in custody for up to 18 months. There’s no compensation if they are found not guilty. We have 17-year-olds who are not going to be tried until 2023. Will they have to spend their youth waiting for an outcome that will impact their whole life?” The Mail covers the mini-budget too: “Pay blow for 5m to fill Covid black hole”.

The Telegraph’s front-page lead is “Army to hire specialists for hi-tech future wars” and it uses a picture of the Queen and Prince Philip opening cards on their 73rd anniversary. The Metro splashes with “Control the meerkat” … hmm … wait I get it now! Comparethemarket has been fined for breaking competition law. The Mirror has “Tories in dock over care home scandal” – a daughter who lost her father to Covid-19 has won the first stage of a high court challenge against the government’s policy of discharging hospital patients into care homes without tests.

The i reports “Hope for vaccine in UK within fortnight”, while Sun enthuses there will be “1m jabs a day”. The on-again-off-again story of seasonal observances features on the front of the Express: “Boris battles experts to save Christmas”, complaining as only the Express would that obstacles to winding back restrictions are being put in his path by “gloomy scientific warnings” from experts. The Times has “Patel guilty of bullying staff, leaked report finds”.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.23 article:
More than 40% of working women worried about impact of Covid on job prospects

Women in their mid-30s will never know equal pay in their working lives if progress towards tackling the gender gap is not accelerated, according to new analysis.

To mark Equal Pay Day, the day that women in effect stop being paid because of the gender pay gap in the UK, Labour has said 8.5 million women will go their entire careers without receiving equal pay.

It comes as research from the Fawcett Society reveals that 43% of working women, and 50% of black and minority ethnic working women – compared with 35% of white working men – are worried about their job and promotion prospects because of coronavirus, while one-third of working women have lost work or hours because of pandemic-related childcare issues.

The Savanta ComRes survey of 8,425 UK adults found that school and childcare closures during the pandemic had hit black and minority ethnic working mothers hard: 44% said they lost work or hours due to a lack of childcare, compared with 34% of working white mothers.

Sam Smethers, the chief executive of the Fawcett Society, said the UK was at a “coronavirus crossroads” on the path towards gender equality.

“The second world war gave birth to the welfare state; the winter of discontent led to a new Thatcherite era,” she said. “The coronavirus crisis puts us at a crossroads again, and it is clear that this applies to the gender pay gap.”

She said gains made in the 50 years since the Equal Pay Act had been eroded, with women facing an uncertain economic future and the childcare sector in crisis. The latest government figures show that more women than men are on furlough across almost every age group, while 36% of young women work in sectors that have been closed down. She accused the government of ignoring the needs of families while investing £16bn in defence. “More guns and bullets won’t help working parents,” she said. “We urgently need a properly funded childcare infrastructure to enable parents to work and grow our economy out of the pandemic.”

According to the Office for National Statistics, the mean gender pay gap for all employees is 14.6% this year, down from 16.3% last year. Fawcett calculates Equal Pay Day by using the full-time mean average gender pay gap – which this year is 11.5%, down from 13.1% in 2019. But it said the reduction should be treated with caution, as a quarter of the usual sample of employer pay data was missing from the ONS calculations due to Covid. The government announced in March that it had suspended the requirement for employers to report their gender pay gaps for 2019-20 because of the pandemic.

 Marsha De Cordova, the shadow secretary for women and equalities, said: “The government has failed to tackle the gender pay gap and has ignored the impact this crisis has had on women. We need urgent action to modernise equal pay legislation and restart pay gap reporting.”

The Equality Trust said the government could only make equal pay a reality by giving women the right to know what a male colleague doing the same work was paid. In a report marking Equal Pay Day it said there had been “paltry progress on reducing the gender pay gap” over the three years of company reporting, and an increase of 179% on the average gender bonus gap of reporting companies.

“Women are still being undervalued, underpaid and to add insult to injury, there is little if any progress on the gender pay and bonus gaps,” said Dr Wanda Wyporska, the executive director of the trust.

She pointed to companies that reported high gender pay gaps this year, including easyJet (54.7%), HSBC Bank (55.1% and bonus gap: 68.5%), Yours Clothing (59% and bonus gap: 88%) and Rush Hair (69.2%) as examples of the work that still needed to be done.

A spokesman from the Government Equalities Office said the government was “fully committed” to providing equal opportunity in the workplace: “As we look to unite the country and recover from the pandemic it is key that companies embrace flexible working initiatives which have a positive impact on recruitment and the productivity of staff.”





No.24 article:
Nuremberg war crimes trials begin – archive, 1945

20 November 1945: Germany’s Nazi leaders go on trial at the International Military Tribunal in the Palace of Justice, Nuremberg

Nuremberg, November 19After a day of rumour and of protracted consultation among the judges and prosecuting counsel of the four nations at the Palace of Justice here, it became virtually certain to-night that the Nuremberg war trial will open as arranged to-morrow morning.

The Russian delegation had applied in committee for a postponement, ostensibly on the grounds of the illness of General Rudenko, their leading counsel, and they were backed by the French desire to see Alfred Krupp joined to the indictment, but this evening authority was received from Moscow for Colonel Pokrovsky, the Russian No. 2, to take the place of General Rudenko, who in any case would not be required to conduct the Soviet case for several weeks, and it is now far less likely that the court, as seemed probable earlier in the day, will be asked for an adjournment after the reading of the indictment and the taking of pleas to-morrow.

Goering’s health betterSeveral of the other accused have undergone treatment for various ailments during the time of their incarceration and most of them are stated to be physically well. Goring notably is apparently in better health than at any time during the past twelve years. His drug habits have been eliminated, and he has lost a good deal of weight. Those of the prisoners who do not wear uniforms shorn of their insignia and badges of rank have been provided with iron-grey civilian clothes and dark ties. Only Admiral Raeder, who will be in mufti, asked permission, which was granted, to wear a red tie, perhaps as a token of the period he spent in Russian custody.

The international tribunal and the prosecution have gone to great pains to provide the accused with counsel for their defence, and any suggestion that they have been unable to obtain German counsel is based on a misapprehension. There has, indeed, been no prohibition against members of the British Bar appearing for the defence, if they chose; all the Bar Council did was to pass a resolution pointing out the undesirability of such action.

All the accused have capable German counsel, and in the four instances where they were appointed by the court they were nominated at the defendants’ request. There is not a single instance of a defendant having counsel thrust upon him. The German lawyers are enjoying better facilities in some respects than they would in a British court, and they themselves have expressed astonishment at the help they have been given. All the documents in this largely documentary trial have been issued to them, and each day they will receive a transcript of proceedings in court.

see also:

21 November 1945





No.25 article:
&#x27;A thrill of subtle subversion&#x27;: New Zealand MPs share their love of thrifting

Aotearoa MPs are notorious for their love of ‘op-shopping’, and have offered advice to their US counterparts on the joy of buying second-hand

After the US election, congresswoman Cori Bush kicked off a conversation on Twitter about the high cost of acquiring a professional work wardrobe for Washington, saying she was heading to a secondhand shop to stock up.

“The reality of being a regular person going to Congress is that it’s really expensive to get the business clothes I need for the Hill. So I’m going thrift shopping tomorrow,” she wrote.

Bush’s background as a single mother working as a nurse and a pastor means she is building her professional wardrobe from scratch, and the cost of that can be eye-watering.

Fellow Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez quickly offered support, as did other congresswomen, pointing out that among its other virtues, secondhand clothing was “good for the planet”.

“Thrifting, renting, and patience as you get your closet together sis,” wrote Ocasio-Cortez. “Capsule wardrobe will be your best friend.”

Wearing thrifted clothes in parliament is a practice that has long been embraced thousands of miles away in New Zealand. Watching this exchange on social media, Aotearoa MPs were quick to jump in and share their best thrifted outfits.

Of those who revealed that they had been dressing secondhand for years in the country’s halls of power, many said they had done so through necessity.

Marama Davidson, co-leader of the Green party and minister for family and sexual violence, has been called “the Queen of thrifting” by her colleagues – a title she describes as “fabulous”.

“I have always loved supporting sustainability and local businesses with what I wear. The vast majority of my wardrobe is secondhand, op-shopped or locally sourced,” she told the Guardian.

“During the campaign, I had a team of amazing women from my local neighbourhood who scoured op-shops to find me new clothes for the election trail. It completely transformed my wardrobe.”

“I’ve never been big on buying fast-fashion or anything fancy and expensive, it just isn’t me. I get joy from the op-shopping experience – particularly being able to support local sustainability.”

“Op-shopping”, as it is called in New Zealand, is a popular pastime with secondhand shops in most suburbs and towns, and attached to garbage dumps. Most shops are tied to a charitable organisation.

For National party MP Louise Upston, op-shopping was a necessity as a solo mother living on the benefit. Now, she enjoys it for other reasons, and usually gives a donation on top of her purchases when she shops in a charity store.

“Earlier, my motivation was purely budget. Now, I’m more interested in consuming less and making sure clothes are re-used rather than new ones being created all the time,” says Upston.

As a longtime op-shopper, Upston says the hobby helps her get uniqueclothes – but stigma can remain, even as secondhand cringe has morphed into vintage cool.

“I had a colleague the other day say, ‘Oh I love your jacket, it’s amazing!’. And I said ‘Oh, thanks, I bought it from an op shop’. He kind of looked at me quite shocked. [There can be stigma], which I think is completely unnecessary.”

The trend goes all the way to the top. Though the prime minister chose not to respond to questions, Jacinda Ardern is well-known for re-wearing her outfits. She has fewer than a dozen or so pieces on high rotation.

Since Jan Logie, a Green party MP, was a teenager, op-shops have felt like, “large dress-up boxes, providing me with the possibility of many lives to be lived,” she said.

“Now my relationship with op-shops tends to the more prosaic; a cheap and environmentally legitimate means of indulging my consumerist and creative urges.”

“In a workplace that feels as if it is the natural home of shoulder pads, wearing an op-shop treasure gives me a thrill of subtle subversion and calls me back to myself.”

National party MP Maureen Pugh first became reliant on op-shops when she was living on an isolated farm on the South Island’s west coast. Her friend, who ran an op-shop in Greymouth, made regular trips out to the Pugh family, her arms laden with affordable treasures.

“She’d bring out old woollen jerseys for me to unpick and knit into new jerseys for my kids,” Pugh says.

“The cost is attractive, but it is also the ultimate in recycling for me.” 

For many women in the Beehive, op-shopping allows them to stay connected to their roots – and to introduce an element of realness and diversity into the building’s hallowed halls.

For Green party MP Golriz Ghahraman, op-shopping “is a longtime sport” that makes fashion “affordable, accessible, and unique.”

“Coming into parliament, I never wanted to wear suits and take on the traditional optics of power – people should never feel like their representatives look out of reach,” Ghahraman says.

“As a woman, it also means something not to conform to in what are ordinarily very male-dominated standards of formal wear. So I regularly wear the op-shop finds that make me happiest on speaking engagements, out in the community, and in the House – it means I get to feel like ‘me’ while being an MP.”





No.26 article:
Onion-style Arabic satirical news website launches English edition

Al-Hudood (the Limits) has attracted ire of authorities in Middle East since 2013 

A groundbreaking Arabic satirical news site that skewers the Middle East’s politicians and pieties – dodging the ire of hostile governments and their online supporters – has launched an English language edition.

Al-Hudood (the Limits), with deadpan headlines reminiscent of the US publication the Onion, has rankled authorities in the Arab world since launching in 2013. It gives new audiences a taste of groundbreaking humour that ranges from dry (“Students at local school memorise lesson in independent thinking”) to dark (“Intelligence service corrects beliefs of man who thought he only feared God”) to pitch-black (“Syrian dies of natural causes”).

“People have gone numb to all the horrors that are around us, and we are trying to get them to look at things from a new angle,” said Isam Uraiqat, the website’s London-based editor-in-chief.

His team of about 15 people, working in cities across the Arab world, hold an editorial meeting every weekday to discuss new stories. They decide the message of the article before the jokes, he says. “Once that angle is there, we ask, how can we make this funny? What’s the irony?”

Their job is getting harder – and not just because of increased attention from security services. “We used to be able to get away with exaggeration,” Uraiqat says. In the era of Trump, as well as shirtless Egyptian military parades and the UAE awarding gender equality prizes only to men, it is difficult to stay ahead of reality.

Writing outlandish columns for a made-up rightwing Israeli commentator proved especially difficult, Uraiqat says. “There was nothing we could say or phrase in a way that hadn’t already been said,” he recalls.

Satire is a rich tradition in the Middle East, although Uraiqat says comedy about the news tends either to push a state line or spoon-feed its audience. “In terms of the deadpan news satire that was popularised by the Onion, that style didn’t really exist,” he says.

At first, the website was popular among leftists and liberals. But when the articles started satirising them, too, Uraiqat said its audience widened to include anyone “who isn’t set in their ways and completely closed to what they believe”.

It is primarily funded by an EU endowment and private foundations but is experimenting with different models for self-sufficiency. Digital advertising has been hard to come by – brands have balked at funding initiatives such as its annual award night for the Arab world’s worst journalism, with prizes including for “most blatant bias”, “most obvious lie” and “most sycophantic writer”.

The logistics of writing satirical news in a region where local reporting is state-controlled, censored or otherwise curtailed can be complex. There are no bylines, diffusing responsibility for any particular piece, Uraiqat said. And the sheer novelty of the product – sly, roundabout criticism delivered as po-faced fact – also confused authorities for the first few years.

At some point, intelligence services caught on; after several incidents he prefers not to discuss, Uraiqat has stopped commuting to the region and bases himself exclusively in the UK.

Religious hardliners are not the source of the most serious threats – that would be regime loyalists – but the team are careful not to trample on the content of people’s beliefs. “It’s divisive,” he said.

Religious practices, on the other hand – such as the propensity of some worshippers to stop their cars in front of other people’s garages to pray – are fair game.

As with the Onion, al-Hudood articles are occasionally shared as real news. A piece about the Jordanian government banning dried yoghurt balls, as part of a wider drive against illicit white powders, was widely republished. “It was copied by almost every newspaper,” Uraiqat said. “It went absolutely insane.”

Another piece claiming Jordanian police had arrested Santa Claus sparked such a response that it prompted an official denial from the country’s security services.

“There’s a certain amount of stupidity you can’t protect people from,” Uraiqat said. “If it’s satirical enough and the media organisations are still buying it, the region needs to take a look at itself.”





No.27 article:
Reform rhetoric at odds with reality as Saudi Arabia hosts G20 summit

Human rights abuses, the Jamal Khashoggi murder and fuelling a destructive war in Yemen have left the kingdom a pariah

Ten months ago Saudi Arabia’s royal family anticipated hosting this weekend’s G20 summit in the belief that the gathering of world leaders in Riyadh would be a showcase for the evolution of the kingdom. By extension it would be a chance to rehabilitate the image of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman after the murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi by a hit squad of Saudi state thugs.

Those hopes risk being unfulfilled.

The coronavirus pandemic has required the summit to be held online. The conference centre in Riyadh will lie empty. The capital itself, greened for the occasion, can expect no visitor rush. Photo-ops of leaders shaking hands on red carpets will be replaced by the now familiar divided video screen. The meat and drink of summits – the personal bilateral and artificial late-night “drama” over communique wording in leaders’ hotel rooms – will all be replaced by soulless, virtual discussions.

The communique itself is likely to be unambitious about the scale and length of Covid-related debt relief for poor countries. The sense that the summit marks Donald Trump’s swansong hardly injects it with impetus either.

But it comes at a critical time for Saudi Arabia itself. Trump was a great if wayward ally of the ruling House of Saud, choosing Riyadh as the destination for his first foreign trip in 2017. Joe Biden, by contrast, has promised a review of US-Saudi relations and said he will make Saudi Arabia “the pariah state that they are”.

David Rundell, a former US diplomat with 20 years’ experience in Riyadh, even claimed this week that Saudi Arabia’s definition of success at the summit will be maintaining its connection to the rest of the world, which Joe Biden’s election has put into question. “Saudi Arabia has to make its case,” he said.

It is busy doing so, pointing to the painstaking efforts it has put into hosting the G20. Abdulaziz Sager, in charge of the summit, said there had been 127 online pre-meetings involving academics, city mayors, businessmen and ministers. By one estimate, 17,000 people have been involved in engagement groups.

Hanaa Almoaibed from the King Faisal Research Centre admitted “it had been a huge disappointment that the event had to be taken online”, but said the year had sparked unprecedented civic engagement. 

The country’s most senior diplomat, its US ambassador Reema Bandar Al Saud, used a keynote speech this week to send a message to the incoming Biden administration. She said her country was America’s greatest ally in the fight against extremism and terrorism and claimed that some Saudi critics, by contrast, “just want to burn it all down”. Reprising buzzword claims about the country’s Vision 2030 project, she said her country was an inclusive society committed to gender equity.

“Some critics cling to outdated, outmoded and completely obsolete views of the Kingdom,” al-Saud said. “We recognise we need to do a better job at correcting an inaccurate and distorted view of the kingdom. When we are challenged on human rights we need to better explain that progress does not happen overnight, change is incremental, progress is not a straight line, but a curve, and the bend of the curve is towards equity.” 

She may be right, but even a hint by her brother Khalid – the UK ambassador – that a case could be made for clemency for some of the country’s imprisoned women ahead of the G20 was disowned.

As for the war in Yemen, seen by many democrats as a pointless and immoral venture, she blamed the Houthis for walking away from the table, and pointed out that more than 300 ballistic missiles had been fired into Saudi Arabia. And on Saudi Arabia’s great rival, Iran, she said there was a reason why Saudi Arabia was chairing the G20, and Iran was isolated. Saudi graduates, she said, were flocking to return to Riyadh. In Tehran there was nothing but a brain drain.

But for all their advocacy, Saudi diplomats have found themselves challenged on how all this espousal of diversity and empowerment squares with the reality. There is a particular focus on the imprisonment of the women’s rights campaigner Loujain Al-Hathloul.

Hathloul, who campaigned for the right to drive, could have been a symbol of a new, emancipated Saudi Arabia, but is instead on the 23rd day of a hunger strike. She has been detained without charge since May 2018 for campaigning for women’s rights.

Equally, the house arrest since March of the former crown prince Mohammed bin Nayef has lost the ruling family more prestigious friends. His treatment at the hands of his successor and cousin Mohammed bin Salman is now the subject of an inquiry by an independent panel in the UK led by the Conservative MP Crispin Blunt. His treatment reveals how bin Salman, once feted by the west, seems in the minds of western politicians unable to rule through consensus.

Lina Al-Hathoul, sister of Loujain, understands the summit’s potential value for her sister’s jailers. “Hosting major events such as the G20 not only affords the kingdom the image of a powerful, modern country and global economic power, but also draws international attention away from the reality of rights abuses that occur mere miles away.” She urged Saudi leaders to be smarter and “not embarrass themselves” by failing to turn a new page ahead of Biden’s arrival.

She has been supported in the UK by Helena Kennedy, the author of a new report on the treatment of female detainees in Saudi Arabia. “No decent nation should be attending this G20 charade without making demands that these women will be released,” Lady Kennedy said. “These women have been detained in abysmal conditions because they are an affront to the power structures in Saudi Arabia.”

The shadow foreign secretary, Lisa Nandy, said she could see “the principled and deeply held arguments” for a complete boycott of the summit, but added: “I tend to feel it is better to be in the room having the argument and making the point than outside failing to do so.”

But she said it was not clear the UK government was building the alliances to confront Saudi Arabia. “The UK cannot afford to be silent on human rights abuses; it undermines our standing in the world when we are morally inconsistent who we are prepared to call out.”

Similar pressure is being placed on German and French leaders, and the danger for the Saudis is that the focus of the summit stays on its hosts, and not the issues due to be discussed.





No.28 article:




No.29 article:
Giant rubber ducks become symbol of Thai pro-democracy rallies

Inflatables taken on marches to mock authorities protect protesters from police violence

On the frontline of Thailand’s pro-democracy protests a new and unlikely mascot has emerged: a giant, inflatable duck.

When demonstrators tried to get past concrete barricades and gather outside parliament on Tuesday, they faced a police response that rights groups have described as unnecessary and excessive. The protesters, who are calling for democratic reforms including curbs on the power of the monarchy, were repeatedly fired at with teargas and water cannon. Some of the water blasts contained chemical irritants.

Amid the chaos, a collection of giant ducks, initially brought to the protest as a joke, were promptly repurposed as shields. They have since been celebrated as heroes of the movement.

Images of the standoff were shared widely on social media. So too were photos taken later of battered looking ducks, saggy and coated in purple dye fired from the water cannon.

At a further rally on Wednesday, protesters held signs praising the ducks’ bravery, and demonstrators carried a flock of them above their heads as they marched on the Thai police headquarters. “Stop harassing the people and inflatable ducks,” read one sign. Protest artwork has emerged online, portraying the ducks as muscular fighters protecting students and as a superhero figure.

Young activists in Thailand have regularly used humour and creativity, said Tracy Beattie, a researcher at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute who specialises in Thai politics. “This time, yellow inflatable rubber ducks have become a new symbol for the pro-democracy movement, not just because they are cute but also because they highlight the sheer absurdity and disproportionality of the situation,” she said.

Human Rights Watch has expressed concern about the police response, and said it had observed the use of water cannon jets laced with purple dye and an apparent teargas chemical, teargas grenades and pepper spray grenades on Tuesday.

At least 55 people were injured, most from inhaling teargas, according to Bangkok’s emergency medical service. Clashes also broke out between the pro-democracy activists and royalists. Six pro-democracy demonstrators were treated for gunshot wounds.

The police denied using live ammunition or rubber bullets, and say they were investigating. Water cannon were used on Tuesday because protesters were attempting to break into a restricted area near parliament, a spokesperson said.

The ducks were initially brought to Tuesday’s rally to mock the authorities, who had blocked access to the parliament building. Protesters joked that the only way to reach parliament, where possible changes to the constitution were under discussion, would be to send rubber ducks along the river. They wanted MPs and senators to approve a proposal that would undo changes that were made to the charter under military rule, but this was rejected.

Joshua Wong, a prominent Hong Kong activist who has supported the Thai pro-democracy movement, praised the protesters’ inventiveness. “Creativity wins,” he said on Twitter. “Long live rubber ducks.”





No.30 article:
China says Five Eyes alliance will be &#x27;poked and blinded&#x27; over Hong Kong stance

Foreign ministry rejects calls by western security grouping to reinstate ousted pro-democracy lawmakers

China has rejected criticism by the Five Eyes alliance of its Hong Kong policy, saying it “should face up to the reality” that the former British colony has been returned to China. 

Foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian was responding to a statement on Hong Kong issued by the US, UK, Australia, Canada and New Zealand, which together make up an intelligence partnership known as the Five Eyes. 

“No matter if they have five eyes or 10 eyes, if they dare to harm China’s sovereignty, security and development interests, they should beware of their eyes being poked and blinded,” Zhao said at a daily briefing. 

The foreign ministers of the five nations said a new Chinese government resolution that led to the disqualification of four pro-democracy lawmakers in Hong Kong appears to be “part of a concerted campaign to silence all critical voices”. 

The joint statement called the resolution a breach of China’s international obligations and its commitment to grant Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy and freedom of speech. 

Hong Kong, a city of 7.5 million people, was promised autonomy over local affairs for 50 years after its return to China in 1997. 

Zhao said Hong Kong was an inalienable part of China and that public officials must “be loyal to the motherland. This is a basic political ethic in every country in the world, right?” 

The four disqualified lawmakers were earlier barred from running for re-election because of their calls for foreign governments to impose sanctions on China and Hong Kong. They had remained in office because elections were postponed for one year. 

Three other former pro-democracy lawmakers appeared in court in Hong Kong on Thursday, one day after they were arrested for disrupting the legislature during debate on a national anthem bill earlier this year. 

The three were joined by supporters holding up signs with slogans outside the West Kowloon magistrates court. 

Eddie Chu, one of the three, said he was facing “prosecution from the dictatorship” because of their actions to try to block passage of the national anthem ordinance. The law criminalises insult and abuse of the anthem, the March of the Volunteers.





No.31 article:
Isolated from the rest of the planet since February, group learned about virus sweeping the globe but have escaped its impact – until now

In February, just as the coronavirus pandemic began to take hold, four people set sail for one of the most remote places on Earth — a small camp on Kure Atoll, at the edge of the uninhabited Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.

There, more than 2,200km from Honolulu, they lived in isolation for nearly nine months while working to restore the island’s environment.

Cut off from the rest of the planet, their world was limited to a tiny patch of sand halfway between the US mainland and Asia. With no television or internet access, their only information came from satellite text messages and occasional emails.

They learned about the pandemic amid their own isolation, but have not experienced any of the seismic upheaval the Covid-19 virus has wrought around the world.

Now they are back, re-emerging into changed societies that might feel as foreign today as island isolation did in March.

They must adjust to wearing face masks, staying indoors and seeing friends without giving hugs or handshakes.

“I’ve never seen anything like this, but I started reading the book The Stand by Stephen King, which is about a disease outbreak, and I was thinking, ‘Oh my goodness, is this what it’s going to be like to go home?’” said Charlie Thomas, one of the four island workers. “All these … precautions, these things, people sick everywhere. It was very strange to think about.”

The group was part of an effort by the state of Hawaii to maintain the fragile island ecosystem on Kure, which is part of the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument, the nation’s largest contiguous protected environment. The public is not allowed to land anywhere in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.

Kure is the only island in the northern part of the archipelago that is managed by the state, with the rest under the jurisdiction of the federal government. A former Coast Guard station, the atoll is home to seabirds, endangered Hawaiian monk seals and coral reefs that are teeming with sea turtles, tiger sharks and other marine life.

Two field teams go there each year, one for summer and another for winter. Their primary job is removing invasive plants and replacing them with native species and cleaning up debris such as fishing nets and plastic that washes ashore.

Thomas, the youngest member of the team at 18, grew up in a beach town in New Zealand and spent much of her free time with seabirds and other wildlife. She finished school a year early to start her first job as a deckhand for an organisation dedicated to cleaning up coastlines before volunteering for the summer season on Kure Atoll.

The expedition was her first time being away from home for so long, but she was ready to disconnect.

“I was sick of social media, I was sick of everything that was sort of going on,” she said. “And I thought, you know, I am so excited to get rid of my phone, to lose contact with everything ... I don’t need to see all the horrible things that are going on right now.”

When Thomas left New Zealand for Hawaii, there were no virus cases nearby that she can recall. By the time she left Honolulu for Kure, the virus was starting to “creep a little closer” to the islands.

“We were just seeing stories on the television and that sort of thing,” she said. “But, you know, we’re off. We’re leaving. It wasn’t really a big concern for us.”

Once on Kure, getting a full picture of what was happening in the world was difficult.

“I guess I didn’t really know what to think because we were getting so many different answers to questions that we were asking,” she said.

Thomas is now in a hotel in quarantine in Auckland, where she lives with her parents, sister and a dog named Benny. She will miss hugs and “squishing five people on a bench to have dinner,” she said.

American Matthew Butschek, who was also on Kure, said it would take time to adjust to the changed world they’d returned to.

In quarantine, he looked out the window of his cabin in Honolulu and saw school-aged children playing on rocks and climbing trees — all wearing face masks. It reminded him of apocalyptic movies.

“It’s not normal for me. But everyone is like, yeah, this is what we do now. This is how we live,” he said.

Aided by geographic isolation and swiftly and resolutely closed borders, the Pacific has remained the least-infected region on earth. But the enforced isolation has devastated Pacific economies.

But there are significant fears if the virus were to gain a foothold in the region, it could devastate island communities, which have limited public health infrastructure – Vanuatu began the pandemic with only two ventilators in the entire country - and populations with high rates of comorbidities, such as diabetes and heart disease.

Most of the remaining Covid-free nations on earth are in the Pacific, but these are beginning to dwindle, as repatriation flights bring home stranded citizens. In the last month, Vanuatu, Solomon Islands, Marshall Islands, and Samoa have recorded their first confirmed infections.

Other Pacific islands, such as Guam and French Polynesia, have had large numbers of cases seeded by military and police deployments from colonial powers the US and France.

The small and remote island nations and territories of Kiribati, Micronesia, Nauru, Palau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau, Norfolk island and Pitcairn island are believed to be still free of the virus.

with Associated Press





No.32 article:
Execution of Lisa Montgomery temporarily stayed after her attorneys contracted Covid-19 while visiting her in prison

A federal judge has agreed to briefly stay the execution of Lisa Montgomery, the first female death row inmate in almost six decades, after her attorneys contracted the coronavirus visiting her in prison, which put her clemency plea in jeopardy.

The Thursday order prohibits the federal Bureau of Prisons from carrying out Montgomery’s execution before the end of the year. She was scheduled to be put to death on 8 December at the federal prison complex in Terre Haute, Indiana.

Montgomery’s attorneys had sought to delay the execution in order to file a clemency petition on her behalf. The lawyers, Kelley Henry and Amy Harwell, who are based in Nashville, Tennessee, tested positive for Covid-19 after they flew to visit her at a Texas prison last month. In court papers, they said each roundtrip visit from Nashville involved two flights, hotel stays and interaction with airline and hotel staff, as well as prison employees.

Montgomery’s legal team has argued that their client suffers from serious mental illnesses and can’t assist in filing her own clemency petition, in part because all of her clothes have been taken away, and she has been left only with a “sheet of paper and a single crayon” in her cell, the attorney Sandra Babcock said in court this week.

Both Henry and Harwell have serious symptoms from the virus and are “functionally incapacitated” and thus unable to help file a clemency petition, Babcock said. Another attorney couldn’t be assigned to file one because Montgomery’s mental status has deteriorated since the justice department scheduled her execution last month, and she doesn’t trust many lawyers, but Henry and Harwell have worked with her for years and have gained her trust, Babcock argued.

In his ruling, Moss said that if the execution moves forward as scheduled, Montgomery would “lose her statutory right to meaningful representation by counsel in the clemency process”. He said the lawyers should file a clemency petition by 24 December or bring on other lawyers to assist.

Babcock hailed the ruling as “a meaningful opportunity to prepare and present a clemency application after her attorneys recover from Covid”.

“Mrs Montgomery’s case presents compelling grounds for clemency, including her history as a victim of gang-rape, incest and child sex trafficking, as well as her severe mental illness. She will now have the opportunity to present this evidence to the president with a request that he commute her sentence to life imprisonment,” she said.

Montgomery was convicted of killing 23-year-old Bobbie Jo Stinnett in the north-west Missouri town of Skidmore in December 2004, using a rope to strangle Stinnett, who was eight months pregnant, and then using a kitchen knife to cut the baby girl from the womb, authorities said.

Prosecutors said Montgomery removed the baby from Stinnett’s body, took the child with her and attempted to pass the girl off as her own.





No.33 article:
They can celebrate diversity and gender equality, but Labour must deal with more traditional leftwing concerns like inequality and housing

A very liberal revolution has been occurring in New Zealand politics. Our parliament and Labour-led government are more socially liberal and diverse than ever before, and that’s something for progressives to celebrate.

Jacinda Ardern, the prime minister, embodies this, and is lauded as a breath of fresh air in a political world traditionally dominated by “stale, male, and pale” social conservatives. She has just reshuffled the cabinet of her re-elected government, bringing more women, Māori and Pasifika into senior positions. It is the most diverse cabinet in history. The appointment of moko kauae-wearing Nanaia Mahuta as the minister of foreign affairs epitomises this modernisation. Similarly, we have our first openly gay deputy prime minister.

Increased diversity and liberalism is evident throughout New Zealand’s parliament. A third of the parliament are new MPs, many from traditionally under-represented backgrounds. Our House of Representatives has become more female, younger, browner, and more openly gay.

New Zealand is now the closest in the OECD to achieving gender equality, with 48% of MPs women. Māori make up 21% of MPs, compared to 12% of the adult population. Pasifika make up 10% of MPs compared to 6% of adult population. 11% of MPs identify as belonging to the LGBTQI community, compared to an estimated 3.5% of the population. And the parliament has become much younger.

However, at the same time as our politicians are becoming more diverse – especially those from the Labour and Green parties – this doesn’t extend to socio-economics or social class. MPs’ occupational backgrounds are more middle-class than ever.

The most common profession represented in the new parliament and government are lawyers. And most other MPs have backgrounds in professional careers. The days of working-class representation are over, and even unionists are few and far between. We have a parliament of the upper middle-class, with less organic connection to the needs of everyday people.

There aren’t even big differences between the parties anymore. The socio-economic backgrounds of Labour and National politicians are increasingly similar. And, of course, once they’re in power they are all extremely well remunerated, becoming part of the top 1-2% of income earners.

So it’s not surprising that class politics, or any type of socialist policies, are missing from political debate in this country. Instead, the focus of these middle-class progressives in power is on social concerns, while other big problems for the working class and poor – especially poverty, inequality, housing unaffordability, and the creaking welfare state – remain unaddressed. Because the modern left in power focuses less on these issues, both their promises and record aren’t too dissimilar from the rightwing National party.

There’s a precedent for what we are seeing at the moment. Back in the 1980s the Labour party started its metamorphosis into the middle-class vehicle focused on social issues we see today. Back then, the result was the infamous fourth Labour government.

That was an administration that was seen to betray its traditional supporters by introducing economic reforms inspired by Thatcherism and other free-market capitalist philosophies. This caused skyrocketing inequality and a rebalancing of power to business interests that has never been rolled back.

At that time, the political left felt it was too difficult to challenge or oppose the pro-business economic reforms being introduced by their own Labour party. Instead, it was easier to focus on agendas for biculturalism, anti-racism, feminism, peace and anti-nuclear fights. As a cartoon at the time portrayed, although the left had accepted the mass unemployment arising from government decisions, at least the country could celebrate “nuclear-free unemployment”.

Three decades later, it seems the left is destined to go down the same path – willing to accept social progress and symbolism in lieu of delivering on the material interests of those at the bottom of the heap. But to be a genuine leftwing force, the current Labour-led government needs to take on social issues without this being at the expense of economic progress such as redistributive programmes, mass state housing, pro-worker industrial laws, adequate welfare support, and properly-funded education and health systems.

The left has to learn to do both. It can focus on diversity and socially liberal reforms, while at the same time demanding economic progress. Progressives must not be bought off or distracted by the more elite changes in the makeup of the political class. Yes, having a deputy prime minister who is openly gay is something to celebrate, but the left shouldn’t forget his current economic stewardship is something Margaret Thatcher would have been relatively comfortable with.

Forcing this government to deliver for the poor and working class might require protests and mobilisation. Without such pressure, the new professional class of politicians are likely to just rest on the laurels of diversity and social liberalism.

Dr Bryce Edwards is the political analyst in residence at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand, where he is the director of the Democracy Project 





No.34 article:
California enacts coronavirus curfew for majority of state&#x27;s 40m residents

Governor Gavin Newsom announced the stay-at-home order for all non-essential work and gatherings from 10pm to 5 am

California is imposing a curfew affecting nearly all of its 40 million residents beginning this weekend, as the state tries to control a surge in coronavirus cases.

The state’s governor, Gavin Newsom, announced what officials are describing as a limited stay-at-home order on Thursday, saying that all nonessential work and gathering must stop from 10pm to 5am. The order will apply to the 41 counties currently in the most restrictive tier of reopening rules, which accounts for 94% of the state’s 40 million residents.

“The virus is spreading at a pace we haven’t seen since the start of this pandemic and the next several days and weeks will be critical to stop the surge. We are sounding the alarm,” Newsom said in a statement.

The order will last until 21 December, but could be extended if infection rates and disease trends don’t improve.

While the order stipulates nonessential businesses must close by 10pm, restaurants will be permitted to offer takeout food and people can perform some routine activities such as walking dogs, officials said. They will still be able to get medical care, pick up prescriptions and take care of other essential needs.

Officials said overnight movements are more likely to involve social activities that bring increased risk of infection, particularly if people drink and let down their guard on basic safety precautions like wearing masks and staying a safe distance apart.

It follows the state’s more sweeping lockdown in the spring, which ordered all residents to stay at home day and night barring essential work and services.

“We know from our stay-at-home order this spring, which flattened the curve in California, that reducing the movement and mixing of individuals dramatically decreases Covid-19 spread, hospitalizations and deaths,” Dr Mark Ghaly, the California health and human services secretary, said in a statement. “We may need to take more stringent actions if we are unable to flatten the curve quickly. Taking these hard, temporary actions now could help prevent future shutdowns.”

The move comes only days after the state imposed fresh restrictions that limited business operations in those same 41 counties, which have the most significant increases in virus cases. Newsom said at the time he was pulling “the emergency brake” on reopening to relieve pressure on the state’s healthcare system.

California recently became the second state, behind Texas, to surpass 1m total cases, while the first week of November saw the state’s fastest rate of increase in cases since the beginning of the crisis. More than 18,500 Californians have died so far.

The situation is especially acute in the Los Angeles area. The county of 10 million residents – the nation’s most populous – has seen daily cases more than double in the last two weeks to nearly 2,900. Hospitalizations have topped 1,100, a rise of 30% in that period.

Robert Garcia, the mayor of Long Beach, said the new order “will save lives and provide relief to our hospitals and healthcare system”, and urged other states to follow California’s lead.

The Los Angeles mayor, Eric Garcetti, on Monday urged residents to stay home as much as possible to slow the spread.

“This is a different kind of moment, a new level of danger,” Garcetti said. “If we don’t make these decisions now, there really is only one outcome: we will almost certainly have to shut things down again. And more people will get sick and die.”

The coronavirus pandemic shows no signs of abating across America, which on Wednesday passed the grim milestone of more than 250,000 deaths.

Newsom’s order also comes as the governor himself faces scandal, after it was learned he attended the birthday party of a friend and political adviser held at the French Laundry, one of California’s most upscale and expensive restaurants. Newsom had described the meal as taking place “outdoors”, but leaked photos showed him and his wife sitting maskless around a crowded table inside a room that was enclosed on three sides.

Newsom has apologised, calling the event a “bad mistake”.

Agencies contributed reporting





No.35 article:
At least 42 sites are being made ready in arenas, conference centres and other large venues

The NHS is preparing to open dozens of mass vaccination centres across England to vaccinate people against Covid-19.

There will be at least 42 centres, based in places such as conference centres, and the NHS is planning to hire tens of thousands of staff to run them, the Health Service Journal reported.

The fresh details of how people will get the vaccine come as NHS England prepares to publish its “deployment plan” for how it will store, distribute and administer the vaccine.

Sir Simon Stevens, its chief executive, and Boris Johnson are expected to promote the plan during a press conference on Friday. The prime minister is currently self-isolating after close contact with a Conservative MP who tested positive for coronavirus.

There will be at least one mass vaccination centre in each of the NHS’s 42 sustainability and partnership areas and the centres will be sited in cities and larger towns.

The Guardian reported last week that each mass vaccination centre will vaccinate between 2,000 and 5,000 people a day.

Derby city council has offered the Derby Arena to the NHS as a venue for one of the centres. “The arena is a perfect venue. It has plenty of space, parking and good transport networks to serve Derby, Derbyshire and beyond,” said councillor Chris Poulter, the council’s leader. “It’s an honour for Derby to have the opportunity to play such a critical part in any vaccination programme.”

The NHS plans to hire 6,000 staff to run the centres in the south-east and 5,000 in London, suggesting that it will have to use 30,000 to 40,000 extra personnel, potentially for many months.

However, mass vaccination centres are likely to comprise the second phase of the NHS’s massive vaccine deployment effort. Around 1,560 GP-led “designated sites” will be the first places to issue the vaccine, initially to vulnerable groups, such as those who are shielding due to serious medical conditions and the over-80s.





No.36 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Agency says no evidence the intravenous antiviral works for severe infections

Remdesivir, one of the drugs Donald Trump took when he developed Covid-19, should not be used in hospitals because there is no evidence it works, the World Health Organization has advised.

The US president was an enthusiastic proponent of the drug, to the point where he boasted in July that he had bought up the world’s entire stock for Americans. The WHO’s guidelines committee, however, has said Covid patients may be better off without it.

The WHO issued what it calls a “living guideline”, which can be updated as evidence comes in, largely as a result of a Solidarity trial it led in several countries. Solidarity allocated patients randomly to several drugs including remdesivir and found that those who took it were no more likely to survive severe Covid than those who did not.

There are other issues with remdesivir. Made by the US company Gilead, is extremely expensive and has to be given intravenously. The guideline, published in the British Medical Journal, concluded that “most patients would not prefer intravenous treatment with remdesivir given the low certainty evidence. Any beneficial effects of remdesivir, if they do exist, are likely to be small and the possibility of important harm remains.”

There were high hopes earlier in the year for the antiviral drug, one of the few medicines the US regulatory body, the Food and Drug Administration, gave emergency authorisation to for use against Covid-19. Some other countries also recommend its use.

Peter Horby, a professor of emerging infectious diseases and global health in the Nuffield Department of Medicine at the University of Oxford, who runs the Recovery trial of Covid treatments, said the way remdesivir was being used in the pandemic needed to be rethought.

Solidarity, which analysed the outcomes from more than 7,000 adults admitted to hospital with Covid-19 in four randomised controlled trials, had found no evidence of a meaningful benefit, he said.

“Given this lack of evidence of any benefit on mortality, the risk of ending up on a ventilator or the time to clinical improvement, the World Health Organization have reasonably recommended against the use of remdesivir in patients hospitalised with Covid-19, whatever their disease severity.

callout-coronavirus

“Remdesivir is an expensive drug that must be given intravenously for five to ten days, so this recommendation will save money and other healthcare resources. Remdesivir has been recommended in several Covid-19 treatment guidelines so this new analysis will necessitate a rethink about the place of remdesivir in Covid-19.”

Older and cheaper drugs have shown real benefits. The steroid dexamethasone has been shown to save one in eight lives among people seriously ill in hospital with Covid.

Trump also took dexamethasone, although he was not in the severely ill category and trials have shown it has little effect taken earlier in the disease. He also took an antibody cocktail from the company Regeneron, which is not generally available, although scientists think it holds promise.






