No.1 article:
With No Evidence of Fraud, Trump Fails to Make Headway on Legal Cases

The president appeared to have little path through the courts to shift the outcome of the election, leaving him reliant on long shots like recounts or pressure on state legislatures.

President Trump’s bellicose pledge to fight the outcome of the election in the courts crashed on Friday into skeptical judges, daunting Electoral College math and a lack of evidence for his claims of fraud.

On a day that began with vote tallies in Georgia and Pennsylvania tipping in Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s favor, Mr. Trump’s campaign declared, “This election is not over,” as the Republican National Committee announced it had activated “legal challenge teams” in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan and Pennsylvania. And the Trump forces named a new general to lead the effort, the hardened conservative political combatant David Bossie.

But none of the dozen or so lawsuits they had brought in battleground states appeared to be gaining any traction in the courts. And in any case, none seemed likely to give Mr. Trump the edge he would need in vote counts in the states that will determine the outcome.

In seeking to foment widespread doubt about the legitimacy of the election, Mr. Trump and his surrogates seemed less focused on substantive legal arguments that could hold up in court than on bolstering the president’s political narrative, unsupported by the facts, that he was somehow being robbed of a second term.

The most high-profile step of the day came when Pennsylvania Republicans asked the U.S. Supreme Court to step in and require election officials in the state to segregate ballots that arrived after Election Day and not to include them for now in the vote totals in the largest and most critical of the swing states.

On Friday evening, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. agreed to the request. 

But the move was almost entirely for show: Pennsylvania is already segregating those ballots, counting them separately and not including them in the announced vote totals. The secretary of state, over the objections of Republicans and Mr. Trump, has said they can be counted if they arrived by 5 p.m. on Friday, in line with a state court ruling that the Supreme Court has left open the possibility of reviewing again. 

A state official said the ballots in question number in the thousands but not tens of thousands. 

Their lack of progress in stopping the count or making a persuasive case for large-scale ballot fraud left Mr. Trump and his team increasingly reliant for political salvation on recounts — which appeared likely to take place in Georgia, Nevada, Arizona and Wisconsin but which rarely result in big swings in vote counts.

The Trump effort may be getting a boost from state legislatures in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, which are both controlled by Republicans. In Wisconsin, Robin Vos, the speaker of the State Assembly, directed a legislative committee to “use its investigatory powers” to conduct a review of the election, again raising the specter of voter fraud without offering specific evidence.

In Pennsylvania, the two top Republicans in the legislature called on Gov. Tom Wolf, a Democrat, to conduct “an immediate audit” of the election.

At the same time, allies of the president openly suggested an extreme move: to use baseless allegations of Democratic malfeasance to pressure Republican-controlled state legislatures in key states to send pro-Trump electors to the Electoral College regardless of the results of the popular vote.

Officials with the Biden campaign said they would meet every legal challenge Mr. Trump brought but said they were confident that none of the cases they had seen so far seemed likely to loosen Mr. Biden’s tightening grasp on the presidency.

“The Republican legal claims are utterly baseless and have failed and will continue to fail in the courts,’’ said Bob Bauer, a senior adviser to the Biden campaign. “They serve no purpose other than to echo Donald Trump’s discredited and shameful attack on the democratic process.”

In a statement, the Republican Party’s chief counsel, Justin Riemer, said, “We are focused on protecting the integrity of the vote and ensuring all legally cast ballots are counted,” but he was not made available for further comment on the particulars of the party’s legal strategy.

The intensive Trump effort was the endgame of a long-planned contingency in which the president planned to challenge any possible loss through claims that the voting system was “rigged” against him. The campaign has been abetted by a robust pro-Trump media ecosystem, with Mr. Trump’s own social media accounts at its center, amplifying his false claims.

As the legal push has failed to make substantial headway this week it has taken on an urgent, at times desperate, tone.

On Thursday, Eric Trump, one of the president’s sons, said on Twitter, “I truly hope the @FBI/@DOJ engages immediately.”

The former Republican Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, echoed the president’s son on Fox News, calling for the jailing of poll workers and more involvement from Attorney General William P. Barr.

But in the days since the election, Mr. Barr and the Justice Department have been largely silent. After initially echoing Mr. Trump’s warnings about electoral fraud, Mr. Barr muted his statements, and Mr. Trump complained to aides about the department’s lack of action.

But a supportive outside group, True the Vote — one of the most prominent promoters of the false narrative that “voter fraud” is rampant in the United States — sought to help Mr. Trump build his cases. On Friday, it announced it had formed a $1 million “Whistleblower Defense Fund” to “incentivize” witnesses to step forward with charges of malfeasance.

No state was seeing more legal activity than Pennsylvania, where the Trump campaign and local Republicans had brought at least a half-dozen lawsuits immediately before and after Election Day.

The case that had the potential to affect the most votes was the one filed at the Supreme Court on Friday seeking an order that would force election officials in Pennsylvania to separate mailed ballots that arrived after Election Day from other mailed ballots. In its emergency application, the party acknowledged that the secretary of state’s office had already ordered election officials to do so but said it had no way to know if they had complied.

Republicans have been unsuccessfully fighting the secretary of state’s decision to allow election officials in Pennsylvania to count mail-in ballots that arrived at their offices by Friday as long as they had postmarks from Election Day or before. The Supreme Court had twice passed up opportunities to rule on the dispute, though the case is still technically pending, giving the justices the opportunity to weigh in if they saw reason to do so.

But even if the court were to take the case and rule in favor of the Republicans to wipe out all of the ballots in question — votes from mail ballots have overwhelmingly gone to Mr. Biden — it would not affect the current vote totals, which do not include the ballots that came in after Election Day. By early Friday evening, Mr. Biden had a lead of about 17,000 votes in Pennsylvania.

Other suits in Pennsylvania sought to knock out votes that were the result of a decision by Secretary of State Kathy Boockvar to allow county officials to give voters a chance to fix mistakes in their rejected mail-in ballots or to cast provisional votes instead.

A federal judge dismissed one of those cases on Friday, in Montgomery County outside Philadelphia, two days after implying during a hearing that he viewed the effort as a move to disenfranchise voters who were following state instructions.

But even if that case had succeeded, it would have affected only 93 votes. Similarly, in Michigan, a judge dismissed a Republican suit challenging the vote count in the state, noting the counting was already effectively over and dismissing some of the evidence as based on hearsay.

Frustrated supporters of the president like the talk radio host Mark Levin called on Republican legislatures in states including Pennsylvania to use their constitutional authority to send a pro-Trump delegation of electors to the Electoral College regardless of the popular vote.

Asked during a news briefing on Friday if state Republicans would do so, the majority leader of the Pennsylvania senate, Jake Corman, replied, “We want to stay in the tradition that the popular vote winner wins the election.”

Even if the state Republicans could make such a move legally — the legislature “cannot simply ignore the popular vote,” said Attorney General Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania — it was an extreme example of the lengths to which some Trump supporters seem willing to go.

In several states Mr. Trump was challenging state voting rules, effectively seeking to nullify votes cast in accordance with official guidelines.

Republicans in Nevada asked the Justice Department late Thursday to open an investigation into voter fraud involving 3,000 ballots, a move Democrats said was based on “entirely fabricated” claims.

The Justice Department declined to address the matter publicly, but its guidelines generally preclude opening criminal investigations into election-related matters until results are completed.

Local Republicans included the allegation in a suit they filed in federal court seeking a change in the way Clark County, Nev., is conducting its count. A judge dismissed the case on Friday evening, when the vote count showed a 22,000-ballot lead for Mr. Biden.





No.2 article:
A Motorcycle Rally in a Pandemic? ‘We Kind of Knew What Was Going to Happen’

Infectious-disease experts warned about the risk of cramming revelers into the Black Hills of South Dakota. But it was the annual Sturgis rally, and bikers were coming no matter what.

STURGIS, S.D. — Albert Aguirre was amped as he and a buddy skimmed across the South Dakota plains, heading to join 460,000 bikers for a motorcycle rally shaping up to be a Woodstock of unmasked, uninhibited coronavirus defiance.

“Sit tight Sturgis,” Mr. Aguirre, 40, posted on Facebook on Aug. 7 as he snapped a photo of the sun sifting through the clouds. “We’re almost there!”

A month later, back home in the college town of Vermillion, S.D., Mr. Aguirre was so sick he could barely take a shower. He had not been tested but told friends that it had to be Covid-19.

Infectious-disease experts had warned about the dangers of cramming thousands of revelers into the Black Hills of South Dakota at the height of a pandemic. But it was the 80th anniversary of the annual Sturgis rally, and bikers were coming no matter what.

South Dakota’s Republican governor, a vocal opponent of lockdowns, gave her blessing, local leaders set aside their misgivings, and thousands of people from every state in the nation rolled down Sturgis’s Main Street.

In the aftermath, hundreds of people have gotten sick and Sturgis has become a rumbling symbol of America’s bitter divisions over the coronavirus, even now, as cases continue to surge, surpassing more than 121,000 daily infections on Thursday, and the nation’s death toll crosses 235,000.

Some called the rally a declaration of freedom and went home with T-shirts declaring, “Screw Covid I Went to Sturgis.” But others in deeply conservative South Dakota now say it recklessly helped seed a new wave of cases raging out of control in the state.

Family members who stayed away are angry at relatives who attended and brought the virus home. Sturgis council members who approved the rally have been bombarded with death threats. And health experts and politicians are still fighting over how many cases Sturgis may have caused across the country.

After the crowds streamed home like some huge exhalation, coronavirus cases tied to the rally began popping up as far away as New Hampshire. Infection numbers climbed in the Dakotas and in the neighboring states of Wyoming and Nebraska, where thousands of residents had returned from Sturgis.

In all, cases spread to more than 20 states and at least 300 people — including revelers’ families and co-workers who never set foot in South Dakota, according to state health officials. Twin sisters who had worked at a bike-washing stand in Sturgis tested positive. So did a local paramedic. And a motorcycle mechanic’s family in Rapid City.

Health officials said a lack of contact tracing and the sheer scale of the event have made it impossible to know how many people were infected directly or indirectly because of Sturgis.

“We don’t know if we’ll ever know the full extent,” said Dr. Benjamin C. Aaker, president of the South Dakota State Medical Association. “These people go home and get sick with coronavirus. They don’t have any way of knowing whether they picked it up at the rally or back in California.”

Mr. Aguirre’s friends said they would likely never know whether he got sick at Sturgis, at a bar or restaurant in his hometown as college students returned, or somewhere else altogether.

But friends said that by early September, Mr. Aguirre — a big guy and fiercely loyal friend who loved cooking and the Wu-Tang Clan — had been sick for more than a week and was struggling to breathe and eat. He called a local clinic but worried he could not afford to go to a hospital because he did not have insurance, according to friends and the chief of the Vermillion Police Department.

“Hanging in there?” a friend, Dan Herrera, texted Mr. Aguirre on Sept. 5.

“About to get in the shower and see how much energy that uses,” Mr. Aguirre replied.

“Good luck.”

Three days later, Mr. Herrera texted Mr. Aguirre to check in.

This time, there was no answer.

Like every year, banners strung across Main Street proclaimed, “Welcome Harley Riders.” Downtown was blocked off for motorcycle parking. And despite rising case counts and growing criticism, Gov. Kristi Noem told Fox News in August that the state was handling the virus and glad to host the rally. “We hope people come,” she said.

But behind the scenes, many in the 7,000-person city of Sturgis were on edge.

Three City Council members wanted to call it off, but they changed their votes at the last minute after several large concert venues, including the Buffalo Chip campground and Rushmore Photo and Gifts, sent letters threatening legal action against the city. Sixty percent of residents who answered a city-sponsored survey wanted to postpone the rally, but city officials said they were boxed in.

“I said back in March, do you want me to build a wall around Sturgis or a wall around South Dakota, because that is the only way we could have stopped them,” Mayor Mark Carstensen of Sturgis said.

The backlash came quickly. After the rally concluded, city officials were flooded with death threats day and night by phone, email and mail.

In response, the city scrubbed its website of all personal contact information and replaced it with a generic phone line. The death threats ramped up another notch after a study suggested the event resulted in an estimated 250,000 coronavirus infections across the country.

Mike Bachand, a City Council member, was among those who received death threats for his vote to host the event. The messages continue to come in, he said.

Rod Woodruff, owner of the Buffalo Chip, which is outside the city limits of Sturgis and is used as a campground by motorcyclists during the rally, said he could not rationally see how the event could end up being a superspreader event and was skeptical of some of the cases being linked back to the event. Mr. Woodruff said he did not know of anyone who contracted the virus at the campgrounds.

Democrats and some conservatives in South Dakota say the rally turned their state into a petri dish. They say Sturgis and other mass gatherings like President Trump’s Fourth of July rally, the state fair and an early-September Mustang car rally in Sturgis helped send the state’s infection rate soaring to one of the highest in the nation. The state is averaging about 1,100 cases a day, compared with fewer than 100 in much of August and September.

But other conservatives accuse the news media and Democrats of inflating case counts and exaggerating the rally’s toll to smear its bikers. They said the number of infections was negligible compared with the thousands who attended, and pointed out that many rallygoers spent the week outdoors, camping and zooming through Spearfish Canyon and the Badlands.

Back home, quietly, people were getting sick. And health departments in different states were struggling to trace where they had gotten sick or who else they might have infected on long road trips that spanned hundreds of miles.

In Rapid City, Holly Sortland had feared the virus would find her family, especially her 15-year-old son who has a heart defect. Her husband was a motorcycle mechanic in Sturgis, and though he wore a mask and tried to stay away from the rally crowds, a co-worker had been going maskless to the bars. Five people at his bike shop tested positive.

“We kind of knew what was going to happen,” Ms. Sortland said. “I’ve never seen him so sick.”

By mid-August, Ms. Sortland said, her husband was running a 101-degree fever and shed about 10 pounds. When she got flowers for her birthday, she realized that she could not smell them — a symptom that she, too, had Covid-19. A positive coronavirus test confirmed it.

A contact tracer with the South Dakota Department of Health called the family to ask where her husband worked, but he worried about getting into trouble with his boss given the stigma that swirls around the virus, Ms. Sortland said. When she talked with the tracer, she said, she was not asked about her family contacts or where she had shopped.

To date, the Health Department has reported 125 coronavirus cases among state residents who attended the rally. Derrick Haskins, a department spokesman, said the agency only conducts contact tracing on South Dakota residents.

The Minnesota Department of Health in September connected 74 cases to the rally — 51 people who attended and 23 others who came into contact with them later. A man in his 60s who attended the rally contracted the virus and died. He is the only rallygoer whose death has been attributed to the coronavirus.

“It is very challenging to trace the infections that attendees may have spread after they returned from Sturgis,” said Kris Ehresmann, director of infectious disease epidemiology at the Minnesota Department of Health. “We were able to link several infections at a Minnesota wedding to someone who had gone to Sturgis but we were not able to definitively state there was a direct link. The web just becomes too complicated.”

In North Dakota, the Health Department traced 30 cases back to the event, said Nicole Peske, a spokeswoman for the agency. That number, she added, does not include any secondary coronavirus cases that may have resulted if someone contracted the virus from someone who was at the rally.

Ms. Peske said the agency was still investigating the cases linked to the event.

The illnesses cut rifts among friends and families. In the rural panhandle of western Nebraska, Heather Edwards watched with frustration after a cousin who had worked at the rally tested positive and then shrugged off the seriousness because she had a mild case. A woman in Sioux Falls, S.D., seethed after her sister returned home from Sturgis, went to a wedding with a pasta buffet and tested positive the next day.

Heidi Morgan, a conservative Republican who lives in the Black Hills, said some friends from Nebraska who attended Sturgis got sick after returning home. They refused to get tested out of a belief that the rally’s opponents wanted to use higher infection numbers as a political weapon.

“There’s that feeling of, ‘We’re not going to add to the numbers,’” said Ms. Morgan, who said her family had taken the pandemic seriously, guided by their Baptist faith in putting others’ welfare first. “I’m trying to convince them that’s not true.”

Mr. Aguirre was found dead at home on Sept. 10. The officers who moved his body wore gowns and protective gear because of the coronavirus risk, according to Chief Matt Betzen of the Vermillion Police Department. A posthumous test for the virus came back positive, according to the county coroner.

South Dakota’s Health Department has not connected any deaths to the rally, and Mr. Aguirre’s friends said they have been struggling to get answers or information about how and where he got sick, and wondering whether they could have helped.

“I don’t understand why he went to Sturgis and didn’t take Covid seriously,” said Jon Esmay, a friend who had not spoken with Mr. Aguirre in a few months. “Mostly I’m just angry that someone who talked to or saw him more often didn’t get him to the ER. I’m angry that I didn’t talk to him more often.”

Dustin Van Balen, who considered Mr. Aguirre to be like an adopted brother, said he had been trying to piece together a timeline using Mr. Aguirre’s phone. But he said they might never have answers.

“Not knowing is the hardest part,” he said.





No.3 article:
Leading in Pennsylvania,  Biden Tells Nation, ‘We’re Going to Win This Race’ 

Joe Biden also pulled ahead in Georgia, and maintained leads in Nevada and Arizona. President Trump and his team weighed legal options, but lawsuits this week have had no meaningful effect on the tabulation of ballots. 

Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Friday took the lead in Pennsylvania, where a victory would give him the presidency, and was ahead in three other critical battlegrounds as his campaign focused on a presidential transition process and states worked to tally the remaining votes.

In remarks to the country from Delaware on Friday night, Mr. Biden said the trajectory of the race was clear and that he expected to win all of the uncalled states where he is currently ahead of Mr. Trump. He claimed the strength of his support reflected “a mandate for action” to counter the coronavirus pandemic and other crises.

“We’re going to win this race with a clear majority of the nation behind us,” Mr. Biden said, pointing to his apparent strength in the historically red states of Georgia and Arizona as evidence of a broad political coalition.

As Mr. Biden edged closer to victory, President Trump and his political lieutenants spent the day continuing to float baseless conspiracy theories about the legitimacy of the election, and Republicans in several states threatened or took legal action aimed at slowing or halting the counting of ballots. But there were also mounting indications that Mr. Trump would not have the full support of his party if he persisted in a scorched-earth effort to impede the electoral process.

Early on Friday, Mr. Biden overtook Mr. Trump in the vote count in both Pennsylvania and Georgia.

But in both states, as well as in Arizona and Nevada, Mr. Biden was not yet leading by a sufficiently wide margin to completely foreclose any possibility — however remote — that the count could still turn against him. On Friday evening, Mr. Biden was ahead in Pennsylvania and Georgia by less than a percentage point, and by not much more than that in the two Western states.

Should Mr. Biden win any combination of two states, or the state of Pennsylvania alone, he would clinch a majority of votes in the Electoral College.

Republican strategists and Trump allies concede that it is highly probable that Mr. Biden will cross that threshold soon enough, and that he may ultimately carry all four of the states in question. In three of them, the remaining ballots are seen as likelier to favor Mr. Biden than Mr. Trump; in the fourth, Arizona, Mr. Trump gained ground on Mr. Biden but perhaps not by a sufficient amount to erase the former vice president’s lead.

As the president continued to hurl false claims of voter fraud, he was dealt another setback Friday when the White House chief of staff, Mark Meadows, and four other aides tested positive for the coronavirus, according to a senior administration official. Mr. Meadows, who has repeatedly mocked wearing a mask, is only the latest member of Mr. Trump’s inner circle to contract the virus.

Mr. Biden’s remarks about the state of the race on Friday night were his third in as many days since Election Day.  Campaign advisers also indicated that they were ready to begin naming senior officials in an anticipated administration in a matter of days, if the race is called in his favor.

Striking an inclusive tone, Mr. Biden urged the country to set aside partisan warfare and “come together as a nation to heal.” Noting the slow pace of the vote count — “it can be numbing,” he said — he sought to reassure anxious Americans waiting for the winner of an election that has now stretched on for three days. 

“We have to remain calm, patient and let the process work out as we count all the votes,” he said. “Democracy works, your vote will be counted, I don’t care how hard people try to stop it, I will not let them stop it.”

In Georgia, Mr. Biden went into the lead overnight Thursday, thanks to a vote tally from Clayton County, a Democratic-leaning area near Atlanta. Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, said the state remained “too close to call” and predicted that it was headed for a recount, given that Mr. Biden’s lead stood at a mere 4,000 or so votes out of five million cast.

If Mr. Biden ends up winning Georgia, it would be a major breakthrough for the Democratic Party in the Republican-dominated Deep South: Democrats rarely win top statewide races outside of Florida, North Carolina and Virginia. No Democratic presidential candidate has carried Georgia since 1992, when Bill Clinton narrowly won there.

Mr. Biden held a lead of about 30,000 votes in Arizona, after a new tranche of ballots from Maricopa County, the state’s population center, helped Mr. Trump close the gap by about 7,000 votes on Friday night. 

Katie Hobbs, the Arizona secretary of state, said on CNN that 173,000 ballots remained to be counted statewide, including 92,000 in Maricopa County. 

In Nevada, Mr. Biden picked up about 2,500 votes in the Las Vegas area, officials said late Friday, giving him a lead of more than 22,000. Tens of thousands of ballots remain to be counted, but they continue to favor Mr. Biden.

It was in Pennsylvania, though, where the race seemed to turn emphatically in Mr. Biden’s direction. Early Friday morning, a few thousand votes from Philadelphia were posted, vaulting the former vice president into the statewide lead and setting off joyous celebrations in the city where Mr. Biden formally began his campaign last year and has long considered a second home. By Friday evening, Mr. Biden was leading in the state by about 29,000 votes.

Outside the city’s convention center, jubilant Biden supporters danced along a blockaded part of the street as a D.J. with a speaker system blasted music. They unfurled a banner declaring “The People Have Spoken.”

Pennsylvania Democrats, however, were growing frustrated by the slow count and were eager for Philadelphia and Pittsburgh to post more returns.

In what appeared to be another attempt to create an artificial sense of uncertainty around the vote count, the Pennsylvania Republican Party appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court on Friday, asking it to order state election officials to separate mail-in ballots that arrived after Election Day from all the other votes they were tabulating — even though Republicans acknowledgedin the filing that Pennsylvania’s secretary of state had already issued an order to that effect.

The attempt to involve the Supreme Court came as part of a larger legal fight over mail-in balloting rules in Pennsylvania, in which the high court has already declined twice to get involved. But state authorities said there were fewer mail-in votes arriving after Tuesday than they had anticipated, suggesting that the stakes in the litigation might be relatively low.

Late Friday, a federal court in Nevada denied an injunction request by Republicans that could have delayed the count here by several days. 

So far, lawsuits brought by Mr. Trump and other Republicans this week have had no meaningful effect on the tabulation of ballots, and they seem designed largely or even entirely for public-relations purposes. 

Campaign officials met with White House officials on Friday, including the White House counsel Pat Cipollone, an administration official confirmed, but the legal path forward for Mr. Trump to contest the validity of the election results wasn’t resolved. On Friday, Mr. Trump vowed to exhaust all legal options available to him, making his case in an emailed statement to the news media by his campaign.

Mr. Trump has been as angry in private as he has been in public, people who have spoken to him said. One adviser said the president wants “fighters” defending him and is as concerned with the news media battle as he is with the legal challenges.

Fleeting efforts to gently make him understand that the situation is bleak and unlikely to change haven’t been successful. And he is being egged on by Rudolph W. Giuliani, his personal lawyer, and a small handful of White House advisers.

But another group of advisers have been more candid with Mr. Trump. Late Thursday and on Friday afternoon, a handful of aides told the president that they’re willing to keep fighting the legal battles, but that it is an uphill climb without a likely positive outcome,  according to people familiar with the discussions, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss private conversations. Mr. Trump, one adviser said, heard what they were saying, but is not yet ready to accept it.

On Capitol Hill, some Republican leaders resisted coming to terms with the likelihood of a Biden presidency, at least in their comments for public consumption. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House minority leader, firmly aligned himself with Mr. Trump. He appeared on Fox News late Thursday night to insist that the president had “won this election” and on Friday said “Republicans will not back down from this battle.” 

But a handful of rank-and-file House G.O.P. lawmakers declined to rise to the president’s defense. “Baseless allegations undermine the public’s confidence in our electoral system, which is the foundation of our Republic,” said Representative Steve Stivers, an Ohioan who was chairman of the House Republican campaign committee two years ago when the midterm backlash against Mr. Trump cost the party its majority.

In private, some longtime House Republicans were  dismayed, if not surprised, at the president’s handling of the election. Some said they were eager for him to concede, though Mr. Trump has told allies he has no plans to do so while states are still counting and the vote isn’t certified. What that means in the longer term is not clear.

Yet in a sign of the hold Mr. Trump retains on the party’s hard-line base, few Republicans in either chamber who are not retiring or regular critics of the president would confront him by name. In Kentucky, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, repeatedly evaded questions from reporters about the president’s inflammatory rhetoric, pointing to a statement he had made Friday morning that “every legal vote should be counted.”

There were, however, more indirect signs that Senate Republicans were moving on from the Trump years. Mr. Graham, an ally of the president’s who just won re-election in commanding fashion, said he was not assuming that Mr. Trump had lost but allowed that he was eager to work on immigration and infrastructure and that he also thought Mr. Biden deserved to have his cabinet confirmed.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called Mr. Biden the obvious winner in her weekly news conference, telling reporters that he would enter office with a “tremendous mandate” to govern and referring to him as president-elect, even though Mr. Biden himself has not yet declared victory.

The Biden campaign struck a dismissive tone on Friday toward the president’s digging in and depicted him as a sore loser rather than as a menace to the democratic process.

Andrew Bates, a spokesman for Mr. Biden, suggested that if Mr. Trump declined to concede an election he had lost, then “the United States government is perfectly capable of escorting trespassers out of the White House.”





No.4 article:
Senate Majority in Balance as Perdue Re-election Race Goes to Runoff in Georgia

Mr. Perdue, a first-term Republican, narrowly failed to clear 50 percent of the vote, sending the race to a January runoff that, along with another runoff contest, will probably determine which party controls the Senate.

Control of the Senate hung in the balance on Friday in Georgia after Senator David Perdue, a Republican, fell just short of the majority of votes he needed to win re-election, setting the stage for a second January runoff in the rapidly changing state.

With the Senate narrowly divided between Republicans and Democrats, the twin rematches scheduled for just two weeks before Inauguration Day will almost certainly determine which party comes away with the power to shape the fate of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s agenda.

Facing such extraordinarily high stakes, both parties were quickly positioning themselves for a nine-week, year-end sprint that could cost another $100 million and amount to a referendum on the outcome of the presidential election, which President Trump and his allies have baselessly claimed was stolen. The runoffs promised to thrust a quickly evolving Georgia into the center of the nation’s political fray and test the extent of Democrats’ emerging strength in what was once a Republican stronghold in the Deep South.

Georgia’s special Senate election has been destined for a runoff since Tuesday, when the Rev. Dr. Raphael Warnock, a Democrat, and Senator Kelly Loeffler, a Republican, emerged as the top two vote getters in a crowded field vying to replace the retired senator Johnny Isakson.

But Republicans had hoped they could stave off a second such contest in Mr. Perdue’s case. By the time his race was called Friday night after a protracted count, though, Mr. Perdue had a razor-thin lead over Jon Ossoff, his Democratic challenger, and neither candidate claimed the majority of votes required under Georgia law to avoid a rematch.

Two other Senate races, in North Carolina and in Alaska, had not yet been called on Friday night. But Republicans were leading in both and expected to win, which would put them at 50 seats to the Democrats’ 48.

If Democrats took both of Georgia’s seats, they would draw the Senate to a 50-50 tie, effectively taking control of the chamber, with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris empowered to cast tiebreaking votes.

“A Democratic majority in the U.S. Senate would be the biggest difference maker to help President-elect Biden deliver for working families across the country and in Georgia, where, for too long, they have been denied the help they need by President Trump, Mitch McConnell and a Republican-led Senate,” Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the minority leader, said in a statement on Saturday.

But the prospect of a pair of victories was a tall order in a state with deep conservative roots, and Republicans felt reasonably confident they could hang onto at least one of the seats needed to deny Democrats the majority, especially if January turnout slumps.

For Democrats, who have struggled in the past to turn out voters in runoffs, it will be a bank-shot attempt to harness total control of Washington after a spate of otherwise disappointing congressional elections. They were already so preoccupied with the task that in Washington, Speaker Nancy Pelosi urged Democratic lawmakers in a private call on Thursday to mind their messaging in the weeks ahead or risk alienating swing voters in Georgia.

With Mr. Biden’s victory on Saturday, Republicans will be motivated to deny him the majority, holding onto considerable power to shape at least the first two years of his term and thwarting liberal ambitions. A super PAC associated with Susan B. Anthony List, the anti-abortion group, already pledged on Thursday to spend $4 million for Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler.

The runoffs were a clear sign of Democrats’ growing power in Georgia. After years of predictions, the mobilization of Black voters and movement toward Democrats by educated white women in Atlanta’s suburbs signaled that Georgia’s status as a true battleground state might have finally arrived.

“Change has come to Georgia,” Mr. Ossoff predicated at a rally on Friday, “and Georgia is a part of the change coming to America.”

Mr. Perdue’s campaign made clear immediately that he would seek to nationalize the race, saying that a vote for Mr. Ossoff would be “a vote to hand power to Chuck Schumer and the radical Democrats in Washington.” Republicans were ready to try to harness the grievance among Mr. Trump’s most ardent supporters, hoping that the president’s groundless claims of fraud and a backlash to his loss could power them to a win in January.

It was hard to predict how involved Mr. Trump might be in the Senate races. But early Friday morning, he insinuated in a tweet that Democrats were still trying to claim power through nefarious means so they could reverse Republican policies.

“Would End the Filibuster, ‘Life’, 2A, and would Pack and Rotate the Court. Presidency becomes even more important,” he wrote. “We will win!”

Ms. Loeffler, for one, rushed to court the president, repeatedly tweeting support for him and donating to his cause.

“Praying for four more years of @realDonaldTrump!” she wrote in one tweet.

For all of the national overtones, the races could also be a defining moment for Georgia, a battle between the New South represented by Atlanta and its increasingly diverse suburbs and the Old South dominated by rural and business conservatives.

Mr. Perdue, 70, a former chief executive of Reebok and Dollar General who beat his Democratic opponent by eight points in 2014, was initially expected to have an easy road to re-election.

But he was weighed down by voters’ displeasure with Mr. Trump’s coronavirus response — and by his own missteps. He faced accusations of anti-Semitism after running a Facebook advertisement that enlarged the nose of Mr. Ossoff, who is Jewish, a move his campaign blamed on a vendor. He struggled to keep up with Mr. Ossoff’s prodigious fund-raising, which exploded in mid-October after Mr. Perdue publicly mocked the first name of Ms. Harris, his colleague in the Senate for nearly four years and the Democrats’ nominee for vice president.

“Kah-MAH-lah or KAH-mah-lah or Kamamboamamla — I don’t know,” he said at a rally for Mr. Trump in Macon, Ga. Mr. Perdue’s campaign said he had “simply mispronounced” the first name of Ms. Harris, a Black woman of Indian and Jamaican descent. Mr. Ossoff called it bullying and suggested it was racially insensitive.

As in his 2014 race, Mr. Perdue ran as a Washington outsider, campaigning in a denim jacket rather than the expensive tailored suits he wears in the Senate. The case was harder to make this time given his six-year record there. But he tied his campaign closely to another onetime outsider, Mr. Trump, and pushed ahead.

Mr. Perdue pounded Mr. Ossoff as too extreme for the state, distorting many of the Democrat’s positions on policing, health care and a range of other issues to try to scare moderate voters to his side. He praised Republicans’ tax and regulatory cuts, as well as the popular programs Congress approved to help unemployed Americans and small businesses weather the pandemic.

In a good sign for Republicans approaching the runoff, Mr. Perdue outperformed Mr. Trump in Tuesday’s voting, and Mr. Ossoff trailed Mr. Biden.

Mr. Ossoff, 33, tried to portray Mr. Perdue as a flunky for special interests who failed Georgia in a time of crisis and was putting people’s health care at risk by pressing to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Citing reports that Mr. Perdue was trading stocks early in the pandemic, Mr. Ossoff accused the senator of having been more interested in his own financial success than that of Georgians.

“Retirement is coming for Senator David Perdue,” Mr. Ossoff said on Friday. “A senator who saw fit to continue to attack our health care in the midst of a pandemic. A senator who told us that this disease that has taken a quarter of a million lives was no deadlier than the ordinary flu while he looked out for himself.”

The special election has followed a similar course thematically, but pits two very different candidates against each other. Dr. Warnock, 51, who emerged as the front-runner after Tuesday’s voting, is the pastor of Ebenezer Baptist Church, which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once led.

Ms. Loeffler, 49, is a businesswoman and the richest member of the Senate. She overcame a stiff challenge from Representative Doug Collins, a fellow Republican. She poured more than $20 million of her own fortune into the race and had the backing of the state’s Republican governor and Senate Republicans’ campaign apparatus, who believed Ms. Loeffler’s record as a businesswoman could win back independent suburban voters, particularly women.

But the fight to edge out Mr. Collins turned bitter and personal, driving Ms. Loeffler to the hard right. She courted the support of Marjorie Taylor Greene, a QAnon conspiracy theorist who won a House seat on Tuesday in Georgia, and took other positions that could be hard to walk back in January even as she tries to reorient the campaign around her success as a businesswoman and record in Washington dealing with the coronavirus crisis.

On Thursday, she had already begun attacking Dr. Warnock, giving a glimpse of a playbook that will try to mine his messaging from years on the pulpit and liberal policy positions to portray him as a pastor in the mold of the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., the former pastor of former President Barack Obama, whose “God damn America” sermon was used to attack the former president.

But Republicans are getting a late start. Consumed for much of the year with holding off Mr. Collins, Ms. Loeffler left Dr. Warnock largely untouched as he introduced himself to voters on purely positive terms as a pastor and healer.

Anticipating a barrage, Dr. Warnock used his first advertisement of the runoff, a spoof of a campaign-style attack ad released on Thursday, to try to prime voters for what was ahead.

“Get ready, Georgia, the negative ads are coming,” he says. “Kelly Loeffler doesn’t want to talk about why she’s for getting rid of health care in the middle of a pandemic, so she’s going to try and scare you with lies about me.”





No.5 article:
American Democracy Survives Its Brush With Death

I’m badly shaken by what happened in this election.

The closest I ever came to death was when a ferocious undertow grabbed hold of my wife and me, carrying us out into the raging surf off Puerto Escondido, Mexico. We gagged, flailed and turned purple as we wrestled to stay afloat. Saved by a sandbar, I never looked at life the same way again.

So we find ourselves today, still holding our breath, looking back at the bloodied mess of our tattered democracy. As exhilarating as it is to cheat death, we are diminished and badly shaken by what happened this week.

Those of us in the business of crafting narrative from chaos are hard-pressed to say anything positive about the last few days. I nearly lost my faith in humanity, and certainly lost my faith in the polling industrial complex. I’m perplexed and humbled.

“Stop the count.” Of all the violations of things that we hold precious in this country, this tweet by President Trump on Thursday, demanding that millions of voters be disenfranchised so he can steal an election, is the one that will live in infamy.

But let’s find some light in the darkness. Mr. Trump’s electoral ambulance chasing, the inchoate chants of supporters to simultaneously stop the count and count the vote (depending on the state) will change nothing.

Joe Biden is winning the popular vote by close to a three-point margin. That’s no small thing. John F. Kennedy won by less than one percentage point. Ronald Reagan rode into the White House in 1980 with just over 50 percent of the total vote. Bill Clinton became president with 43 percent of the vote in a race with three major candidates.

A President-Elect Biden would mean the first African-American vice president in Kamala Harris. The first woman veep, as well. History, noted.

It would mean the United States could again join the community of nations committed to saving this gasping, burning, overwhelmed planet. Public lands would remain in public hands.

It would mean that the pipeline of partisan, retrograde federal judges would be shut off, for now. Ditto the Supreme Court, should Mr. Biden get a pick.

It would mean science and truth would be guiding principles at the highest level of government — this coming just as we enter a long dark season of Covid-19 deaths because science and truth were ignored.

It would mean that the executive office would no longer be actively fighting to take away health care from millions of Americans. Think about a springtime that could bring a coronavirus vaccine, a revived economy and a restoration of decency and civility.

Looking at the bigger picture, Democrats were done in by extreme voices that Mr. Trump was able to link to their party. Defunding the police will never be popular outside a few lefty precincts. The whiff of socialism helped kill Democrats in Florida.

In California, voters rejected ballot measures that would have delivered a return of affirmative action and a bill to expand rent control. The result was a wake-up call for the overly woke.

In battered Portland, Ore., where violent clashes between protesters and law enforcement have brought terror to the streets, a candidate who embraced Antifa lost to the more moderate mayor, Ted Wheeler.

The violent fringe on the left helped Mr. Trump. The violent fringe on the right, sadly, did not appear to hurt him. In the closing days of this campaign, the president appeared to lend his support to a truck brigade that had tried to run a Biden bus off the road in Texas. He suggested locking up his political opponents and reveled in crowds chanting to fire the nation’s foremost infectious disease expert.

But let’s look to better days ahead, and begin repairing our broken democracy. A presidential candidate could win the popular vote by nearly five million votes, but depending on where those votes are cast, he or she could still lose in the archaic Electoral College, the fortress for the tyranny of the minority. Only once in the last 30 years have Republicans won the popular vote.

There is still a possibility that this election could end up in an Electoral College tie of 269 to 269. If that happens, the next president would be determined by the new House of Representatives, with each state casting one vote.

Thus, California, where nearly one in eight Americans live, with 53 members in the House, would have the same power as Wyoming, a state with a lone representative in the House and a declining population.

The obvious flaw here — that the person who gets the most votes does not necessarily win — could be neutralized by the National Popular Vote Compact, in which all of a participating state’s electoral votes are pledged to the winner of the national popular vote.

On Tuesday, Colorado voters approved joining the compact, which now has 15 states plus the District of Columbia, representing 196 electoral votes. More states are needed to push it past the 270-vote margin where it could go into effect. But for now, it’s the best vehicle for bringing the American system closer to one that reflects the will of the people.

Ah, the will of people. Who knows what the hell that is. Yes, it’s karmic justice that three of the states pivotal in electing Mr. Trump — Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan — now look like three that will fire him. And for that slim majority, and the rest of us, may mourning in America soon turn to morning in America.





No.6 article:
Megan Rapinoe Has a Lot More to Say

Don’t expect the usual bromides about hard work and resilience in “One Life.” The soccer star’s memoir gets into her political awakening as much as it does her sports career.

GREENWICH, Conn. — Megan Rapinoe, the American soccer player so decorated with medals and trophies that she’s practically gilded, has a book coming out on Tuesday. But it’s only kind of about sports.

Yes, important games are reconstructed and injuries recounted. But readers will also learn about redlining and how Black service members were excluded from the G.I. Bill. She writes about the pay disparity between male and female professional soccer players. And her white privilege makes its first appearance in the prologue: “A small, white, female soccer player — even a lesbian one with a loud voice and pink hair — lands differently in the press than, say, a six-foot-four-inch Black football player with an Afro.”

Absent from the book are the standard admonishments that if you just work hard enough, you will, somehow, become a professional athlete.

“You know who else works hard?” Rapinoe writes. “Everyone.”

Indeed, her memoir, “One Life,” tracks the arc of her political awakening at least as much as it follows the path of her sports career. In the book, we find a thoroughly modern athlete who plays hard and wins a lot of games, then funnels her public profile and social-media following into activism, not just endorsements.

“There’s nothing that I could tell someone about my journey as an athlete that would help them become an elite athlete,” Rapinoe said in an interview last month, a bright blue beanie pulled over the pandemic haircut she received from her fiancée, the W.N.B.A. star Sue Bird.

“I wanted to write this book because there’s so much more happening here than the sports,” she added, “and I think we can use that as a vehicle to really talk about what I see as the most important work in my life, which is all the stuff we’re doing off the field.”

Rapinoe, 35, has been playing soccer professionally for more than a decade, but she burst into national consciousness in 2016. That was the year when she followed Colin Kaepernick in taking a knee during the national anthem, and when she filed a federal complaint, with four of her teammates, against the United States Soccer Federation for wage discrimination.

As she writes in the book, even though the women’s team has won far more games and titles than the American men, a top women’s player could expect to earn less than half what a comparable player on the men’s squad makes.

“As a woman, you’re in constant protest of our society,” Rapinoe said. “Of course there’s no space for us. We didn’t build it.”

But as an athlete, her public profile has certainly been helped by the women’s team’s success. Rapinoe has an Olympic gold medal and two FIFA World Cup title medals, which she thinks are under some paperwork in her office in Seattle. After last year’s World Cup victory in France, there were TV interviews, magazine covers and a ticker-tape parade, and the team was presented with the keys to New York City. She also caught the ire of President Trump on Twitter when she said that she would refuse an invitation to celebrate their win at the White House.

With all that came the chance for Rapinoe to write a book.

By her own admission, she does not hold her liquor terribly well, and she rolled into a day of meetings with publishers nursing a hangover after a friend convinced her to end a night at the Tribeca restaurant Marc Forgione with an ill-advised shot of Chartreuse. The last meeting of the day was with Ann Godoff, the Penguin Press founder who has edited writers like Ron Chernow, Zadie Smith, Michael Pollan and Karl Ove Knausgaard.

Not the kind of person who would seem a natural fit for a traditional sports memoir.

Yet Godoff saw Rapinoe’s story as one of transformation from athlete into activist, and she thought her life would appeal to a wide swath of people. “To tell you the truth, I went after this, and I don’t really do that very much any more,” Godoff said.

Particularly appealing to Godoff, a gay baby boomer, was how out and proud Rapinoe has been. “We can do something for a generation much younger than you and much, much younger than me,” she recalled saying to Rapinoe.

“If I had read this book as a 13-year-old girl,” Godoff added, “something would have changed for me. And I think we’ll have that.”

The title of Rapinoe’s book, “One Life,” was Godoff’s suggestion; it comes from the Mary Oliver poem “The Summer Day.” (“Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?”) Godoff edited her, too.

She connected Rapinoe with the author and journalist Emma Brockes, who agreed to ghostwrite the story. They spent two days at a Sheraton hotel in Orlando and many hours on the phone, as Brockes absorbed Rapinoe’s life story and learned to channel her voice — though Rapinoe is not shy about cursing, and that had to be winnowed down.

“She agreed she’d give me everything she could and then withdraw or redact stuff,” Brockes said. “When it came to it, she was incredibly open and honest and very little came out — nothing really. We just took down the [expletive] count.”

Brockes also spoke extensively with Rapinoe’s family, especially her fraternal twin sister, Rachael, and spent time with their mother, Denise, whom Brockes — the mother of twin girls herself — has subsequently called for parenting advice.

Rapinoe was raised in Redding, Calif., a conservative town where her mother worked as a waitress and her father, Jim, worked in construction. Denise is described as the lodestar of a big, loud family, full of opinions and advice — Rapinoe has “Mammers,” her mother’s nickname, tattooed on her left wrist. (In true 2020 style, it was a stick-and-poke tattoo given to her by a W.N.B.A. referee on her last night in the league’s bubble.)

Rapinoe is also open in the book about the ongoing drug addiction of her brother, Brian, who has spent years in and out of prison. He is described with great tenderness and an eye toward the systems that have contributed to his troubles.

“The way people serving time are spoken of reminds me of the myth peddled by right-wing politicians — that the only difference between the rich and the poor is the latter’s own fecklessness,” Rapinoe writes. “If you are a ‘repeat offender,’ it’s not because of structural failings within the system, just as if you are a drug addict, it’s not because opioid manufacturers aggressively marketed their drugs at you until you were hooked. Instead, you are in jail, or an addict, because that is, at root, who you are.”

She is candid about her romantic life, chronicling relationships with, among others, Abby Wambach, a former teammate who is now married to the writer Glennon Doyle. As told in the book, when Rapinoe arrived at college and realized she was a lesbian, her life suddenly made sense.

“Clearly I’m gay and why didn’t anyone tell me?” was her first thought, she wrote. “And number two: This is awesome.”

The relationship that gets the most attention is her partnership with Bird. Since leaving the W.N.B.A. bubble — in which Bird’s team, the Seattle Storm, won this year’s championship — the couple has been living in Greenwich, Conn., where they have been swimming, using a Tonal, which is like a high-tech Murphy bed version of a weight machine, and riding their Peloton.

Despite being one of the most decorated soccer players in the country, Rapinoe says she’s not so good at the Peloton. When the output of the thousands of users who participate in each ride are displayed, she said she consistently hovers around the bottom 30 percent.

But before heading to Greenwich, Rapinoe and Bird took a trip with some friends to Antigua, where they got engaged. Rapinoe was lounging on the side of a pool, and when she went to stand up, somebody said it looked like she was kneeling. She hadn’t planned on proposing just then, she said, but she’d been thinking about it daily for months, and there was no real question for either of them that they would eventually get married.

“We locked eyes, and I thought, this is definitely the moment,” she said.

So Rapinoe, who wears a lot of jewelry, took a simple gold band off her own finger and proposed.

A picture of that moment went viral. Even former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. retweeted it and offered his congratulations. No such congratulations were forthcoming from Mr. Trump.





No.7 article:
F.D.A. Panel Declines to Endorse Controversial Alzheimer’s Drug

The drug, aducanumab, made by Biogen, would be the first new Alzheimer’s treatment in nearly two decades. But the advisory panel said there was not enough evidence of its effectiveness in slowing cognitive decline.

A federal panel of medical experts on Friday sharply rejected arguments in support of a closely watched new Alzheimer’s drug, saying the evidence wasn’t persuasive enough for the drug to be approved as the first new Alzheimer’s therapy in nearly two decades.

The nonbinding vote by an advisory panel for the Food and Drug Administration does not mean the agency won’t approve the drug, aducanumab, made by Biogen. But it signals that many experts in the field are not convinced of its effectiveness, another major setback in the long journey to find a treatment for Alzheimer’s that works.

In a seven-hour virtual meeting on Friday, the panel showed pointed skepticism, which contrasted markedly with a presentation by Dr. Billy Dunn, director of the Food and Drug Administration’s office of neuroscience, who said that “the evidence supporting its approval appears strong.”

Overwhelmingly, the panel members disagreed.

“There are literally a dozen different red threads that suggest concerns about the consistency of evidence,” said one member, Dr. Caleb Alexander, a professor of epidemiology and medicine at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. He said he could not understand “how the F.D.A. could conclude that there is substantial evidence of effectiveness.”

Ten of 11 panel members voted that it was not “reasonable” to consider the research presented as “primary evidence of effectiveness of aducanumab for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease.” The 11th member said he was uncertain.

It was a stunning turn of events, coming two days after the F.D.A. had posted documents that suggested most of the agency’s reviewers considered the evidence convincing, a development that sent Biogen’s stock price soaring by more than 40 percent. Most of Friday’s votes occurred after the financial markets had closed.

Nearly six million people in the United States and roughly 30 million globally have Alzheimer’s disease, a number that is expected to more than double by 2050. Aducanumab — which is given as a monthly intravenous infusion and would cost about $50,000 per year — would be the first medication to address cognitive decline by attacking the core biology of Alzheimer’s disease. It has been considered a potential medication for the roughly two million Americans estimated to have mild Alzheimer’s-related cognitive decline.

The drug’s path through clinical trials has been rocky, with only one of two Phase 3 trials showing positive results — and those results emerged only from an analysis of additional data after the trials were stopped in March 2019 by an independent data monitoring committee because the drug didn’t appear to be working.

The F.D.A. usually requires two convincing studies for a drug to be approved, although the agency has made exceptions, especially for severe or deadly diseases for which little or no treatment is available.

Samantha Budd Haeberlein, a Biogen senior vice president and head of neurodegeneration development, told the panel that “the benefit-risk profile for aducanumab is favorable and potentially prolonged patients’ independence by several months.”

Dr. Dunn of the F.D.A. said the single positive study was “highly persuasive” and provided “substantial evidence of the effectiveness of aducanumab.” The positive study found that patients on a high dose of the drug, 10 milligrams per kilogram, declined at a rate 23 percent slower than in people who had received a placebo. Dr. Dunn said the agency’s analysis concluded that the results of the negative study, which did not show that patients on the high dose benefited, did not contradict the successful study or show that the drug was ineffective.

Some members of the panel were uncomfortable with the idea that successful results of one trial should be considered over unsuccessful results of the other trial.

Dr. Scott Emerson, a professor emeritus of biostatistics at the University of Washington, said that having to ignore the negative study was like saying, “I’m going to, you know, choose two numbers and only tell you what the highest number I chose was.”

He later added that he was “very disturbed” that the F.D.A. seemed to be “starting out with the assumption that the treatment works” and then trying to figure out why the other study failed. He said the agency’s position seemed “weighted” toward the drug company, adding that “all of this was just terrifically one-sided.”

Of the 11 voting committee members, eight said that they did not even think the single study provided strong evidence that the drug was effective. Two members said they were uncertain.

The only member to vote that the single study’s evidence was convincing was the committee chairman, Dr. Nathan Fountain, a professor of neurology at the University of Virginia.

“I think there are lots of small issues with it, but the trends, I think, are all in the right direction,” he said.

There are currently five medications that have been approved to treat cognitive and memory symptoms, but they typically delay decline for only several months. The last new drug was approved in 2003, and none of them address the specific disease process of Alzheimer’s.

Aducanumab is a monoclonal antibody that targets the beta amyloid protein that clumps into plaques in Alzheimer’s disease. Many other drugs that reduce amyloid accumulation have not been shown to slow symptoms, so if aducanumab is determined to be effective, it would support a long-held theory that attacking amyloid can help if done early enough in the disease process, when memory and cognitive difficulties are still mild.

Some experts said that if aducanumab were approved, it would make it less likely that patients would participate in studies for other Alzheimer’s drugs that might ultimately work better.

“I think if we approve something where the data is not strong that we have a risk of delaying, good treatment and effective treatment for more than a couple of years — for many years,” said another panel member, Dr. Joel Perlmutter, a professor of neurology at the Washington University School of Medicine. “I think there’s a huge danger in approving something that turns out not to be effective.”

Several experts, including a Mayo Clinic neurologist who was a site investigator for an aducanumab trial, have said that another rigorous clinical trial should be conducted before a decision is made on whether the drug should be made available.

“Perfection may be the enemy of the good, but for aducanumab, the evidence doesn’t even rise to ‘good,’” the neurologist, Dr. David Knopman, wrote in a comment submitted to the panel before Friday’s hearing. Dr. Knopman, who sits on the advisory panel but was recused from the hearing because of his work with the aducanumab trials, added, “Contrary to the hope that aducanumab will help Alzheimer patients, the evidence shows it will offer improvement to none, it will harm some of those exposed, and it will consume enormous resources.”

Documents posted by the F.D.A. in advance of the hearing gave the impression that most of the agency’s reviewers were satisfied that data from the successful trial was strong and that safety issues, which mostly involved a type of brain swelling, were manageable.

But another F.D.A. reviewer expressed concerns in the documents. Tristan Massie, an F.D.A. mathematical statistician, wrote that he believed “there is no compelling, substantial evidence of treatment effect or disease slowing and that another study is needed.”

Other experts said that the degree of benefit the trial claims to show is slight, slowing cognitive decline over 18 months by half a point on a 3-point cognitive scale, the primary measurement in the study.

“My view is that it doesn’t do anything,” said Dr. Michael Greicius, medical director of the Stanford Center for Memory Disorders.

At Friday’s hearing, Dr. Budd Haeberlein said that based on another scale used as a secondary measure, the drug might prolong decline in a person’s daily functional ability by seven months in an 18-month period.

Patients’ groups argued forcefully for approval, citing the devastation caused by the disease.

“While the trial data has led to some uncertainty among the scientific community, this must be weighed against the certainty of what this disease will do to millions of Americans absent a treatment,” the Alzheimer’s Association wrote in a letter to the panel. “The potential to delay decline would be denied to millions, and that time lost for those spouses, partners, moms, dads, grandmothers, grandfathers, aunts, uncles, friends, and neighbors cannot be recovered. In the balance of these considerations, we urge approval.”

Friday’s meeting also featured poignant comments from several people with Alzheimer’s or their family members.

“After years of great disappointment in drug trials for those in the throes of urgency as our minds decline, please offer us some hope,” said Greg O’Brien, a former journalist who wrote a book about his experience with Alzheimer’s. “Please recommend approval of this drug therapy. Sorry I can’t properly pronounce the name of the Biogen drug, it’s just too complicated for me.”





No.8 article:
Why Arizona’s Storied Conservative Stronghold Could Flip for Biden

Maricopa County spawned the careers of Republican hard-liners like Joe Arpaio. Now the children of immigrants targeted in the state’s nativist crackdown are challenging G.O.P. dominance.

PHOENIX — Ten years ago, Maricopa County was the place that spawned the political careers of Republican hard-liners like Joe Arpaio, the sheriff who demonized immigrants and placed inmates in a tent camp. Politicians from Phoenix and its suburbs thrived with appeals to voters on guns, religion and taxes.

But these days, the county’s scorching growth has produced a battleground in which Republicans suddenly find themselves on the defensive. The children of the immigrants targeted by Mr. Arpaio, as well as an influx of outsiders from places like California, are reshaping the political landscape of this part of the West.

As Arizona now stands to become a coveted prize for Democrats, Maricopa County is undergoing what may amount to one of the biggest political shifts of any major county in the United States in recent years. The last time Maricopa County came this close to siding with a Democratic presidential candidate was in 1948.

“We think of John Wayne and the Sonoran Desert when we have visions of Arizona, but the truth is we’re an urban state where the Phoenix metro area is the heart and soul of Arizona at this point,” said Joseph Garcia, executive director of Chicanos Por La Causa Action Fund, a Phoenix group that helped register and turn out thousands of Latino voters for Joseph R. Biden Jr.

There is now a considerable list of elected positions in the county that are held by Democrats, including county recorder and sheriff — all in the place where the five-term Republican senator Barry Goldwater led the resurgence of the American conservative movement in the 1960s and ’70s.

Various factors have contributed to the political reconfiguration, originating with the backlash — including from powerful Republicans in the Phoenix business establishment — against Arizona’s immigration crackdown in 2010. The changes began to take shape clearly by 2016, when Mr. Arpaio was defeated and Hillary Clinton lost the county by just three percentage points.

They accelerated in 2018 with Kyrsten Sinema’s flip of a Senate seat into Democratic hands. And they turned into a potential game-changer this week, as the county appeared to be providing a crucial boost to Mr. Biden’s bid for the presidency and Mark Kelly’s flip of yet another Senate seat held by Republicans.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. led President Trump by about three percentage points in Maricopa County as of Friday afternoon — in a county that Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee for president in 2012, won by 12 percentage points.

“Right now, Maricopa is tangibly, unabashedly, demonstrably a Democratic county, something I never thought I would see in my lifetime,” said Stan Barnes, 59, a longtime Republican strategist in Phoenix. “It just blows my mind.”

Even as Maricopa County’s individualistic gunslinging reputation is giving way to calls for change from its increasingly diverse electorate, it remains — like much of the country — sharply divided along political fault lines. The county’s Republicans maintain immense sway in Arizona’s state politics. Some of Mr. Trump’s most fervent supporters live in Maricopa County, reflected in the armed protesters who have been positioning themselves this week in front of the County Recorder’s voting tabulation site.

Accounting for about 60 percent of Arizona’s population with nearly 4.5 million people, Maricopa County ranks among the fastest-growing counties in the United States. The influx of more voters from other states, many of them relatively moderate or liberal, has produced some of this growth.

But the county has also provided one of the most important venues for the ascendancy of Latino voters and elected officials in recent years, following the rapid growth of its Latino population since the start of the century, from about 365,000 in 2000 to more than 1.3 million in 2020.

While Latinos in Florida got much of the nation’s attention this week for trying to help Mr. Trump win that state, efforts to boost voting for Democrats by Arizona’s Latinos got relatively little notice — and negligible help from the national Democratic Party, Mr. Garcia said.

“All the attention for whatever reason goes to Miami-Dade County as if that is the center of the universe for Latinos,” he said. Referring to the national party, he added, “We didn’t get any help from them, but for us the Latino vote was too important and we weren’t going to wait around.”

The shift from the old days seems jarring even to some of the Democrats involved in making it happen.

Adrian Fontes, a former trial lawyer and Marine, became the first Latino elected to countywide office in Maricopa County in 2016.

“I never thought I would get elected, period,” said Mr. Fontes, who now oversees elections as the county recorder after defeating a Republican incumbent who had held the seat since 1988. “I did not anticipate because of my lack of political savvy that Maricopa County would be the most important county in the most important presidential race in recent history,” he said in a recent interview.

As votes in the county are counted this week, pro-Trump protesters, some of them armed with military-style rifles, have unsuccessfully demanded to be allowed in the building where the tabulation is taking place. The crowds have at times been chanting for Mr. Fontes to be recalled.

Since he is also running for re-election, Mr. Fontes is staying away from both the tabulation center and his own recorder’s complex to avoid the appearance of any impropriety during the vote count. He is leading his Republican opponent in the race.

“It’s the deliciousness of irony that not one of these people voted for me and we all want the exact same thing from this election: We want every valid vote counted,” he said of the protests.

Many Democrats trace the changes that made them competitive in Maricopa County to the spate of anti-immigrant laws a decade ago that helped galvanize Latino youth in Arizona. A decade later, they have given rise to a generation of activists and elected officials.

Raquel Terán, a Democratic state legislator who represents a district that encompasses parts of Phoenix and Glendale, began her political career as a field organizer fighting against anti-immigrant legislation and for workers’ rights.

In 2012, she ran for office and lost by just 113 votes before resuming work as an organizer. Eventually, she became the state director for Mi Familia Vota, a national group that helps Latinos become citizens and register to vote. She decided to enter the race again in 2018, and won. This year she ran unopposed for a second term.

“Through the years, we have been building political power,” Ms. Terán said. “And 2020 shows our work is paying off.”

Another activist, Anabel Maldonado, was in high school when Arizona enacted legislation in 2010 that empowered the police to stop and question anyone they suspected of being in the country illegally, targeting undocumented immigrants in a state that had become a laboratory for such measures.

Mr. Arpaio, the former sheriff, enforced the law, known as SB1070, by deploying his deputies across Maricopa County to conduct arrests and workplace raids.

“Just being Latino in the state gave us a lot of anxiety,” said Ms. Maldonado, 29. “You’d say goodbye to your parents in the morning and not know if they would be caught up in a raid.”

Instead of leaving the state, she said, many young Latinos were energized. “It turned into a moment for folks to stand up, fight back and move past the fear to do something about it,” she said.

A decade later, Ms. Maldonado, the daughter of a janitor and a teacher’s aide who immigrated to Phoenix from Mexico, is among the many children of immigrants who have built a grass-roots movement that has educated and mobilized hundreds of thousands of Latino voters.

Hundreds of volunteers worked during the recent election campaign, braving 110-degree heat in face shields to engage Latinos in a “Basta Trump” (“Enough of Trump”) campaign. Others made phone calls and sent texts.

“We were helping people focus on our struggles, access to education, health care and jobs,” said Eduardo Sainz, state director of Mi Familia Vota.

In addition to mobilizing Democratic votes in the presidential race, the effort led to the passage of a proposition on this year’s ballot to bolster funding for public schools by hundreds of millions of dollars each year by imposing a tax on the top 4 percent of wage earners in Arizona.





No.9 article:
7 Months Into the Pandemic and I’m Losing Motivation. Help!

Not productive? No problem.

Welcome to the Smarter Living newsletter! Every week, S.L. editor Tim Herrera emails readers with tips and advice for living a better, more fulfilling life. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.

It’s a normal part of having a job: the slump.

You don’t feel motivated, your inspiration is just gone, your excitement for work is just not what it used to be. This is all fine! Whatever your job is, this is going to happen.

Pulling yourself out was never particularly easy — as I wrote before here about a year ago — but there used to be a few steps you could take. Find meaning in your work. Change your routine. Learn something new.

But in the year since I wrote that, a pandemic upended every aspect of modern life, a racial reckoning swept through society, more than 220,000 have died and hundreds more are dying every day, millions of people have lost their jobs, a relentlessly divisive election season is consuming our attention, and, oh, right, we’re staring down the barrel of a bleak, bleak winter.

Amid all of this, we’re still expected to work? And that’s if we’re even lucky enough to still have jobs? It’s a lot!

So what are we to do? Do those old tricks for busting out still apply? How do we stay motivated right now, seven months into a pandemic with no end in sight? Or, maybe more helpfully: How do we reconcile with the impossibility of maintaining full motivation and productivity as we settle into what will be our normal for the foreseeable future?

Of course you feel less motivated in both your work and personal lives — everything has changed, and acting as if we simply adapt and get back to our normal routines and levels of output only makes things worse, experts said. The cultural disruption we’re facing is unlike anything anyone has experienced before. Accepting that it’s OK to not feel as inspired as you did a year ago can help us adjust to this new way of life.

“Allow yourself some grace,” said Dr. Danielle Hairston, an assistant professor at the Howard University College of Medicine and the director of its psychiatry residency program. “Change and modify your expectations. Everyone is not starting a new business, a new venture, a new platform, doing new research, a new diet or exercise plan during this time. I think that’s what is portrayed a lot, especially on social media.”

She added: “This country is going through a collective grief.”

The perception that we’re not doing enough, Dr. Hairston said, can be damaging to our psyches and can be a demotivator in itself. An important step of just getting through the day is to acknowledge that it’s normal and perfectly fine not to be productive or motivated.

Indeed, the added stress of feeling like you can’t keep up just compounds the problem and makes you even less motivated and inspired, said Arianna Huffington, the founder and C.E.O. of Thrive Global, which aims to help people deal with burnout and stress.

“It’s the productivity paradox: For the last couple of decades, we have just focused on productivity, how do we optimize work flows, how do we have tech tools that make us more productive, how do we get more out of each minute,” she said. “Now what we’re seeing, and there’s some research, is that stress and anxiety kill productivity. So you can have the most optimized work flows and tech tools, but if you’re stressed out of your mind, you’re not going to be as productive.”

Beyond that self-acceptance and grace, there are other factors, both internal and external, that impact our resiliency in difficult times. Studies have shown that while personality and life experience can have some impact on your ability to deal with stress, having a support network of friends and family can help people get through periods of trauma and improve our ability to respond to stress.

Dr. Hairston said that leaning on those networks can help us process the world around us and give us coping mechanisms for dealing with the constant, ambient stress some people are feeling.

“You can still remain connected at a distance,” she said.

Dr. Hairston added that even something as simple as a stroll around your neighborhood can help.

“It might just be going outside and walking and seeing other people with your mask on. Like, ‘Oh, I am alive, there are other people around.’” she said. “Getting outside and seeing people walking around, just switching up your environment” can help remind you that not everything is doom and gloom.

[Like what you’re reading? Sign up here for the Smarter Living newsletter to get stories like this (and much more!) delivered straight to your inbox every Monday morning.]

Think back to the early days of the pandemic in March and April. For many people, it felt like constant chaos, uncertainty and unprecedented levels of stress and anxiety. Everything was happening all the time, and no one had answers or solutions to any of it.

But as we settle into more than half a year of this, a different type of stress has crept in, said Liz Fosslien, co-author and illustrator of “No Hard Feelings: The Secret Power of Embracing Emotion at Work.”

“Everything has shifted. Now seven months in, every day is Groundhog Day. We’ve swung to the extreme other end of the pendulum. There’s no spark to life,” she said. “It feels like the color has been sucked out of everything.”

She went on: “It’s this weird place where we’re doing the same thing every day as the world around us moves faster and faster and faster, and that is just exhausting.”

“I feel like nothing is uncertain, and that’s really depressing,” she said.

Ms. Fosslien echoed Dr. Hairston’s advice about giving yourself grace and accepting that sometimes you’ll just feel uninspired, and said that making efforts to break up the monotony may help you grab a little spark of inspiration.

For example: We’ve all experienced something of an identity shift when it comes to work. For some that means working from home for the first time, for others it means continuing to work but in a dangerous and precarious environment, and for others still it may mean not working at all.

But remembering what gave your work meaning or joy in the Before Times and translating it to current times can help you break spells of demotivation, Ms. Fosslien said. If your favorite part of work was your co-workers, make extra effort to schedule a check-in. If it was learning new skills, seek out ways to continue to grow your skill set. Maybe you just loved picking your outfit every day — see if doing that again a few times per week can reinvigorate you.

“The core elements of motivation haven’t changed, but it’s trying to acknowledge that we’re under stress and that there are smaller things you can do that might get you through the days when the high-level stuff isn’t resonating,” she said.

Ms. Huffington uses this idea in her own working life, sometimes focusing on things completely outside of her job.

“I use my reset many times a day, it takes 60 seconds,” she said. “You basically put together the things that are joy triggers. It could be photos of people you love, pets, quotes, landscapes, music you love, a breathing pace.” In just 60 seconds, she said, you can change your mind-set, adding, “gratitude is the greatest antidote to stress.”

One thing we can’t do?

“Live as unconsciously as we lived before the pandemic,” Ms. Huffington said. “People who still think they can live their lives like that have the hardest time.”

Still, even the most qualified among us — like, say, a professor of psychiatry and practicing psychiatrist — are struggling right now.

“It’s definitely challenging,” Dr. Hairston said of her own troubles maintaining motivation and inspiration. “Pretending or saying that you’re OK when you’re not just makes things worse, and sometimes just releasing the expectation that everything’s OK and that you can get through this is the first liberating step.”

She added: “Remember who you are outside of this stress and adversity.”

P.S. — Our friends over at Modern Love have started a new podcast. Check it out the first episode here!

Wirecutter is a New York Times company that reviews and recommends products.





No.10 article:
The Woman Who Built Beethoven’s Pianos

Nannette Streicher has been marginalized by history, but she was one of Europe’s finest keyboard manufacturers.

The Morgan Library &amp; Museum owns part of an original sketch of Beethoven’s “Hammerklavier” Piano Sonata. In the margin, the British publisher Vincent Novello writes that the document was given to him by “Mrs. Streiker” — “one of Beethoven’s oldest and most sincere friends.”

Nannette Streicher’s marginalized place in history is encapsulated in these scribbled lines. While she was indeed one of the closest friends of Beethoven, whose 250th birthday will be celebrated this December, she was also one of the finest piano builders in Europe. She owned her own company — employing her husband, Andreas Streicher, a pianist and teacher, to handle sales, bookkeeping and business correspondence. But many Beethoven scholars, perhaps finding it inconceivable that an 18th-century woman could build a piano, have turned Andreas into the manufacturer and Nannette into his shadowy helpmate.

Born in Augsburg, Germany, in 1769, Nannette was the sixth child of Johann Andreas Stein, a renowned manufacturer who developed an innovative piano action, improving on the mechanism that causes the hammers to strike the strings. It became known as the “Viennese action.”

At 8, Nannette played in front of Mozart, who criticized her posture and grimacing, but admitted that she had “genius.” Two years later, she had mastered many of her father’s building techniques, earning a reputation as a mechanical wunderkind.

After her father’s death in 1792, Nannette, then 23 and recently married, transported the pianos by raft and set up the business in Vienna. She partnered with her 16-year-old brother, Matthäus, changing the company’s name from J.A. Stein to Geschwister (siblings) Stein. It was a time of rapid developments in piano design. With concerts moving beyond aristocratic salons into larger halls, manufacturers were under pressure to produce heavier, more resonant instruments.

Beethoven, who had met Nannette in Augsburg years earlier, asked to borrow one of her pianos for a 1796 concert in Pressburg (now Bratislava). Writing to Andreas, Beethoven joked that it was too “good” for him, because he wanted the “freedom to create his own tone.” In a follow-up letter, he complained that the piano was still the least developed of all the instruments and that it sounded too much like a harp.

The elegant Stein piano, with its light touch and silvery tone, wasn’t ideally suited to Beethoven’s wild and forceful performance style. Taking an obvious swipe at the composer, Andreas wrote an essay describing an unnamed pianist as a brutal murderer at the keyboard, “bent on revenge.”

“Already the first chords will have been played with such violence that you wonder whether the player is deaf,” he wrote.

The comment was sadly prescient. Beethoven had just begun to notice a decline in his hearing, but had told no one. Though he would later need a louder instrument to compensate for his deafness, he was at this point mainly concerned with finding a piano that accommodated his dynamic extremes.

Nannette had already expanded her keyboards’ range from five octaves to six and a half, but she was slow to make other major alterations to her father’s original design. It was a stressful time. By 1802, she was the mother of two small children, and a 6-year-old son had recently died. She was also engaged in a dispute with her brother; the siblings eventually decided to dissolve the company and strike out separately.

Matthäus took an ad in a local newspaper positioning himself as the rightful heir to the Stein name. Nannette, unwilling to relinquish her own claim, established Streicher née Stein. She faced stiff competition from local builders, such as Anton Walter, as well as French and English manufacturers. Beethoven had purchased a French Erard in 1803, but he never stopped pressuring the Streichers to keep pace with his increasingly ambitious compositions.

By 1809, Nannette had considerably reworked her father’s design, turning out some of the largest, loudest and sturdiest pianos in Vienna. With a warehouse that produced 50 to 65 grand pianos a year, the Streicher firm was considered by many to be the finest in the city.

In 1812, the Streichers built a 300-seat concert hall adjacent to their showroom; it was decorated with busts of well-known pianists, including a life mask of Beethoven by the sculptor Franz Klein. Concerts there, which attracted the likes of Archduke Rudolf, Beethoven and Andreas’s piano students, became a hub of Vienna’s musical life.

Nannette added another job when, in August 1817, she agreed to manage Beethoven’s chaotic household. The composer was going through one of the many crises that marked his life. His hearing had worsened and he was in a creative slump. Having wrested control of his young nephew from his sister-in-law, he needed to give the appearance that he was providing the boy a good home.

Over the next 18 months, Beethoven wrote Nannette over 60 letters, ordering her to take care of his laundry, mend his socks and buy groceries, dusters and shoe polish. Increasingly paranoid, he was convinced that the “beastly” servants were out to rob and poison him, and that they were colluding with his “immoral” sister-in-law.

Beethoven’s relationships with women had always been fraught. He fell in love with pretty aristocrats who would never marry a commoner, or else he developed filial attachments to married women. Nannette, with her plain, angular face and hawklike eyes, wasn’t beautiful or highborn. But she was kind and generous; he called her his “good Samaritan.”

Beethoven’s relationship with her may have been his most successful with a woman. She wasn’t oblivious to his shortcomings, telling Vincent Novello, the publisher, that he was “avaricious and always mistrustful.” But by that point, the pianist and piano builder had known each other for over two decades; they had a connection, and were united in their devotion to the piano.

By assuming his household duties, Nannette cleared the way for Beethoven to write his most ambitious piano sonata, the colossal “Hammerklavier.” It was longer and more difficult than any of his other piano works, ending with a wild fugue. It ushered in some of his greatest works: the “Missa Solemnis,” “Diabelli” Variations and Ninth Symphony. Though he was now using an English Broadwood piano, he confided to Nannette in a letter that the post-1809 Streicher had always been his favorite.

Nannette outlived Beethoven by five years, dying in 1833, at 64. The Streicher firm continued to thrive under her son, Johann Baptiste, and then her grandson, Emil, who built pianos for Brahms. When Emil retired, in 1896, the company closed.

That would seem to have been the end of Nannette’s legacy. But her instruments live on, in museums around the world and in the strong, nimble hands of women she inspired. In the mid-1960s, as Margaret Hood, an artist and calligrapher, raised two young children, she started making harpsichords. After doing research in Europe, she began specializing in reproductions of Streicher pianos, producing them in her Platteville, Wis., workshop. She was building an 1816 Streicher six-and-a-half-octave grand when she died, in 2008.

Anne Acker, who trained as a concert pianist before studying mathematics and computer science, met Ms. Hood in Wisconsin. They bonded over their love of music, and Ms. Hood became Ms. Acker’s mentor. While caring for her children, Ms. Acker began building and repairing harpsichords and antique pianos, and after her friend’s death, she purchased the reproduction Streicher from Ms. Hood’s husband.

“I explained to him that a piano researched and begun by a woman, that is a replica of a piano designed and built by a woman, needs to be finished by a woman,” Ms. Acker said in an interview.

The piano — the work of three women over two centuries — had its debut at the Boston Early Music Festival in 2019. It was the year of Nannette’s 250th birthday.





No.11 article:
Biden Leads, but No Call Yet Four Days After Election: This Week in the 2020 Race

Election Day has turned into Election Week and while Joe Biden is within striking distance of 270 Electoral College vote, the counting is continuing.

Welcome to our weekly analysis of the state of the 2020 campaign.

As Election Day turned into Election Week, an anxious nation lost days of productivity, with Americans interested only in what map gurus like CNN’s John King and MSNBC’s Steve Kornacki had to say about the effect of every new tranche of votes on the outcome of the race. And, a bold race call awarding Arizona to Joseph R. Biden Jr. by Fox News on election night, followed by The Associated Press, shocked the Trump campaign.

As of late Friday, Mr. Biden was within striking distance of being the next president of the United States, powered by tight statewide victories in the Midwest states that went for President Trump in 2016: Michigan and Wisconsin. Mr. Biden was leading in Pennsylvania, another state that went for Mr. Trump in the last cycle. The former vice president was ahead in Arizona in the West, and Georgia in the South — giving Democrats hope for future victories in those states in spite of poor results down ballot elsewhere.

It was a mixed bag of results that is not yet final, as some states may require a recount while others continue to count ballots. Here are four takeaways from the results we know so far:

Democrats spent election night in a state of panic, as it became clear that Republican turnout surged passed polling predictions and Mr. Trump had an enduring coalition. By Thursday, as Mr. Biden edged closer to 270 electoral votes, Democratic fears had subsided but not disappeared. The party lost key Congressional races, failed to flip several state legislatures, and continued to show weakness among voting populations in Florida, Texas and Iowa.

The good news:

There was one subset of the political world that felt vindicated by the nail-biter presidential race: Democrats who worked for Hillary Clinton. The closeness of the Biden-Trump race suggests that the 2016 election outcome may have been less about Mrs. Clinton’s political weaknesses than it was about Mr. Trump’s political strengths.

In some of the states that Mr. Biden managed to flip, like Wisconsin, his victory was by a slim margin of about 20,000 votes. Four years ago, Mrs. Clinton lost the state by about 22,000. A potential victory with more than 300 electoral votes would look like a blowout for Mr. Biden, but it would also mask the fact that in some of the most critical states, the race was still only won by a hair.

Mr. Biden has not received the wide margins nationwide that many liberals had been hoping for. The silver lining for some former members of Clintonworld, as one put it: The 2016 Democratic nominee might not go down in history as the political version of Bill Buckner, who blew the World Series for the Red Sox in 1986 by letting a ground ball go through his legs.

“His electoral strength in 2016 had less to do with any shortcomings of Hillary Clinton as a candidate or of her campaign than with Trump’s own appeal to a broad segment of the population,” Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union and a member of the D.N.C.’s executive committee, said of Mr. Trump. “We need as Democrats to understand that and confront it more effectively going forward.”

Philippe Reines, a former top adviser to Mrs. Clinton both in the Senate and at the State Department, was even more blunt. “Hillary’s owed more than a few apologies for how her campaign was assessed,” Mr. Reines said. Jennifer Palmieri, who served as communications director for the 2016 Clinton campaign, said that the current election gives a new perspective to the race four years ago.

“There’s only so much you can do to ameliorate larger forces,” Ms. Palmieri said. “When I see young Latino and African-American men siding with Trump in a way they didn’t in 2016, I don’t fault the Biden campaign’s African-American radio program. It is a symptom of a larger change that’s happening.”

The tight map means that the Trump campaign will be forced to reckon with the realization that if they had done any number of small things differently, or if the candidate had not pursued unhelpful fights with political enemies (even beyond the grave), this thing could have gone the other way.

Campaign officials and outside advisers acknowledged that Republicans were damaged in Arizona by Mr. Trump’s yearslong feud with Senator John McCain, a beloved figure in his home state, a personal disdain that continued even after he died in 2018. Fox News and The A.P. called Arizona for Mr. Biden on Tuesday night.

In Georgia, Mr. Biden took a narrow lead on Friday thanks to votes from Clayton County, the district that was represented by former Representative John Lewis, the civil rights icon who died in July. Mr. Trump had berated Mr. Lewis for calling his presidency “illegitimate,” noting that he should spend more time fixing his “horrible” and “crime-infested” district. Apparently, those words were not easily forgotten by the voters who lived there.

Some of his supporters were already playing the “what if” game, more broadly. “Where would Trump be if he never said what he said about Charlottesville, if he never said what he said about Khizr Khan, about Mika Brzezinski,” said Ari Fleischer, a former White House press secretary to President George W. Bush. In other words, where would he be if he wasn’t Donald Trump?





No.12 article:
Carlos Acosta’s Vision: Some ‘Nutcracker,’ Some Led Zeppelin

BIRMINGHAM, England — Carlos Acosta had big plans. In early February, he announced the first season he had programmed as artistic director of Birmingham Royal Ballet. The Cuban-born ballet star, a longtime principal dancer with the Royal Ballet in London and the first Black person in Britain to run a major ballet company, had only started the job in January, but was full of ideas to bring in new choreographers, partner with Birmingham institutions and make the company more accessible to its public. The autumn season, following an ambitious summer festival, was set to include ballets by Jiri Kylian, Uwe Scholz and Daniela Cardim, with more than 20,000 tickets costing 20 pounds (around $26) or less.

But then, when the coronavirus struck, “We went from Plan A to Plan B to Plan I Just Don’t Know,” said Mr. Acosta, 47, in a backstage interview at the Birmingham Repertory Theater on Saturday, where his company was performing a short run of a new triple bill. (Yes, live! With an audience! And musicians!)

“I found it very hard,” he said. “I had to get to know the company and the staff via Zoom, and was saturated by documents and planning issues. I am someone who lives in my body, and needs that physicality — and I knew the dancers did, too.”

But Mr. Acosta — the youngest of 11 children who grew up in a poverty-stricken neighborhood in Havana — is no stranger to adversity. He and his staff worked out a “bubble” system, in which the dancers rehearse and perform in discrete groups, and are subject to rigorous mask-wearing, symptom-checking rules, but no social distancing.

In mid-August, Mr. Acosta announced the triple bill, which includes a commission, “Lazuli Sky,” by Will Tuckett, set to John Adams’s “Shaker Loops,” as well as Vicente Nebrada’s “Our Waltzes,” for 10 dancers, and Valery Panov’s solo, “Liebestod.”

On Thursday, the program will be the first live show to open at Sadler’s Wells, in London, since the lockdown and it will be available to view online from Nov. 1 to Nov. 7. And last week, Mr. Acosta announced that Birmingham Royal Ballet would perform “The Nutcracker” both at the Birmingham Repertory Theater and at the Royal Albert Hall in London over the holiday season.

In a wide-ranging conversation, Mr. Acosta talked about adapting his artistic plans, getting dancers back onstage, and what he thinks of the debates around diversity raging in the ballet world. Here are edited excerpts.

This program is fairly conventionally classical. Does that reflect your vision for the company?

This program was really an emergency program; we had to think about the economics and logistics. You have the bubbles, you want all the dancers to have something to work on, and you want substantial pieces.

But I am proud of this program; it is classical, it’s joyful, the works are new to Birmingham and the company, and we got a world premiere, which I don’t think anyone else has done, using augmented reality and amazing design and music. It’s classical, but with a contemporary aspect that looks to the future.

How do you see the company moving forward in pandemic conditions?

The most difficult thing for everyone in our sector right now is not knowing how to plan: Will there still be social distancing by next summer? Will people come? Could we be shut down?

At the moment we are losing money with every performance, but I still think we have to perform. What’s encouraging is that everything has sold out immediately and we have put on extra performances in both Birmingham and London. If we hit our target with “Nutcracker” at the Royal Albert Hall, we will just cover our costs, but we felt we must do it as a signal for the dance world.

Essentially, we have kept our plans, but pushed everything out. We are going to do some big ballets: “Cinderella,” “Sleeping Beauty,” “Don Quixote.” If we are still doing bubbles and social distancing, we might have to downscale the productions. Let’s see.

What kind of balance do you want between the traditional full-length story ballets and a more contemporary repertory?

The classics aren’t going anywhere; our core audience loves them and that’s part of what we do. But I want to challenge the perception that ballet is for white people, this is for old people. Ballet can also speak about the time we are living today, use the technology we have today.

I also think a company needs its own identity. We are in Birmingham, with its own demographic, and we have to keep that in mind when commissioning. I want to highlight how important the city has been to the U.K. Heavy-metal music was born here, Led Zeppelin came from here — we’ll do those ballets! But this art form was born centuries ago, and we have a responsibility to cultivate that side, too.

Diversity has been a problematic issue for ballet companies for a long time, and the Black Lives Matter movement pushed that into the spotlight. Is this a preoccupation for you?

When I arrived at the Royal Ballet, in 1998, as the company’s first Black principal, there were only two Black dancers. I think we’ve moved on hugely. A high percentage of our company in nonwhite, and I am the director. There are still relatively few Black dancers, and it could be perceived as racism, that directors are making these choices. But I don’t think it’s like that. Which of us wouldn’t give everything to discover the next Black Aurora or Swan Queen?

The truth is there aren’t too many highly trained Black ballet dancers knocking at the door. The problem lies in education: kids who never get exposed to culture. I know this well; I didn’t read a book until I was 25. We need role models for kids, who will see a Black dancer on a poster, and to say to themselves, “I can be a prince too.”

Are you happy with the measures the government has taken to help the cultural sector in Britain? Could more be done?

We are very grateful for the furlough program, which allowed us to keep everyone employed and to do this program. I think they have genuinely tried their best, but at government level people don’t really know how the cultural sector works, so it gets the same general rules as everyone else.

I do wonder if there wasn’t a way to involve cultural figures and give them more power in deciding how to keep people safe. It’s in our interests to do this really well, so no one is going to do anything irresponsible. Perhaps we could have opened earlier with more aggressive testing and bubble procedures, and had more data on transmission, with social distancing policies, in theaters? We are all hard-working and creative in this sector: If we had started earlier, by now we would have mastered it.





No.13 article:
Quotation of the Day: A Cliffhanger of an Election, With One Candidate Leading by Millions

“Why, when somebody has won millions more votes than their opponent, are we still deliberating over 10,000 votes here, 5,000 votes there?”

CAROL ANDERSON, a professor of African-American studies at Emory University who researches voter suppression, speaking about the Electoral College.





No.14 article:
Praying, Dancing, Waiting: Americans Hang On for the Election’s End

Some in Philadelphia danced as Joseph R. Biden Jr. pulled ahead in their state. Trump supporters held out hope.

PITTSBURGH — At 8:50 on Friday morning, the city of Philadelphia updated its vote tally, nudging Joseph R. Biden Jr. past Donald J. Trump in the state of Pennsylvania. The question on everyone’s mind for several interminable days immediately shifted: not ‘‘if” but “when.” The election — this tense, angry, virus-plagued and exhausting election — would soon be over.

“We’re celebrating everybody’s right to vote,” said Bernadette Golarz, 36, amid the impromptu street party that broke out on Friday in front of the Pennsylvania Convention Center, where ballots were still being counted inside. “And the fact that we all showed up to put him out.”

The country has waited three nerve-racking days for news of a definite outcome. All that time, the nation’s fate has been cast, just not yet fully known, as local election offices scattered across a handful of states counted the crucial remaining ballots. Voters of both parties have stayed up late and woken up early, praying, hoping, refreshing feeds and staring at maps on the TV that never seemed to change.

“What is happening now is what I thought was going to happen,” said Rosemary Gabriel, 51, who moved from Nigeria 19 years ago to the Atlanta suburbs where she now lives and works, “because I still have faith in the American people.”

For all that confidence in the outcome, though, she had been glued to the TV all week. “I’ve had four hours of sleep,” she said.

As the tally tediously proceeded, the president falsely declared victory and raged about conspiracy, one of his sons urged “total war” over the election, his campaign’s lawyers filed a squall of lawsuits, and crowds of supporters took to the streets demanding that election officials stop counting or keep counting depending on where they were.

“I feel like things are being yanked from underneath me,” said Joel Medina, 44, a businessman from Rowlett, Texas, who cast the first vote in his life on Tuesday for Mr. Trump. He had not ruled out that Mr. Trump would eventually come out on top.

Still, even some of those with deep suspicions about the election had resigned themselves to a Biden victory. It was proof, as they saw it, that in the end the swamp always wins.

“I’ll never forget it, they were so shocked when he got elected,” recalled Kim Anzelmi, 55, of Scranton, Pa., who had assumed politics to be irredeemably rigged until the night Mr. Trump won in November 2016. That election had changed her mind about the system and what was possible — briefly. Now she is as cynical about it as ever. “Politics has been crooked since the Romans,” she said.

But Dolores Selico, who cast a ballot for Mr. Biden on Tuesday in a high school gymnasium in South Los Angeles, was confident that whatever would transpire would be “God’s will.”

When Ms. Selico voted, she wore a T-shirt bearing the face of John Lewis, the late civil rights pioneer. It was a way to honor “what our ancestors went through so we could vote,” said Ms. Selico, a Black woman who is 80 years old.

Shanna Davidson, a social worker in Louisville, Ky., who also backed Mr. Biden, had seen enough to feel relief.

“Today’s a good day,” she said. Still, she recognized that tens of millions of Americans voted differently from her, and would be as dejected as she was now invigorated. The election appeared so close when she woke up on Wednesday morning, she said, that “I about had a nervous breakdown.”

This was the thing, though. In this strange and ongoing limbo of an uncalled election, there was still plenty of anxiety to go around. For every Biden voter like Susan Macovsky, buying bottles of prosecco at a Pennsylvania liquor store to celebrate — even if perhaps a little prematurely, she admitted — there was another, like Rachael Lindemann, relieved but still nervous.

“I’m not going to count my chickens before they’re hatched,” she said.

There had been plenty of evidence in her life that things could change suddenly and inexplicably. Her husband, a struggling dairy farmer in Albany, Wis., had supported Mr. Trump in 2016, while she had voted for Hillary Clinton. But Mr. Trump’s trade war with China ravaged their finances, and they eventually had to sell their farm and cows. Mr. Lindemann took a construction job. This year, he voted for Mr. Biden.

For now, Ms. Lindemann was not celebrating. “I know he’s going to throw a 5-year-old tantrum and he’s going to turn over every table he can,” she said of Mr. Trump. “We don’t have a president yet.”

There are many, like Ms. Lindemann, whose vote was personal, a first chance to answer the president for what he brought or took away from them.

Nephtalie Hyacinthe, 42, a Haitian immigrant in Miramar, Fla., took her citizenship exam the day after Mr. Trump was elected in 2016. She viewed his first term as a four-year civics lesson that would help shape her political views and prepare her for the 2020 election.

She studied the president, listening as he took a hard line on immigrants and hearing reports of the disparaging things he called her homeland. And so on the last day of October, Ms. Hyacinthe weighed in, casting her first vote in America for Mr. Biden at a library. As she learned this week, she had picked the likely winner.

“For an immigrant, voting represents the white picket fence,” she said, her voice quaking with excitement. “This means I am an American citizen and I helped to pick our next leader.”

Just as Ms. Hyacinthe was discovering in her adopted country, plenty of people who have lived here from birth had learned — this week and over the past four years — that it was perhaps not the country they thought they had known.

“I’m sort of sick to my stomach,” said Sam Diana, a 55-year-old antiques dealer in Scranton — and a lifelong Democrat — who voted for Mr. Trump. He had been lying on the couch watching the returns for days, learning on Friday morning during a trip to Sam’s Club that his state had likely flipped to Mr. Biden. “I definitely, definitely, definitely believe it was fixed.”

Beneath all this, however, lay deep and unresolved questions about what was happening in the country and in the minds of his fellow citizens.

“Something’s going on in America — something scary,” Mr. Diana said. “It makes you get a lump in your throat when you think, Is this really America? Are we all partners? Why did they hate that man so much?”

Across the state in Erie that same morning, Karen Moski, 67, was leaving the house for work when she learned that Mr. Biden was now ahead in Pennsylvania. Among friends the night before she had found out that her home county, a reliably Democratic stronghold that had shockingly sent most of its votes to Mr. Trump four years ago, had also turned back to blue again.

“We’re getting rid of Donald Trump and that has been my goal for years,” she said, laughing at the realization that an outspoken Trump-supporting colleague would be coming into the office later that day. Perhaps Erie’s reversal was a sign the county had “probably just made a mistake” in 2016.

But there was no going back completely. Ms. Moski had learned things about her city over the last four years, she said, opinions that friends had about race and politics that had surprised her. Biden victory or not, Erie — and the country — would never be the same.

“That was an awakening,” she said. “We have some work to do.”





No.15 article:
At Cal, a Single Positive Test May Wipe Out Two Football Games

On Saturday, the Pac-12 will become the last major college conference to start its football season. But Cal’s Golden Bears, despite following strict protocols, won’t be on the field, and they might have to miss next week’s game, too.

For months, the athletic department at Cal thought it was doing everything just right to keep the coronavirus out and get games going again. The football team’s season opener on Saturday was supposed to be the university’s first athletic competition since March. Like hundreds of other colleges, Cal was determined to make it happen, safely.

“We’ve designed what we do,” Athletic Director Jim Knowlton said. “And we’re probably the most strict of any school around.”

Then came a positive test for a player on Monday, a follow-up positive test on Tuesday, and a public announcement of the diagnosis on Wednesday. Still, the game was on the schedule.

Behind the scenes, university health officials met with Berkeley health officials, whose rules dictate the college’s procedures after a positive test. Contact tracing was underway; the unnamed player who tested positive was asked about all his contacts over the previous five days. An entire position group was kept from practice, though no one else had tested positive.

Knowlton warned the university chancellor and the commissioner of the Pac-12 Conference that there were concerns about Saturday’s home game with Washington.

On Thursday, the big news broke: The game was canceled. It was erased over a single positive test.

“This one stung worse than when we canceled the season, when the Pac-12 canceled back in July,” Jay Larson, a senior associate athletic director overseeing the football program, said in reference to a decision that was eventually reversed. “Just to come this close, two days from being able to do what these guys dream of doing.”

More than anything, the postponement was a reminder of the fluidity and fragility of playing college sports during a pandemic.

On Saturday, the Pac-12 will become the last major college conference to start its football season. It was criticized for being slow to proceed, as some other top conferences have been playing since September. The Pac-12 argued that, as a result, it was better positioned to keep players safe.

But two of its six games scheduled for Saturday — Washington at Cal and Arizona at Utah — were canceled late this week because players had tested positive.

No one seems to be getting a better handle on limiting the spread of the virus. Across college football, dozens of games have been postponed or canceled because of outbreaks.

Top coaches and players have had to sit out of games. Coach Nick Saban of Alabama nearly missed a game after a positive test, and top-ranked Clemson’s quarterback, Trevor Lawrence — a leading candidate to win the Heisman Trophy as college football’s best player — will miss Saturday’s game against No. 4 Notre Dame. The Pac-12 cancellations are among at least seven on Saturday.

Conferences everywhere are trying to make order from battered schedules and scrambled standings, while insisting that playing college football this fall is a wise and necessary endeavor that has nothing to do with making money.

That was the quicksand that the Pac-12 tried to tiptoe into, just as the number of coronavirus cases and deaths in the United States rose steadily again.

This fall, The Times has highlighted the challenge facing college sports through the experience of one major athletic department — Cal, the flagship campus of the University of California system, with 30 sports and a $100 million annual budget.

Like the rest of the Pac-12, Cal initially said it would wait until 2021 to play games, postponing all its fall sports. In October, nudged by the availability of daily testing and the growing sense of peer pressure to join the party, the Pac-12 decided to start football after all.

The league created a conference-only, seven-game season and scheduled it to begin this weekend. There would be no time for bye weeks, because the Pac-12 wanted its champion to be eligible for a four-team national championship playoff that starts on Jan. 1.

Cal, coming off an 8-5 season, has hopes for a league title behind the experienced quarterback Chase Garbers. Practice began last month. Cal tested athletes before each workout, required masks at all times, had athletes dress and lift weights outdoors, and preached the importance of avoiding the virus.

Then came game week.

Before every practice, each Cal player is required to undergo a swab test. Results come back in 15 minutes. On Monday, Larson got a call: A player had tested positive.

False positives are not uncommon, so there was little alarm. But the player, who was still asymptomatic, was held out of practice and immediately took a genetic test, as all Cal players do twice a week. Those tests are considered more accurate, but results can take a day or more.

There was no practice on Tuesday because of Election Day. During a regularly scheduled Tuesday morning meeting involving administrators and the football team’s head coach, Justin Wilcox, the group discussed the Pac-12 regulations about isolation in case several players got swept up by contact tracing. The conference requires at least 53 scholarship players to be available for a football game, and minimum numbers for three positions: quarterback, offensive line and defensive line. (Cal officials declined to name the position of the infected player.)

On Tuesday afternoon, the positive test was confirmed. University health officials contacted Berkeley health officials, who began contact tracing. The player was questioned about his contacts over the previous five days. Cal even pulled film from previous practices to study which players had extended contact with him.

Berkeley regulations state that those in close contact with someone with the coronavirus must quarantine for 14 days.

“By Tuesday night, we had a pretty good sense that the entire position group could be impacted,” Larson said.

Knowlton sent a message to warn the chancellor. On Wednesday morning, Berkeley health officials approved a plan for the football team’s practice on Wednesday, without any players from the affected position, and said they would have results from the contact tracing by 11 a.m. on Thursday.

Knowlton called the Pac-12 and Washington, and Cal announced on Wednesday evening that a player had tested positive. Wilcox, the coach, acknowledged that Saturday’s game was in jeopardy.

At about 10 a.m. Thursday, Cal got the word from Berkeley officials: The entire position must quarantine. Depending on when the contacts occurred, Cal’s Nov. 14 game at Arizona State might be at risk, too. The university hopes continued negative results might allow it to proceed as scheduled.

But Saturday’s game with Washington was declared a “no contest” by the Pac-12.

Wilcox expressed frustration that one positive test could cancel one or more games, when he has seen teams in other parts of the country continue playing. “I absolutely agree that there are different interpretations of contact tracing,” he said in a call with reporters on Thursday afternoon.

But Knowlton knew all along how quickly the best plans could be undone. Now he and Larson want to know how to prevent it from happening again. More of the university’s sports are supposed to start in the coming weeks.

On Friday, Knowlton and Larson held a meeting to figure out what went wrong. By Friday night, they still were not sure.

“We don’t mind getting our test back that says you got an ‘F,’” Knowlton said. “But we’re a learning organization. Tell us what questions we got wrong, because we’re going to go back and study those areas so that we get A’s.”





No.16 article:
Children Produce Weaker Coronavirus Antibodies, Study Finds

The research suggests that children clear the infection much faster than adults and may help explain why many don’t become seriously ill.

Children infected with the coronavirus produce weaker antibodies and fewer types of them than adults do, suggesting they clear their infection much faster, according to a new study published Thursday.

Other studies have suggested that an overly strong immune response may be to blame in people who get severely ill or die from Covid-19. A weaker immune response in children may paradoxically indicate that they vanquish the virus before it has had a chance to wreak havoc in the body, and may help explain why children are mostly spared severe symptoms of Covid, the disease caused by the coronavirus. It may also show why they are less likely to spread the virus to others.

“They may be infectious for a shorter time,” said Donna Farber, an immunologist at Columbia University in New York who led the study reported in the journal Nature Immunology.

Having weaker and fewer antibodies does not mean that children would be more at risk of re-infections, other experts said.

“You don’t really need a huge, overly robust immune response to maintain protections over some period of time,” said Deepta Bhattacharya, an immunologist at the University of Arizona in Tucson. “I don’t know that I would be especially worried that kids have a little bit lower antibody response.”

The study looked at children’s antibody levels at a single point in time, and was too small to provide insights into how the levels may vary with age. But it could pose questions for certain antibody tests that may be missing children who have been infected.

Dr. Farber and her colleagues analyzed antibodies to the coronavirus in four groups of patients: 19 adult convalescent plasma donors who had recovered from Covid without being hospitalized; 13 adults hospitalized with acute respiratory distress syndrome resulting from severe Covid; 16 children hospitalized with multi-system inflammatory syndrome, the rare condition affecting some infected children; and 31 infected children who did not have the syndrome. About half of this last group of children had no symptoms at all.

Individuals in each group had antibodies, consistent with other studies showing that the vast majority of people infected with the coronavirus mount a robust immune response.

“This further emphasizes that this viral infection in itself, and the immune response to this virus, is not that different from what we would expect” from any virus, said Petter Brodin, an immunologist at Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm.

But the range of antibodies differed between children and adults. The children made primarily one type of antibody, called IgG, that recognizes the spike protein on the surface of the virus. Adults, by contrast, made several types of antibodies to the spike and other viral proteins, and these antibodies were more powerful at neutralizing the virus.

Children had “less of a protective response, but they also had less of a breadth of an antibody response,” Dr. Farber said. “It’s because those kids are just not getting infected as severely.”

Neither group of children had antibodies to a viral protein called the nucleocapsid, or N, that is entangled with the genetic material of the virus. Because this protein is found within the virus and not on its surface, the immune system would only see it and make antibodies to it if the virus were widely disseminated in the body, she said.

“You don’t really see any of that in the children, and that suggests that there’s really a reduced infection course if these kids are getting infected,” she explained.

The finding could undermine the results from tests designed to pick up antibodies to the N protein of the virus. Many antibody tests, including those made by Abbott and Roche and offered by Quest Diagnostics and LabCorp, are specific to the N antibodies and so may miss children who have successfully cleared the virus. “That’s absolutely an interesting implication of that finding,” Dr. Brodin said.

Lower levels of virus in the body would also explain why children seem generally to transmit the virus less efficiently than adults do.

But experts urged some caution in interpreting the results because they represent samples taken from people at a single point in time.

Samples from the more severely affected children and adults were collected within 24 to 36 hours of being admitted or intubated for respiratory failure; those from children with mild or no symptoms were banked after medical procedures.

The type of antibodies produced by the body varies over the time course of an infection. This was a limitation of this study because the researchers may have been comparing people at different points in their infection, Dr. Brodin said. “You risk comparing apples and oranges.”

Other experts cautioned that the study was too small to draw conclusions about how the immune response may vary in children of different ages. The children in the study ranged in age from 3 to 18 years, with a median age of 11. But some studies have suggested that teenagers may be just as much at risk from the coronavirus as adults.

“It’s very important to understand what happens in children,” to understand the nature of their illness, but also how they contribute to spread of the virus in the community, said Dr. Maria L. Gennaro, an immunologist at Rutgers University. But “to try and stratify by age, it’s a little bit of a stretch in the analysis,” she said.

The researchers were also not able to explain why children have a more limited antibody response.

Having fewer types of antibodies may seem like a bad thing, but “having a ton of antibody isn’t necessarily a marker of a good thing,” said Dr. Bhattacharya. “It usually means that something went wrong early in the response.”

At least one other study has suggested that children have a powerful inborn immune system, intended to combat the many new pathogens they encounter, and that this first line of defense may clear the infection early without needing to rely on later antibodies.

Another possibility is that the children have some protection — in the form of immune cells called memory T cells — from previous encounters with common cold coronaviruses.

“Is it all innate? Or could there actually be some pre-existing memory?” Dr. Bhattacharya said. “I think those are both possible.”





No.17 article:
A Visit to 5 of Patagonia’s Most Remote Schoolhouses

At the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, with travel restrictions in place worldwide, we launched a new series — The World Through a Lens — in which photojournalists help transport you, virtually, to some of our planet’s most beautiful and intriguing places. This week, Andria Hautamaki shares a collection of images from rural Patagonia.

Known for its soaring, glacier-capped Andean peaks and its labyrinth of fjords, Magallanes — in southernmost Patagonia — is Chile’s largest but second least populated region. Daily existence here requires tenacity and resilience, and community life within the isolated villages is facilitated in part by an unlikely source: a network of rural schools.

Last year, more than 275,000 Chilean students attended one of the country’s rural schools. Half of these schools were led by a sole teacher who instructed multiple grade levels inside a single room. Many of the schools also include gymnasiums, libraries, cafeterias or computer rooms — resources that benefit the broader community.

After coordinating with local educational authorities and teachers, and with the blessing of the students’ parents and guardians, I spent over a month last year traveling to five such schools.

The areas I visited exemplify the diversity of lifestyle found in the remote corners of Chilean Patagonia. Some of the communities rely on ranching or peat extraction, some on fishing, some on tourism. Many of the schools themselves are off-the-grid, powered by a combination of diesel generators and wind or solar energy. When winter temperatures dip below freezing, gravity-fed water systems and water pipes can ice over for days or even weeks. Wood-burning stoves heat many of the classrooms.

Getting to these areas can be an arduous undertaking. Villa Puerto Edén, for example, a remote hamlet on Wellington Island, was a 27-hour trip from the mainland. Because of the staggered schedule of the ferry, I had to wait ten days to catch the next boat out.

Reaching Pampa Guanaco, a hamlet on the archipelago of Tierra del Fuego, also required a ferry ride — in addition to a three-hour drive on a gravel road.

At the end of my stay, when it came time to return to mainland Chile, the port had closed because of high winds. I was left stranded on a blustery shore, surrounded by white-capped waves. Several hours later, the wind let up just enough for the ferry to resume crossing the Strait of Magellan.

Classroom instruction in these rural communities is provided from preschool through eighth grade. After eighth grade, students must relocate during the school year to the closest city, which could be hours, or days away. There, they often live with either a parent or extended family, or even a host family, in order to attend high school.

Cynthia Almonacid Molinet, who is 36, teaches 11 students — representing six distinct grade levels — at a school in Cerro Guido.

The school sits on a livestock ranch in view of Torres del Paine National Park and is often surrounded by gauchos on horseback. Classroom instruction is sometimes interrupted by the pattering of hooves from passing flocks of woolly sheep.

One of the many advantages of the rural educational environment “is being able to study the parts of a plant and then being able to go out into the environment to find concrete examples in nature,” Ms. Almonacid said.

But working in small, isolated communities is also uniquely demanding. “Teachers who are in rural schools must enjoy living in extreme areas,” Ms. Almonacid said, adding that the management of multigrade classrooms — with students at a variety of levels and abilities — is a constant struggle.

The coronavirus pandemic has upended educational routines all around the globe, and many schools in Chile have pivoted to remote learning. But rural Chilean schools face particularly difficult challenges now, not the least of which is the lack of consistent internet and telecommunication networks.

“Not all students have access to the internet, a computer or a telephone,” Ms. Almonacid said. “And parents, due to limited schooling, find it difficult to help their children with their homework.”

Enrollment in schools here fluctuates from year to year — as students graduate, or as families come or go. But rural schools continue to serve aspiring marine biologists, artisan boat builders, bilingual tour guides and veterinarians. And despite the difficulties introduced by the coronavirus pandemic, these students’ professional dreams will continue to be kindled by daily contact with the natural world, coupled with the freedom to embrace curiosity and creative problem-solving.

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.





No.18 article:
A Friday Full of M.L.B. News and Mercy

The era of outrage took a timeout as Steven Cohen took over the Mets, Alex Cora was rehired by the Red Sox and Justin Turner escaped punishment for a controversial on-field celebration.

As the presumptive new owner of the Mets last week, Steven A. Cohen spent days answering fans’ questions on Twitter. The Mets’ loyalists, he wrote, are the “most knowledgeable fans around” — and Cohen has always been one of them.

On Friday, when he closed on a record $2.475 billion purchase of his favorite team, Cohen started his tenure with precisely the kind of move a frustrated Mets fan would make, clearing out a front office that had failed to take the Mets back to the postseason. Cohen fired five members of the baseball operations staff, including General Manager Brodie Van Wagenen, three assistants and the player development director, Jared Banner.

Sandy Alderson, the Mets’ former general manager and new team president, will hire a fresh front-office team supported by not just Cohen’s billions, but also his drive. At a time when other owners will show caution after a season without ticket sales, the Mets are positioned to spend the way they rarely did after the Bernard L. Madoff scandal ravaged the Wilpon family finances.

The Cohen developments were part of an impressive news dump around Major League Baseball on Friday, joining the league’s decision not to punish Justin Turner for celebrating the World Series title last week with his Dodgers teammates, despite having just tested positive for the coronavirus, and the return of Alex Cora to manage the Boston Red Sox. All three stories, in a way, were underscored by a quality too often missing these days: mercy.

This is an era of outrage, in and out of sports, in which every transgression seems to mean eternal condemnation, or at least stern scolding and moralizing. After a while, punishment often feels like shame for the sake of shame.

Cohen, for his part, was approved by league owners on Oct. 30 — with four dissenting votes — despite baggage that includes several discrimination claims filed by women against his firm, Point72 Asset Management, and the insider-trading finding against his former company, SAC Capital Advisors, in 2013. Cohen has never been charged with a crime, but SAC Capital Advisors paid $1.8 billion in fines.

But with Cohen’s deep pockets, and abiding love for the team, now controlling the Mets, the options in free agency are dizzying: Catcher J.T. Realmuto, outfielder George Springer, starter Trevor Bauer and infielder D.J. LeMahieu headline a sneaky-deep class of available players, and the Mets also have flexibility to trade for contracts their rivals want to unload. Cohen’s respect for the power of analytics — a field Alderson helped pioneer with the Oakland A’s — should help keep the team from making rash decisions.

This is the moment when everything seems possible, before any moves of the Cohen era backfire because of underperformance, injury or bad luck. The Mets, of course, will not be immune to those forces. It took the current owners of the Dodgers — the model big-market franchise — eight consecutive division titles before they finally won the World Series.

Like Cohen, whose past was ultimately not held against him, Cora was allowed to return after serving a penalty for his role in the Houston Astros’ sign-stealing scandal of 2017, when he was their bench coach. The Red Sox fired him last winter — sparing him a season with their wretched roster, yes, but also costing him his paycheck. A.J. Hinch, the Astros’ manager in 2017, was suspended for a year and subsequently fired. He was hired last week as manager of the Detroit Tigers.

Managers with championship rings are hard to find, and it is no surprise that Cora and Hinch are back. Two others who lost their jobs after the Astros’ scandal are still out of baseball — their former general manager, Jeff Luhnow, who was suspended for a year and fired, and their former designated hitter, Carlos Beltran, who was fired as Mets manager. Both have plenty to offer, wherever their next opportunities arise.

The point is not to excuse bad behavior, but to let talented people have another chance after serving their time. Fans and historians have long memories, and high-profile transgressions never disappear from the record. But not every story has to finish that way.

In Turner’s case, what would baseball have proved by punishing him for poor judgment? Turner has been roundly vilified for thoughtless exuberance, and he acknowledged in a statement that he had “unwisely” removed his mask while taking a team photo with the trophy. But M.L.B. would have been disingenuous to hold him solely responsible for heading back to the field.

“Major League Baseball could have handled the situation more effectively,” Commissioner Rob Manfred said in a statement on Friday. “For example, in retrospect, a security person should have been assigned to monitor Mr. Turner when he was asked to isolate, and Mr. Turner should have been transported from the stadium to the hotel more promptly.”

Manfred also explained that at least two Dodgers employees had said nothing to Turner as he was on his way to the field, and that, in Turner’s recollection, at least one Dodgers official had given him permission. To his credit, Manfred also understood the emotional pull of Turner’s decision, which no teammate has publicly opposed.

“Turner’s teammates actively encouraged him to leave the isolation room and return to the field for a photograph,” Manfred wrote. “Many teammates felt they had already been exposed to Mr. Turner and were prepared to tolerate the additional risk.”

The risk of showing mercy to Turner — and letting Cohen, Cora and Hinch hold leadership roles in the industry — seems minimal. The value of dialing back outrage, especially now, is considerable.





No.19 article:
Holiday Travel and Safety: 5 Things We Know

During the current pandemic surge, how risky is it to travel during what is normally one of the busiest seasons? And how is the industry making it safer? Here’s what you need to know.

To travel, or not to travel? That is the holiday question.

With the approach of the December holidays during a surge in coronavirus cases nationwide, the increased risks presented by travel — either contracting or spreading the virus — are challenging the travel industry during what is normally one of its busiest seasons.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have warned people that postponing travel and staying home is the best way to keep safe. The agency also “strongly recommends” that masks be worn on any public conveyance, including subways, buses, taxis, ride shares and airplanes.

Most airlines are waiving change fees and allowing cancellations through the holidays by issuing flight credits for future travel. American Airlines and United Airlines allow about a year to use the credits. Many credits from Delta Air Lines are good through December 2022.

Here are five more things we know about holiday travel.

[Read more on travel insurance during the coronavirus pandemic.]

Last Thanksgiving, Airlines for America, the industry trade group, expected 31.6 million travelers over the 12-day holiday period. This year, the group declined to provide an estimate.

FlightAware, which tracks flight traffic, said commercial aviation remains at about half of 2019 volume. Those planes that are flying are filled to just 61 percent of capacity on average.

Despite fewer flying overall, scoring a seat without a neighbor sharing your armrest is getting harder, and travelers should prepare for more crowded planes. Southwest Airlines, which has held middle seats open during the pandemic, returned to making all seats available for flights from Dec. 1.

“To date, demand has been so weak that blocking the middle seat hasn’t hurt us,” said Gary Kelly, the chief executive of the airline, in a recorded statement in October. He added that going into the holiday season, “the value of selling the middle seats is significant and will provide additional key revenue for us.”

Among the four largest carriers in the United States, including American, Southwest and United, that leaves only Delta Air Lines committed to leaving its middle seats open during the holidays, now through March 30.

In a third-quarter earnings call, Edward H. Bastian, Delta’s chief executive, said the airline expects business in December to be about a third of what it was in December 2019.

Many medical experts credit the airlines for using HEPA filters to scrub the air of germs on planes. A recent study by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health found little evidence of in-flight transmission since mask mandates were implemented in spring and rated the risk of disease transmission on planes below that of grocery shopping or eating out.

But the risks of flying are not just at cruising altitude.

“You have to take into account all the steps of travel, getting to the airport, security lines, layovers,” said Dr. Henry Wu, the director of Emory TravelWell Center and an associate professor of infectious diseases at Emory University School of Medicine. “All of these things add to the potential exposure list.”

In addition to vigilant mask-wearing, he advises carrying hand sanitizer, choosing a window seat to avoid others passing in the aisles, wearing a face shield and avoiding eating or drinking, which requires you to lower your mask, if possible.

Outside of the plane, he added, “I want folks to internalize what is six feet, whether they’re walking to the gates or getting into elevators or on escalators.”

Increasingly, airlines are touting testing for Covid-19 as a way to reassure travelers that flying is safe.

In a pilot program running Nov. 6 to Dec. 11, United Airlines will offer free rapid testing to passengers on select flights from Newark to London, ensuring that everyone on board (except children under age 2) has tested negative before takeoff.

In October, United began offering Covid-19 testing at San Francisco International Airport to fliers bound for Hawaii, which requires negative test results in order to avoid quarantining for 14 days. American Airlines is also offering testing to Hawaii-bound travelers either in person or through an at-home kit.

Both the International Air Transport Association and Airlines for America are calling for preflight Covid-19 testing as an alternative to quarantine restrictions.

For destinations that require testing, such as Hawaii and Jamaica, the type of tests may vary along with the grace period for getting it before arrival, requiring travelers to research testing requirements carefully.

“When we can have some international agreement on the best strategy to test and when to test and which test to use, that will make the whole process easier for travelers, airlines and destinations,” said Lin H. Chen, the president of the International Society of Travel Medicine and an associate professor at Harvard Medical School. “Right now, we don’t have that standard.”

While roughly half of respondents with holiday travel plans told Destination Analysts that they would not undergo testing before their holiday travels, a third said they would.

“If you’re negative, that’s good news but it doesn’t mean you should relax your precautions,” Dr. Wu said. “The results could be false or you could be incubating infection. And you could get infected during the trip itself.”

Testing is one way families and friends might consider merging their bubbles for the holidays. But using them, like everything else travel-related these days, takes planning, including ensuring members of merging bubbles are following the same precautions leading up to the trip.

“You have to lower your risk, then test,” said Dr. Emily Landon, an associate professor of medicine and an infectious disease expert at the University of Chicago, who advises families to quarantine for up to 14 days before testing. “The tests are most sensitive five to eight days after exposure. And they’re not perfect. The faster they are, generally speaking, the least likely they are to be accurate.”

Molecular tests, also known as PCR tests, are considered most accurate and usually require at least a day or two to get the results, versus antigen tests, which are quick but less accurate.

Meeting at a neutral site, like a vacation home rental will decrease the chances of encountering other strangers while preserving your own bubble or your newly enlarged one. HomeToGo, a vacation rental search engine, said rental home bookings between Thanksgiving and New Year’s Day are up 70 percent nationally compared to last year.

Bringing your own food to last during your stay is another way to minimize contact with strangers. Where possible, experts recommend dining outdoors, or even dividing up an outdoor patio into areas assigned to each family bubble. The C.D.C.’s recommendations for holiday gatherings include keeping them small, socially distant, short and outside or well-ventilated.

When it comes to lodging, hotels are considered a safer option than staying at the home of a friend or relative. In addition to enhanced cleaning, hotels are relatively deserted. Across the country, average hotel occupancy is about half, with rates just shy of $100 a night, according to the hotel analysts STR, Inc.

From strict statewide policies in New York and Connecticut to local restrictions in Chicago, many destinations require visitors or returning residents to quarantine. The C.D.C. recommends checking state, territorial, tribal and local health websites for current restrictions.

Many of the quarantine mandates rely on self-monitoring. But breaking a quarantine order in New York can cost up to $10,000 in fines or up to 15 days in prison. As of Nov. 4, most out-of-state travelers may avoid New York’s 14-day quarantine requirement with negative Covid-19 results from a test taken within three days of arrival, a quarantine for three days after arrival, and receiving negative test results from another test taken on day four.

“You need to think about the entire trip,” said Jeremy Prout, the director of security solutions for the Americas at International SOS, a health and security services firm. “That includes the trip back, which might add a two-week quarantine.”

Be prepared for the risk of infection while traveling, which could result in a quarantine in the destination. Mr. Prout recommends travelers pack for a two-week trip, even if only a brief visit was planned.

Potential quarantines in a destination are another reason to ensure that, if you flew, your airline ticket has a flexible cancellation policy or waives change fees. Southwest does not charge fees for changing your ticket, and Delta is waiving change fees on most tickets purchased this year.

Avoid tickets like Basic Economy on American, which do not allow changes. United is allowing changes without penalty on Basic Economy tickets through Dec. 31.

In a survey of 16,000 Americans this summer, the consulting group Deloitte Digital found road trips and short-haul regional travel were preferred by 65 percent of respondents, a number it expects may increase during the holidays.

“The advantage of driving is the environment is much more controlled,” said Emory’s Dr. Wu. “Ideally, you’re driving with your immediate family you live with. If you’re picking up folks from other households, that increases the risk someone might be infected and you’re exposed. And it’s a small, tight environment.”

This fall, the American Automobile Association said visits to its trip-mapping service TripTik has doubled since spring. Like Google Maps and other digital services, the free website allows users to enter their destination and get routing options. In addition to directions, users can elect to have hotels, restaurants, gas stations and campgrounds appear throughout the map to help you plan your stops.

The AAA service — available online or through its app to members and nonmembers — also links to a useful map of the United States, showing state, county and citywide restrictions on things like mask-wearing, gathering sizes, dining limits and quarantine requirements.

The C.D.C. recommends motorists pump gas using a sanitary wipe, sanitize their hands afterward and bring their own food to avoid indoor areas.

“Journey management planning is a big thing,” Mr. Prout, of International SOS, said. “You need to have your rest stops planned, your vehicle in good order and limit the time driving at night.”

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.





No.20 article:
Steve Bannon Loses Lawyer After Suggesting Beheading of Fauci

Mr. Bannon, the former adviser to President Trump, said the heads of the F.B.I. director and Dr. Anthony Fauci should be put on pikes, leading Twitter to ban one of his accounts.

Stephen K. Bannon, the former adviser to President Trump who is known for his right-wing extremism, suggested on Thursday that the F.B.I. director and Dr. Anthony S. Fauci should be beheaded, and Twitter responded by banning one of his accounts.

On Friday, a prominent lawyer who was defending Mr. Bannon against fraud charges in federal court in Manhattan abruptly moved to drop him as a client, one person familiar with the matter said.

“Mr. Bannon is in the process of retaining new counsel,” the lawyer, William A. Burck, said in a brief letter to the court, giving no explanation.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Bannon declined to comment.

The loss of his white-shoe representation was just the latest setback for Mr. Bannon, 66, who has struggled for political relevance since losing his job at the White House eight months after Mr. Trump’s inauguration.

Most recently, in the final weeks of the presidential campaign, Mr. Bannon teamed with Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s lawyer, laboring to create a narrative that former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s son Hunter was corrupt, in a bid to harm Mr. Biden’s presidential campaign. The Biden campaign has vigorously denied the unsubstantiated allegations.

Since August, Mr. Bannon has been fighting the criminal charges lodged against him by federal prosecutors in Manhattan, the case in which Mr. Burck has been his lawyer.

Mr. Bannon was arrested on charges of defrauding donors to a campaign to privately fund a wall on the United States’ border with Mexico, one of Mr. Trump’s signature political promises.

The prosecutors have charged that Mr. Bannon and three co-defendants, while pledging publicly not to take any of the money raised for themselves, siphoned off hundreds of thousands of dollars to pay for travel, hotels, personal credit card debt and other expenses.

Mr. Bannon and the three co-defendants have pleaded not guilty to the charges. Mr. Burck’s letter asked that the next hearing in the case, which was scheduled for Monday, be postponed while Mr. Bannon found new counsel. The judge agreed set a new date for next month.

Mr. Bannon’s comments were made during a livestream of his online show “War Room: Pandemic.”

The video showed Mr. Bannon calling for violence against Dr. Fauci, the government’s top infectious diseases specialist, and Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director. Both officials have become targets of pro-Trump pundits who accuse them of undermining the president.

Mr. Bannon, in his comments, invoked punishment from the medieval era.

“I’d actually like to go back to the old times of Tudor England,” Mr. Bannon said. “I’d put the heads on pikes, right? I’d put them at the two corners of the White House as a warning to federal bureaucrats: You either get with the program or you’re gone.”

Twitter banned an account belonging to Mr. Bannon on Thursday that posted video of his remarks.

“The @WarRoomPandemic account has been permanently suspended for violating the Twitter rules, specifically our policy on the glorification of violence,” a Twitter spokesman said.

A video of Mr. Bannon’s remarks also was removed from YouTube, said Alex Joseph, a YouTube spokesman.

“We’ve removed this video for violating our policy against inciting violence,” Mr. Joseph said. “We will continue to be vigilant as we enforce our policies in the postelection period.”

It is not uncommon for defendants to switch lawyers, sometimes because of disagreements over legal strategy or because the legal bills are not being paid.

Mr. Burck gave no reasons for seeking to sever ties with Mr. Bannon in the two-paragraph letter he submitted on Friday to the judge, Analisa Torres of Federal District Court, who must approve a change in lawyers.

Stephen Gillers, a legal ethics expert at New York University School of Law, said speaking generally, “Lawyers will withdraw when a client’s behavior sabotages the lawyer’s work on the client’s behalf.”

Mr. Gillers said he did not know why Mr. Burck was seeking to withdraw from Mr. Bannon’s case, but he added: “Bannon’s public comments made Burck’s job more difficult. Burck was hired to fight the prosecutors and should not also have to do battle with his own client.”





No.21 article:
2020 Should Be the Last Time We Vote Like This

Turnout was inspiring, but our voting system is badly flawed.

Now that the ballots have been cast and we wait to see whose will be counted and whose will be ignored, can we please take a moment to acknowledge what a huge mess this whole thing has been?

I don’t mean the big things — the absurd twists in the ugly, never-ending, pandemic-blurred, possibly world-ending presidential election of 2020. No, I’m referring to the smallest, most particular act of this saga: the way we voted. The process of registering your democratic preference, the citizen’s core duty in a democracy. Can we take a moment to acknowledge how terribly inefficient, inaccessible, unfair and just plain backward this process remains in the United States?

When all the tallying is done, up to an estimated 160 million Americans will have voted this year — a turnout of about 67 percent of eligible voters. That would be a modern record, and given that it occurred as the coronavirus raged, the casting and counting of all those votes should be regarded as an achievement for the United States’ election system.

But that’s not a very high bar, and the biggest problem about how America conducts its elections is that we have been too tolerant, for too long, of a bar set way too low.

High turnout notwithstanding, the glaring lesson of this year’s election is that we cannot go on this way. From the endless lines to the pre-election legal wrangling to the president’s constant effort to undermine the process, every ballot cast this year was a leap of faith: Would it get there in time? Would it get there at all? Would they try to toss it out because you voted from a car? Would they throw it out because you signed your name carelessly? Would judges be called upon to alter the mail-in deadline after the election had already begun? Would you ever be able to find the one dropbox in your sprawling county? And, after all that, would anyone believe the count, anyway?

All of this uncertainty is unworthy of the world’s “oldest democracy.” American elections are broken, and because the legitimacy of the entire political system rests upon our votes, their brokenness mars every other part of our democracy.

Fixing how we vote isn’t a mystery. Experts have recommended several specific measures that could greatly expand the franchise, including federal measures to make registration easier, expand early voting and ensure we have adequate resources at polling locations to prevent long lines.

The difficulty is, instead, political. For decades, limiting who gets to vote has been a key strategy of the Republican Party — though usually people on the right have not been quite so proud of this fact. This year, as has happened often with Donald Trump, subtext became text. In the weeks before Election Day, Trump all but boasted about the role that voter intimidation and suppression would play in his campaign.

“We’re watching you, Philadelphia,” Trump warned in Pennsylvania last week, suggesting something untoward going on with the vote in a city highly unfavorable to his candidacy. “We’re watching at the highest level.”

If Democrats win the presidency and the Senate, undoing the Republican bet on disenfranchisement ought to be among their highest priorities. One reason voting remains so onerous is that we rarely think about it except close to Election Day. The further out we get from the vote, the less urgency there is to fix things. But nothing else in a democracy works if voting doesn’t work. So, please, let’s fix voting first.

None of the problems we saw this year were new; inaccessibility, confusion, bureaucratic hoop-jumping and outright intimidation have long been hallmarks of American elections. Though politicians speak dreamily of the importance of voting, the United States badly lags other democracies on many measures of electoral success; in many countries, a turnout rate of about two-thirds wouldn’t rank as particularly extraordinary.

Voting in this country is also highly unequal. Compared with turnout among whites, turnout among people of color is often lower. It’s hard to argue this isn’t by design, a result of decades of deliberate disenfranchisement and the perpetuation, still, of voter suppression efforts aimed at people of color.

But the best way to appreciate the shortcomings in how we vote isn’t by looking at other countries. Instead, compare the act of voting to other modern services. Set against so many less important transactions in American life — ordering a complicated coffee from a national chain, or finding the best sushi place in a town you’ve never visited before — the simple act of casting a ballot is laughably antiquated.

Across much of the country, registering to vote is a labyrinth. In most states, if you haven’t remembered to register by Election Day, you’re too late. Not that you’d necessarily know about it. In between elections, it’s become common for states to “purge” voter rolls of people deemed ineligible, a process that many voters only learn about when they show up at the polls and are denied the chance to vote.

The system is also fragmented and underfunded, and it suffers from misaligned incentives. In many countries, elections are administered by nonpartisan agencies that set rules for the entire nation. In the United States, elections are often run by elected officials — Republican or Democratic secretaries of state, for instance — and rules about who gets to vote and how they do so differ from state to state.

Because states and the federal government do not sufficiently fund the voting system, it is often unable to meet anything more than ordinary demand. In the last few weeks, Americans in many cities have waited hours for the chance to vote, which is both inspiring and a really terrible comment on the state of our democracy.

As Amanda Mull noted recently in The Atlantic, in 2020 the act of voting was elevated to that most sacrosanct place in American society — it became feel-good marketing for brands. This year it felt as if just about every brand in America turned giddy about the democratic process. Retailers and fashion designers and restaurant chains couldn’t stop reminding us to “Vote!”

But the embrace of voting as a way to project corporate virtue only highlights how little the government has done to promote this supposedly precious democratic act. “As long as America’s leaders decline to make the system-wide changes that would help more people vote, corporations with something to sell will seep into the void,” Mull wrote.

She’s right, and it’s terrible. Voting shouldn’t be this difficult or this uncertain. We know what needs to be done to improve the process. And we shouldn’t wait until another election to get it done.

Farhad wants to chat with readers on the phone. If you’re interested in talking to a New York Times columnist about anything that’s on your mind, please fill out this form. Farhad will select a few readers to call.





No.22 article:
How Claims of Dead Michigan Voters Spread Faster Than the Facts

Run-of-the-mill clerical errors have been used as false evidence of voter fraud in Michigan.

The tweets began to arrive Wednesday night, carrying explosive claims that people in Michigan were voting under the names of dead people.

Austen Fletcher, a former Ivy League football player turned right-wing internet journalist, said in videos posted to Twitter that he had discovered registration documents on a State of Michigan website that showed that four people with reported birth dates from 1900 to 1902 had submitted absentee ballots ahead of Tuesday’s election. “How long has this been going on?” he asked.

By Thursday morning, Mr. Fletcher’s videos were the talk of the Republican internet. “Why is it taking regular Americans to expose this level of obvious corruption?” said Candace Owens, a conservative commentator, sharing one of the videos to her 2.7 million Twitter followers.

Yet a few phone calls by Mr. Fletcher would have revealed evidence that indicates that what appeared to be fraud were run-of-the-mill clerical errors.

In one case, a 74-year-old woman in Hamlin Township, Mich., had asked for an absentee ballot for the first time in years, setting off a notice from the state’s digital voter rolls that her birth date was not on file, according to Catherine Lewis, the town’s clerk. The system had assigned the woman the default birth date: 01/01/01, or Jan. 1, 1901.

Ms. Lewis said she knew the woman. Hamlin Township, a rural community on Lake Michigan, has just 3,400 people. She said she had driven to the woman’s home and collected a copy of her driver’s license so she could vote by mail. But Ms. Lewis had not gotten around to updating her file. “Rest assured,” Ms. Lewis said, “she is a legal voter.”

Then, on Thursday morning, after a marathon week for Ms. Lewis running the town’s vote, her phone began ringing. “I have had 18 calls and at least 20 strange emails asking me if I committed voter fraud,” she said. She was staying home with her family. “I need to be concerned about my family’s welfare,” she said.

In a text message on Friday, Mr. Fletcher, who goes by the pseudonym Fleccas online, said he was about to publish evidence that thousands of ballots in Michigan had been submitted under the names of dead people. He declined to speak on the phone. “Who is requesting, filling out, and returning these ballots,” he said in his message. “How many got thru? That’s my question.”

Since the polls closed on Tuesday, a number of internet sleuths have widely disseminated what they said was evidence that showed Democrats were trying to steal the election. In virtually every case so far, mainstream journalists have found the claims to be false or the product of typical errors in the election process.

Yet many people have not heard the truth behind the claims they are sharing — or, if they have, have dismissed it. Social media has created echo chambers where people hear largely from like-minded voices. And President Trump’s years of attacks on the media have caused many of his supporters to distrust journalists.

The result is a growing belief among some Americans that the 2020 election has been undermined by widespread fraud — a view sharply amplified by the president — despite virtually no evidence.

“What’s that saying? A lie gets halfway around the world by the time the truth gets its pants on,” said Matt Mackowiak, a Texas Republican consultant who inadvertently spurred false voter-fraud claims on Wednesday.

Mr. Mackowiak posted screenshots of an election map on Twitter that appeared to show that Joseph R. Biden Jr. had received 100 percent of newly counted ballots in an update to the vote count in Michigan early Wednesday.

Like Mr. Fletcher’s dead-voter videos, Mr. Mackowiak’s screenshots swiftly went viral. Conservative websites posted stories with headlines like “Very Odd: Michigan Found Over 100,000 Ballots and Every Single One Has Joe Biden’s Name on It.” About two hours later, Mr. Trump had shared the images on Twitter with the caption, “WHAT IS THIS ALL ABOUT?”

By that time, Mr. Mackowiak had seen people suggesting that the numbers he highlighted were the result of an error that had been fixed. He deleted his original tweet and wrote a new post clarifying that the suspicious numbers were not the result of fraud.

The New York Times found that Mr. Biden did not receive any of the votes in question and that the mix-up was the result of a typo in a small Michigan county that was caught and corrected in about 30 minutes.

Still, Mr. Mackowiak’s images continued to rocket around the internet. They were ultimately shared hundreds of thousands of times on Twitter. His correction? It had been shared 3,600 times as of Friday.

“I certainly wasn’t intending to make a typo appear fraudulent,” Mr. Mackowiak said. “My worst fears going into the election was that half the country would see the result as illegitimate.”

A day later, after the claims connected to Mr. Mackowiak’s images had been widely debunked by news organizations, Mr. Trump spent 17 minutes behind the lectern in the White House briefing room, claiming without evidence that Democrats were trying to steal the election. One of his specific suggestions of evidence was a claim that a tranche of votes from Michigan “all had the name Biden on them.”

Immediately after Mr. Trump’s news conference, William Bennett, who was secretary of education under President Ronald Reagan, was asked on Fox News about possible voter fraud. “If there is evidence, and I believe there will be, it should come forward,” he said. He offered only one potential example of such fraud: “Large batches of votes with not a single one for Donald Trump.”

In the case of Mr. Fletcher’s dead-voter claims, the three other names in Michigan that he highlighted also appeared to be votes cast by living, eligible voters.

Amanda Kirkpatrick, the clerk in Jackson County, Mich., said a resident there who had appeared in one of Mr. Fletcher’s videos was an eligible voter who had cast her ballot, but the state’s voter rolls had an incorrect birth date for her. Ms. Kirkpatrick said her office had contacted the woman, checked her identification and updated her birth date.

There was a similar story in Detroit, where the other two examples in Mr. Fletcher’s videos matched eligible voters with identical names and ZIP codes there.The city appeared to have mistakenly recorded the vote of William T. Bradley under his dead father, who had the same name and ZIP code. Mr. Bradley said in an interview that he had voted by mail for the first time because of the pandemic. He said that the ballot did not ask for his birth date and that he simply filled it out, signed it and sent it in mid-September. According to the State of Michigan website, his dead father mailed an absentee ballot on Sept. 19. It said Mr. Bradley never returned his.

In the fourth case, there was another eligible Detroit voter with an identical name and ZIP code as the person named in Mr. Fletcher’s video. That person could not be reached.

The Detroit city clerk did not respond to requests for comment.

Mr. Fletcher’s dead-voter claims were shared hundreds of thousands of times on Twitter, reaching millions of people. On Thursday morning, the Michigan Department of State tweeted its response.

“Fact check: Ballots of deceased voters are not counted,” it said. “On rare occasions, a ballot received for a living voter may be recorded in a way that makes it appear as if the voter is dead,” such as someone with an incorrect birth date or a son being mistaken for his father with the same name, the statement added. “In such scenarios, no one ineligible has actually voted, and there is no impact on the outcome of the election.”

The message was shared on Twitter fewer than 450 times as of Friday.

Mr. Fletcher doubled down. He shared an image on Twitter of four urns with a “Biden-Harris” and “I voted” stickers. Hours later, he uploaded a new video to YouTube, Facebook and Instagram of him walking through his findings again. In the video, he read the statement from Michigan officials.

“Maybe Michigan caught some. I hope they did. But how many didn’t get filtered through in the process and actually made it through and counted?” he said. “Maybe all these people voted for Joe Biden?”





No.23 article:
Where the Election Fight Is Playing Out in the Courts

The Trump campaign has intensified its efforts to stop vote counting and to question the validity of ballots, with nearly a dozen lawsuits in Nevada, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Georgia.

[Read more on Joe Biden’s president-elect acceptance speech.]

With Joseph R. Biden Jr. edging closer to victory in the presidential race, President Trump and the Republican Party have been intensifying efforts to halt the counting of ballots and to challenge the ballots of Democratic voters in lawsuits across the country.

Nearly a dozen suits were already making their way through the courts in Nevada, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Georgia, four key states where Mr. Biden leads or has won the vote count.

But none of them appear — at least not yet — to provide Mr. Trump what he would need to prevail: the rejection of enough Democratic ballots in enough states to reverse any Biden victory.

If Mr. Trump and the Republicans cannot find those rejections through the courts, they could — and will — try to do so through recounts, but the bar is high there too.

Here are the cases currently underway or facing a potential appeal. All of them have been initiated by Mr. Trump, his party or his allies.

Status: At the U.S. Supreme Court

In September, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled that election officials could accept ballots postmarked by Election Day but arriving up to three days later. Republicans subsequently sued, and the case made it to the U.S. Supreme Court.

But in late October, the Supreme Court declined to intercede, saying it was too close to Election Day to make such a ruling, but it left open the possibility of a decision at a later date.

On Wednesday, the Trump campaign filed a motion to intervene in the case, and on Friday the Pennsylvania Republican Party sought to join the effort.

But this fight may prove fruitless, as Mr. Biden’s lead in the state is based on ballots cast by Election Day and is expected to grow. Pennsylvania’s secretary of state, Kathy Boockvar, said on Thursday that there were not large numbers of late-arriving ballots. As of Friday night, there had been no further action on this case.

Status: Pending in state court and resolved in federal court

On Thursday morning, a Pennsylvania state court handed Mr. Trump a minor victory. A judge ruled that election observers from the Trump campaign, who were allowed to stand 10 feet from the vote counting at the Philadelphia convention center, could move closer, to six feet.

By the end of the day, however, lawyers for the Trump campaign had filed an emergency petition in federal court claiming that election officials in the city were not abiding by the state court’s decision and asking that the count in Philadelphia be delayed.

At a hastily scheduled hearing Thursday night, however, Mr. Trump’s campaign admitted that “a nonzero number” of Republican observers had in fact turned up.

“Then what’s the problem?” Judge Paul S. Diamond asked.

The Trump campaign ultimately agreed to drop its request to halt the vote count after Judge Diamond, who was appointed by President George W. Bush, allowed for a total of 120 observers at the convention center — 60 for the Democrats and 60 for the Republicans. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court has not yet ruled on the question of the observers.

Status: Pending in state and federal courts

Republicans have brought suits in federal and state courts alleging that Ms. Boockvar provided improper guidance to counties by allowing them to contact voters whose mail ballots had been rejected because of errors so that those voters could fix, or “cure,” their ballots or cast provisional ballots.

Both cases focus on votes in Montgomery County, where officials say only 98 ballots might be affected.

.A judge in the federal case, who is also a George W. Bush appointee, expressed skepticism during a hearing on Wednesday about the validity of the Republicans’ challenge. A decision is pending.

Status: Pending in state court

The Trump campaign has also sued Ms. Boockvar for her decision to extend by three days, to Nov. 12, the deadline by which mail-in voters must submit materials confirming their identity if they are first-time voters in certain districts. It is unclear how many votes that case would potentially affect.

Status: Pending appeal at state level

Mr. Trump’s campaign filed suit before Election Day seeking to stop the processing of mail-in ballots in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas. The campaign alleged that county officials were failing to give Republican observers adequate access to monitor mail-in ballot processing and that the county’s signature matching system violated election equal protection laws because it was not being used elsewhere in the state.

A judge denied the Trump campaign’s request earlier this week, citing a lack of evidence. An appellate court rejected Republicans’ request that it order an immediate stop to counting but agreed to hear arguments into next week.

On Thursday, Republicans indicated that they would drop their case in return for an agreement from the county to expand their observers’ access to ballot counters, but Democrats refused to agree to a dismissal, so the case is still pending. Republicans have since filed a similar suit in federal court.

Status: Resolved in federal court

In an effective extension of the state lawsuit, two Republican House candidates in Nevada filed a lawsuit on Thursday alleging that there were “lax procedures for authenticating ballots” in Clark County and that more than 3,000 ballots had been cast by inelligible voters, including some cast “on behalf of deceased voters.”

The case was assigned to Judge Andrew P. Gordon, an appointee of President Barack Obama’s, who dismissed it on Friday. The two Republican candidates who brought the case, however, can still appeal the decision.

Status: Pending in state court

It was one of the stranger claims of the election. Hours after polls closed in Arizona, a story ricocheted around online saying that dozens, maybe even hundreds, of ballots across the state had not been counted because voters had filled them out with felt-tipped Sharpies and not with ballpoint pens.

Even though cybersecurity officials from the Department of Homeland Security urged people to ignore the tale, crowds turned up outside of a polling station in Maricopa County, yelling about “SharpieGate.”

On Wednesday, Laurie Aguilera, a Maricopa County voter, filed a lawsuit with help from a conservative legal group in Indiana, the Public Interest Legal Foundation, claiming that her ballot — and those of untold others — had not been read properly by vote scanning machines because she had used a Sharpie and “the ink was bleeding through.” Ms. Aguilera has asked a judge to let all voters who filled their ballots out with Sharpies to “cure” them.

On Thursday, the Maricopa County Elections Department released a statement saying that Sharpies were in fact “recommended by the manufacturer” of the vote tabulations machines the county uses. Later that day, the state attorney general’s office issued a letter noting that the use of Sharpies in Maricopa County “did not result in disenfranchisement.”

Status: Tossed by county court

The Trump campaign filed a lawsuit in Georgia on Wednesday, claiming that a witness had observed 53 late-arriving ballots in Chatham County not being properly stored, potentially allowing for them to mix with timely ballots, and asked that ballot counting in the county be stopped.

But Judge James Bass, on the Chatham County Superior Court, tossed the lawsuit on Thursday, saying that there was no evidence that those 53 ballots had been received after the 7 p.m. deadline and that there was no evidence county officials had failed to comply with the law.

There was no word from the Trump campaign or its Republican allies on Friday whether an appeal was pending.

The Trump campaign filed suit on Wednesday asking a state judge to halt vote counting, alleging that its observers had been blocked from meaningful access to counting rooms. The campaign also asked for access to surveillance footage of the state’s ballot drop boxes.

A judge rejected that suit on Thursday, noting that the counting had finished. Mr. Biden won the state and maintains a lead of nearly 150,000 votes. But it is not clear whether the Trump campaign will appeal.

Georgia: Brad Raffensperger, the secretary of state, announced on Friday that the state would conduct a recount in the presidential race, saying the results would fall within the margin of a recount. “We are literally looking at a margin of less than a large high school,” Gabriel Sterling, Georgia’s voting implementation manager, said.

Wisconsin: Mr. Trump would be entitled to a recount in Wisconsin as long as the margin between him and Mr. Biden remained less than 1 percent of the vote. The state’s preliminary results show Mr. Trump trailing by about six-tenths of 1 percent.

A recount request cannot be made until all 72 of the state’s counties submit their results to the Wisconsin Elections Commission, which are due by Nov. 17. The Trump campaign would have to pay for a statewide recount unless the margin shrinks to less than one-quarter of 1 percent. 

Pennsylvania: State law requires an automatic recount if the result is half a percent or less. If the margin is larger than that, Mr. Trump could still request a statewide recount, but he would have to pay for it.

Arizona: State law requires a recount if the margin is one-tenth of one percent or less — otherwise one cannot be requested.

Nevada: Any candidate or campaign can request a recount within three days of the final statewide canvass of results, regardless of the margin. There are no automatic state recounts.





No.24 article:
‘Shaft,’ ‘Dirty Harry’ and the Rise of the Supercop

In 1971, the lawman who does as he pleases strutted through movies like ‘The French Connection.’ But Black filmmakers found an alternative version.

Anybody sifting through the 1970s for American movies’ most definitive year might start with ’72: “The Godfather,” “The Poseidon Adventure,” “Deliverance,” “Pink Flamingos,” “Deep Throat.” Or ’75: “Jaws,” “Nashville,” “Dolemite,” “Dog Day Afternoon,” “Shampoo,” “Barry Lyndon.” Or ‘77: “Star Wars,” “Saturday Night Fever,” “Close Encounters of the Third Kind,” “Smokey and the Bandit,” “Annie Hall.”

My vote goes to 1971. Not because the movies were better — the top draw was, depending on the source, either a studio musical about a Jewish shtetl wedding (“Fiddler on the Roof”) or a grubby, independently made beat-em-‘up set around a school on an Arizona Indian reservation (“Billy Jack”). 1971 was the year that Gene Hackman strolls into a Brooklyn bar and goes to town on its Black clientele during an interlude in “The French Connection.” It’s the year President Nixon’s campaign threats of law-and-order governance had, at last, come flagrantly true at the movies, the year the American supercop was born.

Everybody knows him: so exasperated by the bureaucracy of police work that breaking the law becomes his way of upholding it. He’s just north of middle age, drunk, white, monomaniacal, trigger-happy; never caped yet stylish in his turtlenecks, sweater vests, pork pie hats and visible holster; and, in his way, handsome, roguishly. While everybody else is going by the book, the supercop declares himself illiterate.

He arrives after late-’60s smashes like “In the Heat of the Night” and “Bullitt,” thrillers in which the cops were keeping incompetent or venal company in the form of their fellow officers. These were strong, straight-arrow types forced into deviations from standard procedure — Sidney Poitier slapping a racist, murder-suspect moneybags in “In the Heat of the Night”; Steve McQueen taking the heat for hiding a witness from a crooked senator in “Bullitt.” The fight then was against corruption.

By 1971, corruption had become proof of obsessive dedication and hyper-competence — a means to an end. Warner Bros. released “Dirty Harry” starting that December and invented, by way of Clint Eastwood, a one-man counter-countercultural strike force whose “Do ya feel lucky, punk?” speeches are the character’s version of Miranda rights. The San Francisco Police Department is too mired in procedure, second-guessing and sheer slowness for Harry Callahan. The calm with which he glides toward a bank robber he just shot, in one of the opening sequences, belongs in one of those David Attenborough nature specials.

The arguably decent cops work for themselves — in “Klute,” in “Shaft,” fighting crime that didn’t (or couldn’t) interest regular law enforcement. The sense of paranoid conspiracy that eventually defined the decade was already in the air by 1971. So was what often got called ultraviolence. That spring, moviegoers got a scandalizing load of “Straw Dogs,” in which a milquetoast math-nerd (Dustin Hoffman) has a near-erotic awakening after slaying the men who tortured him and raped his wife. The graphically assaultive nature of Stanley Kubrick’s “A Clockwork Orange” shocked people — critics especially — in part because it was unclear (to some moviegoers) whether Kubrick intended the violence as comedy. But his film hooked droves of people, too. These movies were hits.

“Billy Jack” feels like an exception. It’s the worst of these crowd pleasers. It clunks and clops. The director, Tom Laughlin, who was white, also plays the movie’s title character, a youngish, leathery former Green Beret who polices an Indian reservation and is supposed to be half-Navajo himself. It’s the second in a series of popular Billy Jack films — and a prototype for whatever Chuck Norris was about to get up to in Texas: full of wood, bare feet and flying dust. Here, Billy’s defending the reservation’s school for wayward pacifists from the capitalist bullies in the nearby town.

The acting is trapped between obnoxious and earnest. Worse, the last shot crests with the kids giving Billy a Black power salute as he turns himself in. Still, there’s something here. There are the dueling impulses of the Vietnam era as epitomized by Billy’s gun-toting hapkido expertise and the students’ disdain for violence. There’s a scene in which the kids debate the town council about its abuse of law and order. The film feels like it’s about being caught between two lifestyles — the hippies’ and Nixon’s. It’s about the need for a kind of action movie valiance that, by 1971, is dead in a way and never entirely returns.

Not long before “Billy Jack,” you can see the movies trying to lure the supercop’s prototype from the brink of heartlessness. In “Bullitt,” McQueen pauses the legendary car chase to make sure a fellow who’s been thrown from his motorcycle is at least still alive. Nobody in the “The French Connection” cares about any of that. Its ruthlessness demolishes property and consciences alike.

The movie is about a car full of drugs that’s been shipped to Lower Manhattan from the French Riviera and, for reasons no one has ever persuasively explained to me, left parked on the street. But, as far as I’m concerned, it’s also about this bar Jimmy “Popeye” Doyle (Hackman) shakes down at about the half-hour mark. It’s a small, dim, busy enough place. And in he barges, with his sidekick “Cloudy” Russo (Roy Scheider). Doyle unplugs the jukebox and identifies himself, not as a detective with the New York City Police Department. But this way: “Popeye’s here!” Like he owns the joint.

At his command, everybody migrates to the wall, producing this sad array of circumstantial resignation (here we go again). Admittedly, as Doyle sweeps beneath the bar counter and turns up pill bottles and baggies, a couple of the faces do seem anxious-looking if not outright guilt-stricken; and two gentlemen are sent into phone booths, which appears to be Doyle and Russo’s thing. One small-time suspect is actually an informant — with a mussed, drooping Afro — who offers platonic dope about a big shipment coming in. He doesn’t have much else for Doyle. When they’re through, Doyle wants to know where he would prefer to be socked, lest the other customers suspect something.

That little scrap of dirt means little to the wider plot. It’s corroborative. You could cut that scene and still have the same thrilling movie. But the thrill wouldn’t be quite the same. You’d miss the dueling liberties at work here, the way the supercop can do as he pleases, how the bar patrons must do as he says. You’d miss the exclamatory alacrity of what Hackman achieves in this scene — shouting and prowling and flirting, like a peacock, like a rooster. Like a star. (Doyle won Hackman an Oscar; the movie was voted best picture.)

I have always watched this scene in awe of Hackman’s command of that tiny space. But the last few times I’ve seen it, my eyes are drawn to the lineup, essentially in salute as he struts his exit. Doyle’s departure isn’t dissimilar to the one that ends “Billy Jack.” This one is cockier. Most of the people lining the wall are men. But on the end, farthest from the entrance, is a Black woman in a patterned purple dress, leaning on a table. Doyle passes her and barks aloud for the whole bar to hear, “Get that hair done before Saturday.” She keeps her head turned away from him, so as to protect herself from the stench of his insult. I imagine her wanting to die, nonetheless, of embarrassment and disgust. What did she do? Was this flirtation? Was it ownership? Her hair, by the way, looks fine.

It’s not unreasonable to presume that the director William Friedkin and the editor Gerald B. Greenberg won their Oscars in large part for the movie’s definitive car-versus-train sequence. But what if they also won for the proprietary truth of this?

Imagine getting a steady diet of moments like that or one in which Russo lights up a different bar full of Black men. Imagine a steady diet of mistreatment and criminalization that always seems disconnected from the main drug-cartel or serial-killer plot. Imagine being grist for somebody else’s realism, evidence of the supercop’s superiority — busywork while he’s out there trying to fry bigger fish. Sport. The poster for “The French Connection” is more propagandistically succinct: “Doyle,” it reads, “is bad news but a good cop.” You don’t say.

But 1971 was also the year a Black audience could get used to a brief alternative, a respite from serving as trash for cops to take out. That spring, Melvin Van Peebles’s “Sweet Sweetback’s Baadasssss Song” began its odyssey toward becoming a sleeper sensation. Where Laughlin seems resistant to disillusionment, Van Peebles throws disillusionment an orgy.

People cite this is as the film that unleashed Black, do-it-your-damn-self moviemaking in this country — a cheap, amateurish, inarguably strange chase picture about a fugitive cop-killer, whom Van Peebles plays as if he’s waiting for an actor with a more radical sense of damnation or professionalism to take over. Everything collides contrapuntally: pool sticks and bodies; women and men; police and Black people. It’s a mess. Scraps of the avant-garde (Stan Brakhage, Jack Smith and Kenneth Anger) are smushed together with what certain people think French movies are.

Parts of it seem lifted right out of Jules Dassin’s marvelously strange, inadequately cherished “Uptight,” from 1968. Parts of it are consciously taking a stab at “Easy Rider,” and Sidney Poitier’s ultimately agreeable half of “The Defiant Ones.” Parts of it are close to porn. Every minute of it was meant for Van Peebles’s people: “This is dedicated to all the Brothers and Sisters who had enough of the man,” reads one of the titles that plays over a still shot of Van Peebles in the middle of some listless running. So it was a mess Black Americans needed somebody to make.

It’s reasonable that an audience sitting through “The French Connection” would have been pre-exhilarated by “Sweetback” and by “Shaft,” which opened in June of that year and felt like another antidote to what Popeye is pushing.

The clamoring for it in Black communities was intense. It reportedly grossed a million dollars at a single Chicago theater and launched a merchandising boom. Allegedly, the part of John Shaft had been intended for McQueen or Charlton Heston. But you watch Richard Roundtree strolling around Harlem in this movie, with ease and a real knowing, and you laugh thinking about how Heston would have worked out.

The plot is decent enough. A drug lord named Bumpy (Moses Gunn) needs Shaft to find his daughter, who’s been kidnapped. That’s it. Almost everything else is righteous politics. Before Shaft hits the streets, he gives Bumpy a lecture about how bad his drugs-and-hookers business is for Black people. As Shaft pounds the pavement, talking to contacts, the director Gordon Parks shoots Roundtree from inside eateries and on the sidewalks. There’s a homey serenity to that montage, a sadness, too. Throughout it we hear Isaac Hayes’s “Soulsville,” a church-band hymn whose first couplet is “Black man, born free/ at least that’s the way it’s supposed to be.”

Parks lets in a rare, life-size solemnity. At one stop on Shaft’s investigation, a man who answers the door calls after him, almost plaintively: “Know what the number was today?” Shaft doesn’t. And it’s that sadness that lingers over this movie and almost all of the so-called blaxploitation films that followed in its wake. Nobody ever hits the lottery. The lottery keeps hitting them. In just about three or four years, the look of the movies had changed, from bright and expansive to hard and gritty — even the musicals looked like they were in gangs. Things had changed just enough to incorporate this kind of hard, dolorous realism.

In “The French Connection,” the protagonists chase and beat up a pile of Black Harlemites and Brooklynites. And Doyle says to Russo at some point, “Never trust a nigger.” A Black person might hear that and notice that these white people could keep getting away with — and getting awards for — this stuff. A filmmaker could love “The French Connection” and want to mimic it while also making heroes of the guys those cops keep shaking down. It’s just that after five more strong years of Black-oriented movies (lots of which were made by white people) they had evolved into impersonations, of white hits, of themselves.

In fact, the same man wrote “The French Connection” and co-wrote “Shaft”: Ernest Tidyman. “Shaft” the novel, published the previous year, was his, too. The producer Philip D’Antoni reportedly read ‘Shaft’ and hired Tidyman to adapt “The French Connection,” which won him an Oscar. The two scripts share a street-level bluntness and a flair for racial abrasion. The essential differences between the movies come down to the men who made them.

For this brief moment, Parks discovered what still feels like a vaccine for all that ailed a Black moviegoer for most of the movies’ existence. Shaft was more than a supercop. Rather casually, he had to be super at everything, including being in on the joke, including sex.

Parks also uses desire in damnation of the Black buck stereotype. After half an hour, Shaft is suddenly at home wearing nothing but the album cover he’s holding over his crotch when his woman comes home and runs to him. He pulls her to him, kisses her deep and as he’s trying to unzip her dress, Parks is already fading out to their lovemaking, which is really just a lot of bright light superimposed over a shot of her hands caressing his back until they begin to wag in palsied ecstasy. Parks was a mesmerist photojournalist and a prominent figure in the civil rights movement. This movie feels like indiscreet political art. It quenched the thirst for movies in which Black people had sex, with one another, and with white women, as Shaft does a few scenes later.

The movie opens horny. The first shot peers down at Times Square movie marquees, and the first name you notice, before Roundtree’s even shows up, is Burt Lancaster’s on a sign for a theater playing “The Scalphunters” and “Rough Night in Jericho.” The camera tracks down the street, from marquee to marquee: Robert Redford in “Little Fauss and Big Halsy,” under which is a legible B-A-R-B-A, which, presumably, is short for “Barbarella.” The longer the pan goes on, the trashier yet better the titles get: the erotic Italian romp “He and She” shares a spot with “The Animal.” The last one we see is written in red: “School for Sex” plus “The Wild Females.”

It’s not hard to miss the point: that you’re watching a movie lasciviously called (if you’re so inclined) “Shaft.” In 1971, you also know that none of these other movies has much to do for or with a Black person. Parks deduces a pecking order in the quality, and that order gives him a joke to tell. Right after we take in “School for Sex,” the cymbal taps of Hayes’s theme song kick in, “Shaft” appears in red, and up out of the subway, from underground to the surface, comes 28-year-old Richard Roundtree, in a leather trench coat, mustache and little Afro, declaring his stardom and correcting 60 or so years of Black sexual neglect. The buck starts here.

As for that woman at the bar that Doyle shakes down? The movies never quite made amends to her. Not even the Black ones. They were for her yet never sufficiently about her.





No.25 article:
The Electoral College Is Close. The Popular Vote Isn’t.

The prolonged uncertainty in spite of the clear preference of the public has intensified some Americans’ anger at a system in which a minority of people can claim a majority of power.

As the presidential race inches agonizingly toward a conclusion, it might be easy to miss the fact that the results are not really close.

With many ballots still left to count in heavily Democratic cities, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was leading President Trump on Friday by more than 4.1 million votes. Amid all the anxiety over the counts in Pennsylvania and Georgia, and despite Americans’ intense ideological divisions, there was no question that — for the fourth presidential election in a row, and the seventh of the past eight — more people had chosen a Democrat than a Republican.

Only once in the past 30 years have more Americans voted for a Republican: in 2004, when President George W. Bush beat John Kerry by about three million votes. But three times, a Republican has been elected.

Mr. Biden is very likely to win the Electoral College, avoiding another split with the popular vote. But the prolonged uncertainty in spite of the public’s fairly decisive preference — Mr. Biden’s current vote margin is larger than the populations of more than 20 states, and larger than Hillary Clinton’s margin in 2016 — has intensified some Americans’ anger at a system in which a minority of people can often claim a majority of power.

“We look at a map of so-called red and blue states and treat that map as land and not people,” said Carol Anderson, a professor of African-American studies at Emory University who researches voter suppression. “Why, when somebody has won millions more votes than their opponent, are we still deliberating over 10,000 votes here, 5,000 votes there?”

In principle, the Electoral College could benefit either party depending on the geographic distribution of its supporters. As recently as four years ago, it looked like it would help Democrats, and in 2004, if Mr. Kerry had won just 119,000 more votes in Ohio out of more than 5.6 million cast there, he would have won the presidency despite losing the popular vote.

But in practice, it has overwhelmingly benefited Republicans in recent years despite the national electorate tilting the other way. And the potential for the Electoral College to diverge from the popular vote has only grown as more Americans have come to live in urban areas and many communities have become more ideologically homogeneous.

In 2000, when Al Gore won the popular vote by about 550,000 votes but Mr. Bush won the Electoral College, such a split hadn’t happened in more than a century. Now, it has happened twice in 20 years and come close to happening a third time, despite much larger popular-vote margins. What used to be an extreme rarity has begun to feel common.

Therein lies a more serious concern than partisan politics: the potential delegitimization of the United States’ democratic systems in the eyes of its citizens.

“The more this happens, the more you get the sense that voters don’t have a say in the choice of their leaders,” said Norman Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank. “And you cannot have a democracy over a period of time that survives if a majority of people believe that their franchise is meaningless.”

The United States, as supporters of the Electoral College often note, is a republic, meaning decisions are made through elected representatives rather than by direct vote. But “the fundamental of a republican form of democracy,” Dr. Ornstein said, “is that voters choose their representatives, who then make decisions on their behalf.”

The prospect of minority rule is certainly not new, and the fact that the Constitution allows it is by design, not accident. When the Constitution was ratified, most states only allowed white, male property owners to vote.

The three-fifths clause, which counted slaves as three-fifths of a person for the purposes of congressional apportionment, gave Southern states more representation on the backs of people who couldn’t vote for and weren’t represented by their ostensible representatives. By 1820, Dr. Anderson said, the South had 18 to 20 extra seats in the House as a result.

The framers also consciously made the Senate unrepresentative, giving each state two seats regardless of population and leaving it to state legislators to fill them. The intent was for the Senate to serve as a check on the will of the people, which was to be represented in the House.

But the 17th Amendment established direct election of senators in 1913, and the difference in population between the largest and smallest states has vastly increased since the Constitution was written. The current Democratic minority in the Senate was elected with more votes than the Republican majority, and by 2040, based on population projections, about 70 percent of Americans will be represented by 30 percent of senators.

Nearly a century ago, Carroll H. Wooddy published an academic paper that examined the likelihood of “unrepresentative votes” in the Senate, by which he meant votes in which senators on the winning side represented fewer Americans than senators on the losing side. He concluded that these votes happened infrequently, largely because “there has been no continuous alliance of thinly populated states against the more densely peopled areas.”

Today, of course, population density is very much correlated with partisanship, and the makeup of the Senate is unrepresentative of the population not only in party but in race, gender, age and other characteristics.

Supporters of the Electoral College argue that it protects less-populous states, ensuring that their interests aren’t overridden by those of, say, New York and California. At the same time, opponents note that the system means candidates pay attention only to a small number of states, and that it devalues the votes of people in either party who live in a state dominated by the other. Republicans in Illinois don’t affect presidential elections, and neither do Democrats in Tennessee.

It remains to be seen whether the 2020 election will give new fuel to efforts to eliminate or circumvent the Electoral College, which have always been long shots even though a majority of Americans — 61 percent in a Gallup poll released in September; 58 percent in a Pew Research Center poll in March — believe it should be abolished.

John Koza, the chairman of National Popular Vote Inc., said his group — which has been pushing state legislatures for years to sign on to a compact in which states would pledge to award their electors to the winner of the national popular vote — planned to lobby intensively next year in states including Arizona, Minnesota, North Carolina and Pennsylvania. The compact has already been signed by states, mainly blue, totaling 196 electoral votes, but it will not take effect unless that number reaches 270.

Dr. Koza, a computer scientist who taught at Stanford University, argues that the Electoral College should be abolished not because it systematically benefits one party over the other, but because it increases the odds that election results will be challenged even when Americans’ overall preference is clear — precisely what is happening now.

“When you split the 150 million votes into 50 buckets, there’s going to be close results in a certain number of the states,” he said. This “spawns disputes, and then it spawns lawyers running into court over hairsplitting issues, trying to win the White House for their candidate even though their candidate hasn’t won the support of people across the country.”

While the idea of abolishing the Electoral College is popular mainly among Democrats now, there was more bipartisan support before the 2016 election made it clear how much it could benefit Republicans. Before 2016, a common interpretation had been the opposite: that Democrats had the advantage because of the now-famous “blue wall” that included Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

“Republicans are disappearing from the competitive landscape at the national level across the most heavily populated sections of the country while intensifying their hold on a declining electoral bloc of aging, white, rural voters,” Chris Ladd, a conservative writer, wrote in The Houston Chronicle after the 2014 midterm elections. “It became apparent from the numbers last week that no Republican candidate has a credible shot at the White House in 2016, and the chance of the G.O.P. holding the Senate for longer than two years is precisely zero.”

In early 2016, a bill that would have added Missouri to the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact passed legislative committees unanimously, and similar bills received at least some bipartisan support in Oklahoma and Utah.

But “legislators didn’t have much appetite for it once Trump won the way he did,” Dr. Koza said. “The issue is bipartisan when it’s looked at as a policy issue of what’s good government, what’s the right way to do it. But anything else inevitably becomes intertwined with, does one party think they have a temporary political advantage by keeping the system the same?”





No.26 article:
Eddie Johnson, N.B.A. Star Who Fell Into Crime, Dies at 65

Nicknamed Fast Eddie, he was an All-Star guard with the Atlanta Hawks. But he had drug problems, and after retiring he was convicted of sexual assault.

Eddie Johnson, who fell from N.B.A. stardom into drug abuse and a life of crime that resulted in a life sentence for sexually assaulting a young girl, died on Oct. 25 in a state prison in Milton, Fla. He was 65.

The Florida Department of Corrections reported his death, at the Santa Rosa Correctional Institution Annex, but did not give a cause.

Johnson, who was nicknamed Fast Eddie for his explosive first step, was drafted out of Auburn University in 1977 by the Atlanta Hawks. He soon became one of the team’s top players and started the 1980 and 1981 All-Star Games.

“He was built like a linebacker and was as fast as they come with the ball in his hands, putting it on the floor, attacking someone off the dribble,” Mike Fratello, who coached the Hawks during some of Johnson’s nine seasons with the team, said in a phone interview. “And he could defend because of his strength and his ability to move his feet.”

Johnson began to use cocaine in college and continued using it during his N.B.A. career. During his professional playing days, he was charged with cocaine possession, writing bad checks and car theft; he was hospitalized at least twice for treatment of manic-depressive disorder; and he successfully fled two men shooting at him in a motel parking lot after what the police said was a drug deal gone wrong.

In 1981, Johnson discussed his cocaine use in an interview with Sports Illustrated. “I partied a little extensively, but I wasn’t abusing it,” he said. “The whole idea of me abusing drugs is outlandish.”

With his production deteriorating and his behavior growing increasingly erratic, Johnson was traded to the Cleveland Cavaliers in early 1986; a year later, he signed with the Seattle Sonics. After several violations of the N.B.A.’s antidrug agreement, he was banned from the league in 1987.

In 10 seasons, Johnson averaged 15.1 points a game.

Edward Lee Johnson Jr. was born on Feb. 24, 1955, in Ocala, Fla., and grew up in nearby Weirsdale. He was a star at Lake Weir High School, whose basketball coach, Hugh Lindsley, told The Associated Press in 2006 that Johnson had been a flashy but effective player.

“I said, ‘You can throw a pass behind your back, but it dang sure better go where it’s supposed to go,’” he recalled. “And it usually did.”

Johnson’s younger brother Frank, who survives him, played in the N.B.A. for the Washington Bullets (now Wizards), Houston Rockets and Phoenix Suns. Information on other survivors was not immediately available.

Eddie Johnson was among the Tigers’ leading scorers in all four of his years at Auburn. In his first season with the Hawks, he averaged 10.5 points a game; three years later, he was the team’s leading scorer, averaging 19.1.

“There were very few days during the four years that I coached him that he couldn’t turn on the burners,” Hubie Brown, the Hawks’ coach from 1976 to 1981, told Sports Illustrated. “In the games, no matter what his mental situation was, he could always produce to his potential.”

When there were no games left to play, Johnson’s life unraveled. By his own count, he was arrested at least 100 times. Between 1987 and 2001, he was convicted, among other crimes, of burglary, battery, drug sale and possession, violently resisting arrest and grand theft.

He committed his most serious crime in 2006. Prosecutors said he had entered the unlocked front door of an apartment in Ocala where an 8-year-old girl and her three brothers were alone watching television; a babysitter had stepped outside.

The girl testified at Johnson’s trial in 2008 that he had followed her to her bedroom, locked the door and pushed a dresser in front of it before sexually assaulting her. He was convicted of sexual battery and molestation. He received a mandatory life sentence.





No.27 article:
As China’s Propaganda Push Continues, Wuhan Emerges as a Star

New television shows have paid tribute to the city where the coronavirus emerged, focusing on residents’ heroism and glossing over official mistakes.

They came out one after another, with flourishes and fanfare. A six-hour documentary series, showing the “heroic deeds of party members” and Wuhan’s “warriors in white coats.” A star-studded, 20-part drama, fictionalizing Wuhan’s doctors, delivery drivers and construction workers. Another pandemic show, set to swelling choral music, that viewers said left them choked with tears.

Wuhan, once synonymous with the devastation that the coronavirus could wreak, has become the subject of glowing paeans across Chinese media, lauded by officials as a symbol of the country’s resilience in the outbreak’s aftermath.

Propaganda agencies have churned out the television tributes to the city, where the outbreak first emerged, while the national Ministry of Culture and Tourism sponsored a new opera about its doctors. State news outlets have emphasized a rush of tourists to Wuhan, and at least one hospital recently welcomed business executives for a tour.

Wuhan is getting such attention as a city of heroes in part because it has truly made a remarkable recovery. Cases there and nationwide now hover near zero, as the United States and other countries still battle surges.

But the spate of acclamation is also part of a concerted campaign by the Chinese government to position Wuhan — and by extension China — as a global emblem of superior governance. It’s a propaganda push designed to help sand away any lingering public anger over the government’s costly missteps in the early weeks of the pandemic.

During the outbreak’s height in China, Wuhan was the epicenter of a rare outpouring of rage at the authorities and their attempts to conceal the virus. The recent narratives rewrite the experience, celebrating only the success and leaving little room for grief.

One of the new dramas shows the head of a hospital giving a rousing speech to his staff just as Wuhan is locking down in January — then cuts straight to April, when the outbreak has been controlled. The doctors, in slow motion, take off their masks and smile at the camera. A segment in another series ends with a grandmother discharged from the hospital, as her son announces that he and his ex-wife are getting remarried.

The instructions of China’s top leader, Xi Jinping, echo throughout the episodes. In reality, he was largely absent in the outbreak’s first weeks.

The shows are grounded in elements of the truth. Some of the protagonists in the fictionalized series are based on real people, such as a hospital leader who insisted on working despite battling his own chronic illness. And the programs show some of the pain of the early outbreak, when exhausted doctors limped through overwhelmed hospitals and comforted mourning relatives.

But that pain reliably turns into happy endings. There is no mention of the whistle-blowers who were punished for warning friends about the virus. Nor is there acknowledgment of the citizen journalists who documented the toll before being arrested — some of whom are still missing.

A tight censorship regime makes it difficult to judge public opinion in China, and many of the episodes have been lauded online. But some have also drawn rebukes on social media, with viewers criticizing the gloss on the city’s suffering and overly tidy story of victory. 

Guo Jing, a social worker and feminist activist who has published her diary of the Wuhan lockdown, said she worried the official narrative would prevent a true accounting of the crisis, and make its heavy toll seem acceptable.

“This kind of narrative, it really does recognize everyone’s contributions and sacrifices,” Ms. Guo said. “But it also erases all the pain that people experienced, and it also doesn’t ask, were everyone’s sacrifices really necessary?”

Officials were clearly thinking about how to tell Wuhan’s story from the outset of the crisis. The government commissioned one of the fictionalized shows, “With You,” in February, while people in Wuhan were still dying, and the screenwriter visited Wuhan in March, while the city was still under lockdown. (Three days before the screenwriter arrived, a viral video showed a Wuhan resident yelling out her window at a visiting official, “Everything is fake!”)

“Reflect China’s feats and achievements in fighting the epidemic with language and details that normal people can understand and feel,” an official with the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television said of the show’s mandate, according to local media.

The shows fit into a broader narrative of triumphalism, which has been bolstered by China’s efforts to restart its economy. A few dozen executives of multinational companies visited Wuhan recently, ostensibly to discuss future business opportunities, but they also toured a hospital and offered copious praise for China’s response to the epidemic. Louis Vuitton last month made Wuhan the first stop of a new traveling exhibition.

Wuhan and its residents have good reason to celebrate after a brutal, 76-day lockdown that left the city emotionally scarred and economically damaged. The city, with its packed pool parties and crowded amusement parks, is now proof of the country’s broader recovery — and China is grateful.

Wang Zhiyi, a 30-year-old artist, said that when he passed by hospitals in the city, he often saw flowers and other thank-you gifts left outside.

When the outbreak began, Mr. Wang was in Shanghai for work and had trouble finding a place to stay; people shied away from his Wuhan license plates and Wuhan ID card. Now, when he leaves Wuhan, people express admiration or sympathy when they find out where he is from.

“Everyone knows that Wuhan is the safest place now,” he said, referring to the city’s epidemic control measures.

But the propaganda efforts have also elicited anger from people who see the authorities’ elisions and carefully curated details as an effort to deny what the public saw for itself.

One of the new dramas, “Heroes in Harm’s Way,” drew fierce criticism online for suggesting that women did not contribute to the fight against the virus. After a different documentary series, produced by the state broadcaster, did not mention Li Wenliang, the doctor who was punished for warning friends about the virus and then later died of it, internet users condemned the omission.

“It’s almost a little bit too soon — it’s still a really raw issue,” Maria Repnikova, a political scientist at Georgia State University who has studied Chinese propaganda, said of the Wuhan tributes.

The speed with which the new shows were produced highlighted the government’s desire “to shape this discourse quicker, more efficiently, on more platforms,” she added. “Because it is a really traumatic case, and I’m sure many people will probably still be recovering from it for a very long time.”

Some residents said they saw the scars of the outbreak all around them, alongside the signs of recovery.

Sophia Huang, a lawyer, said that taxi drivers she met often complained about how bad business was, and still worried about a fresh outbreak erupting. One of her friends had fallen seriously ill with the virus and spent time in one of Wuhan’s temporary hospitals.

When she visited a courthouse recently, she overheard a man telling a judge he wanted to sue a hospital for turning his father away during the epidemic. She herself had a client involved in an inheritance dispute, after his father died of the virus. 

“I think many Wuhan people are still living in a kind of pain,” Ms. Huang, 35, said. “We’re not actually as successful as the media says. ”

She would gladly watch an objective documentary about the outbreak that took stock of both the government’s victories and its mistakes, she said. “But obviously that is not possible right now.”





No.28 article:
Jobs Report Shows Gains but Vulnerability to New Virus Surge

U.S. payrolls grew by 638,000 in October and unemployment fell to 6.9%, but lockdowns could stifle a rebound in restaurant and retail work.

The American economy continues to heal from the devastating effects of the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic last spring, but a new wave of cases threatens prospects for sustained growth.

The Labor Department reported Friday that employers added 638,000 jobs in October, a figure that would have been larger without a drop in temporary census workers.

But the engines behind much of the gain — bars and restaurants, which added 192,000 jobs, and retailing, which picked up 104,000 — represent some of the jobs most at risk from a resurgence in coronavirus cases.

Public health experts have linked a return to indoor dining and drinking establishments with increased cases of Covid-19, and those businesses face renewed restrictions as the outbreak worsens. Cooler temperatures are already curtailing outdoor dining, a lifeline for restaurants in many parts of the country.

Similarly, if apprehensive consumers stay away from shopping centers, retail hiring could be curtailed as the year-end shopping season approaches.

Job openings have been weaker than expected as retailers gear up for the holidays, according to Daniel Zhao, senior economist at the jobs site Glassdoor. “This could point to more muted spending and hiring,” he said. And despite the recent gains, employment in the leisure and hospitality sector and among retailers is well below levels that prevailed before the pandemic.

Still, there was a notable bright spot in the October report: the unemployment rate fell to 6.9 percent from 7.9 percent.

“It’s better than expected, but we’re starting to see headwinds,” Diane Swonk, chief economist at the accounting firm Grant Thornton in Chicago, said of the report. “The drop in the unemployment rate is welcome news, but there are still over 11 million unemployed workers.”

After strong gains in the third quarter, the pace of economic growth has eased as federal relief measures enacted at the pandemic’s onset have begun to expire. Prospects of another round of aid have faded with Democrats and Republicans at odds over the size of the package.

The Labor Department report also underscored the uneven nature of the pandemic-induced recession and subsequent recovery, in which low-wage employees have fared far worse than more highly skilled workers.

In October, the unemployment rate for high school graduates stood at 8.1 percent, while joblessness among college graduates was 4.2 percent.

“Low wage-workers have just been decimated,” Ms. Swonk said. “They are most at risk of falling into the ranks of the impoverished.”

Indeed, even as the unemployment rate has come down, joblessness for many has become more prolonged. The Labor Department said the number of long-term unemployed — those without work for 27 weeks or more — grew to 3.6 million in October, an increase of 1.2 million.

One-third of all unemployed workers now fall into the long-term category, the highest share since 2014. That could also spell trouble ahead, because the long-term unemployed often find it more difficult to find work again even as jobs become available.

What’s more, the government reported the number of people accepting part-time jobs because full-time work was unavailable grew by 383,000, to 6.7 million, an indication of increasing desperation.

Millions of unemployed workers have had a harder time paying bills since an emergency federal program providing $600 a week in additional benefits expired at the end of July. Another set of federal jobless benefits will last only through the end of the year.

The Economic Policy Institute, a left-leaning research group, estimates that more than 30 million workers have lost jobs or had their hours or pay reduced in the coronavirus-related downturn.

With the Senate remaining in Republican hands, as election returns suggest, any further relief will probably be more modest than the multitrillion-dollar package that seemed likely if a “blue wave” had given Democrats control of Congress and the White House. As a result, Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern Trust in Chicago, has cut his estimate of growth next year by a full percentage point.

“The good news is that the U.S. job market is healing,” Mr. Tannenbaum said. “But full recuperation may take awhile.”

Unemployed Americans are gradually returning to the job market, with the labor force growing by 724,000 in October. The employment-population ratio, the share of adults who are working, rose to 57.4 percent from 56.6 percent in September — though it was still far short of the 61.2 percent recorded a year earlier.

Nicole Zappone of Naugatuck, Conn., is one of the lucky ones, after having returned to work in August following a harrowing six months of unemployment.

“It was the worst part of my life,” said Ms. Zappone, 30, who took to reading novels by James Patterson and Michael Connelly to get through each day’s lonely hours. “I’ve been working since I was 14, and this was the first time I was laid off. And it was hard to comprehend.”

In years past, she had worked in a consignment shop and done babysitting and dog walking. Finding work had never been hard — until now.

Indeed, when she was let go as a substitute teacher in Waterbury, Conn., in March, she had no idea how severe the impact of the virus and the ensuing lockdown would be. By summer, she was applying for job after job on Indeed.com with no response.

“I felt like a failure, even though I knew it was beyond my control,” she said. “I can’t tell you how many jobs I applied for.”

When she got a nibble from a local information technology company for a public relations job, she couldn’t believe her luck. One week after a phone interview, she was hired for a 20-hour-a-week position that she hopes will become full time. She is working from home and has been in the office only once — to sign her contract.

“I love it,” she said. “I get to use my passion for writing and talk to people from all over the country.”

For others, regaining a job has been a bigger challenge.

Jodi Jackson, 57, worked as a buyer for J.C. Penney at the company’s headquarters in Plano, Texas, until she was laid off in April 2019. She has looked for a job as a buyer at other chains, with no success. And she has considered moving into another field.

“I could do sales, and I’ve tried to switch, but unless you know somebody, it’s hard to get an interview,” Ms. Jackson said.

“I was born to be a buyer,” she added. “I would buy screws and nails for Home Depot at this point.”

Ms. Jackson worked for the Census Bureau for three months, but that job ended last month. “I don’t live above my means,” she said. She sold her condominium in Ann Arbor, Mich., before moving to Plano in 2019, she said, and has mostly been living off the proceeds of that sale. (She collected unemployment benefits after her J.C. Penney layoff, and may do so again based on the loss of the census job.)

She took a temporary job as a cashier at Macy’s during the holiday rush last year. “It was only $9.45 an hour, which was a fraction of what I earned at J.C. Penney,” she said. “But I wanted to work and to be around people. And retail is something I know.”

Ms. Jackson has ruled out another holiday season at Macy’s because the pay is too low. And despite the industry’s worsening problems, she hasn’t given up hope. On Wednesday, a retailer based in Plano asked her to come in for a third interview next week.

“I feel really positive,” she added. “I’m going to get a job.”





No.29 article:
PlayStation 5 Review: Sony’s New Console Is an Entertaining Behemoth

With a winning combination of solid hardware and software, Sony’s new console makes us excited about the next generation of gaming.

This holiday season, we are faced with a tough quandary: The new PlayStation and Xbox consoles are arriving. Which should we gift to our loved ones — or to ourselves?

There are plenty of options. Beginning Thursday, Sony will ship two versions of the PlayStation 5: a $500 model that includes a disc drive, and a smaller $400 disc-free version that runs downloaded games. The Xbox — which also comes in two models, the $500 Series X and the $300 Series S — will launch on Tuesday.

There are many types of gamers, so we — Brian X. Chen, a PlayStation loyalist, and Mike Isaac, who grew up playing Xbox — test-drove both consoles in our homes. Earlier this week, we shared our impressions of the Xbox. This review will focus on the PlayStation 5.

BRIAN Hello again, Mike! Let’s forget about Biden vs. Trump for a moment to continue our debate about Xbox vs. PlayStation.

MIKE Is the PS5 the Biden or the Trump in this analogy?

Mmm, you know what? I’ll avoid answering that.

This is the ultimate test for companies like Sony and Microsoft. Sony spent the past seven years on top with a slate of killer games for the PS4, and largely overshadowed the Xbox.

After a few weeks with the new PS5, what do you think? Is this another winner?

BRIAN I’ll start with some disclosures. I’ve owned PlayStations since the first generation and never had an Xbox. But in 2006, I felt burned by the PlayStation 3, which had mostly lame games compared with Xbox 360, so I’ve kept an open mind for this new generation.

With that all said, I think PlayStation 5 is going to win my vote with my wallet this round. What about you?

MIKE I was reluctant to come out strong and stump for Sony, but you’re right. If I were to plunk down 500 bucks on a piece of hardware right now, it would be the PS5. I want to hear what won you over.

BRIAN Let’s start with hardware before we move on to games and the overall experience.

First things first: The PS5 is a behemoth. It’s more than 15 inches tall — that’s roughly four inches taller than the Xbox Series X. So you’ll need to figure out where you’re going to place it. (There’s also an ugly black stand that can be screwed on to keep it more stable, but I didn’t use it.)

In general, I like the console design. It looks curvy and futuristic and reminds me of a concept car.

MIKE Do you remember that computing brand Alienware? They made really expensive, insane computer systems with neon all over them? The company is part of Dell now, but I remember all of their ads in computer magazines I read during my youth. That was my immediate thought out of the box.

BRIAN Definitely, and that’s basically what the PS5 is: a powerful computer devoted to gaming. Similar to the new Xbox, it has a graphics processor that supports ray tracing, a complex rendering process that makes lighting and shadows look more realistic in graphics.

MIKE The graphics are very good. In the launch game we played, Spider-Man: Miles Morales, I could immediately tell how sharp the characters’ faces and landscapes were while playing. Colors popped, like the brilliant neon purples, reds and greens. Each one of Spider-Man’s various suits looked fantastic!

There is one thing I want to call out, though. I had a strange moment with the PS5 controller that struck me as potentially sensitive. It has a microphone built into it. That’s convenient, since you won’t immediately have to buy a separate headset to chat with friends.

But I wasn’t used to it. I had a moment where I was voice-chatting a friend on my iPhone while playing Call of Duty multiplayer, and my partner in the game reminded me that he could hear me! It freaked me out.

BRIAN Oh, man. Don’t carry your controller with you during bathroom breaks.

MIKE Yes, to be fair there’s a button and glowing icon that tells you when it’s on or off. But still, I wasn’t used to it. Learning curve!

BRIAN The controller is pretty nice otherwise. It’s larger and heavier than the previous PlayStation controllers but feels comfortable to hold for long sessions.

MIKE Can I geek out on the storage drive?

BRIAN Fine.

MIKE So Sony (and Microsoft) include what’s called a solid-state drive for storing all of your games and apps on the system. It loads games faster than traditional spinning hard-disk drives. It makes an enormous difference. I can’t tell you how much of my life has been whittled away by PS4 loading screens in the past.

BRIAN Tell me about it. Remember Red Dead Redemption 2 loading screens on the PS4?

MIKE Hah, I used to go to the kitchen and make a snack while RDR2 loaded up!

BRIAN With Spider-Man, it took about three seconds for the game to launch, and that is remarkable.

MIKE Yes, 100 percent. I’ve been really into Call of Duty: Warzone for the past few months — it has been my way to hang out with friends online during the pandemic — and the difference between playing it on PS5 compared with the PS4 was enormous.

For one, the solid-state drive meant that loading each session was so fast that often, I was one of the first people present in the level of every new game. And things just felt smoother.

Did you play any other games?

BRIAN I spent lots of time replaying recent PlayStation 4 titles, like Final Fantasy VII Remake and The Last of Us Part II. I also immediately noticed how much smoother those games ran. The frame rates were higher thanks to the beefier graphics processor.

Also very important: The PlayStation 5 was very quiet compared with the PlayStation 4, which had such a loud fan that I always feared that it was going to explode.

This is a good time to bring up backward compatibility — the ability to play games from previous console generations — a major selling point for both consoles.

MIKE Yes! So I’m curious about your thoughts on this.

BRIAN Over all, Microsoft wins here. The PlayStation is backward-compatible with only PlayStation 4 games. The new Xboxes are backward-compatible with games for Xbox One, Xbox 360 and even some games for the original Xbox.

Backward compatibility always sounds nice to have, but in practice, nostalgia is not enough to win me over. I spend more time playing new games than I do revisiting old ones.

MIKE Totally fair. And Microsoft really doesn’t seem to have that much new for us quite yet, right?

BRIAN As we talked about in our Xbox review, we were hamstrung because Microsoft didn’t have much compelling fresh content for us to try. Most of the games we tested were made for Windows PCs or previous generations of Xbox.

On the PlayStation, Spider-Man made a stronger first impression by demonstrating the hardware’s impressive speed and graphics.

Also coming soon to PlayStation is a new God of War game, another popular franchise that is exclusive to PlayStation. Exclusives matter a lot.

MIKE One hundred percent. I am a huge fan of God of War, and I bought the PS4 largely just to play one of its top exclusive franchises, The Last of Us and its sequel, The Last of Us Part II. Sometimes I wait for a year after launch to see what games have come out and how the system fares.

BRIAN The software interface of Xbox also feels inferior. It looks like a cluttered Windows app store. In contrast, the PlayStation interface looks elegant and streamlined.

MIKE Fair. But as far as I’m concerned, it’s still wide-open territory for both Sony and Microsoft to dominate the next-gen system wars. The next year will tell us what games are must-haves and what systems host them.

But the PS5 has won me over early on in the race.

BRIAN Me, too. There are different audiences for each console. Here’s what I think it boils down to: For game enthusiasts who choose only one console, the PlayStation 5 is a safer bet for now. The hardware and software are solid, and the system looks poised to get strong games in Year 1. (If you rarely buy discs, save 100 bucks and get the digital edition, which lacks a disc drive.)

Budget-conscious people and casual gamers will probably gravitate toward the $300 Xbox Series S, which runs games at a lower resolution and can play a plethora of older Xbox titles available for a low cost.

MIKE We’re in agreement. And though the PS5 will put a dent in my wallet, I consider it a form of video-game therapy as the rest of the world is dealing with the whole “elections and the future of democracy” thing.

BRIAN There’s that pandemic, too. I haven’t seen your face in months, but I’m looking forward to seeing your avatar in PlayStation land!





No.30 article:
News Quiz: U.S. Election, Sean Connery, International Space Station





No.31 article:
How ‘Defund the Police’ Roiled Competitive Races in New York

Democrats are debating whether the party’s stances alienated moderates, but progressives like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez challenged that narrative.

The feelings of betrayal seemed to begin about a year ago, when Representative Max Rose, a first-term Democratic congressman representing a swing district that includes Staten Island, voted in favor of impeaching President Trump.

Then, as calls to defund the police swirled around New York City and Black Lives Matter demonstrations filled the streets this summer, Mr. Rose joined a protest. That further alienated some moderate voters.

“The Republican promise was strong in terms of safety,” said Thomas Abbate, 46, a mechanical engineer from Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, who voted for Mr. Rose in 2018, but switched his vote this year to the Republican candidate, Nicole Malliotakis, because he said he feels his neighborhood is in decline. “We need a change.”

Buoyed by the prospects of broad anti-Trump fervor in New York City, Democrats had hoped to retain Mr. Rose’s seat, traditionally a Republican bulwark. Instead, he is on the verge of losing his race to Ms. Malliotakis. Republicans also seem poised to keep two House seats on Long Island that Democrats had hoped to flip, and could gain another seat in Central New York.

The Democratic Party, despite securing its majority in the House, lost seats instead of building its majority as expected. The party is now roiled in a debate over its future and its messaging, fueled by concerns that its stances had alienated moderate voters in competitive races. The passions spilled over in a conference call on Thursday between Speaker Nancy Pelosi and her caucus.

The party’s progressive stars, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, have forcefully challenged that narrative, suggesting Democrats faring poorly failed to get their message across through digital platforms, a critical oversight during a pandemic.

“I decided to open the hood on struggling campaigns of candidates who are blaming progressives for their problems,” she wrote on Twitter on Friday. “Almost all had awful execution on digital. DURING A PANDEMIC.”

While the suburbs in many parts of the country seemed to reject Mr. Trump’s brand of brash, hard-right rhetoric and policy, several Republican candidates in New York appeared to find success by characterizing moderate Democrats in swing districts as anti-law enforcement. That message was often conflated with calls from the left to “defund the police” and with occasionally violent clashes between authorities and Black Lives Matter protesters.

“The woke movement awakened the cultural conservative in a lot of voters,” said William F. B. O’Reilly, a Republican political consultant in New York. “The left overreached.”

Some Democratic leaders and political consultants have forcefully pushed back on characterizations that the party fell short in the 2020 elections, noting that they were behind in competitive districts that tend to favor Republicans in the first place.

In the State Senate, where several first-term Democratic incumbents are behind after machine counts of ballots, officials say there are tens of thousands of absentee ballots — which have broken heavily for Democrats in other states — yet to be counted, giving the party hope of limiting or completely eliminating losses.

Still, there was a grudging acknowledgment by Democratic leaders that their candidates had underperformed.

The state’s three-term Democratic governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, repeated on Friday that he felt the election results in New York “shouldn’t have been that close,” an outcome he attributed to Republican attacks on moderate Democrats and their usage of images of New York City during protests and scattered incidents of looting.

“In New York, I think the Republican message that they orchestrated, saying Democratic chaos must be stopped, Democrats are anti-law-and-order, I think that resonated,” the governor said.

The 11th Congressional District, represented by Mr. Rose, encompasses Staten Island and a part of South Brooklyn,  and has long been the city’s most conservative. Guy Molinari and Susan Molinari, a Republican father and daughter political dynasty, represented the district in Congress for most of the 1980s and 1990s.

Mr. Rose was elected in a “blue wave” in 2018, beating the incumbent, Dan Donovan, by running as an anti-establishment centrist, saying he wanted to “get rid of all the leadership in D.C. — Republican and Democrat.” 

But Ms. Malliotakis easily found success linking Mr. Rose, a veteran, to the Black Lives Matter movement and the progressive factions of his party, including the city’s unpopular mayor.

“She was able to paint Max Rose as less strong on law and order,” said Jim Lamond, 79, a resident of Bay Ridge who voted Democrat, but who has close friends who didn’t. “They thought Rose was too linked to de Blasio,” referring to Bill de Blasio, the New York City mayor.

Democrats also faced potential roadblocks on Long Island, once a Republican stronghold, but which has turned increasingly Democratic as suburban demographics rapidly change.

The party found success there in 2018, picking up four State Senate seats long held by Republicans. Democrats had hoped to build on that success, investing heavily to try to flip two congressional districts whose voters had traditionally elected Republicans.

The efforts seem poised to fail. On the eastern end of Long Island, the Republican incumbent since 2015, Representative Lee Zeldin, held a sizable lead over his Democratic challenger in the 1st Congressional District, with absentee votes yet to be counted.

The race in the 2nd District, which is represented by Peter King, a 14-term Republican who is retiring, appeared tighter, but Andrew Garbarino, a Republican Assemblyman, held an edge over the Democrat, Jackie Gordon, with absentee votes yet to be counted.

And Mr. Trump, who despite his unpopularity in many parts of New York, his former home state, seems on track to amass more votes in Nassau and Suffolk Counties than he did in 2016. His presence at the top of the ticket, some political observers said, may have benefited Mr. Garbarino in a district with many blue-collar voters.

“Trump in 2016, and this year, has been the largest driver of Republican voters in modern history,” said Matt Rey, a partner at Red Horse Strategies, a political consulting firm based in the city. “That includes bringing out a whole host of people who have never voted before, and beating his ability to do so in 2016.”

In several of New York’s swing districts, voters interviewed this week — many of them older and white — appeared receptive to Republicans’ law-and-order message and the perception that the Democratic Party was run by the far left and was singularly obsessed with defeating the president.

“I don’t see Democrats putting anything forward as a plan other than ‘orange-man bad,’” said Vinny Papa, 54, who works as a parts manager at a car dealership in Suffolk County.

Mr. Papa, an independent voter who said he has voted for both Democrats and Republicans, said he is “not a big Trump supporter,” but voted for Mr. Trump because “Republicans are bad, and the Democrats are a hundred times worse.”

Dana Gencarelli, 35, a mother of two young children, said that she was happy with Ms. Malliotakis’s lead because her top concern was public safety, a priority she said Mr. Rose did not share.

“Do I always feel Republicans are doing the right thing? No,” she said, as she had pizza with family outside of Leo’s in Bay Ridge. “But right now the Democrats aren’t doing the right thing.”

Still others, including Cameron Lory Faulds, a Bay Ridge resident who has voted for both parties in the past, voted for the entire Democratic ticket, including Joseph R. Biden Jr. — as did her husband, who is a registered Republican. Her social views, she said, were key in her choice of candidates.

“I’m not voting for Trump’s enablers,” she said standing by a yard sign outside her home that read: “I’m a Republican but not a fool! Biden 2020.”

In many cases, however, voters appeared jaded by an election cycle that devolved into one of the most bruising and divisive in recent memory. With the outcome of the election still uncertain, some voters preferred not to express their political views or say who they had voted for.

Walking in Lindenhurst, a village on Long Island’s South Shore, Richard S. Tibbets, 74, a retired union electrician and veteran, was one of those reticent voters.

“We don’t even know if our commander in chief is going to be the next president or not,” he said. “It doesn’t look good, but you never know.”

Mr. Tibbets would not say who he voted for, but his choice of headwear, if not his comments, seemed to provide the answer: He wore a Trump 2020 hat.





No.32 article:
Marguerite Littman, the Inspiration for Holly Golightly, Dies at 90

She knew everyone, Truman Capote said. And she drew on her friends to contribute to her efforts in the fight against AIDS.

Marguerite Littman, a honey-voiced Louisianian and literary muse who taught Hollywood to speak Southern, but who left her most enduring legacy as an early force in the fight against AIDS, died on Oct. 16 at her home in London. She was 90.

Peter Eyre, a longtime friend, confirmed the death. He said she had been ill for some time.

By all accounts hypnotically charming, Ms. Littman, who landed in Los Angeles at midcentury, counted among her closest friends the writer Christopher Isherwood and his partner, the artist Don Bachardy, as well as Gore Vidal, David Hockney and, famously, Truman Capote, who is said to have distilled that charm into his most famous character, Holly Golightly of “Breakfast at Tiffany’s.”

“She was a rarefied creature — generous, restless,” the Irish novelist and memoirist Edna O’Brien wrote in an email, adding, “She was like a character in fiction.”

An oft-told story about Ms. Littman goes like this: Mr. Capote and Ms. Littman were sitting at the pool at Cipriani’s in Venice in the late 1970s when Ms. Littman pointed out an extremely thin woman. “That is anorexia nervosa,” she declared. And Mr. Capote replied, “Oh Marguerite, you know everybody.”

“She wove legends while you were with her,” said Ben Brantley, the former chief theater critic for The New York Times and a longtime friend. “I remember someone saying you can’t take her seriously, but there was such seriousness in her frivolity. It was an existential choice.

“If you were sick, she was there,” Mr. Brantley continued. “She didn’t push darkness into a corner. She once said relationships should be ‘as light as a butterfly, a pale, pale shade of beige.’ Life was somber enough.”

In 1986, at the peak of the AIDS epidemic, Ms. Littman, who was then living in London, wrote to 300 friends asking them each to contribute 100 pounds as a founding member of what would become the AIDS Charitable Trust, a powerhouse of fund-raising in Britain for more than a decade. Those famous friends all kicked in, and continued to do so.

One bonanza was the sale of the book “Hockney’s Alphabet,” a collaboration between Mr. Hockney and the poet Stephen Spender, who edited it, containing letters drawn by the artist and essays by authors like Iris Murdoch, Ian McEwan and Kazuo Ishiguro. (Mr. Vidal, writing about the letter E, began his essay with typical acidity, “I never liked the look of E. …”)

And just before her death in 1997, Diana, Princess of Wales, long a supporter of AIDS organizations, donated her wardrobe for sale at an auction to benefit the trust and other charities. It raised more than $3 million.

“She rang me in the morning,” Ms. Littman told Cathy Horyn of The New York Times in 1999, when she was honored for her AIDS philanthropy by the Harvard AIDS Institute alongside the boldfaced names Judith Peabody and Deeda Blair. “She said: ‘I have a wonderful idea. I’m going to give you all of my dresses.’ I didn’t know quite what that meant. I thought, Oh, God, do I dress that badly?”

In 1999, Ms. Littman stepped back from the trust, and it was rolled into the Elton John AIDS Foundation.

“Marguerite was a true vanguard in the war on H.I.V./AIDS,” Mr. John and David Furnish, the organization’s chairman, wrote in an email. “In the ’80s, people dying of AIDS were treated like lepers — shunned from society because of fear, ignorance and bigotry. With her customary wit and indefatigable life force, Marguerite steamrollered in where others feared to tread and raised millions.”

Marguerite Lamkin was born on May 4, 1930, in Monroe, La. Her father, Ebenezer Tyler Lamkin II, known as Ebb, was a prominent lawyer. Her mother, Eugenia Layton (Speed) Lamkin, known as Layton, was a homemaker.

Marguerite studied philosophy at Newcomb, a women’s college that is now part of Tulane University in New Orleans, before attending Finch College in New York City. When her brother, Hillyer Speed Lamkin, a playwright and novelist, headed to Los Angeles with a contract from the producer Jerry Wald, she followed him.

Mr. Wald, she told Ms. Horyn of The Times, thought she looked like a young Susan Hayward, and sent her to a vocal coach to erase her accent. When that exercise failed, she became a coach herself, stretching the vowels of Elizabeth Taylor and Paul Newman in the movie version of “Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.”

She was briefly married to Harry Brown, a screenwriter and a friend of her brother’s who was said to be an alcoholic. When he threatened her with a gun one night, she fled to Mr. Isherwood and Mr. Bachardy’s house, saying she was going out for lamb chops, and never came back. Another brief marriage, to Rory Harrity, an actor, ended in divorce. By that point Ms. Littman had moved to New York City and was working for Glamour magazine as an advice columnist.

She also worked for the photographer Richard Avedon as an all-around fixer, cajoler and aide-de-camp when he was putting together “Nothing Personal” (1964), his searing portfolio of American identity, with his high school friend James Baldwin. The book’s portraits of civil rights workers, segregationists, children of slaves, Daughters of the American Revolution and lunatic asylum inmates offered a startling collision of humanity, and Ms. Littman’s charm and persistence helped Mr. Avedon secure most of them.

“Nobody could resist her,” said Neil Selkirk, a photographer and filmmaker who interviewed Ms. Littman for a documentary about Marvin Israel, the painter and art director who designed “Nothing Personal.” “She also knew everyone. She knew the head of the asylum.”

She also knew the terrifying Democratic Party boss and segregationist Leander Perez — whom Mr. Avedon captured pumped up with aggression, teeth clamped on a fat cigar — because he had shot pigeons with her uncle.

She and Mr Avedon received death threats on their Southern tour. “We’d been run out of every town in Louisiana,” Ms. Littman told Mr. Selkirk. “We were scared the whole time.”

Yet, Ms. Horyn recalled in a phone interview, “She was always comfortable in her skin, comfortable in the places she landed. She could navigate in a lot of circles and not boast about it. I don’t think she had anything to prove. For all her zest, there was a seriousness about her. She had missions to accomplish.”

In 1965, Ms. Littman married Mark Littman, a British barrister, and they settled in a house on Chester Square in London, the Belgravia neighborhood that has also been home to Margaret Thatcher and Mick Jagger. There, Ms. Littman gave what became storied lunch parties that began with Champagne laced with orange liqueur, moved onto jambalaya made with apricot jam, and ended with a nap. “It was great for starving artists,” the Swedish photographer Eric Boman said.

Her house “was like a fantasy world, with all these paintings by Hockney,” Mr. Eyre said.

“You could say she was sort of fantastic herself,” he added. “A fantasist. Her mind and her memory and her accent. Her husband said to me one day, ‘Do you find Marguerite’s accent has gotten heavier?’”

Ms. Littman’s brother died in 2011, and Mr. Littman died in 2015. She leaves no immediate survivors.

“I would say Marguerite had many talents and did many things, but her greatest achievement was her AIDS advocacy,” said Ms. Blair, whose decades-long friendship with Ms. Littman deepened through their AIDS work. “I would also say she was someone — how shall I put it? — who lingered in people’s minds.”





No.33 article:
The People Versus Donald Trump

Most Americans want him to go. He won’t listen.

The night is darkest before the dawn.

To see that child-man charlatan in the White House spouting lies yet again, asserting without a trace of evidence that “If you count the legal vote I easily win,” claiming that “I won Pennsylvania by a lot,” and Michigan and Georgia, too, was to be reminded of the American nightmare of these past four years that the American people seem to have brought to an end.

It was a nightmare in which truth died, decency was trampled, science was flouted, division was fanned and the American idea was desecrated, as President Trump wheedled his way into the minds of every American with an insidious cascade of self-obsessed posturing and manipulative untruth.

In a democracy, a beautiful idea for which so much blood has been shed over the centuries, every vote is counted and each vote counts. That is what happened in 2016, when President Trump won Michigan by 0.2 percentage points, Pennsylvania by 0.7 and Wisconsin by 0.8. What goes around comes around. The difference in 2020 is that the child-man cannot accept his treat being snatched away. A bully born on third base cannot play by the rules of the game and accept the sanctity of the electoral process and the law.

As I write, it appears that Joe Biden will be the 46th president of the United States.

There may be recounts. There will be legal challenges. But Trump’s attempted coup against democracy, for it is no less than that, will be resisted. The United States is far bigger than this little man.

It seems almost churlish to pick apart Trump’s arguments, which in fact reflect no more than the hysteria of a narcissist for whom the phrase “You’re fired!” is unbearable. He cannot seem to distinguish between voting after the election, which would be illegal, and the process of receiving and counting votes cast in a timely manner. Or rather, he can make that distinction, but only when it comes to Arizona, where he hopes the ballots still being counted will reverse Biden’s lead.

Trump has another mental problem. He cannot, it seems, distinguish between a snapshot of a moment — when, for example, he was ahead of Biden by several hundred thousand votes in Georgia and Pennsylvania on election night — and the eventual result after all votes are counted. He keeps bleating that he “won” and that some vast conspiracy by the media and a corrupt Democratic Party machine has mysteriously “whittled down” his triumph until it takes on the hideous hue of defeat. Another name for “whittling” is counting the votes.

Such desperation — the antics of the sandbox transposed to the Oval Office — is excruciating to watch, not least because it is so predictable.

Throughout his life, when in a tight corner, having stiffed his contractors or ushered his businesses to the brink of bankruptcy, Trump has responded with lawsuits, lies and threats. His method was simple: attack, attack, attack. It often worked. But until now, he has not faced the will of the American people in the opposing corner.

An attempted coup against democracy, I said. For months now, Trump has been peddling the notion that, as he put it in July, “mail-in ballots will lead to massive electoral fraud and a rigged 2020 election.” He has returned to the theme relentlessly, without any evidence that mail ballots lead to fraud. This was the groundwork for a power grab.

Now it is Biden’s moment, on the eve of his 78th birthday. The moment of a man with a deep respect for America’s institutions, its alliances and the rule of law. The moment of a man who reached out to all Americans during the campaign. The moment of a man who became the Democratic nominee as people turned to safe hands to confront the coronavirus and now, it seems, will be asked to heal a wounded nation. The moment of a man who came to a gift for empathy through the devastating loss of his first wife and two of his four children. The moment of an American who understands that you cannot sculpt from rotten wood, and so every democracy requires the foundation of truth.

Trump’s last-ditch incitement of his vast tribe — composed of tens of millions of Americans — will cast a shadow across an eventual Biden presidency. The battles of today will not quickly abate. But the restoration of sanity to the highest office in the land is the prerequisite for the rebuilding that must now begin. As Martin Luther King Jr. put it, “The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice.”

I think now particularly of Georgia, where a Biden victory would be the first by a Democratic candidate in almost three decades. With its large African-American population, and its sharp division between diverse, fast-growing Metro Atlanta and a mainly white conservative hinterland, Georgia was a bellwether of a changing America reeling from a pandemic and racial tension.

“Let Freedom Ring From Georgia” was the headline on a column I wrote from there in June, predicting a Trump defeat.

Democracy is messy but stubborn. It is the system that best enshrines the human desire to be free. This massive American vote has been many things — bitter and ugly among them — but above all, it has been a beautiful testament to the power of each, single ballot in the world’s oldest democracy.





No.34 article:
Attacks in France Point to a Threat Beyond Extremist Networks

The most recent attackers were isolated, self-radicalized individuals. That has raised questions about the government’s response.

PARIS — All were unknown to police intelligence officials. None pledged allegiance to a terrorist group, and no group claimed them as members. None stated any political agenda. Signs of radicalization, if at all visible, were expressed on social media. And they came armed with little more than knives.

The three young men behind recent terrorist attacks that have shaken France present a difficult challenge to the French authorities — isolated, self-radicalized individuals, rather than Islamist extremist networks — raising tough questions about whether the broad measures the government has taken in response are the right ones.

Unattached to any group, harder to track and with an often obscured, hair-trigger propensity for violence that needs just the right spark, they are a far cry from the well-orchestrated and synchronized assaults in the wave of terrorism that swept France half a decade ago. Involving sophisticated planning and weapons, the past attacks killed and injured hundreds and were claimed by the Islamic State and an Al Qaeda affiliate.

They were also different from this week’s attack in Vienna, which was carried out in the name of the Islamic State by an Austrian national already convicted of trying to join the organization in Syria.

“It’s a personal jihad, religious and without demands,” said Bernard Squarcini, a former head of the French domestic intelligence services, adding that France was confronted with “a new generation” of Islamist extremists.

In the past year, all seven Islamist extremist attacks in France, including the most recent three, have been carried out by individuals unknown to the intelligence services, who used unsophisticated weapons and had no clear links to terrorist groups, said Jean-Charles Brisard, director of the Center for the Analysis of Terrorism, a Paris-based research organization.

The latest, Brahim Aouissaoui, 21, arrived late last month in the southern city of Nice just weeks after leaving Tunisia with other migrants on a boat from his hometown, the port city of Sfax. Armed only with a knife, he killed three people at the Notre-Dame basilica in Nice before lunging at police officers while yelling, “Allahu akbar.” Hospitalized with serious wounds and also suffering from Covid-19, he has yet to be interrogated.

In his hometown, family and friends said that Mr. Aouissaoui migrated to Europe looking for better opportunities. After dropping out of school, he did odd jobs, went to clubs, drank and smoked hashish. In the past year, he grew more serious and started to pray, though family and friends said he showed no signs of radicalization.

“He spoke like everyone else in the neighborhood, he is not someone politicized, he didn’t talk about political parties or anything,’’ said Karim Hamzi, a friend of Mr. Aouissaoui. “He would just say, ‘This country is going into a wall. The best thing to do in this country is to leave.’ ”

Following the collapse of the Islamic State in Syria, this new generation of extremists has emerged in a “jihadist atmosphere” prevalent on some social media sites and around some European cities, said Gilles Kepel, a French political scientist who is an expert on Islam and the Arab world.

In an environment that emphasizes “cultural ruptures” — pitting a radical, Salafist Islam against the West but also against moderate brands of Islam — these young men become radicalized, he said, and will act with the right spark.

“Without this atmosphere, there wouldn’t be a spark,” Mr. Kepel said. “Without a spark, there wouldn’t be an attack either.”

In the recent attacks, the spark was the republication of caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad by the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, which led to huge protests overseas, including in Pakistan. Mr. Kepel said that videos showing protesters “brandishing enormous knives” appeared to have influenced the man behind the first attack.

According to the French authorities, Zaher Hassan Mahmood, a 25-year-old man who arrived in France from Pakistan several years ago to look for work, repeatedly watched such videos before buying a butcher knife and stabbing two people outside the former offices of Charlie Hebdo in Paris on Sept. 25.

News of the stabbing appeared to push into action an 18-year-old refugee of Chechen descent, Abdoullakh Anzorov, who grew up in France and, in recent months, had become active on extremist social media sites. On the same day of the stabbing, Mr. Anzorov began looking for the addresses of individuals who had offended Islam, according to an analysis of his deleted Twitter account by Le Monde.

Eventually, he settled on a middle-school teacher whose showing of Charlie Hebdo caricatures in a class on freedom of expression had angered many Muslim parents and students. Armed with a knife and two pellet guns, he beheaded the teacher, Samuel Paty, on Oct. 16.

“In these last three attacks, there’s an absence of political demand but just a religious demand,” Wassim Nasr, a journalist specializing on the jihadist movement and an author of a book on the Islamic State, said, adding that the assailants were “fanatics” rather than “jihadists.”

The religious anger, stemming from the republication of the caricatures, has enlarged the pool of potential terrorists, Mr. Nasr said, adding that it played into the jihadist movement’s narrative that all Muslims are concerned by their fight.

But instead of acknowledging the exclusively religious fanaticism behind the attacks, the French government has given them a political dimension, he said.

“That becomes counterproductive,” he said.

The French government has said that the main threat comes from “Islamist separatism,” what it describes as a homegrown radical Islamist network that has mounted a challenge to France’s strict secularism. In response to the recent attacks, the French authorities have cracked down on Muslim individuals and organizations they have described as Islamist.

Olivier Roy, a political scientist at the European University Institute in Florence and a specialist in Islam, said that the French government’s response was inappropriate given the new nature of the threat.

“The government’s mistake is to think that this type of radicalization, which seems almost mystical to me, is the result of a religious indoctrination,” he said.

But Mr. Brisard of the Center for the Analysis of Terrorism said, “They act alone, but they’re not disconnected.”

To fight this new wave of terrorists, France must eradicate extremist networks, which are “natural and logical intermediaries in the process that leads to violence,” and widen France’s intelligence-gathering capacity by involving the local police and officials, he added.

Mr. Squarcini, the former head of domestic intelligence, said that tracking individuals with no links to terrorist groups posed a new challenge to the country’s intelligence services, adding that they must now try to understand signals mostly on social media.

“We need to sort it out intelligently and perform a finer analysis,” he added. “We’re less good at doing that.”

It was not clear how Mr. Aouissaoui, the Tunisian behind the attack in Nice, arrived in France.

After leaving Sfax on Sept. 19 on a boat with other migrants, he spent several weeks on a ship used by the Italian authorities to quarantine arrivals to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, family and friends said.

Ahmed Tahri, 25 and from Sfax, shared a room with Mr. Aouissaoui on the ship but was sent back to Tunisia. He said that Mr. Aouissaoui mostly kept to himself aboard the ship.

“He would wake up in the morning, pray, eat,” Mr. Tahri recalled, adding that Mr. Aouissaoui often borrowed his phone to call home, occasionally read the Quran and exercised in their room.

A close friend in Sfax, Ahmed Kiid, said that in calls from the ship Mr. Aouissaoui did not speak about politics, but only about his plans to go to France, where he said he could find work and other people from Sfax.

“He wanted a car, a smartphone like other people his age,” said his mother, Gamra, who told him not to go.

The mother and other family members spoke on the veranda of their home in a neighborhood where broken bricks and tiles littered a dusty road. They said that Mr. Aouissaoui used to sleep in the living room with several of his nine siblings.

Mr. Aouissaoui left Tunisia without informing his family, only calling from Italy. After getting off the quarantine ship, he worked on an olive farm and bought new clothes and the smartphone he wanted so badly, his family and friends said.

On his Facebook account, he posted a photo of himself posing with his new phone. A line above the photo read: ‘‘Allah knows that we are not here for this mortal world.’’





No.35 article:
Xbox Series X and S Review: Microsoft’s New Consoles Are a Good Value. Is That Enough?

Nice hardware? Check. Fair price? Check. Cool, exclusive games? T.B.D.

After seven years, the Microsoft Xbox and Sony PlayStation game consoles are getting big upgrades.

The companies are releasing their next-generation consoles just in time for the holiday shopping season. Microsoft will release two models on Tuesday: the Xbox Series X, the $500 version, and the Xbox Series S, its $300 lower-powered sibling. Sony will release its PlayStation 5, which comes in two models for $400 and $500, next Thursday.

So which one will you choose? There are many different types of gamers out there, so we — Brian X. Chen, a longtime PlayStation fan, and Mike Isaac, who grew up playing the Xbox — both tested the new consoles in our homes.

This review focuses on the new Xbox systems. Our review of the PlayStation 5 will follow this week.

BRIAN Hello, Mike. While the country has been tallying up votes for our next president, you and I have been playing video games to help our readers decide which new game console to vote for with their wallets.

For the last generation of consoles, PlayStation 4 was the must-have game device, with more than double the number of sales of the Xbox One. Now people are wondering if it’s the Xbox’s turn to win with its sleek, rectangular Series X and Series S.

What are your impressions so far?

MIKE For quite some time I was an Xbox loyalist. I remember back when I was in high school and the first Halo game came out. It was a must-play game, one of the best shooters of its time. Its success made owning an Xbox a priority.

Now, nearly 20 years later, I don’t have that same feeling with the Xbox Series X and Series S. There’s not an exclusive, Xbox-only game that I’m generally hyped up about, you know?

BRIAN Well, the new Halo game, called Halo Infinite, was supposed to be the big launch title to market these new Xbox systems. It’s a big disappointment that the director of the game stepped down and the project was delayed.

MIKE It’s a huge, noticeable absence, especially when you’re trying to launch a competing product to Sony — whose PlayStation 4 has dominated the market for the past seven years.

I’ll give it this: Hardware-wise, the Series X has many similarities to Sony’s new PlayStation. They both include solid-state drives, a storage technology that loads games faster than traditional spinning hard-disk drives.

BRIAN The new Xboxes and PlayStations also have graphics processors that support “ray tracing,” which is a complex graphics rendering process that makes lighting and shadows look more realistic. That in turn translates to much better graphics.

MIKE The Xbox controller retains the classic shape of what you’re used to with an Xbox, but it is trimmed down and sleeker — a match with the more elegant, minimalist design of the new Xbox models.

But here’s the thing: If the systems are on fairly level footing, technology-wise, it makes the game releases themselves that much more important.

BRIAN I agree. In terms of hardware features compared with the PlayStation, the Xbox is a tiny bit better. The Series X includes about 20 percent more storage for holding downloaded games than the PlayStation 5. The console is a compact tower that will be easier to fit into an entertainment center than the bulky PlayStation 5.

But that edge is negligible without killer games to play. For now, there isn’t anything all that compelling. Launch titles include Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla, Gears Tactics and Yakuza: Like a Dragon, among others. I tried a handful of launch games, and the graphics looked great and the console felt fast, but the games were not appealing to me.

The immediately attractive selling point of the Xbox is the Xbox Game Pass subscription service, which people call the Netflix of gaming. For $10 a month, you get access to dozens of games for current and past Xbox generations, and lots of these titles are excellent. Think Final Fantasy XV, Mass Effect, the Witcher 3 and more.

MIKE Yes, totally. So here’s where I think the Xbox has a real edge: I spent time cycling through just a fraction of the enormous Game Pass library, and it was like taking a stroll through fond memories of older Xbox games I loved, not to mention games that I meant to play but never found the time to.

BRIAN On top of that, the new Xboxes do a remarkable job making the graphics on older games look good on our modern high-definition televisions. Microsoft calls this Smart Delivery: If you buy a game for Xbox One but eventually upgrade to the Xbox Series X, Microsoft will automatically install the version optimized for the Series X.

MIKE Yep. I downloaded Batman: Arkham Knight last night as well as Fallout: New Vegas — two games I hadn’t thought about in years — and had a blast dipping back into them. I could immediately notice an uptick in graphic performance and definition in the Batman game, and the fighting wasn’t jerky or lagging because of poor processor performance.

It made me really consider Game Pass in a new light. Maybe I’d have access to a backlog of older titles, but they could feel newer, faster, better when run on a new piece of hardware like the Series X or Series S.

BRIAN I downloaded Final Fantasy XV, and it looked way better and ran more smoothly, with a higher frame rate, on the Series X than it ever did on my PlayStation 4. I even downloaded titles from 20 years ago, like Final Fantasy IX, and it looked surprisingly good.

MIKE Here’s my question, though: If I’m throwing down anywhere from $300 to $500 on a next-gen console, am I doing that to go play through old games? Or am I thinking more about the games to come?

BRIAN Well, Microsoft told me in a statement that more great games, like Everwild and As Dusk Falls, are on the way. There just was no “wow” factor with this slate of launch titles thanks largely to the Halo postponement.

That said, now is a good time to bring up the differences between the cheaper Xbox and the pricier one.

Most notably, the $500 Series X has higher graphics performance; games can be played in 4K resolution. The $300 Series S can play games in a lower resolution (around 1080P); the cheaper console also has about half the storage of the Series X.

I could immediately tell the difference: I opened Gears 5, a shooter, on both consoles and switched between them on my TV. The graphics in Gears 5 on the Series X were definitely more crisp and detailed.

MIKE Right. I’m curious, though. Should we worry about the lower-priced model becoming technologically irrelevant within a couple years? Basically, have they given any indication that the Series S won’t be able to handle big, graphics-intensive games in the future?

BRIAN I asked Microsoft, and the company said it should be simple for game developers to scale the resolutions for both consoles because they share the same computing architecture.

You can see that Microsoft is aiming for a casual type of gamer with the Series S. Parents, for example, who are looking to save a few bucks and don’t care about having the greatest game tech, will probably get a Series S for their children and load it up with Game Pass titles. That’s a great value.

MIKE Yes, totally fair. And I think that segment of the market is real and important.

BRIAN But console launches set first impressions, and my early impression from this launch is that PlayStation will once again have most of the cool exclusives this generation. So game enthusiasts who choose one console might go for the PlayStation as opposed to the Series X.

MIKE I admit, I think you’ll be proven right.

BRIAN We’ll have more to say about the PlayStation this week — we’re forbidden by Sony from sharing our impressions of that console at this moment thanks to these weird agreements known as review embargoes.

MIKE Looking forward to it. Meanwhile, I’ll start counting the days till the next Halo game is released.





No.36 article:
A Star of the ‘Raging Rooks,’ He Helped Change the Face of N.Y.C. Chess

Charu Robinson was one of the pioneers who inspired a generation of children to play a game that had been the province of elite schools.

Shortly after returning from a disappointing finish in the 1990 national tournament, the coach for the chess team at Harlem’s Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Junior High School asked one of the most talented players to help lead a return trip the following year.

“We’re ready,” the player, Charu Robinson, a 13-year-old prodigy, confidently told his coach.

The team, known as the Raging Rooks, labored all year, devouring chess strategy books and playing wherever they could — in a classroom, in a teammate’s lobby, at a local Burger King and even over the phone — before prevailing at the 1991 tournament. They tied Masterman Laboratory and Demonstration School in Philadelphia for first place, besting a field that included three-time defending champion Dalton, a private school on the Upper East Side.

The team became celebrities in their hometown and even landed on the front page of The New York Times. And it was Charu Robinson — the steadiest player among the Rooks — who helped lead the way.

“He just had a very focused, determined intentionality to his play,” said the coach, Maurice Ashley, the first Black grandmaster, calling Mr. Robinson one of his best two or three players on that team. “And so that leadership mattered, that he was up there, and he embraced it, and it skyrocketed us to winning that year.”

Mr. Robinson died suddenly on Oct. 13 at age 43, his family said, declining to say more than that he died of natural causes. His death dealt a blow to the city’s chess community, where he had remained a fixture and role model, having taught at Mott Hall, a middle school in Harlem (where he won another national championship, as assistant coach, in 1999), and later at Chess NYC, which offers private chess instruction, and at Success Academy, a network of charter schools.

“I wish we had more Charus,” said Debbie Eastburn, the chief executive of Chess in the Schools, a city nonprofit, for whom Mr. Robinson also taught.

Mr. Robinson is survived by his two sisters, Stacey and Aisha.

The early ’90s success of the Rooks, composed of Black, Latino and Asian students, changed chess in New York City. Until then, scholastic chess had been dominated by mostly white players from elite schools such as Dalton, Hunter College High School and Trinity.

“There was no clear evidence that chess could be an inner-city sport,” said Jerald Times, a self-taught master who is now the chess director at Success Academy. “So when these kids showed up, these Raging Rooks, on the front page of The New York Times, it transformed the landscape of how we see inner-city chess.”

As many as 90 percent of participants at national tournaments were white at that time, Mr. Times estimated. The proportion of minorities has grown fourfold since, he said, to 40 percent, because of the example of the Raging Rooks and an I.B.M.-funded research study, the Margulies Report, that tied reading performance to playing chess.

“What that does culturally for the kids for whom Charu would be a role model is just unfathomable,” said David MacEnulty, the city’s first full-time public school chess instructor, whose own success teaching chess at Bronx Community Elementary School 70 inspired the movie “Knights of the South Bronx.” “I’ve seen it over many years, I’ve seen it literally change lives — I mean, totally transformed people. And Charu was a part of that.”

The Chess in the Schools program had begun placing chess teachers such as Mr. Ashley in schools in the mid-1980s. The attention surrounding the Raging Rooks attracted philanthropic donations.

Chess in the Schools grew to reach more than 100 schools in the 1990s and 2000s, offering semester-long instruction; today, it serves 48 schools, primarily those receiving Title 1 funding — granted to schools with a large share of students from low-income families — with full-year programming.

Kwadwo Acheampong, who sits on the nonprofit’s board of directors, said Mr. Robinson’s championship was key to the story of Chess in the Schools.

Mr. Acheampong, 36, whose South Bronx Middle School 118 team won the same national junior high tournament in 1998, called Mr. Robinson a young Jackie Robinson type of transformational figure for the sport.

“We knew about the Raging Rooks because they were kids who looked like us in a neighborhood that was nearby,” said Maliq Matthew, 40, who grew up in the South Bronx.

Mr. Robinson matriculated on a full scholarship to Dalton, where his chess teammate was Joshua Waitzkin, the inspiration for the movie “Searching for Bobby Fischer,” and finished second in a national high school tournament in 1992. He attended the University of Maryland before transferring to John Jay College and earning his degree in criminology.

His friends remember Mr. Robinson for his deep voice, boisterous laugh, piercing eyes, analytic mind and deep love of New York sports.

Francis Idehen, whose family moved to Harlem from Nigeria when he was young, recalled how Mr. Robinson helped him acclimate to life in a new country.

“We ultimately became best friends, and I never really even understood it at the time, because I was the odd African kid with the funny accent and funny haircut,” Mr. Idehen said. “But he was just very kind. He was my first friend.”

Mr. Robinson’s father had been the one to push him to learn chess, recalled his oldest sister, Stacey Smith. “When we visited my grandmother’s house, my father would have the chessboard ready, and they would just go right into it,” she said.

The Raging Rooks came of age in Harlem during the late 1980s and 1990s, when crack and crime were surging in New York. Mr. Robinson and his mother, Ruth, lived a block away from four crack houses, she told The Times in 1991. Chess, however, “was a Camelot,” said Kasaun Henry, the captain of the Rooks who used to arrive at school an hour early to practice and avoid trouble on the street.

“There was a sanctuary when we’d get into that classroom,” Mr. Idehen said. “We’d sit around the chessboard while Maurice instructed us. Chess was pretty much all that mattered in those moments.”

As an adult, Mr. Robinson became a teacher for some of the better players in the city and helped inspire a whole new generation.

“He’s a big reason why I teach chess today,” said Chris Johnson, now a chess instructor at Success Academy Hudson Yards. He added: “Every week, when he would come to the school, we would look forward to it — not only because he was teaching us chess, he knew the culture. He knew the language. So he would always compare it to music or sports or different things like that.”

Mr. Robinson was proud of his Harlem roots.

“The cultural identity, the uniqueness, the pride, the talent, the history. It’s just a unique place,” he said on a video on YouTube. “If I was to do it all over again, I’d start right in Harlem again. I wouldn’t be who I was if I didn’t live here. Of course, back then, you had to watch your back, but I think it just made you tougher.”

People who were taught by or taught alongside Mr. Robinson remember how he often mixed hip-hop phrases with chess terminology.

“He never gave up his phraseology,” Mr. Henry said. “That was authentic, man. And that’s why he was one of the greatest ambassadors for chess, particularly for kids in Harlem.

“He is the proof,” he added. “Charu was the founding primary source that offering opportunities to Black kids in the hood can work.”

Mr. Robinson would often visit Success Academy’s main office seeking use of the corporate credit card to pay for tournaments. “He paid for them to go to every tournament available to them, and you best believe he’s not coming back on Monday empty-handed,” said Nana Alawiye, the school’s business operations manager. “If you see our trophy shelf, it’s ridiculous. And most of it is chess.”

Mr. Henry recalled a time as teens when he and Mr. Robinson anticipated seeing their teacher, Mr. Ashley, play a match against one of the local masters in the park. “That was like tickets to a Madison Square Garden Knicks game,” Mr. Henry said. In return trips to the park years later, Mr. Henry and Mr. Robinson, and Brian Watson, another member of the Rooks, became the draw. “Whenever they came to the park,” Mr. Matthew said, “they were celebrities.”

Upon Mr. Robinson’s death, Mr. Ashley scrolled through their text and Facebook message history. He was struck by the recurrence of a story that Mr. Robinson said had become a mantra whenever he faced adversity.

Late in the 1991 national tournament, the Raging Rooks needed to win three of their final four matches to ascend the leader board. After Mr. Robinson played an especially challenging game and won, Mr. Ashley shook his hand, looked him in the eye and repeated, “Good chess. Good chess.”




No.1 article:
Good neighbours? No, UK’s community spirit fell in summer Covid lockdown

Despite feelgood stories such as Captain Tom Moore, people actually felt more estranged during restrictions, says report

From the likes of Liam Gallagher and Take That’s Mark Owen leading spirit-raising singalongs in Manchester, to the generous donations that flooded in to Captain Sir Tom Moore, the Covid pandemic appears to have brought the nation together.

But it transpires that neighbourhood cohesion, despite anecdotal evidence suggesting it was high at the start of the pandemic, declined during the UK’s locked-down summer, according to research from Essex and Manchester universities.

Researchers Magda Borkowska and James Laurence used the UK-wide Understanding Society household panel study to examine how people felt about their neighbours and neighbourhood in June 2020 compared with 2012 and 2015.

Surprisingly, they found that, across the whole population, the percentage of people reporting positive feelings about their community was at its lowest during the pandemic period. The number of people who felt that they could trust other people in their neighbourhood declined from nearly 70% in 2012 to 56% in 2020.

The lockdown also seems to have made people feel more isolated. The analysis found only 45% of people in 2020 felt similar to others living around them, 17 points lower than in 2015. “The lockdown meant that people spent more time at home and in their local community,” Borkowska said. “We were expecting this focus on home to make people feel more positively about their neighbourhood, but instead found that people felt more isolated and less trusting of the people that they live near.”

Talking to neighbours declined during the pandemic, probably because of the lockdown and the need to socially distance, the researchers suggest. Just over 50% of people reported talking to their neighbours in June, compared with 60% in 2015.

The belief that people were willing to help their neighbours also declined. In June, 65% of people agreed that people in their community helped each other out, compared with just over 70% in 2015.

Changes in social cohesion were seen across all areas of the UK and for all socio-demographic groups. However, some groups saw a greater decline than others. People living in the most deprived neighbourhoods, those aged under 35 and members of certain ethnic minority communities – Pakistani, Bangladeshi and black – experienced the largest declines.

When compared with previous years, the steeper decline in neighbourhood cohesion for the most deprived areas and for ethnic minority groups appears to be a distinct and new change, compared with the years before the pandemic – although something similar appears to have occurred during the financial crisis of 2008.

The study notes: “With the onset of the recession, rates of formal and informal helping behaviours declined among all people, but with particularly precipitous drops among residents of disadvantaged communities.”

Borkowska said the study’s findings had implications for the government as it wrestled with the prospect of imposing further lockdowns.

“If lockdowns have the effect of making people less neighbourly, this suggests that there is significant work to be done to build up community cohesion as the local lockdowns continue this winter and when the pandemic has passed.”





No.2 article:
David Spiegelhalter singles out ‘ghastly’ Covid slide projecting 4,000 deaths and says projections were out of date

England needed dramatic action to reduce the spread of coronavirus, despite the government’s messy presentation of data to justify the latest lockdown, according to an expert.

Prof Sir David Spiegelhalter, a non-executive board member at the UK Statistics Authority, said one slide shown at last Saturday’s press conference suggesting a possible peak of 4,000 deaths was “really ghastly”. 

He said the data was out of date and had never been meant to be part of any formal document.

Spiegelhalter told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “It has been a mess, it really has. All those graphs that got put up at the press conference last Saturday, the projections were out of date at the time, they’re definitely out of date.

“That one [the slide about 4,000 deaths] was really ghastly – that was out of date when shown. It was never meant to be part of any formal document. It was leaked early and then it was part of the briefing to MPs.”

He said projections did have some “validity” but needed to be “taken with extreme caution”, as they could often be out of date by the time they were shown.

“Another projection of short-term deaths up until 6 December, and there’s been accusations of a conspiracy, because it’s changed between the press conference and what’s been released now. The slides have changed for technical reasons, but it makes it look a bit less dramatic.”

The top-end projection of the revised graph did not exceed the peak of the first wave of coronavirus deaths, he said. However, “if you read the small print, there was only a 50/50 chance it could be in or outside that range”.

The statistician and chair of the Winton centre for risk and evidence communication at the University of Cambridge said projections were models of possible futures based on numerous assumptions and were usually out of date by the time they were shown. “So they have got some value but they have to be taken with extreme caution,” he added.

Spiegelhalter was asked about comments from Prof Tim Spector at King’s College London – which has been monitoring the symptoms and test results of millions of people through its Covid app – who said on Friday that the peak was likely to have already passed.

“We can’t rely simply on confirmed cases or daily deaths without putting them into context,” Spector said. “Hospital admissions are rising as expected, but deaths are still average for the season.”

Spiegelhalter said: “If this is going to go down, it is going to go down very slowly unless some dramatic action is taken, which has been taken. The point is we are getting about 20,000-25,000 positive tests a day, that feeds through to about 1,500 hospitalisations a day, about 250-300 deaths a day and these are broadly stable but going up a bit – the deaths in hospitals and hospitalisations are going up slowly – and we are coming into winter.

“Those sorts of levels, even if they stay very stable and below the first peak of the virus, unless they start dropping, we are stuck with those for months and it seems to me and others that that’s not going to be sustainable in terms of what the health service can deal with … so it can stay open for everyone else.”

The Office for National Statistics has indicated that the steep rise in new infections was levelling off in England and stabilising at about 50,000 a day, with an estimated 618,700 people having the disease during the most recent week to 31 October, up from 568,100 the previous week.





No.3 article:
Ethiopian government moves to replace leadership of Tigray region

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

Dispute between former coalition partners has led to clashes and airstrikes in the northern area

Dispute between former coalition partners has led to clashes and airstrikes in the northern area

Ethiopia has further intensified the pressure on the country’s restive northern Tigray region by moving to replace the local leadership with a new centrally imposed administration.

The move comes amid clashes between Tigrayan and national military forces that have brought Africa’s second most populous nation to the brink of what analysts say could be a long drawn-out and bloody civil war.

The UN secretary general, António Guterres, has called for an immediate de-escalation of tensions and a peaceful resolution to the dispute but there currently appears to be little desire to talk on either side.

In a statement on Saturday, Abiy Ahmed, who won the Nobel peace prize last year for ending a long-running conflict with neighbouring Eritrea, said “criminal elements cannot escape the rule of law under the guise of seeking reconciliation and a call for dialogue”.

“Our operation aims to end the impunity that has prevailed for far too long and hold accountable individuals and groups under the laws of the land,” Abiy said.

The vote on Saturday by the upper house of parliament now gives Abiy the power to replace a Tigray leadership his government regards as illegal.

A statement posted on the Facebook page of the Tigray government said it would win the “justified” war, and added that “a fighter will not negotiate with their enemies”.

The Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) topples Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam, the head of a communist junta that ruled the country from 1974. The coalition group is led by the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), guerrilla fighters who marched from their homeland in Ethiopia's north to the capital, Addis Ababa.

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

“Tigray’s people are now armed with modern weaponry that could reach the seat of the infidels,” it added, an apparent reference to Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa.

The government of Abiy Ahmed launched military operations in Tigray on Wednesday, after the prime minister accused local leaders from the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) of attacking a military camp in the region and attempting to loot military assets.

The TPLF denies the attack and has accused Abiy of concocting the story to justify deploying the military.

Diplomats in Addis Ababa say there have been casualties on both sides, but with internet and phone connections in Tigray cut there was no confirmation or details of the reports.

Experts and diplomats are watching in dismay as two heavily armed forces clash in one of the world’s most strategic yet vulnerable regions, the Horn of Africa. Observers warn that a civil war in Ethiopia, Africa’s second most populous country with 115 million people, could destabilise fragile neighbours such as Sudan, Eritrea and Somalia.

The TPLF dominated the country’s military and government for almost 30 years before Abiy took office in 2018. However, the sweeping political reforms that the new 44-year-old prime minister pushed through in his first months of power left the TPLF feeling marginalised, and it broke away last year when Abiy sought to turn the coalition into a single party called Prosperity.

Tensions rose in recent weeks as the Tigray region, objecting to the delay of the national election until next year after the Covid-19 outbreak, held a local poll in September that the federal government called illegal.

The fighting began early on Wednesday when Abiy accused the TPLF forces of attacking a military base in Tigray. In an escalation on Friday, Abiy announced that airstrikes in locations around the Tigray capital “completely destroyed rockets and other heavy weapons” and made a retaliatory attack impossible.

The military operations will continue, the prime minister said, and he warned the Tigray population: “In order to avoid unexpected peril, I advise that you limit group movements in cities.”

The Tigray region is home to a large portion of the federal military personnel and the location of much of its equipment, a legacy of Ethiopia’s 1998-2000 border war with Eritrea, its northern neighbour.

Some analysts estimate that Tigray could muster more than half of the armed forces’ total personnel and mechanised divisions, meaning that neither side could be confident of a swift victory.

Experts fear a protracted and disastrous conflict that could “seriously strain an Ethiopian state already buffeted by multiple grave political challenges, and send shockwaves … beyond”.

“A war that many Ethiopians feared was possible but hoped would never happen appears to be under way … Unless urgently halted [it] will be devastating not just for the country but for the entire Horn of Africa,” the International Crisis Group said in a briefing on Thursday.

Aid groups warn of a potential humanitarian disaster.

“We are deeply concerned that a military escalation in northern Ethiopia could trigger a wider humanitarian emergency in which people are displaced from their homes and unable to meet their basic needs,” said Katia Sorin, the head of delegation for the International Committee of the Red Cross in Ethiopia.





No.4 article:
Afghanistan vehicle bomb kills former TV presenter

Kabul police investigate death of Yama Siawash after explosion

A bomb attached to the vehicle of a former presenter on Afghanistan’s Tolo TV has exploded, killing the journalist and two other civilians, Kabul police have said.

The death of Yama Siawash is being investigated after the explosion on Saturday, said police spokesman Ferdaws Faramarz. No one has immediately claimed responsibility.

Siawash had recently begun working with Afghanistan’s central bank and was in a bank vehicle along with another senior employee, Ahmadullah Anas, and the driver, Mohammad Amin. All died in the explosion, said Faramarz.

Violence and chaos have increased in Afghanistan in recent months even as government negotiators and the Taliban are meeting in Qatar to find an end to decades of relentless war in the country. The two sides have made little progress.

Washington’s peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, has been pressing for an agreement on a reduction in violence or a ceasefire, which the Taliban have refused, saying a permanent truce would be part of the negotiations.

The talks were part of a negotiated agreement between the US and the Taliban to allow US and Nato troops to withdraw from Afghanistan, ending 19 years of military engagement.

According to initial reports, Siawash was near his home when the bomb attached to his car exploded. A witness, Mohammad Rafi, said Siawash’s father and brother were the first to reach the vehicle that was engulfed in flames. Rafi said all three of those killed were inside the car.

Siawash was a former presenter who anchored political programmes on Tolo TV.

Separately on Saturday, a suicide bomb attack in the southern Zabul province killed two civilians, according to police spokesman Hikmatullah Kochai. Kochai said police, acting on intelligence reports, intercepted the vehicle that was detonated by the bombers from within. More than one assailant was inside the vehicle, he said. Seven civilians were wounded in the attack.

In southern Kandahar, a flatbed carrying several farmers hit a roadside mine killing five and wounding at least two others, said Bahir Ahmadi, spokesman for the Kandahar provincial governor.





No.5 article:
US confirms over 126,000 Covid cases on Friday, third daily record in a row

On Saturday morning, Johns Hopkins University in Maryland put the total US coronavirus caseload at 9,731,198, with 235,925 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of new daily cases in the US was approaching 100,000 for the first time, while the seven-day rolling average for daily deaths had risen from 772 on 23 October to 911 on Friday. Those numbers were higher in the spring and August.

States recording record daily highs on Friday included Illinois, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Minnesota and Utah.

News of Meadows’ test came days after he appeared with Donald Trump at a White House event at which numerous people did not wear masks. The president himself was previously treated for Covid-19, spending three days in hospital, after attending a White House event at which Covid mitigation measures were not enforced.

Members of Trump’s family, senior aides and leading Republicans have all contracted the virus after attending events in Washington and on the campaign trail. On Friday, Bloomberg News said numerous Trump campaign aides had also tested positive.

Last weekend, Dr Anthony Fauci, the senior US public health expert, posted a dire warning about the coming winter and the ongoing pandemic.

“We’re in for a whole lot of hurt,” Fauci told the Washington Post, angering the White House. “It’s not a good situation. All the stars are aligned in the wrong place as you go into the fall and winter season, with people congregating at home indoors. You could not possibly be positioned more poorly.”

On Friday, across the US, states posted record numbers.

In Illinois, faced with 20,000 new cases in two days, JB Pritzker, the governor, said a stay-at-home order was possible if the spread was not slowed – just before his office announced that he was self-isolating after being exposed to the virus for a third time.

With a record 10,374 new infections reported on Friday and 10,000 deaths passed this week, Pritzker was asked if he would order people to stay home, as was required by Illinois and many other states in the spring.

“We’re in a bad situation [but] I’m not looking at the broader mitigation of stay-at-home … as in something I would do in the coming days or a week,” he said. “But I can’t guarantee you what it looks like two weeks from now or three weeks. I just don’t know.”

Kentucky reported 2,302 new cases and 10 more deaths on Friday. More than 1,000 people were hospitalised. Governor Andy Beshear urged 80 counties classified as “red zones” to follow state emergency recommendations. Last week, 68 counties were on the red-zone list.

“I know we’ve been in this fight for so long that it’s easy to get numb to the scary headlines and high case numbers,” Beshear said. “That’s normal. It’s human nature. But you have to understand this is the most dangerous Covid-19 has ever been in the commonwealth and it is leading to more of our fellow Kentuckians becoming sick, being hospitalised and dying.”

Kansas added a record 5,418 new cases over two days as hospitals warned of serious strain. The increases brought the state’s Covid case total to 97,633, up 5.9% from Wednesday. The state added 79 deaths to bring its total to 1,166. Deaths have more than doubled since mid-September.

Kansas’s health department head, Dr Lee Norman, said cases “are just skyrocketing” because people are spending more time indoors, attending public events and family gatherings without being diligent about masks or social distancing. He said he was worried cases will spike again from Thanksgiving get-togethers, while many officials “haven’t done anything” to check the surge.

In Texas, a district judge upheld an order from El Paso county’s top elected official shutting down businesses while the region fights an alarming surge in cases. The decision from Judge Bill Moody of El Paso’s 34th district court came as federal military medical teams deployed to the border region, at the request of the state.

El Paso county judge Ricardo Samaniego ordered a two-week shutdown of non-essential activities late last week. In making his decision, Moody pointed out that during the Spanish flu pandemic in the early 20th century, city and county officials had authority to respond as they “thought was necessary to protect the health and financial interests of their individual communities”.

Ken Paxton, Texas’s attorney general, has argued that Samaniego’s order is illegal because it goes against Governor Greg Abbott’s statewide order to reopen businesses. Chris Hilton, an attorney with the Texas attorney general’s office, said the state would appeal against Moody’s order.

El Paso joins 10 other Texas cities, including Houston, San Antonio and multiple communities in the Rio Grande Valley, to receive aid from the Department of Defense at the request of state officials.





No.6 article:
Iran temporarily frees human rights lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh

Release follows warnings about her health after six-week hunger strike

 Iran has temporarily released Nasrin Sotoudeh, a prominent lawyer who was jailed two years ago on spying and propaganda charges, the judiciary’s news agency reported.

Sotoudeh’s release followed warnings last month by human rights groups that her health had severely deteriorated after she staged a six-week hunger strike to demand the release of political prisoners and rights activists.

“Nasrin Sotoudeh … went on furlough with the agreement of the assistant superintendent of the women’s prison,” the judiciary’s Mizan news agency said, without giving further details.

Iran has granted temporary release to thousands of prisoners following concerns over the spread of the coronavirus in jails in the Middle East’s worst-hit country.

Sotoudeh, 57, who has represented opposition activists including women prosecuted for removing their headscarf, was arrested in 2018 and charged with spying, spreading propaganda and insulting Iran’s supreme leader.

The human rights lawyer, who denied the charges, was sentenced to 38 years in prison and 148 lashes.

Eight years earlier, she was jailed on similar propaganda charges and for conspiring to harm state security – charges she also denied – and was released after serving half of her six-year term.

The European parliament awarded her the Sakharov prize for human rights in 2012.





No.7 article:
Historian finds clues to grave of Britain’s first black army officer

Body of footballer Walter Tull believed lost after he died in the first world war

A historian believes he may have uncovered clues about where Britain’s first black army officer was laid to rest.

Walter Tull served in the first world war as a second lieutenant, leading men into battle at a time when the army forbade a person of non-European descent becoming an officer.

As well as being one of the most celebrated black British soldiers of the war, Tull was also one of the first black professional football players in England, playing for Tottenham Hotspur and later Northampton Town while overcoming racial discrimination.

He died aged 29 while leading an attack during the second Battle of the Somme on the Western Front on 25 March 1918.

Historic accounts of the event describe how Tull’s friend Pte Thomas Billingham, a fellow footballer and goalkeeper for Leicester Fosse, saw him killed and tried to retrieve his body so he could have a proper burial.

Despite the best efforts of his men, Tull’s body was never recovered and his family believed he lay somewhere in a field in the Somme.

However, research by the military historian Andy Robertshaw points to unmarked graves at Heninel-Croisilles Road cemetery in northern France where Tull may have been buried.

Tull’s grandnephew Edward Finlayson, from Edinburgh, said it was possible he had been buried, among others, by the Germans when the ground was lost to enemy forces.

“Andy’s research and his knowledge of events of that day is extraordinary for us as a family,” he said.

“What’s striking to me is how Andy’s research is able to reconstruct what happened that day. To me it’s remarkable and very interesting.

“What we know from newspaper accounts is Tom Billingham, in Walter’s group of men, tried to carry his body but because of the intensity of the onslaught he couldn’t.

“This German [offensive] we know was hugely intense.”

Finlayson said the family could not be absolutely certain that his body was buried at the site as the graves could not be dug up, but added: “Up until this recent information we had no reason to believe his body was identified or buried.”

Tull is remembered on the memorial wall in the Faubourg d’Amiens cemetery in Arras, along with 35,000 soldiers whose bodies were never recovered or lie in unidentified graves.

There is also a statue commemorating him in Northampton.

In his research, Robertshaw, who has worked with as a military adviser on films including Sam Mendes’s 1917 and Steven Spielberg’s War Horse, cross-referenced the War Graves Commission’s work and the regimental war diaries.

His findings are highlighted in the podcast Amazing War Stories with Bruce Crompton.

• This article was amended on 9 November 2020 to clarify details of the Faubourg d’Amiens cemetery memorial wall.





No.8 article:
Test and trace needs radical reform in England, health experts say

Sir John Oldham suggests coronavirus lockdown will be futile unless system is overhauled 

The government faces renewed calls for the central NHS test and trace system to be scrapped in favour of handing responsibility for contact tracing to local public health teams.

Weekly test and trace figures for England show it reached just under 60% of close contacts of people testing positive, the lowest since the service began. It comes as the Office for National Statistics indicated the steep rise in new infections was levelling off in England and stabilising at about 50,000 a day.

Sir John Oldham, adjunct professor in global health innovation at Imperial College London and former leader of large-scale change at the Department of Health, said “lockdown will be a letdown” unless trust was increased through radical reform of test and trace.

“I think this probably includes increasing the number of small labs to decrease turnaround time and, crucially, the results to go to local directors of health and for them to have teams to undertake the contact tracing,” he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.

“I’d probably get the resources for that by scrapping the failing central call centres. I think the whole system should be under the purview of public health, which gets us as close to the effective system we had before 2012 NHS reforms. I think they have demonstrated that they have the capability and effectiveness – they are running at 95% contact tracing; the national call centre is at 60%.”

Oldham suggested lockdown could be futile unless there was an effective test and trace system – “such as in South Korea, New Zealand, and Germany” – to keep numbers down after restrictions were relaxed. “This we’ve been continually promised but there has been a failure to deliver,” he said.

He added that trust was paramount as he advocated the use of local contact tracers. “The pandemic is seen as a political campaign with huge promises and slogans. The virus does not tweet back or send out press releases. We just need some truthfulness, transparency about the data and the outcomes and decision making … Greater understanding gives greater trust and greater adherence for what we want people to do.”

Thousands of people were tested in Liverpool on the first day of the mass pilot scheme on Friday. The programme aims to test up to 50,000 people a day once fully operational, said Matt Ashton, the city’s director of public health.

He said: “We are still working on the numbers but we think [there were] about 1,500-2,000 people per testing centre, so really good numbers and really good interest, so it was very encouraging.”

The scheme has drawn criticism from health experts, however, who have described it as not fit for purpose. Allyson Pollock, professor of public health at Newcastle University, said plans to test asymptomatic people went against advice from the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies to prioritise testing for those who were displaying symptoms.

Meanwhile, Chris Lovett, the deputy director of public health for the City of London and Hackney, said his team of six were being asked to reach people in their area whom NHS test and trace had not been able to contact. Of 700 cases transferred in the past six weeks, just under half were reached and brought into the scheme, he said.

“Right at the beginning of the pandemic, our local mayor and many others did ask for local systems to take control of test and trace,” he said.

“At this stage, its going to be very difficult for us to mobilise all the resources necessary to take on the full contact tracing, but certainly working in much closer partnership with local organisations, the councils, the NHS, so we can ensure this important control measure works is what we’re committed to do.

“Our local residents have often said how important it has been to have that local contact, local knowledge and knowledge of what works for our communities.”





No.9 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Recovery trial researchers look at whether drug can reduce risk of dangerous blood clots

Thousands of coronavirus patients in Britain will be given aspirin as part of a trial to determine whether the painkiller can reduce the risk of dangerous blood clots.

The cheap and widely available drug has been added to a list of potential treatments to be tested as part of the Randomised Evaluation of Covid-19 therapy (Recovery) trial, one of the biggest in Britain.

People infected with coronavirus seem to have hyper-reactive platelets, the cell fragments that help stop bleeding, which means that they are at higher risk of potentially deadly blood clots, scientists say.

Experts hope that aspirin, an anti-platelet agent which is commonly used as a blood thinner, can reduce the possibility of clotting complications.

“Aspirin is widely used to prevent blood clots in many other conditions, including heart attack, stroke, and pre-eclampsia in pregnant women,” said Prof Martin Landray, co-chief investigator of the trial.

“But enrolling patients in a randomised trial such as Recovery is the only way to assess whether there are clear benefits for patients with Covid-19 and whether those benefits outweigh any potential side-effects such as the risk of bleeding.”

At least 2,000 patients are expected to get 150mg of aspirin daily along with the usual regimen. Data from those patients will be compared with at least 2,000 other patients who receive the standard Covid-19 treatment on its own.

Small daily doses of aspirin have been found to reduce the risk of certain cancers. As a blood thinner, it increases the risk of internal bleeding, and taking too much over a long period of time has been associated with kidney damage.

Other treatments being tested in the Recovery trial include antibody-rich plasma collected from recovered Covid-19 patients, and Regeneron’s antibody cocktail that was used to treat Donald Trump’s Covid-19 symptoms.

The decision to add aspirin to this list was made by the Oxford University researchers leading the trial and England’s chief medical officer, Prof Chris Whitty, following a recommendation by the UK Covid-19 Therapeutics Advisory Panel.

callout-coronavirus

Unlike Gilead’s remdesivir, which has been approved as a Covid-19 treatment in the US but has shown poor results in a large World Health Organization trial, aspirin is a generic drug, making it much cheaper.

The Recovery trial was the first to show that dexamethasone, a steroid that is also cheap and widely available, could save lives of people severely ill with Covid-19. It also showed that the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, once touted by Trump as a cure, was of no benefit in treating Covid-19 patients.





No.10 article:
He was seen at a White House event on Wednesday without a mask on, standing close to the first family 

Donald Trump’s chief of staff, Mark Meadows, has tested positive for Covid-19, along with at least one other aide to the president.

Two senior administration officials confirmed the diagnosis to the Associated Press.

The news came just days after Meadows appeared with Trump at a White House event along with numerous people who were not wearing masks.

Neither Meadows nor the White House has commented or confirmed that he contracted the virus and little is known about when or if he has developed symptoms, but advisers told reporters on Friday night that he shared the news with others at the White House after Tuesday’s election.

The news came during a week that the US set daily records for confirmed cases during the pandemic, which has so far killed more than 236,000 Americans.

Despite warnings from top health officials, Meadows has been critical of wearing masks, and even refused to keep one while speaking to reporters in October. He was seen in the early hours of Wednesday morning again without a mask on, standing close to the president’s family, as Trump took the stage to illegitimately and prematurely declare himself the winner in an election it looks increasingly unlikely he can win.

Nick Trainer, a Trump campaign aide, also has tested positive for the virus according to Bloomberg and sources say at least three other aids also have the disease. This marks what could be the third outbreak of Covid to hit the White House and more than three dozen associates have already gotten the virus, including the president and the first lady.

The administration has sought to contain the news when officials fell ill, and Meadows is largely believed to be behind those efforts. When pressed by CNN’s Jake Tapper after several of vice-president Mike Pence’s staff tested positive last month, Meadows said “sharing personal information is nothing something that we should do”.

He also admitted that the Trump administration was no longer working to “control the pandemic” and was instead waiting for the development of a vaccine.

The new outbreak inside the White House comes as the US faces grim new records. On Thursday, roughly 122,000 new coronavirus cases were reported, the third consecutive day with more than 100,000. More than 9.7 million people have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the US so far this year.

Agencies contributed to the reporting.





No.11 article:
Ivory Coast opposition leader arrested after disputed election

Pascal Affi N’Guessan charged with creating a rival government after President Alassane Ouattara won third term

The Ivorian opposition leader and former prime minister Pascal Affi N’Guessan has been placed under arrest for creating a rival government after President Alassane Ouattara’s election victory, his wife and a spokeswoman have said.

Prosecutors in Ivory Coast are pursuing terrorism charges against more than a dozen opposition leaders who boycotted the 31 October vote in which Ouattara won a third term in office and announced they were creating a transitional council.

The standoff has raised fears of protracted instability in the world’s top cocoa producer, whose disputed 2010 presidential election led to a brief civil war. More than 40 people have died in clashes before and since the latest vote.

N’Guessan was arrested overnight after the public prosecutor confirmed on Friday that he was being sought by the police, his wife, Angeline Kili, told Reuters.

“I confirm that my husband was arrested during the night, but I don’t know where he is right now,” she said.

Geneviève Goëtzinger, a spokeswoman for N’Guessan, said on Twitter he was arrested in the south-eastern town of Akoupé while en route to his home town, Bongouanou.

The police were not immediately available for comment.

N’Guessan served as prime minister from 2000-2003 under President Laurent Gbagbo, whose refusal to concede defeat to Ouattara after the 2010 election led to a civil war that killed an estimated 3,000 people.

The opposition claims Ouattara has violated the constitution by seeking a third term. Ouattara says approval of a new constitution in 2016 restarted his mandate and allowed him to run again.





No.12 article:
&#x27;Seeing the painting helped me heal&#x27;: the NHS workers captured on canvas

As the pandemic raged, artist Tom Croft wanted to find a way to honour NHS staff. Soon 500 painters had joined him to tell stories from the frontline

Tom Croft normally paints with the radio on. But when coronavirus swept through the UK this spring, the 50-year-old artist from Oxford found he couldn’t paint any more. “I was listening to rolling news, of things getting bleaker and bleaker, and I just ground to a halt,” he says. 

A chance encounter with a doctor friend in April made him acutely aware of the pressures healthcare workers were under. “I asked him how he was doing, and he was too tired to answer. He said, ‘You don’t want to know.’” 

Croft asked himself what he could do. “Pushing paint around a canvas doesn’t help a pandemic go away.” But he started to think about the portraits of the great and the good that line our art galleries, and the fact that the Covid-19 pandemic will be one of the defining events of the 21st century. Why not commemorate NHS workers in the same way? 

Croft posted on social media, offering to paint a free portrait of an NHS worker. Overwhelmed by the response, he widened the field, and over the following months matched more than 500 artists with doctors, nurses, paramedics and other frontline workers. “Everyone feels that NHS workers are undervalued,” he explains. “We all know they should be paid more. I thought this could be a way to raise their status, a way of saying thank you. A portrait is a physical thing – it exists in the real world, and will outlast us all.” Here are some of those paintings, and the stories behind them.

Faulkner, 48, is a senior sister at the Royal London hospital

This was painted when I had just been redeployed to the intensive care unit (ITU). I normally work in the ear, nose and throat department, but I have a background in trauma and intensive care, so I knew early on that I wanted to be somewhere I could be useful. You can see the exhaustion on my face.

It was like nothing I’ve ever experienced before, and I’ve seen lots of horrific things. The night shifts were the most challenging. We had six patients in a ward that would normally have four. You’d be trying to care for patients who had just arrived, and others would be dying. And you’re doing all of that in PPE, which is so hot and claustrophobic. You’d want to rip it off at the end of a shift, but you couldn’t, because it was contaminated and dangerous.

I worked in the ITU for 12 weeks straight. We’d do two day shifts and two nights shifts in a row, with two days off in between, which were spent sleeping. I’ve never known exhaustion like it: if I sat down for five minutes I’d fall asleep.

I was diagnosed with PTSD this summer. It’s been really hard. When Gillian delivered the painting to me, I’d been off work for a few weeks with severe symptoms. It was emotional seeing the painting, but also healing. It made me realise that I am out of the situation, and safe again. And it helped me to acknowledge what I had been through. 

Horn, 52, is an artist and architect, from London

I found painting Nancy incredibly moving. I’d never met her, but felt connected to her after so many hours poring over her face, and studying her Instagram posts. I wanted my painting to capture the weight of Nancy’s experiences: a sense of the physical and emotional toll, but also her compassion and resilience: her humanity.

Peter Davies, 32, is an orthopaedic surgeon and trauma registrar at Ninewells hospital, Dundee

It was weird, going to work in the early weeks. I’d be driving in and mine would be the only car on the road. At the hospital, you think about Covid-19 all the time. Then you come out of hospital, and every time you turn on the TV or look at a newspaper, it’s there. It’s constant.

I wasn’t redeployed, so I carried on my usual work as an orthopaedic surgeon. People sometimes forget that the rest of the hospital doesn’t just stop: people still break bones, and need surgery. Having to wear full PPE in theatre was tough. It’s extremely sweaty, and hard to communicate.

I haven’t been able to see my parents since February. Even with the best precautions in the world, it’s almost impossible to avoid being exposed to the virus in the hospital, and I couldn’t live with myself if I gave them Covid-19.Zoom has made things easier, but it’s a long time.

Faulkner, 32, is a surgeon and artist based in Dundee

Every morning we discuss any new patients who have been admitted: it’s known as the “trauma meeting”. I wanted to paint a group portrait showcasing all the different team members involved and delivering patient care. I took inspiration from Renaissance painters including Da Vinci and Caravaggio, as well as historical paintings depicting healthcare workers, such as Rembrandt’s Anatomy Lesson Of Dr Nicolaes Tulp. I wanted to paint something in that style, but juxtaposed with modern subjects and context.

The painting encompasses two huge factors in my life: my love of surgery, and art, which is why I painted myself into the group portrait. Working on the painting during the pandemic really helped me mentally and kept me focused. I hope it represents everything good about the NHS I work in, and love.

Dr Muhammad Salman, 36, is a gastroenterology registrar at James Cook university hospital, Middlesbrough. During the first wave, he was redeployed to the Covid-19 ward.

I spent six weeks living away from the family home – from my wife and three children, who are five, seven, and nine, because one of my daughters is asthmatic. This painting is based on one of my rare trips to see my family, through a window.

When doctors and nurses started falling sick and dying with Covid-19, I had to explain to my kids that Dad might not be coming home. My youngest daughter said, “Where are you going? I’ll come with you.” But my oldest understood that meant that her dad might die. I think she was quite traumatised by that. We lost a few nurses to Covid in my trust, and a doctor. A lot of my colleagues have long Covid, with lifelong irreversible damage to their nerves.

The fact that we have one of the highest mortality rates in the world is appalling. I don’t think the government has handled this well. We had enough time to prepare ourselves; we should have looked at Italy, and got ready.

The cases are starting to rise again in my hospital. A lot of people are going to lose loved ones in the next few months. I am dreading having to play God: deciding which of my patients I’m most likely to be able to save. Making decisions like that never leaves you.

Richards, 49, is an artist from Sydenham, London

I found Dr Salman through Facebook. The image he suggested – being separated from his daughters through the glass – was very powerful. I wanted to avoid sentimentality, so I used a bold, impasto technique, with thick oil paint and a large brush. It was about conveying raw emotion in an expressive way, rather than focusing too narrowly on detail.

Tomkins, 40, is a mortuary and postmortem services manager at West Hertfordshire hospitals NHS trust

I’ve been doing this for 21 years; I worked in the aftermath of 7/7 – but this was something different.

We had our first Covid death in March, and within a fortnight it was like a storm had descended. We were running out of space. People were dying faster than we could move them through. In addition, I was worried about my staff falling sick. How would we manage if they had to self-isolate?

Under normal circumstances, a big part of my job is liaising with families and guiding them through the process of viewing their loved ones. It was hard to not be able to do that. Having to tell bereaved families over the phone that they couldn’t say goodbye was tough.

When I look at Roxana’s painting, I see someone who’s exhausted, slightly burned out, but determined to get the job done. That’s exactly how I felt. 

Halls, 46, is an artist from London

When I met Katie via video link I was awestruck by her strength and tenderness, but also by her distinctive appearance. She reminded me of the wartime portraits by Dame Laura Knight, and the famous image of Rosie the Riveter from second world war posters. I wanted my portrait to evoke that same sense of focus, resolve and heroism. Having the opportunity to paint someone as remarkable as Katie, and illuminate the critical role of mortuary care, has been an absolute gift.

Jermaine Wright was a senior pharmacy technician at Hammersmith hospital, London. He died of Covid-19 on 27 April, at the age of 45. His friend and colleague, Alison Oliver, 46, a senior lead pharmacy technician, remembers him

Jermaine and I went to school together. Then, years later, he came for a job interview in my department. I couldn’t believe it. It was strange at first, because I was his boss, but we became good friends.

Jermaine would always tease me. He’d tell people I used to be really bad at school, when I wasn’t! He was exactly the same as he was at school: popular, cheeky. Every Valentine’s Day, he’d bring in chocolates for everyone. He was a hard worker: he’d always be the first person in and the last out.

The day we found out he had died was horrific. My boss called a meeting and the minute she walked into the room, I could tell from her body language that Jermaine was dead. I couldn’t stay in the room.

There are only 10 people in my team, and Jermaine’s loss has affected us hugely. I cried for weeks. We speak about him all the time. I feel it’s important to bring up his name, so he’s not forgotten.

We screened Jermaine’s funeral on TV at work, and more than 80 people turned up. That shows how loved he was.

Worth, 34, is an artist from Liverpool

I felt such a sense of loss and responsibility every time I picked up my brush. Jermaine’s friends described him as the life and soul of the party, so I wanted to reflect that energy. I feel very grateful to be able to tell his story: how brave he was, and what a hero.

Halliwell, 41, is a paramedic for the North West ambulance service, based in Manchester

I’ve never experienced anxiety at work before, but those first few weeks just before lockdown, there was tension in the air. That’s my overriding memory: the anxiety.

In my job, I spend time in the control room, triaging calls. I remember getting a call from a doctor: it was startling how unwell she was. She was struggling to speak on the phone. She was only in her late 30s.

One of the hardest things about my job is that you have this intense, brief period of time with someone, where you’re doing everything you can to help them, and then they go to hospital, and that’s the last you see of them. You wonder how they got on.

The call rate in the early weeks was relentless, but then people got scared of going to hospital, so they stopped calling so much. I got sick with Covid-19 in April. That was scary, because my son has asthma. I was terrified I’d pass it on to him. Thankfully, I recovered OK – and he was fine, too.

Quinn Harris, 36, is an artist from Wigan

Liam is a friend; I wanted to paint him as a token of my gratitude to him, and all the other key workers. I hope his kindness and dedication shine through.

Nikki Hedges, 33, pictured with her sister Becky Sheppard, is an organ donation specialist nurse at Luton and Dunstable university hospital in Bedfordshire

When I was 18, I went to South Africa for two months, and seeing the poverty there made me realise how much I’d taken the NHS for granted. That was what inspired me to train as a nurse. My sister Becky works in the same hospital as me, although in a different department, and having her there during the pandemic was such an emotional support.

The photograph that Donna based her painting on was one I took on a break in my shift to send to my family. It was only meant to be a quick selfie, but it really captures the bond that Becky and I have.

So many people died on their own. It was horrible having to turn away people who wanted to say goodbye to their loved ones. I nursed a former colleague; she was intubated and unconscious, so she won’t remember it. It was such a horrible shock, seeing her come in. We didn’t think she was going to make it, but she did. Watching her recover was special.

The aftermath has been really hard. I’ve been off work with PTSD, and I am seeing a psychologist. You can feel really alone. But I want people to know that NHS staff are human as well. There’s no shame in reaching out for help.

Kelly, 42, is an artist from Hertfordshire

When Nikki contacted me to ask if I could paint a portrait of her with Becky, I said yes immediately. I was separated from my own family for the first few months, and have two sisters, so I know how special that bond is. I wanted to show the love that was clearly there, but also express my respect for the NHS. It saved my daughter’s life eight years ago, when she was hospitalised with a heart disease. I am thankful every day.

Megan Cavanagh, 26, is a newly qualified nurse at Aintree university hospital near Liverpool. During the pandemic, she volunteered as a student nurse

It was my job to sit with people as they were dying from Covid-19, and comfort them, hold their hand. At that time, we weren’t allowed visitors, so it was just me with the patients as they drew their last breaths. You’d be trying to be strong, and not show any emotion. Sometimes they’d say that they wanted to see their family. I just held their hand and told them that everything would be OK. There was nothing else I could say. At night, I’d go home and cry.

Since the first wave, I’ve qualified and moved to a different ward. Last month we went into lockdown again. My ward has dementia patients, and around half have Covid-19 now. I’m five months pregnant, so I’m working in the office because I’m high risk. But the staff are under a lot of pressure, especially because dementia patients can get unsettled. I’m praying that when I come back from maternity leave, this pandemic will be a distant memory. 

I have set up a memory box, with the portrait Rosie painted in it, and thank-you cards from the families of the people I helped. For the rest of my life, I will be proud of myself for working through the pandemic, and especially for being with those patients in their last hours.

Mark, 58, is an artist from Crossford, Scotland

The photo this was based on had been taken at the end of a long and difficult shift, and Megan was drained. I wanted to convey the physical and emotional toll the pandemic was taking; I think it can be seen in her eyes.

Dr Bakare, 36, is an ICU and anaesthetics doctor at Charing Cross hospital, London. During the first wave, she was based at Northwick Park hospital, London

Emma managed to capture the defiance of our fight. My expression communicates not only the struggle that all healthcare workers were going through, but also a sense of power and calm. She portrayed a strong Black woman in medicine.

That confidence came from being in a supportive environment. Northwick Park was badly hit, but there was such a sense that the community was rallying around us. People brought food into the hospital, sent us cards. Schools donated PPE. I saw the best of our country then: compassion, generosity and unity. Being away from my two young sons was tough, but it was amazing to be able to come home and see them in the evening.

I’m Black British, of Nigerian descent. It was scary seeing a lot of people coming into hospital who were seriously unwell, and who looked like me. It was also really hard when colleagues fell ill: quite a few health workers ended up in intensive care. I remember when one nurse was discharged from hospital: we lined the corridors to applaud her out. That moved me to tears. Not all of my colleagues made it.

Woollard is an artist from Notting Hill, London

After a video call with Sekina, I had a strong idea of how I wanted the portrait to look. Sekina is not only very beautiful but projects this powerful sense of calm. I asked her to get a colleague to photograph her in profile. I wanted to portray Sekina’s strength, focus, and serenity, amid the chaos.

I spent six months in an NHS hospital by my mother’s side as she was dying, and it gave me an idea of how heroic the staff are. It can be easy to take the NHS for granted, until you travel to other countries that don’t have universal healthcare – and realise how lucky we are.

 Igwe, 32, is a doctor working at Furness general hospital, Barrow

I worked in the Covid-19 ward for six months, during the peak of the pandemic. You felt such an extreme range of emotions: satisfaction when you saw that people were getting better, and frustration when the medical interventions weren’t working.

This project felt like the best of humanity coming together. You had people like Heidi, who are so talented, giving their time, and other people like my colleagues, working together for the good of everyone on the ward. When I saw the painting I was very pleased with the level of artistry that went into it. You could tell how much love she put into it. If someone saw that on the wall of my house, they’d think I paid a lot of money for it.

I moved to the UK three years ago, from Nigeria. I think British people don’t always realise this, because they’re used to it, but the NHS really is the best gift that British people have.

 Hart, 47, is an artist from Hilperton, Wiltshire

It was hard to find time to chat with Dr Igwe, because he worked such long hours. So I went through his Instagram page instead, and found the perfect image to base my portrait on. He’s slumped over, wearing his uniform, looking tired and wrung out. It really summarised what all the frontline staff were going through. Nothing any of us could do goes far enough to thank the NHS staff for what they’ve done this year, but I hope that Dr Igwe feels a bit more appreciated, with my painting.

Portraits for NHS Heroes initiated by Tom Croft is published by Bloomsbury Caravel on 12 November at £25.





No.13 article:
All non-British national or resident travellers who have been in Denmark in past 14 days will be denied entry into UK

Travel to the UK from Denmark has been banned amid mounting concern over an outbreak in the country of a mutation of coronavirus linked to mink, the British government has announced.

Downing Street had already taken action to remove Denmark from the travel corridor, forcing arrivals to quarantine for two weeks from Friday at 4am.

But following a Covid committee meeting on Friday afternoon, the UK government is halting inbound travel from Denmark.

All non-British national or resident travellers who have been in or transited through Denmark in the past 14 days will be denied entry into the UK.

British nationals or residents returning from Denmark will be still be allowed entry into the UK. Freight and hauliers are also excluded from the ban.

The rule came into force as of 4am on Saturday. 

Unveiling the move in a series of tweets at 2.18am on Saturday – less than two hours before the ban took effect – the transport secretary, Grant Shapps, wrote: “This decision to act quickly follows on from health authorities in Denmark reporting widespread outbreaks of coronavirus in mink farms. Keeping the UK public safe remains our top priority.” 

The chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, is understood to be particularly concerned by developments in Denmark. It follows the discovery of a new strain of the disease in mink bred for fur in Denmark’s northern regions which has spread to humans. It is feared the new strain could prove to be more resistant against a vaccine.

Anyone who has been in Denmark over the past fortnight will be asked to isolate, including their household. Meanwhile, NHS test and trace will prioritise contacting all those who have recently returned from Denmark.

A spokeswoman from the Department for Transport said: “Unlike other travel to the UK, there will be no exemptions to this quarantine policy.

“The UK government is working closely with international partners to understand the changes in the virus that have been reported in Denmark and we are conducting a programme of further research here in the UK to inform our risk assessments.”

The travel ban and extra requirements will be reviewed after a week, the department added. 

Danish government experts have insisted they are acting with an “abundance of caution” in imposing restrictions in the northern Jutland region in response to the outbreak and ordering the cull of 17 million mink on its commercial farms.

Several variants of Covid-19 that have infected mink have been detected in more than 200 human cases in Denmark, but it has been the one cluster of 12 cases that has caused particular concern.

The country’s prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, had said the measures were being put in place since the mutation of the virus could potentially have an impact on the efficacy of vaccines in development, but the experts stressed on Friday there was as yet no hard evidence to suggest it would.

The World Health Organization also offered a circumspect assessment of the risk from the new mink variant. Soumya Swaminathan, the WHO’s chief scientist, said on Friday it was too early to jump to conclusions about the implications of mutations in the virus found in mink.

“We need to wait and see what the implications are but I don’t think we should come to any conclusions about whether this particular mutation is going to impact vaccine efficacy,” she said. “We don’t have any evidence at the moment that it would.”

Frederiksen’s comments that the strain “could pose a risk that future vaccines won’t work”, however, attracted international attention as she called for immediate action, adding that the “eyes of the world are on us”.

Dr Tyra Grove Krause of the Danish State Serum Institute told reporters on Friday that while researchers did not have “complete evidence”, they were determined to act on the information they had acquired quickly as a precaution while they continued their research.

Responding to whether recent statements and actions had generated “panic”, she added: “There is always a balance of risk. In this case … you need to act in time instead [of] waiting [to] get all the evidence. You need to act in time and stop transmission.”

Frederiksen had told a news conference on Thursday: “From tonight, citizens in seven areas of north Jutland are strongly encouraged to stay in their area to prevent the spread of infection.. We are asking you in north Jutland to do something completely extraordinary. The eyes of the world are on us.”

After Frederiksen’s statement, the UK government announced that Denmark would be removed from its safe travel list. The UK’s transport secretary, Grant Shapps, the transport secretary, announced in an “urgent” 4am update that the country had lost its quarantine-free status.

The WHO said on Friday it was looking at biosecurity in other countries where mink were farmed, adding that it was important to prevent the animals and farms becoming reservoir for the disease.

Maria van Kerkhove, the WHO’s technical lead for Covid-19, told a WHO news briefing in Geneva that the transmission of the virus between animals and humans was “a concern”, with a second expert saying the risk of such transmission was higher with mink than it was with other animals.

“Mutations [in viruses] are normal. These type of changes in the virus are something we have been tracking since the beginning. We are working with regional offices … where there are mink farms, and looking at biosecurity and to prevent spillover events,” Van Kerkhove said.

However, concern is centring on the fact that most mutations of the virus so far identified have been similar enough for vaccines in development to be hoped to work on them while this reportedly diverges more.

While the emergence of the mutation has sparked alarm, scientists were divided over the implications for a virus that has infected dozens of species of mammals so far.

• This article was amended on 7 November 2020 to replace the graph showing Covid-19 cases. An early version was inadvertently displaying figures only for the self-governing territory of the Faroe Islands, whose small number of cases form part of the total for Denmark now shown.





No.14 article:
&#x27;It&#x27;s reawakened something&#x27;: creative ambitions blossom for lockdown 2

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Online education providers are witnessing a rise in registrations for art and language courses

Online education providers are witnessing a rise in registrations for art and language courses

The first lockdown left Hannah Taggart, a software developer from Belfast, “Zoom-quizzed out”. She also, she admits, drank too much.

The second lockdown will be different, she has promised herself. “I’ve opted to direct my energy into something I can be proud of and look back on fondly, rather than having to think again: ‘Oh God, what did I do for three months?’”

Taggart has always wanted to draw, especially comics and graphic novels. “My ideal goal is to be able to draw something for our child’s nursery, due May 2021,” she said.

She’s not alone. On the Monday after the announcement of the English lockdown, Duolingo had a 19% increase in registrations, with particular interest in the site’s bilingual podcasts and virtual lessons. Drawing, DIY, second languages … the creativity generated by the second lockdown covers multiple bases.

Open University says it is preparing for a repeat of the 622% spike in registrations for online creative subjects it received during the first lockdown, the most popular being creative writing courses, some of which had a 16-fold increase in demand; modern languages, which had an eight-fold increase; and online dance skills, which had eight times as many visitors in lockdown.

Pinterest has also had a 130% increase in viewings in the UK of “how to” videos for sewing gifts; a 115% increase for crochet gifts; and a 40% increase in searches for “how to make DIY gifts for friends”.

Kickstarter says it is expecting a surge in applications to their Inside Voices project, launched during the first lockdown to support small projects that can be run from home.

Second lockdowns were announced at different times across the UK. But with each announcement, creativity flared. When Wales went into its second lockdown, Anthony Bird, the council mayor of Cwmbran, south Wales, knew exactly what he wanted to do with his extra time at home: make a cadaver-shaped buffet bar for his daughter’s Halloween party and a Hawaiian drinks bar in the garden for when the weather improves in the summer.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

He said: “The first lockdown was just reactive. I was looking for things to keep me sane. We knew this second lockdown was coming, so I had time to plan it, learning from the first one. It’s reawakened something childlike in me that I haven’t felt in years.”

The second lockdown is a chance for others to build on what they created during the first lockdown. Thor McIntyre-Burnie, an artist and director of Aswarm, a public arts organisation in the UK, is going to use the time to launch the online project he created over the spring and summer.

He said: “Lockdown 2.0 is a perfect time to share the project with people and for them to play with it, especially as it now also has a layer about reflecting on lockdown 1.0.”

“This second lockdown will affect people’s creativity in a number of different ways,” said Meredith Graves, director of Music at Kickstarter. “Some may feel they’ve been given a second gift of more time to create. For others, the feelings stirred up by yet another lockdown and the current global political climate may energise their artistic process, and inspire new work.”

Inside Voices was particularly successful in the UK, Graves said. Since launching the initiative in April, $330,000 (£251,545) has been promised to 42 projects run from people’s homes across the UK.

The crossover from individual creativity to online entrepreneurship is beginning to show in the data, said Russell Haworth, the CEO of the domain registry Nominet.

He said: “We noted a 20% increase in registrations by individuals during the first lockdown, which suggested that people were willing to take their hobbies and interests – most popularly, dance, crafts and sewing – online and turn them into businesses.

“We expect a second increase in domain registrations of creative businesses run by individuals, specifically those targeted at customers’ hobbies, during a second lockdown,” he added.

Sandi Mann, a senior psychology lecturer at the University of Central Lancashire and author of the books The Upside of Downtime and The Science of Boredom, believes the repetition of another lockdown might be a powerful spur to creativity.

Mann has carried out research to prove that boredom can be a creative force. “I’ve done a mini-version of lockdown near my university in Preston in the UK, where we’ve got people in isolation cubicles,” she said. “We’ve seen what happens when people are really bored, and it actually makes them more creative.

“It’s crucial not to fight that boredom,” she added. “The key to creativity is to let your mind wander, to daydream. So this period of lockdown that we’re all experiencing all over the world could turn out to be our greatest period of creativity in the whole history of mankind.”





No.15 article:
&#x27;Pick up thy coat and walk&#x27;: how to cope with the new Covid lockdown

Guardian writers share what they learned last time, such as you’ll never finish that Dostoevsky book

This lockdown I will remember:

To leave the house once a day. Even if it is to walk to the shop to remember how awful it all is out there and come back inside and slump on the couch, feeling grateful.

To not bother putting on under-eye concealer and tinted primer for Zoom. I don’t care if I look like Robert Smith in the Lullaby video, you were the one who asked for video to be turned on, Susan.

That a row of freshly laundered cosy pyjama bottoms drying on a radiator, smelling of Lenor fabric conditioner, is actual happiness and stability now.

We have no idea about the future so don’t worry about long-term goals.

If you miss your family and feel terrible sadness about enforced separation, simply call them and ask about their bunions or wisdom teeth; after the first 27 minutes you’ll remember why you moved out.

I will also remember every day in every interaction with a human being that we are all secretly having a shit time in one way or another, and beneath the light veneer of OK-ness, we’re mainly all filled with weariness, existential woe and suffering, so no matter how infuriating people are, it’s worth cutting everyone some slack.

Oh, and Grace, you’re never going to finish The Idiot by Dostoevsky. Why don’t you just order some chow mein on Just Eat and keep ploughing through two seasons of Unsolved Mysteries on Netflix like you did last time they closed all the restaurants?

I went into the last lockdown thinking that I was much better prepared for it than I actually was. The first week I breezed, got cocky, and then it was pretty much a step descent into a noodle curry and beer-based fog. This time round, I want to last a week and a day before I do that. My targets are:

Phone my mum and brother every day.

Have a conversation with my wife that isn’t functional every day.

Spend some quality time with the boys for at least 20 minutes every day.

Exercise four times a week.

Try not to watch The Thick Of It 17 times.

Keep doing my civic duty to order takeaways.

Choose healthy options from takeaways about 50% of the time.

Actually use the DJ setup I bought during the last lockdown.

Have one day a week completely off my phone.

Avoid “double screening” for the whole of lockdown.

Finish the book on British history I have been reading for a year and a half.

It’s vital to create a sense of structure, however illusory. You need to walk somewhere every day for the sake of your own sanity, just to look at things beyond the walls of your own dwelling.

During the spring lockdown there was enough light for a sunny stroll in the evenings, with plenty of time to judge other people’s front gardens, but winter brings its own advantages: head out just past sunset, after people have turned their lights on but before they have remembered to shut their curtains. That way you can look in on 100 different lives in less than half an hour. Don’t forget to turn on your lights and open your curtains before you go, as a favour to other snoops.

Also, you should try to order something small on a regular basis: a book, some seeds, 100 galvanised wood screws, insoles, replacement wheels for your upper dishwasher rack. The aim is to establish a steady rhythm, with a package arriving for you every day. Not only does this give you something to look forward to, it automatically triggers a daily doorstep social interaction, where a masked delivery person waves at you from a distance of 2 metres while pointing to the parcel at your feet. Sometimes, in my experience, they even take a picture.

I would love to say I did things one was supposed to do during the first lockdown: learn a language; become a Michelin-starred chef; get fit enough to give Usain Bolt a run for his money. But it was sunny, so mostly I sat around in the garden reading. I was lucky in that regard; I know plenty of bookworms who suddenly found it a struggle. But may I advise sticking to fiction? A long time mandatorily housebound may seem the ideal opportunity to finally tackle that 700-page book on the Suez crisis – but it isn’t.

Something I found especially hard – even though I knew it was going to be – was lack of touch. I am a very tactile person. Living alone, I literally didn’t touch another human for months. Except a nurse who gave me a blood test, who I virtually clung to. My poor cat endured three strokes per minute. So, tip number two: get a rescue cat or dog. But remember, a pet is for life, not just for a pandemic.

Finally, the most significant realisation I had was sartorial. HOW is it possible that we all lived in jeans? We might as well have walked around wearing two loo roll tubes for all the freedom they give. I will now be wearing T-shirts and joggers for the foreseeable.

My greatest discovery of lockdown #1 was that I have legs. Legs, moreover, that work in traditional and remarkably efficient fashion. I generally don’t test them, you see. My standard, non-pandemic-dictated daily routine is to sit and type, or sit and read, and then sit and watch television, then lie down and read, and then sleep for eight hours before beginning again.

In lockdown, I started to walk. Remember that government-mandated hour of exercise a day? I took it. It was weird. It was weird walking with no point other than to get outside and literally stretch my legs. It was weird feeling how well my body responded to it – almost as if it was grateful, almost as if it were designed for the purpose of covering distance, of getting me from A to B instead of hunching over a screen or page for 12 hours a day, every day. It was weird how my knee pain cleared up and even weirder how my thoughts seemed to organise themselves better, developing their own little filing system in order of priority and packing the neuroses away in archival boxes ever more effectively the further I walked.

So my tip is simply: pick up thy coat and walk. Even if it’s cold. Even if it’s wet. Even if, like me, you haven’t got off your bum in any significant way for 20 years. Even if everyone else is running and you think only that counts. You’re wrong. Walking is, weirdly, everything.





No.16 article:
Storm Eta death toll nears 150 after devastating mudslides

Rescuers reach remote mountain village in Guatemala where people were buried in their homes

The death toll from the calamitous Storm Eta in Central America has soared after the Guatemalan military reached a remote mountainous village where torrential rains had triggered devastating mudslides, killing about 100 people and adding to dozens of other deaths in the region.

Many of the dead were buried in their homes in the remote village of Quejá in the central area of Alta Verapaz, where about 150 houses had been swallowed by mudslides, army spokesman Rubén Téllez said.

The Guatemalan president, Alejandro Giammattei, indicated the death toll could jump higher, with the number of dead and missing in Quejá estimated to total about 150.

The devastating weather front brought destruction from Panama to Honduras and Mexico, which between them registered more than 50 flood-related deaths

One of the fiercest storms to hit Central America in years, Eta on Friday dumped more torrential rain across large parts of Central America, and the US National Hurricane Center (NHC) warned “catastrophic flooding” in the region would continue.

Rescue operations across Honduras and Guatemala have been slowed by destroyed roads and bridges, forcing authorities to draft in the military and use helicopters and speedboats to rescue people stranded on top of their houses.

Photos of the Queja landslide showed a lengthy strip of brown mud peeled from the lush green hillside. A video shared by the army showed soldiers trying to get to Queja having to haul themselves through a morass of mud with the aid of a guide rope. Searches for Queja survivors continue.

Eta wrought chaos after ploughing into Nicaragua as a Category 4 hurricane on Tuesday with winds of 150 mph (241 kph), before weakening to a tropical depression and unleashing torrents of rain on regions of Honduras and Guatemala.

“This is the worst storm Honduras has seen in decades. The damage will undoubtedly be significant,” said Mark Connolly, UNICEF representative in Honduras, who estimated about 1.5 million children there will be affected by Eta.

Giammattei earlier added that bad weather was hampering rescue efforts, which were further limited by the country having only one helicopter for the job. “We have a lot of people trapped [whom] we have not been able to reach,” he said.

A further eight people were killed in Honduras, where Max González, the minister of the National Risk Management System (Sinager), said about 4,000 people had been rescued but many others remained trapped on their roofs.

“We have been without food for two days ... waiting to be evacuated,” said William Santos, sheltering on top of a banana packing plant with about 300 people in northern Honduras. 

Across swathes of Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala and Costa Rica, high winds and heavy rain have damaged hundreds, if not thousands, of homes, forcing people to take cover in shelters.

Two artisanal miners were killed in Nicaragua while in southern Costa Rica, officials said a landslide killed two people in a house: a Costa Rican woman and an American man.

Near the Costa Rican border in Panama’s Chiriquí province, five people – including three children – died in flooding, authorities said.

On Friday morning, the eye of the storm was on the edge of Belize’s coast and heading out to the Caribbean Sea, charting a course to Cuba and Florida this weekend, the NHC said.

It also said remnants of Eta will continue to batter portions of Central America with “catastrophic, life-threatening flash flooding and river flooding” and added that flash flooding and river overflows were also possible across Jamaica, south-east Mexico, the Cayman Islands and western Cuba.





No.17 article:
Turkey&#x27;s central bank chief ousted after lira plunges to record lows

President appoints ex-finance minister to role after saying country being squeezed in ‘devil’s triangle of interest and exchange rates and inflation’

The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, has removed the governor of the country’s central bank from his post after the lira currency hit record lows, having lost 30% of its value since the start of the year.

The decision to replace Murat Uysal as governor was made by presidential decree and announced in the country’s official gazette early on Saturday. It was not immediately clear why Uysal was removed.

The lira closed at 8.544 against the US dollar on Friday after a touching record low of 8.58, despite dollar weakness as votes were still being counted in the US election.

Erdoğan had appointed then-deputy governor Uysal to head the central bank in July 2019 when he sacked his predecessor, Murat Çetinkaya, amid the president’s frustration that the bank had not cut interest rates to boost the economy.

Erdoğan, a self-described enemy of high interest rates, has repeatedly called for lower borrowing costs. Last weekend, he said Turkey was fighting an economic war against those squeezing it in “the devil’s triangle of interest and exchange rates and inflation”.

However, Turkey was at risk of a full-blown currency crisis such as the one it suffered in 2018 unless the central bank adopted tighter monetary policy, Capital Economics warned this week.

“Foreign currency reserves are precariously low and falling,” Capital said. “Turkey’s gross external financing needs are still very large as a result of the banking sector’s huge short-term external debts.

“We are becoming increasingly concerned that Turkey’s central bank will not deliver the monetary tightening required to shore up investor confidence.”

Naci Ağbal, an Erdoğan ally who served as finance minister from 2015 until 2018, will be the new governor but it was not clear if he would be prepared to raise rates.

Turkey’s Milliyet newspaper reported on Thursday that finance minister Berat Albayrak had ruled out intervening to support the lira, reiterating government concerns that raising interest rates could hurt the economy.

At the last meeting of its monetary policy committee on 22 October, the central bank bucked expectations for a big interest rate hike and held its policy rate steady at 10.25%, triggering sharp losses in the lira.

The bank, which also surprised markets a month earlier when it hiked rates, said it would continue with liquidity measures to tighten money supply. It raised the uppermost rate in its corridor, the late liquidity window, to 14.75% from 13.25%.

However, the lira has continued to slide despite those measures, weakening 30% against the US currency this year to become the worst performer in emerging markets.

Bearishness towards the lira stems from concerns about possible Western sanctions against Turkey, depleted reserves, high inflation and political interference in monetary policy.

Analysts are concerned that Turkey’s ties could suffer if Democrat Joe Biden becomes US president.





No.18 article:
Sound of the city: monkeys shown to prefer traffic over jungle noise

Experiment let the primates choose what they wanted to hear, with rumbling vehicles thought to mimic elements of their own communications 

They may be naturally suited to swinging in rainforests, but monkeys in a Finnish zoo have demonstrated a “significant” preference for traffic sounds instead of the noises of the jungle, researchers have found.

As part of an experiment to see how technology could improve the wellbeing of captive animals, researchers installed a tunnel fitted with sensors in the enclosure of the monkeys at Helsinki’s Korkeasaari zoo, giving the primates the chance to choose to listen to the sounds of rain, traffic, zen sounds or dance music.

“We thought they would enjoy more calming sounds, such as zen music, but actually they triggered the traffic sounds more,” said Ilyena Hirskyj-Douglas, a researcher at Finland’s Aalto University.

The soundtrack of vehicles rumbling past proved overwhelmingly the most popular choice for the animals, who sometimes slept or groomed themselves and each other inside the sound tunnel – something they did not do for any of the other sounds, Hirskyj-Douglas said.

The zoo’s research coordinator, Kirsi Pynnonen, said she believed the road sounds mimicked some of the monkeys’ natural means of communication.

“In the wild, these monkeys use high-pitched hissing, squeaking and croaking to stay in contact,” she said – noises that the animals may hear within the traffic noises.

Sound experiments have been performed on animals in captivity before now, but the scientists say this was the first attempt to try and give the creatures full control over what they want to listen to.

In the future, it could enable zoos to provide animals with extra stimuli in their enclosures.

“Animals could, for instance, control their lighting, heat or the temperature,” or even play games, Hirskyj-Douglas said.

“The technology is very much open and we’re just starting to bridge into this area.”

Other zoos around Europe had shown interest in the research findings, Pynnonen said, and the team would look next at installing screens inside the tunnel for the monkeys to watch if they choose.

White-faced saki monkeys were mid-sized primates native to the northern countries of South America, where they were “relatively numerous” but threatened by the destruction of the rainforest, Pynnonen said.

“Despite what many people think, they don’t eat bananas at all, but seeds, insects and some fruits.”





No.19 article:
Thieves steal luxury goods worth €600,000 from Paris home of Saudi princess

The 47-year-old woman has been admitted to hospital with shock after discovering the loss of bags, watches and furs 

Thieves have taken high-end goods worth hundreds of thousands of euros from the Paris home of a Saudi princess, a source close to the case has said.

The 47-year-old princess, who had not set foot in the apartment since August, discovered on returning that bags, watches, jewellery and furs worth some €600,000 (£540,000) were missing.

The princess, whose name was not revealed, was hospitalised in a state of shock and has not yet spoken to police.

The thieves appear to have entered the apartment, situated near the high-end Avenue George V in the heart of the French capital, without using force, the source said.

The bounty included around 30 Hermes bags worth between €10,000 and €30,000 each, a Cartier watch, jewellery and fur items.

Prosecutors have opened a formal investigation which will be handled by the Paris police’s special anti-gang unit.

Le Parisien newspaper reported that an early suspect was a man who had been staying at the princess’s apartment since August.

A spare set of keys to her home had gone missing, the paper added.





No.20 article:
Palestinian prisoner agrees to end hunger strike after 100 days

Maher al-Akhras, 49, who has refused to eat since being arrested in July, will be released by Israeli authorities on 26 November 

A Palestinian prisoner held by Israel has agreed to end more than 100 days of hunger strike, his family and a prisoner rights’ advocate have said, claiming he had received assurances from Israeli authorities that his open-ended detention would not be extended beyond the end of November.

Maher al-Akhras, 49, has refused to eat since he was arrested in July and locked up under administrative detention, a policy Israel uses to hold Palestinians without charges on suspicion of undisclosed security offenses. These renewable detention orders have come under heavy criticism from Palestinians and human rights groups, which allege the policy violates the right to due process.

Qadoura Fares, the head of advocacy group Palestinian Prisoners Club, said on Friday that under the agreement, Israel will not extend the current administrative detention order for al-Akhras when it expires on 26 November.

Al-Akhras’ family said he will spend the next 10 days at Kaplan hospital in central Israel, where he has been since 6 September, after which he would be transferred to an Arab hospital in east Jerusalem for another 10 days and then released from there.

“He has ended his strike and now he is undergoing a medical check-up to begin eating,” Al-Akhras’ wife, Taghreed, told Associated Press by phone.

“He weighed 104kg (229lbs) before and now he is 61kg (134 pounds), she added.

Israel’s Shin Bet security agency said al-Akhras’ detention order was already scheduled to end on 26 November. It would not elaborate. A security official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said al-Akhras had rejected a similar court proposal last month to release him on that date as long as no new evidence was presented against him.

The Shin Bet has said al-Akhras was arrested based on information that he is active in the Islamic Jihad militant group and was involved in “activities that endanger public safety”. According to the agency, he was arrested five previous times for involvement in militant activities. The family denies such involvement.

The Islamic Jihad, which has killed scores of Israelis in suicide bombings and other attacks over the years, has threatened to respond with attacks on Israel if al-Akhras’ condition deteriorated further.

Israel holds 4,200 Palestinian prisoners, 300 of them under administrative detention, according to Fares of the advocacy group.





No.21 article:
‘Intelligent, clear and astute’: what New Zealanders say about Nanaia Mahuta

The new foreign minister also holds the local government and Māori development portfolios

Nanaia Mahuta wears the marks of her ancestors on her face.

For those of us who have followed her career and any of the other 25 Māori politicians who hold seats in parliament, the reaction to the announcement (of her appointment) was more surprising than the announcement itself. This article isn’t intended to be a puff piece on a Māori politician by a Māori journalist – instead I hope to simply fill in some gaps.

Anyone who knows me or our current affairs show The Hui will know our programme is the first to examine, review and challenge the decisions and track record of all politicians, both Māori and Tauiwi (non Māori).

As a mother of four, I tip my hat to any woman working the long hours parliament requires but I suspect that is not the reason Nanaia Mahuta has been selected for this role. It’s probably fair to say she avoids the limelight but when put on the spot she is intelligent, clear and astute. She is conciliatory and forms good relationships with industry leaders. I suspect her 24 years in politics representing the people of Hauraki Waikato has also played a role.

Those surprised by her elevation to foreign affairs and concerned about whether she can play the role of diplomat should consider her genealogy. She has literally been groomed for this position even before she was born. She is the niece of the first Māori Queen Te Arikinui Te Atairangikaahu who co-signed the first Treaty Settlement with Queen Elizabeth at her marae (tribal meeting house) in 1995 and she is a great-granddaughter of the revered Princess Te Puea Hērangi, a central force among the Tainui people.

With decades of invaluable experience as a parliamentarian and community leader, Nanaia Mahuta has huge mana (power) that will easily fill the role.

It’s important to also celebrate this appointment as a leap in representation. It is, unbelievably, the first time a woman is entrusted to formulate and front our nation’s foreign policy.

That this historic achievement was made by a strong wāhine Māori with deep connection with her whakapapa (genealogy), also shines as an example of how we continue to decolonise our institutions in every policy area.

I’m excited about working with her on longstanding Green issues, like supporting the decolonisation in our Pacific and elsewhere, including West Papua.

Carrying the legacies of her tīpuna (ancestors), through focused, intentional and observant leadership, Mahuta completely disrupted the comfortable foreign policy fortress of her detractors. Their choice to ignore her positioning rests on their lazy assumptions about race, gender and performance. Just as the antique wood and vintage carpets of the old men’s clubs across Wellington still carry the stench of colonisation, so too does their crumbling fortress.”

Mahuta’s appointment restores a familiar face to the land. One that the land remembers. A face reminiscent of the tīpuna (ancestors) who discovered Aotearoa. A face that elevates the place of its first peoples as the first face the world sees. But her appointment is more than the face she presents. It is the values and legacies she will carry forth onto the international stage. It is the remembering of our tīpuna. It is the ‘everyday acts of cultural resurgence’ in the forums we’ve been denied a voice for far too long.

• This article was corrected on 9 November 2020. An earlier version incorrectly referred to Golriz Ghahraman as the Green party’s global affairs spokesman. She is their spokeswoman.





No.22 article:
France reports record 60,486 new cases; Russia saw 9,798 deaths in September – as it happened

France’s new infections more than 2,000 higher than previous record; Italy registers 37,809 new cases; Russia says Covid was main cause in 5,199 cases. This blog is now closed

NSW has reported one new case of locally transmitted Covid-19 in the 24 hours to 8pm last night.

Four cases were also reported in overseas travellers in hotel quarantine, bringing the total number of cases in NSW to 4,270.

Today’s locally acquired case is a household contact of a confirmed case in Moss Vale. Contact tracing and investigation into the source of the infection continues.

NSW Health is treating 65 Covid-19 cases. One patient is in intensive care and is being ventilated. Ninety-five per cent of cases being treated by NSW Health are in non-acute, out-of-hospital care.

The International Monetary Fund [IMF] on Friday approved a 42-month, US$370m loan program for conflict-ravaged Afghanistan as it tries to deal with the coronavirus pandemic.

The loan aims to help stabilise the country’s economy, shore up its Covid-19 response and catalyse donor support, the IMF said in a statement.

The government’s economic program was set back by the pandemic, but Kabul has put in place policies to return to growth and reduce poverty, IMF deputy managing director Mitsuhiro Furusawa said in a statement.

However, “should downside risks, including from the pandemic and the security situation, materialize, the recovery could falter and financing needs increase”, Furusawa said.

Under the Extended Credit Facility the government will receive $115m immediately, with the rest coming in instalments following semi-annual reviews of performance criteria covering economic policy and anti-corruption efforts, the IMF said in a statement.

Europe’s number of coronavirus-linked deaths has surged past 300,000 and its number of infections surpassed 12 million, according to an AFP tally from official sources.

The region’s 300,688 recorded deaths is second only to the 408,841 in Latin America and the Caribbean.

Worldwide, there have been 1,235,148 Covid-19-related deaths. The United States is the hardest hit country with 234,944 fatalities, followed by Brazil with 161,736, India with 124,985, Mexico with 93,772 and Britain with 48,120.

The US has also recorded more than 120,000 new daily infections, breaking a record set the day before.

Meanwhile, Italy is set to start a nationwide 10pm-5am curfew, as much of the country returns to lockdown with “red zone” regions shuttering non-essential businesses affecting 16m people.

Greece says it will close secondary schools from Monday, as the country enters its second nationwide lockdown.

Brazil reported 18,862 additional confirmed cases of the virus in the past 24 hours, and 279 deaths from Covid-19, the health ministry said.

The South American country has now registered 5,631,181 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 162,015, according to ministry data, in the world’s most fatal outbreak outside the United States. 

Monday will see the resumption of direct flights from New Zealand – the first international flights into Melbourne since 30 June. Ahead of the resumption of international arrivals, a long-awaited report has suggested improvements to the state’s quarantine program, AAP reports. 

Among the hotel quarantine inquiry’s 69 recommendations is that overseas travellers returning to Victoria should be able to quarantine at home, potentially with an electronic ankle or wrist bracelet to track movements and enforce compliance. 

Home quarantine candidates would need to have regular Covid-19 tests during the 14-day period and face penalties if found in breach, the report said.

The report describes home quarantine as “at least as effective as a facility-based model” in preventing transmission and avoids the risk of putting people in “physical proximity with others suspected of having COVID-19”.

It also reduces the number of workers required, “thereby reducing the number of people potentially being exposed”. Those unable to quarantine at home will be accommodated at hotels located near hospitals and modified for social distancing and minimal transmission risk.

Police would be on-site 24/7 alongside units dedicated to infection prevention and control, and contact tracing. Staff will not be allowed to work across multiple quarantine sites or in other forms of employment.

Victoria’s second virus wave, which resulted in more than 18,000 infections and 800 deaths, can be traced to outbreaks among staff at the Rydges and Stamford Plaza hotels.

In the US, a Missouri election judge who came to work despite testing positive for Covid-19 died in her sleep after a 15-hour shift at the polls, the director of her county’s election office said Friday.

The woman worked election day as an election judge supervisor at Memorial Hall in Blanchette Park in the St Louis suburb of St Charles. Officials don’t yet know if the virus was the cause of death. County officials didn’t release her name, citing privacy laws.

She tested positive on 30 October but ignored advice to isolate and worked alongside nine other election judges. More than 1,800 people voted at the precinct. Judges were required to wear masks and were mostly behind a plastic glass barrier.

St Charles County Election Authority director Kurt Bahr said in a phone interview that the woman had previously worked several other elections, as had her sister at a different polling site. It was the sister who called Bahr’s office Wednesday to let him know of the woman’s death.

But Bahr said the sister didn’t know of the Covid-19 diagnosis.

“She was just as shocked,” Bahr said. “The family was unaware she had tested positive. As far as I understand, the only person that knew was the spouse of the judge.”

Bahr said that as an election judge, the woman would have shown up around 5am to help prepare the polling place; worked the entire time the polls were open from 6am to 7pm; then spent about an hour wrapping up. She died in her sleep either late Tuesday or early Wednesday, Bahr said.

Another judge who worked at the Blanchette Park site called Bahr’s office to “try to figure out who it was” that had the illness, he said. “That judge more or less said nobody appeared sick. Nobody had symptoms.”

County health officials are urging the precinct’s other judges to be tested for the virus, St. Charles County spokeswoman Mary Enger said. Contact tracing efforts have begun. Bahr said the county is not recommending testing for those who voted at the precinct because their potential exposure was limited.

Common cold antibodies could yield clues to Covid-19 behaviour, Nancy Lapid at Reuters writes:

Among people who were never infected with the new coronavirus, a few adults – and many children – may have antibodies that can neutralise the virus, researchers reported on Friday in Science. 

Among 302 such adults, 16 (5.3%) had antibodies, likely generated during infections with “common cold” coronaviruses, that reacted to a specific region of the spike protein on the new virus called the S2 subunit. Among 48 children and adolescents, 21 (43.8%) had these antibodies. In test tube experiments, blood serum from both older and younger uninfected individuals with cross-reactive antibodies could neutralise the new coronavirus. That was not the case with serum from study participants who lacked these antibodies. 

“Together, these findings may help explain higher Covid-19 susceptibility in older people and provide insight into whether pre-established immunity to seasonal coronaviruses offers protection against SARS-CoV-2,” the publishers of the journal said in a statement. The findings also suggest that targeting the S2 subunit on the coronavirus spike protein might be the basis for a drug or vaccine that works on multiple types of coronavirus.

In Australia, Victoria has achieved a week without new cases or deaths. It follows the state’s second virus wave, which resulted in more than 18,000 infections and 800 deaths, and resulted in the state being locked down.

But steps towards normal living are about to gain pace with Covid-19 restrictions further easing and flights to resume from New Zealand. The Victorian premier, Daniel Andrews, is expected to announce another relaxation of rules on Sunday, including the removal of the “ring of steel” around Melbourne which currently prevents travel between metropolitan Melbourne and regional areas.The city’s residents will no longer be confined to a 25-kilometre radius from home and allowed to travel to regional Victoria. Travel freedom will expand again when the New South Wales border reopens to Victorians on 23 November. Andrews said on Friday that his Sunday announcement would include a plan for the rest of the month.“They will be big steps, they’ll get us much closer to normal than we’ve been for six or seven months, which is very significant,” he said.

Portugal’s president on Friday declared a state of health emergency that will come into force next week to allow the government to impose further coronavirus restrictions.

In a televised appearance, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa said he had just signed a decree “relating to a second state of emergency” since the start of the pandemic that will last at least two weeks.

It will be “very limited and largely preventative” but “paves the way for new measures such as restricting traffic to certain times and certain days, in highest risk municipalities,” he said.

The government will hold an extraordinary cabinet meeting on Saturday to decide what type of measures to introduce.

These could include a nighttime curfew similar to what has been implemented in other European nations, or taking people’s temperature at some locations.

During the first wave of the pandemic in the spring, Portuguese authorities decreed a six-week state of emergency.

Some 7.1 million people are currently living under new restrictions and have been asked to stay home and work remotely as far as possible.

But unlike the first spring lockdown, schools remain open, along with shops and restaurants, though they have to close earlier.

Since the start of the pandemic, Portugal has reported close to 167,000 cases and more than 2,700 deaths.

Europe’s number of coronavirus-linked deaths has surged past 300,000 and its number of infections surpassed 12 million, according to an AFP tally from official sources.

The region’s 300,688 recorded deaths is second only to the 408,841 in Latin America and the Caribbean.

Worldwide, there have been 1,235,148 Covid-19-related deaths. The United States is the hardest hit country with 234,944 fatalities, followed by Brazil with 161,736, India 124,985, Mexico 93,772 and the UK 48,120.

The US has also recorded more than 120,000 new daily infections - breaking a record set the day before.

Authorities in Slovakia say they hope a nationwide programme in which two-thirds of the country’s population were tested for Covid-19 in just two days last weekend will halve the number of cases of the virus in the country.

The Slovak testing programme has drawn interest from across Europe, as debates continue about whether or not blanket testing is the best way to fight coronavirus. A Downing Street team travelled to Slovakia last weekend to witness the testing, keen to draw lessons before a mass testing programme due to be launched in Liverpool this weekend.

Slovak officials said the team included two Downing Street advisers and two people responsible for arranging the UK’s large-scale testing programme in Liverpool.

“They are interested in our lessons and in the details and results,” said Slovakia’s deputy defence minister, Marian Majer, who added that Slovakia has offered to send a planning team to London to help with UK preparations if required.

A No 10 spokesperson declined to comment on the visit except to say that “we are constantly seeking to evolve our testing system in order to control the spread of the virus and bring the R rate down”.

Shaun Walker has the story:

Good evening from London. I’m Lucy Campbell, I’ll be bringing you all the latest global developments on the coronavirus pandemic for the next few hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: lucy.campbell@theguardian.comTwitter: @lucy_campbell_

Here’s a roundup of some of the key global coronavirus developments over the last few hours: 






