No.1 article:
2,596 Trades in One Term: Inside Senator Perdue’s Stock Portfolio

The Georgia Republican’s stock trades have far outpaced those of his Senate colleagues and have included a range of companies within his Senate committees’ oversight, an analysis shows.

As a member of the Senate’s cybersecurity subcommittee, David Perdue has raised alarms that hackers from overseas pose a threat to U.S. computer networks. Citing a frightening report by a California-based company called FireEye, Mr. Perdue was among the senators who asked this spring that the National Guard prepare to protect against such data breaches.

Not only was the issue important to Mr. Perdue, so was FireEye, a federal contractor that provides malware detection and threat-intelligence services. Beginning in 2016, the senator bought and sold FireEye stock 61 times, at one point owning as much as $250,000 worth of shares in the company.

Along with Senator Kelly Loeffler, a fellow Georgia Republican, Mr. Perdue faces an unusual runoff election in January. With control of the Senate at stake, and amid renewed concern about the potential for conflicts of interest in stock trading by members of Congress, Mr. Perdue’s investment activity — and especially his numerous well-timed trades — has increasingly come into the public glare.

Last week, The New York Times reported that the Justice Department had investigated the senator for possible insider trading in his sale of more than $1 million worth of stock in a financial-analysis firm, Cardlytics. Ultimately, prosecutors declined to bring charges. Other media outlets have revealed several trades in companies whose business dealings fall under the jurisdiction of Mr. Perdue’s committees.

An examination of Mr. Perdue’s stock trading during his six years in office reveals that he has been the Senate’s most prolific stock trader by far, sometimes reporting 20 or more transactions in a single day.

The Times analyzed data compiled by Senate Stock Watcher, a nonpartisan website that aggregates publicly available information on lawmakers’ trading, and found that Mr. Perdue’s transactions accounted for nearly a third of all senators’ trades reported in the past six years. His 2,596 trades, mostly in stocks but also in bonds and funds, roughly equal the combined trading volume of the next five most active traders in the Senate.

The data also shows the breadth of trades Mr. Perdue made in companies that stood to benefit from policy and spending matters that came not just before the Senate as a whole, but before the committees and subcommittees on which he served.

Nearly half of Mr. Perdue’s FireEye trades, for example, occurred while he sat on the cybersecurity panel, a role that potentially could have provided him with nonpublic information about companies like FireEye. During that period, FireEye landed a subcontract worth more than $30 million with the Army Cyber Command, which had operations at Fort Gordon, in Mr. Perdue’s home state. In 2018, Mr. Perdue reported capital gains of up to $15,000 from FireEye trades.

And as a member of the Senate banking, housing, and urban affairs committee since 2017, Mr. Perdue bought and sold shares of a number of financial companies his panel oversaw, including JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Regions Financial.

Mr. Perdue disputes the notion that his investment activity posed a conflict, saying that his trades were handled by outside advisers without his input, although his instructions to Goldman Sachs to sell Cardlytics suggest that he directed at least some trades.

“Senator Perdue doesn’t handle the day-to-day decisions of his portfolio — all of his holdings are managed by outside financial advisers who make recommendations, set strategy, and manage trades and personal finances,” said John Burke, the communications director for the senator’s re-election campaign.

Robert Hutchinson, Mr. Perdue’s wealth manager at Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.

In April, after questions were raised about stock trades that Mr. Perdue and other senators had made around the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, he abruptly sold virtually all of his stock holdings — between $3.2 million and $9.4 million worth. (Members of Congress report their transactions in ranges, so it is often impossible to pinpoint the exact dollar values.) In May, he announced that his advisers would no longer trade in individual stocks for his portfolio, with the exception of a few companies on whose boards he had previously served, including Cardlytics; the utility Alliant Energy; and Graphic Packaging, a paper-based-packaging provider.

Though Mr. Perdue has been unusually active in stock trading, his robust investing activity highlights broader questions once again being debated, more than eight years after the passage of the STOCK Act, a law meant to grapple with the ethical issues inherent in lawmakers’ buying and selling stocks.

While there is no law or regulation prohibiting such trading, the practice has long invited questions about possible conflicts — and the potential for insider trading — that can arise when members of powerful congressional committees buy and sell shares of companies directly affected by the issues before them. (By comparison, avoiding some or all individual stocks is common practice in other branches of government, where federal law prohibits most employees from engaging in matters whose outcomes may have financial implications for them.)

“Members are in a constant state of gathering information from briefings, hearings, constituent meetings, investigations and staff,” said Aaron Cooper, special counsel to the law firm Jenner &amp; Block who previously served as lead minority investigative counsel to the Senate Intelligence Committee. “They receive a massive amount of data every day — both public and nonpublic — and it’s not always clear which category the information belongs to.”

As a result, he said, “prosecutors often face an uphill battle” in making an insider-trading case against a member of Congress.

The trend on Capitol Hill was already moving away from individual stock holding when Mr. Perdue was elected in 2014. Many senators had reduced their trading in individual stocks after the 2012 STOCK Act, which prohibited members of Congress from trading on nonpublic information acquired in the course of their duties. An analysis by Public Citizen published in 2017 credited the legislation with a 50 percent decline in stock trading by senators.

Mr. Perdue’s Democratic challenger, Jon Ossoff, has seized on the trading as a campaign issue. In a news conference on Monday, he accused Mr. Perdue of “using his office to enrich himself” through the stock trades. A spokesman for Mr. Perdue called the critique a “discredited line of attack” that was “baseless,” and his campaign recently unveiled an ad arguing that he was “totally exonerated” by federal overseers who had studied his trades.

Yet others have also found fault with Mr. Perdue’s trading.

In a letter last week to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi, an Illinois Democrat, requested an investigation of Mr. Perdue’s trades in BWX Technologies, a Virginia-based company that supplies nuclear components for Navy submarines. The trades were first reported by The Daily Beast.

Mr. Perdue began buying the company’s stock about a month before he took over as chairman of the Senate’s seapower subcommittee, where he pushed to beef up the nation’s defenses, including by adding a multibillion-dollar nuclear submarine of the type BWX Technologies provides components for.

He reported earning between $15,000 and $50,000 in capital gains when he sold the stock.

Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, who believes that the STOCK Act does not go far enough, has co-sponsored legislation that would ban the trading of individual stocks by members of Congress.

“There is no way that the public can’t sense, can’t absolutely smell, that this is corrupt, that you have it in the back of your mind when you vote,” said Mr. Merkley, a Democrat. “You may have the public interest in your mind, but you also have in your mind how that decision might impact the value of your portfolio.”

Mr. Perdue, whose estimated net worth is more than $15 million, arrived on Capitol Hill in 2015, billing himself as an outsider and emphasizing his experience as a top executive at companies like Dollar General, Reebok and Haggar Clothing. He immediately established himself as a skeptic of government regulation, at various points suggesting the abolishment of both the Environmental Protection Agency and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

As his term progressed, Mr. Perdue — or his advisers — would place some prescient bets in his portfolio, buying and selling stocks at just the right moment. His trading in Devon Energy, a company co-founded in 1971 by J. Larry Nichols, a major Republican donor, provides an example.

On Nov. 12, 2015, Mr. Perdue sold his position in Devon, worth between $50,000 and $100,000, on a day the stock’s price closed at $45.06. Over the next month, Devon’s price would fall as low as $31.54, a 30 percent drop from the date Mr. Perdue liquidated his holdings. Analysts attributed the stock’s decline to the company’s announcement, after Mr. Perdue’s sale, that it would acquire assets from Felix Energy.

Though Mr. Perdue has traded many energy stocks while in office, buying and selling dozens of drilling, pipeline, power, and related equipment companies, the transactions that invite special scrutiny are those involving industries that were within his direct oversight through his committee positions.

Mr. Perdue actively traded in First Data, a financial firm based in Atlanta. Like his trading in Devon Energy, Mr. Perdue’s transactions in First Data appear to have been well timed, as reported by The Daily Beast.

After selling his entire stake in First Data in November 2018, Mr. Perdue repurchased shares in the company that December, three weeks before it announced a merger with the financial services technology firm Fiserv on Jan. 16, 2019. Mr. Perdue subsequently reported capital gains of $50,000 to $100,000 in First Data.

Mr. Perdue had received campaign contributions from First Data executives.

During his Senate term, Mr. Perdue has at various times held shares in roughly a dozen banks, ranging in size from JPMorgan Chase, the nation’s largest bank with nearly $2.7 trillion in assets, to the comparatively tiny First Hawaiian Bank.

Regions Financial, a regional lender based in Birmingham, Ala., has been one of Mr. Perdue’s frequent trades. He spent much of his term loading up on the stock, buying shares on 30 occasions.

Mr. Perdue was particularly active in buying Regions in 2017 and early 2018. During that time, he was also pushing to roll back financial regulations that had imposed additional scrutiny and cash constraints on banks with more than $50 billion in assets after the financial crisis. On Sept. 28, 2017, he co-sponsored a Senate bill proposing to soften the regulations governing midsize banks like Regions. A broader bill, which included the same proposal, was approved by the Senate the following March and signed into law by President Trump that May.

Between May 2017, about four months before Mr. Perdue introduced his legislation, and that November, he made more than a dozen purchases of Regions shares. And between Mr. Perdue’s first purchase of Regions stock in 2017 and the time Mr. Trump signed the bill in 2018, the bank’s shares rallied 35 percent.

The chief executive of Regions, John M. Turner Jr., has also contributed to Mr. Perdue’s re-election campaign.

Mr. Perdue’s decision to sell off his stock holdings this past April followed criticism of trades made by several senators in coronavirus-sensitive stocks just after they had attended a Senate briefing on Jan. 24.

In the aftermath of those sales, the Justice Department opened investigations into trading by Ms. Loeffler; Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina; his Republican colleague James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma; and Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat. All have since been closed except the Burr inquiry, which is also nearing an end, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. A Justice Department spokesman declined to comment.

Mr. Perdue, whose office has said he did not attend that briefing, was among those who bought and sold some of those stocks, including Pfizer, in the weeks that followed.

Mr. Perdue purchased up to $260,000 worth of Pfizer stock between Feb. 26 and Feb. 28, in the early days of a market downturn. On the 28th, he issued a news release reporting that he had regularly attended briefings led by the coronavirus task force; records subsequently showed that he had bought the third tranche of Pfizer shares that same day.

The news release also emphasized that the U.S. government was expediting the development of a coronavirus vaccine. And in March, Pfizer announced its partnership with a German biotechnology company, BioNTech, to develop a coronavirus vaccine.

Mr. Perdue had frequently traded Pfizer stock before this year. He had rarely traded another stock he bought in the early stages of the U.S. outbreak, DuPont, which, as a manufacturer of personal protective equipment, also stood to benefit from the coronavirus response. (Mr. Perdue purchased some shares in DuPont on Jan. 24, the day of the Senate briefing, and additional shares later.)

In late February and early March, Mr. Perdue sold stock in Caesars, an entertainment company whose casino business would be hard-hit by the pandemic, but purchased shares of Disney and Delta, additions to his portfolio that seem to run counter to any suggestion that he was trading on insider information about the virus.

Midway through April, Mr. Perdue began selling most of his stocks. He moved some of his money into mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, which track baskets of stocks or bonds.

The shift appeared timed to counteract harsh criticism leveled by the senator’s political opponents. But given that President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and a sharply divided Senate are unlikely to favor the energy and financial stocks in which Mr. Perdue was once so active, it may also have been a prescient financial move.





No.2 article:
U.K. Approves Pfizer Coronavirus Vaccine, a First in the West

The emergency approval, ahead of the United States and the European Union, clears the way for Britain to begin mass inoculations. “Help is on its way,” one official said.

LONDON — Britain gave emergency authorization on Wednesday to Pfizer’s coronavirus vaccine, leaping ahead of the United States to become the first Western country to allow mass inoculations against a disease that has killed more than 1.4 million people worldwide.

The decision cleared the way for a vaccination campaign with little precedent in modern medicine, encompassing not only ultracold dry ice but also a crusade against anti-vaccine misinformation.

Britain’s beating the United States to authorization — on a vaccine codeveloped by an American company, no less — intensified pressure on U.S. regulators, who are under fire from the White House for not moving faster to get doses to people. But it also fueled concerns that Britain was acting in haste for political reasons or trying to muscle its way to the front of the line for deliveries.

European regulators on Wednesday cast doubt on the rigor of Britain’s review and said that the authorization was limited to specific batches of the vaccine, a claim that Pfizer denied and British officials did not address.

Britain’s move provoked a spirited debate among American scientists about whether U.S. regulators, who are known to be unusually meticulous, could afford to hold off any longer on authorizing a vaccine against a virus that is claiming more than 10,000 lives a day worldwide.

American regulators have argued that they lag behind — if only by a matter of days — because they are virtually alone in reanalyzing thousands of pages of raw data from vaccine trials before approval. Backers of that approach say it is the only way to minimize unintended damage, in lives and in public trust, from vaccines not working.

British and European regulators lean more heavily on the companies’ own analyses, auditing their figures occasionally but otherwise grounding their decisions on vaccine makers’ reports. While the more cautious American approach can be valuable, some scientists said the Europeans subject vaccine makers to considerable scrutiny, and it is imperative to move quickly to curb the suffering wrought by the pandemic.

“When you say it’s OK to wait another week or two, you’re saying it’s OK that many thousands of people are going to die,” said Dr. Walid F. Gellad, who leads the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh.

No country until Wednesday had authorized a fully tested coronavirus vaccine; Russia and China approved vaccines without waiting for large-scale efficacy tests.

The British government, battered by its handling of the pandemic, exulted in the authorization.

“Help is on its way with this vaccine — and we can now say that with certainty, rather than with all the caveats,” the British health secretary, Matt Hancock, said Wednesday.

While the go-ahead bodes well for Britain, which broke from the European Union’s regulatory orbit to approve the vaccine early, it will have no effect on the distribution of the hundreds of millions of doses that the United States and other wealthy countries have procured in prepaid contracts.

It also offers little relief to poorer countries that could not afford to buy supplies in advance and may struggle to pay for both the vaccines and the exceptional demands of distributing them. 

Roughly 800,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, developed with BioNTech, a smaller German firm, were being packaged at the company’s Belgian manufacturing plant on Wednesday for shipment to Britain. How and when they will arrive is a secret for security reasons, the company said.

The complicated logistics of moving, defrosting and preparing the vaccine meant it was going to be given only at 50 British hospitals to begin with. The vaccine must be transported at South Pole-like temperatures, and in trays of 975 doses.

First to be vaccinated will be doctors and nurses in the country’s National Health Service, along with nursing home workers and people 80 and over with previously scheduled doctors’ appointments. A government advisory committee has suggested that older or more vulnerable health workers, and doctors and nurses who work with fragile patients, would be among the first in line.

But the government has not said when other employees of the National Health Service would be eligible for vaccines. Essential workers, like teachers, transport workers and first responders, would not be vaccinated until after people 50 and over and those with underlying health problems received shots.

The advisory committee plans had made nursing home residents a top priority, but they will have to wait until the government begins distributing vaccines beyond hospitals. Pfizer and BioNTech have suggested that is possible, given that the vaccine can be stored for five days in a normal refrigerator.

Eventually, people will get their shots in mass vaccination centers being set up by the military at soccer stadiums and racecourses, or at doctors’ offices and pharmacies.

“We’ve been waiting and hoping for the day when the searchlights of science would pick out our invisible enemy, and give us the power to stop that enemy from making us ill,” Prime Mister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday. “And now the scientists have done it.”

For Britain, which has suffered one of Europe’s highest per capita death tolls from the virus, the decision by its drug regulator was the latest evidence of a vaccination strategy that has been the most aggressive in the West.

Britain remains under the authority of the European Union’s drug regulator until it consummates its split from the bloc on Dec. 31. But the government recently strengthened an old law that allows it to step out from under the bloc’s regulatory umbrella in public health emergencies. That allowed it to fast-track a review of the Pfizer vaccine, which was 95 percent effective in a late-stage clinical trial.

Britain had pre-ordered 40 million doses of the vaccine and 315 million doses of competing vaccines, spreading its bets to assure it can inoculate the country’s 67 million people.

British ministers cast the speed of the Pfizer approval as an early example of the new flexibility the country will have once it fully untethers itself from European regulation. Yet Brexit has also exacted costs, starving Britain’s drug regulator of money it used to draw from contracts with the European Union. 

British regulators are also vetting a vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, a British-Swedish company. It is cheaper and easier to store than Pfizer’s, so much of the world could rely on it, but its regulatory path forward in the United States is unclear after scientists and industry analysts questioned promising early results.

The chemistry underlying Pfizer’s vaccine had never before produced an approved shot, but scientists have experimented with it for years, testing vaccines that did not make it to market. In order to coax cells to make a viral protein, called a spike, and elicit an immune response, this class of vaccine delivers genetic instructions, known as messenger RNA, encased in tiny fat globules.

BioNTech made a prophetic bet on the technology and joined forces with Pfizer, one of the world’s largest drug companies; they ended up delivering stunning results, on a timeline that was unheard-of before this year.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration plans to decide on emergency authorization for the Pfizer vaccine shortly after a meeting of an advisory panel on Dec. 10. American officials have said vaccinations could begin within 24 hours after approval.

Another American company, Moderna, and the National Institutes of Health have also developed a messenger RNA vaccine that has proved effective in large trials. The F.D.A. will consider their application for emergency authorization shortly after Pfizer’s.

The European Medicines Agency, which regulates vaccines across the European Union, is expected to make a decision about the Pfizer vaccine later in December.

Pfizer has said it expects to be able to produce up to 50 million doses this year, about half of them going to the United States. Since each person needs two doses, a month apart, up to 25 million people worldwide could begin vaccination before 2021.

The United States has bought 100 million doses in advance from Pfizer, and the European Union 200 million doses.

The approval arrived at a perilous moment in the pandemic in Britain, where the virus has killed nearly 70,000 people, and hundreds more die each day. A third of England’s hospital systems were caring for more Covid-19 patients in recent weeks than at the height of the first wave in the spring.

A monthlong shutdown of restaurants and pubs has stanched the spread of the virus, but that is being replaced by a less stringent system of localized restrictions, with allowances for Christmastime travel that scientists fear will seed another uptick in infections.

In a clinical trial, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine proved highly effective among older adults, who are more vulnerable to developing severe Covid-19 and who do not respond strongly to some types of vaccines. It caused no serious side effects. 

As vaccines become widely available, the scientific feat of developing them will give way to the social and political problem of convincing people to take them. In Britain, the source of some of the most virulent modern disinformation about vaccines, just over half of people have said in surveys they would definitely accept an inoculation.

Safety concerns have been accentuated by the speed of vaccine testing and approval, despite Britain’s regulators saying repeatedly they were not taking shortcuts.

Beyond those challenges, manufacturers will quickly need to eventually make billions of doses and move them to hospitals, clinics and pharmacies.

The Pfizer vaccine makes this effort especially complex. It has to be stored at around minus 70 degrees Celsius (minus 94 Fahrenheit) until shortly before injection, requiring transportation in boxes stuffed with dry ice.





No.3 article:
As Hospitals Fill, Travel Nurses Race to Virus Hot Spots

As the coronavirus cut a devastating path around the country, Laura Liffiton, 32, found herself racing along behind.

She arrived in New York City in April, on one of the worst days of the pandemic, for a stint as a nurse in the overrun intensive-care unit of a crowded hospital. After her contract there ended, she flew in July to another hot spot with an urgent need for nurses: a hospital in Arizona where four of her patients died of the coronavirus on her first day. In October, Ms. Liffiton traveled on, to Green Bay, Wis., just as the virus was surging uncontrollably throughout the Midwest.

“When the pandemic began, I thought, ‘I’m going to go help, I can do some good, I can make some good money,’” she said. But on the first day of treating coronavirus patients, Ms. Liffiton remembered, “I was like Dorothy landing in Oz. I was totally unprepared for the reality.”

As the coronavirus has spiked across the country, leaving a record 100,226 Americans hospitalized on Wednesday, travel nurses, who work on temporary contracts for higher fees and move from city to city, have become more urgently needed than ever.

More deaths were reported on Wednesday than on any other day of the pandemic, surpassing the single-day death record of 2,752, set in April. And federal officials suggested that the picture may grow still worse in the months ahead. Dr. Robert R. Redfield, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, warned that the nation was facing a devastating winter, predicting that total deaths from Covid-19 could reach “close to 450,000” by February unless a large percentage of Americans follow precautions like mask-wearing.

“The reality is, December and January and February are going to be rough times,” Dr. Redfield said. “I actually believe they’re going to be the most difficult time in the public health history of this nation.”

As hospitals fill with virus patients, the biggest need has been finding enough staff to tend to the critically ill. Demand for travel nurses has increased by more than 40 percent in the last month, according to Aya Healthcare, an agency based in California that dispatches them to hospitals. At least 25,000 nurses work in travel nursing, though the number fluctuates, and hospitals have depended on them for decades.

It is a nomadic existence and, in a pandemic, a particularly high-risk one. The nurses parachute into cities like New York, Phoenix, Los Angeles and Green Bay for weeks or months at a time, quickly learning the ways of a new hospital and trying to earn the trust of the existing staff.

At the end of their shifts, they return to their temporary homes: hotels, Airbnb apartments or rented houses. Their families and friends are sometimes thousands of miles away, available only through phone calls or FaceTime.

Last week in Green Bay, where the surrounding county has averaged more than 150 cases a day since late September, a team of four travel nurses worked at Bellin Hospital, grappling with the unrelenting pressure of the emergency room and a Thanksgiving holiday far from home.

More than eight months into the pandemic, many travel nurses have done little else but treat Covid-19 patients.

Ms. Liffiton still shudders when recounting what she saw in New York in April: doctors and nurses who were overwhelmed, rows of intubated patients and little sense of when the devastation would end.

She still sleeps only about four hours a night, troubled by what she has seen throughout the pandemic.

“It’s hard,” she said. “Even after I leave a place, the feelings stay.”

Morgan Fitzsimmons, a travel nurse who is based in Lake Geneva, Wis., has been treating coronavirus patients since a stint working in Syracuse, N.Y., in July. In Green Bay, where she is temporarily based, the weather has now turned cold and blustery. Some people are still gathering indoors, going to bars and to restaurants and weddings.

“The hospital’s getting tight,” said Ms. Fitzsimmons, who is 26. “Half of your patients that you’re going to see in a day more than likely have Covid or are getting tested for Covid. They’re coming in and getting tested. They go home and then they get sicker and they come back.”

The treatment options have improved since her work in Syracuse this summer. But the skepticism surrounding the virus in places like Green Bay has only deepened, she said.

Just before the election, Ms. Fitzsimmons said, she was treating a patient who repeated a conspiracy theory that has circulated on the internet and in conservative media: The coronavirus is a hoax perpetuated by Democrats.

“I’m taking care of this man and he said, ‘I can’t wait for the election to be over so all this will all go away,’” she said. “And I’m like, ‘That’s not happening. It’s real, I promise you, it’s real.’”

Others have all but shrugged when they receive a positive coronavirus result.

“A lot of people tend to have the response, when they’re told they have it, they’re like, ‘Oh, I’ve got the Covid,’” said Heather Ozmun, 46, a travel nurse in Green Bay. “They’re treating it like a rite of passage, like it’s their turn to have it.”

John Deaton, 27, has spent most of his nursing career so far as a traveler, as they are commonly called.

Throughout the pandemic, he has treated Covid-19 patients and even caught a mild case of the virus himself, working in El Centro, Calif., near the border with Mexico; Sacramento; and now Green Bay.

Places to stay in northeastern Wisconsin were difficult to find. He settled for renting the basement in a house while the owner lives upstairs, negotiating for shared use of the kitchen so he would have more than a microwave to use for cooking.

Mr. Deaton, who is from Akron, Ohio, was attracted to travel nursing because it pays so well — he estimated that he makes four times what he would earn if he accepted a staff position somewhere. There is a range of pay for such work, but a weekly paycheck could be more than $5,000 during the pandemic, by some of the nurses’ estimates, in addition to benefits.

“I think this attracts a couple different personality types,” he said. “I travel for the money. Some people travel to travel — they like being in other places, they want the locations of San Diego or Hawaii.”

The dynamic between staff nurses and travel nurses can be complicated. Mr. Deaton said that when he was in Sacramento, staff nurses were given higher-quality equipment to use, such as air-purifying respirators, that travel nurses had to repeatedly request.

“We’re here because they have a need,” he said of hospitals. “We’re not people that are going to be here later on.”

Ms. Liffiton and Ms. Fitzsimmons, away from their families for Thanksgiving, decided to celebrate the holiday together, in Ms. Fitzsimmons’s Airbnb.

They skipped the traditional turkey and opted for a seafood pasta with spicy tomato sauce, followed by pumpkin pie and chocolate chip cookies for dessert. Ms. Liffiton roasted the pumpkins herself. “You can take me out of my home but you can’t take the home out of me,” she said.

On Dec. 19, Ms. Liffiton’s contract in Green Bay will be finished, and she will head back home to rest and spend time with her family.

A week after that, she is back to New York for a 13-week hospital assignment.

“It’s a little frustrating that I’m still going back,” she said. “So many of the people in New York are already doing such a good job of quarantining. And yet this is still a problem there.”





No.4 article:
1 Percent of P.P.P. Borrowers Got Over One-Quarter of the Loan Money

Newly released data gives the most detailed accounting yet of the pandemic aid provided to 5.2 million businesses that sought forgivable loans.

The Paycheck Protection Program was the centerpiece of the federal government’s relief efforts to keep millions of small businesses afloat during the coronavirus pandemic. But new data shows what many had suspected all along: The money was shared unevenly, with the biggest sums going to a sliver of the companies in need.

Detailed loan information released by the Small Business Administration late on Tuesday showed that a mere 1 percent of the program’s 5.2 million borrowers — those seeking $1.4 million and above — received more than a quarter of the $523 billion disbursed.

About 600 businesses — including powerful law firms like Boies Schiller Flexner, restaurants like the steakhouse chain started by Ted Turner, as well as the operator of New York’s biggest horse tracks — received the maximum loan amount of $10 million, according to the data. It was the first full accounting of how federal money was spent through the program. Aimed at small companies — generally those with 500 or fewer workers — the program provided forgivable loans to desperate business owners who were faced with widespread shutdowns.

But the program allowed businesses to take enough money to cover only a couple of months’ expenses, and it has come under criticism for its poorly defined rules and a hasty and haphazard rollout that allowed fraudsters to tap into the money, which will take years of litigation to sort out.

The newly released data also includes details of loans made under the Economic Injury Disaster Loan system, a longstanding Small Business Administration program that was vastly expanded to offer relief to businesses affected by the pandemic. Together, the two programs spread more than $700 billion to struggling companies in just a few months.

The loan data was released under an order by Judge James E. Boasberg of the U.S. District Court in Washington, who rejected the S.B.A.’s request to keep the information confidential. Previously released data on the paycheck program contained only ranges for larger loan amounts, and no information about loans under $150,000.

Calling the program “vast in both size and sweep,” Judge Boasberg wrote in a ruling last month that “the weighty public interest in disclosure easily overcomes the far narrower privacy interest of borrowers who collectively received billions of taxpayer dollars in loans.”

With virus case counts rising rapidly and public health experts predicting a dark winter ahead, small businesses remain fearful about their survival. Many have used up their allotted aid, which was intended to cover up to two months of payroll costs and a handful of other expenses. Many owners say they would immediately apply for additional funds if available, but the rules permit only a single loan, and there has been little movement toward breaking a monthslong stalemate in Washington over additional aid.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his economic advisers have urged quick action on additional stimulus measures. A bipartisan group of lawmakers has proposed a stopgap plan to extend lapsed federal unemployment benefits until March — although at a lower rate — and provide $288 billion to help small businesses, restaurants and theaters. Top Democrats in Congress endorsed the proposal as the basis for further negotiations.

The companies that received the maximum $10 million P.P.P. loan include dozens of restaurant chains such as Ted’s Montana Grill, which was started by Mr. Turner; TGI Fridays; P.F. Chang’s; Black Angus Steakhouse; and Legal Sea Foods. They took advantage of an exception the restaurant industry lobbied for to make chains eligible for the aid money. The New York Racing Association, which operates Aqueduct Racetrack, Saratoga Race Course and Belmont Park, the home of the Belmont Stakes, also received the maximum loan.

Prominent law firms like Boies Schiller Flexner, the high-priced firm run by David Boies, and Kasowitz Benson Torres, founded and run by President Trump’s longtime personal lawyer, Marc E. Kasowitz, also collected loans for $10 million. (It was previously known that both firms received large loans, but the exact amount had not been disclosed.)

Boeis Schiller did not respond to a message seeking comment; Mr. Kasowitz’s firm referred to a previous statement saying the loan helped it preserve hundreds of jobs.

Most of the program’s borrowers sought far less: Loans of $150,000 and under accounted for around 87 percent of the loans made through the program, which ended in August, when its congressional authorization expired. But those loans made up less than 30 percent of the total handed out, about $146 billion. 

The data shows how federal money flowed to tenants of Mr. Trump’s properties, like 40 Wall Street, a commercial skyscraper in Lower Manhattan. Nearly 100 businesses listing an address in that building collected loans totaling more than $34 million.

The largest loan in the building went to Atane Engineers, a contractor that changed its name in 2018 after a corruption scandal that culminated when two former top executives pleaded guilty to paying bribes for city infrastructure contracts. The company, which pays $2.5 million a year for its rent at 40 Wall, received a $7.6 million loan, which it said supported 235 workers. The firm did not respond to messages seeking comment.

The data also reveals how inconsistently the Small Business Administration disbursed money through the Economic Injury Disaster Loan, a still-running aid effort that offers companies and nonprofits low-interest loans directly from the government. That program is supposed to make loans of up to $2 million, but the S.B.A., concerned that it would run out of money, imposed various caps, none of which were publicly disclosed to borrowers at the time.

Two organizations received loans in early April for more than $500,000, the cap the agency set on the program later that month. The Jewish Community Center in Stamford, Conn., received $900,000 and the CWC Group, a chiropractic clinic in Bellevue, Wash., received $713,900, according to government data.

The low-interest loan, which has to be repaid, was a lifeline for CWC, said Dr. Sean Kim, the owner of the practice, which does business under the name Blue Spring Chiropractic. Its sales have declined by as much as 70 percent in some months since the pandemic began, he said, and the loan helped him retain 16 employees and contractors.

“This is about survival,” Dr. Kim said. “Without it, we would not be sleeping well.” (The Jewish Community Center did not respond to questions about its loan.)

More than 8,000 organizations got loans for $500,000, a limit that was later lowered to $150,000, where it has remained since May. The disaster loan program has distributed 3.6 million loans, totaling $194 billion, since the coronavirus crisis began — far more than the program had given out in its entire 67-year history.

A Small Business Administration spokesman said the agency’s “historically successful Covid relief loan programs have helped millions of small businesses and tens of millions of American workers when they needed it most.”

Lenders collected $18 billion in fees, according to a New York Times analysis of the S.B.A. data. The largest payment went to JPMorgan Chase, which stands to collect just over $1 billion in fees on more than 280,000 loans worth a total of $29 billion. The runner-up is Bank of America, which will earn $947 million in fees on around 343,400 loans worth nearly $26 billion.

Both banks have pledged to donate any profits they earn from the program, but executives from each have told analysts that their expenses were so high that there may not be much, if any, left to give after the loans are settled.

“We have committed that net proceeds from the fees will be dedicated to supporting small businesses and the communities and nonprofits we serve,” Bill Halldin, a Bank of America spokesman, said on Wednesday. JPMorgan declined to comment.

The Paycheck Protection Program was hastily constructed in late March after Congress passed the $2 trillion CARES Act. The Treasury Department, which called most of the shots on the program, released technical guidance to banks just hours before lending began in April, and the terms shifted many times before the program ended in August. The Treasury Department has issued dozens of changes and clarifications to its rules.

The rules initially required businesses to keep nearly all of their employees if they wished to have their loan forgiven, but Congress later softened the requirements to allow many businesses to have their loans eliminated even if they reduced their employee head count. While economists believe the program contributed to job retention in the pandemic’s early months, its effects faded as the money dried up.

An analysis by Gusto, a payroll provider for small companies, found that the chances that workers would lose their job at a company that took a P.P.P. loan increased by 25 percent during the week that the loan’s restrictions on job reductions ended. Gusto estimated that 232,000 jobs may have been eliminated as the restrictions expired.

“Once that requirement ends, the head count falls off a cliff,” said Luke Pardue, an economist at Gusto. “It was designed to be temporary relief, but what we find is that companies really emerged in no better shape. A lot of that is due to the fact that the economy is in no better shape.”

Discussions in Congress about further economic stimulus measures have included calls for a second round of P.P.P. loans, this time more narrowly targeted to the hardest-hit businesses. Nearly $140 billion remained unspent when the program expired in August.

Lenders and borrowers who already got loans are now working through the next messy stage of the program: getting P.P.P. loans eligible to be forgiven paid off by the government. Most borrowers have until at least mid-2021 to file and many are holding off, hoping that Congress or the incoming Biden administration will simplify what can be a confusing and time-consuming application process.

As of Nov. 22, lenders had submitted 595,000 loan forgiveness applications to the S.B.A., representing about 11 percent of the program’s 5.2 million borrowers. The agency said it had made payments to lenders on 367,000 of those loans.





No.5 article:
What’s Playing in Dallas? With Streaming, I Could Find Out

Open-air shows. Joint productions. Filmed dress rehearsals. Here’s a faraway close-up on how one theater community has stayed reasonably robust in adversity.

Over the past few weeks, I’ve gone on a Dallas theater binge.

From Teatro Dallas I caught “Pizcas,” about migrant workers, as well as the Dael Orlandersmith one-act play “My Red Hand, My Black Hand,” jointly presented by the Cara Mía and Soul Rep companies.

Dallas Children’s Theater served up a trio of Idris Goodwin plays about race, while the youth company Cry Havoc presented its climate change project, called “Endlings.” And Shakespeare Dallas packed a lot of information into the 30-minute “Shakespeare and the Suffragists.”

In Fort Worth I took in “The October Playlets” at Stage West Theater; in Irving, just outside of Dallas, I checked out “Erma Bombeck: At Wit’s End,” a tribute to the comic bard of middle-class housewives.

Mind you, in real life I have never stepped outside the Dallas-Fort Worth airports. As with much else this pandemic year, my Texas theatergoing has been virtual.

The evocative “Pizcas,” for example, is an audio piece I listened to on SoundCloud. The digital capture of “At Wit’s End,” which I watched on a laptop, was filmed in the MainStage Irving-Las Colinas company’s empty home at the Irving Arts Center.

Admittedly, not everything landed. Ochre House Theater’s “Coppertone Jones’ Amazing Traveling Side Show Corker,” for example, looked like a hybrid of Pee-wee Herman and the Residents, except not as good.

Still, I was happy to check it out — and to find out how Texans have held their breath and dived into the new world of Covid-era theater.

“Streaming was not something we even dreamed of doing,” said Clayton Cunningham, the MainStage Irving-Las Colinas board president, still sounding a little dazed. (He was chatting via video, like everybody quoted in this article.)

“I keep telling the staff that we’re putting the word ‘pilot’ in front of everything we do because we may never do it again — or we may do it for the rest of time,” added Todd Hawkins, executive director of the Irving Arts Center, whose 10 resident organizations include MainStage.

Of course, Covid-19 has exacted a heavy financial toll: A survey by local arts-advocacy organizations revealed that the cultural sector had suffered nearly $68 million in financial losses between March 13 and July 31.

Yet months into the pandemic, the North Texas theater community has been displaying resourcefulness and a spirit of collaboration. Other cultural hubs around the country have stepped up, of course, but Dallas has shown particular moxie — perhaps because theaters there struggle for recognition even at the best of times.

Indeed, Dallas-Fort Worth is not usually thought of as a national theatrical force, despite a population of over six million people. Dallas Theater Center — one of two Texas members of the League of Resident Theaters, along with Houston’s Alley Theater — is the local powerhouse, surrounded by a wide range of companies big and small, professional and amateur.

But this particular ecosystem and its local funders have provided an encouraging case study in how to confront an existential threat to art and business.

Back in March, for example, Stage West was about to open Lucy Kirkwood’s “The Children” (which had played on Broadway in 2017) when it had to close its doors; the professional company quickly pivoted, streaming in April a live capture of the show.

Over the next months, Stage West introduced interactive digital parties; presented “Everything Will Be Fine,” from the smaller Prism Movement Theater, at a local university; and sold tickets to the Adirondack Theater Festival’s “cruise in a box” event. Next up is an original holiday show, “The Naughty List,” presented both as an outdoor distanced production (through Dec. 22) and as a stream (Dec. 4-31).

“We’ve been taking this opportunity to experiment and try as many new things as we can to keep our audience connected,” said Dana Schultes, the Stage West executive producer. “We’ve invested in excellent cameras and equipment, we have learned how to broadcast live all of these experiences. Those are just new tools in our go-to tool chest and I don’t see any reason why we shouldn’t lean into them in the future.”

Sara Cardona, the executive artistic director of Teatro Dallas, which focuses on international plays and the Latino experience, was keen to hold a physical production in the fall, but that, too, was suddenly new territory. North Texas arts organizations have been more stringent than statewide mandates, so Cardona doubled down on safety measures: She held the solo “A Grave Is Given Supper” on the outdoor plaza of the Latino Cultural Center, for strictly distanced audiences of 24 people at a time. (A streaming version is due Jan. 15.)

While problem-solving is rewarding, it doesn’t necessarily fill the coffers. “We’ve got to be able to pay for these programs, and everything costs a lot more than most people imagine,” Schultes said.

A surge in local support has been heartening, however.

“The saying used to be, ‘The refineries are in Houston, the people who own them live in Dallas,’” said Terry D. Loftis, the president and executive director of The Arts Community Alliance, a local nonprofit that provides grants and service programs.

The alliance’s grant cycle used to be annual, but Loftis decided to create an emergency fund, aiming to raise and distribute an extra $150,000 on top of the $400,000 it had provided in March. He ended up raising $705,000, streamlining the application process so the money could be doled out faster.

The emergency fund was eventually replaced with the TACA Resiliency Initiative, designed to reward organizations that innovate rather than wait for a return to the pre-pandemic normal.

Dallas Theater Center was about to begin performances of José Cruz González’s “American Mariachi,” a coproduction with Chicago’s Goodman Theater, when the coronavirus struck. Actors’ Equity agreed to a stream of the show’s dress rehearsal; the theater will soon premiere its first original, “In the Bleak Midwinter: A Christmas Carol for Our Time” (Dec. 7-Jan. 2.)

Sarahbeth Grossman, a producer there, said that streaming (which has included educational programs) helped to reach more diverse audiences, some of whom then made small donations.

“We’ve also had, quite frankly, surprise large donations from sponsors and big donors,” she added. “They said, ‘We see what you’re doing, we appreciate that you have stayed intact and are working with our community.’ ”

In September, that extra money helped the theater put its freelance company of actors on staff for the season, providing 35 weeks of guaranteed work and health insurance if they need it. Their duties include education projects as teaching artists, in the same can-do spirit that had the company’s costume shop sew personal protective equipment and masks for local hospitals.

“It’s sort of all hands on deck,” Grossman said. “We’ve got the barn, everybody, let’s put on a show!”

And audiences from all over the country, if not the world, can watch it.





No.6 article:
Joshua Wong and Agnes Chow Are Sentenced to Prison Over Hong Kong Protest

Activists denounced the prison terms for illegal assembly charges over a 2019 demonstration outside Police Headquarters.

HONG KONG — Joshua Wong, a prominent pro-democracy activist in Hong Kong, was sentenced on Wednesday to more than a year in prison for his role in a protest last year, the latest blow to the city’s embattled political opposition.

To critics of the government, Mr. Wong’s prison sentence is an attempt to muzzle one of the most globally recognized figures of the city’s resistance to Beijing’s encroachment. Mr. Wong, 24, rose to prominence nearly a decade ago as a skinny, bespectacled teenager who rallied students to oppose what he saw as the Chinese Communist Party’s indoctrination in schools. His persistent activism has made him a key target in Beijing’s drive to quash dissent in the territory.

Mr. Wong was sentenced to 13 and a half months in prison, while Agnes Chow, a fellow activist, received 10 months. Ivan Lam, a third member of their disbanded political group, Demosisto, was sentenced to seven months. All three had faced up to three years in prison.

Their sentencing points to the wide-ranging nature of Beijing’s increasingly aggressive crackdown on political opposition in Hong Kong, which was roiled by months of antigovernment demonstrations last year.

The police have arrested activists, journalists and politicians, while pro-Beijing voices have sought to pressure the city’s largely independent judiciary and freewheeling news media. China also moved to force the ouster of four lawmakers last month, prompting the mass resignation of the pro-democracy camp from the local legislature.

This summer, China imposed a national security law on Hong Kong that grants the authorities sweeping powers to limit dissent. More than two dozen people have been arrested under it, including Ms. Chow and Jimmy Lai, the founder of the city’s biggest pro-democracy newspaper. Mr. Lai and two senior managers in his media group were charged on Wednesday with fraud, his newspaper, Apple Daily, reported.

Demosisto disbanded shortly after lawmakers in Beijing approved the security law in late June. The three former members of the group had pleaded guilty to unauthorized assembly charges over a June 2019 demonstration, when thousands of people gathered outside Police Headquarters in the early days of the mass protest movement that engulfed the city. The gathering was a display of both the public’s mounting anger at the police and also the ineffectiveness of the authorities’ attempts to quell the protests with tear gas and pepper spray.

Mr. Wong, who had been released from prison only days before the demonstration, was not as involved in organizing the protests as he had been in previous campaigns. But in sentencing Mr. Wong, the court pointed to his use of a loudspeaker in leading the crowd in protest chants as evidence of “incitement to knowingly take part in an unauthorized assembly.”

“No riots, only tyranny,” he chanted with the protesters.

Claudia Mo, a former lawmaker in Hong Kong from the pro-democracy camp, called the sentences “very saddening, but not unexpected.”

“All these judicial prosecutions amount to persecution of our young,” she said. “They’re using Joshua Wong as an iconic figure in particular to issue this chilling message.”

The three activists have become symbols of the first generation in Hong Kong to grow up under the rule of the Chinese Communist Party, many of whom increasingly feel alienated from the mainland government. They began campaigning nearly a decade ago, when Mr. Wong and Mr. Lam, 26, founded a group that led protests against a plan to introduce a national education curriculum in Hong Kong schools, which they attacked as “brainwashing.” They later helped rally huge protests against limits on direct elections in 2014, in what was known as the Umbrella Movement.

Last year, the three activists avoided taking part in the violent clashes between more confrontational demonstrators and the police, and instead used their prominence to explain the movement’s causes, particularly to an international audience. Ms. Chow, 23, who has been called the “Mulan” of the Hong Kong democracy movement, enjoys a wide following in Japan thanks to her Japanese-language skills.

After the three activists pleaded guilty to the charges last week, they were immediately jailed. Mr. Wong spent three days in solitary confinement because a scan had suggested he might have ingested a foreign object before his detention, according to Fernando Cheung, a former lawmaker who met with Mr. Wong on Saturday.

During that period, Mr. Wong had difficulty sleeping because his cell lights were left on 24 hours a day and he was subjected to regular medical checks, Mr. Cheung said. No foreign object was found, he added.

In a handwritten letter from prison, which a friend photographed and posted on his Twitter and Patreon accounts on Tuesday, Mr. Wong wrote that solitary confinement had been particularly trying: “Even though I have been imprisoned three times and have the experience, I still found it difficult to be sent suddenly to the ‘prison within a prison.’”

Mr. Wong also faces charges over a demonstration in October of last year and his participation in a June 4 memorial for the people killed in China’s 1989 crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests in Beijing.

Mr. Wong was sentenced to three months in prison for contempt over the court-ordered dismantling of a protest camp in November 2014. He also served part of a six-month sentence on unlawful assembly charges that was later thrown out.

Ms. Chow, who had not previously been imprisoned, said she was not adjusting well to conditions in detention and was unable to sleep at night, according to a message relayed to friends who had visited her in jail and posted to her Facebook account on Sunday.

“I understand that I will probably be sentenced to prison on Wednesday, so my morale has been low, and I’ve been very worried,” she was quoted as saying.

Ms. Chow was arrested earlier this year on suspicion of violating the new national security law by inciting secession. But she has not been charged in that case.

The activists’ supporters said they worried that the three could face more prison time on additional charges. “Sentences could pile up,” Nathan Law, a Hong Kong activist who now lives in London, wrote on Twitter. “To be honest, I have no idea when the trio could step out of the prison.”

Mr. Cheung said that Mr. Wong had found one positive thing about returning to detention: He no longer had to face constant questions about what was next for Hong Kong’s besieged democracy movement.

“He doesn’t have to deal with that for now,” Mr. Cheung said. “People understand that he’s incapable of doing much in prison. The burden is now on people on the outside.”





No.7 article:
Top Democrats Back Compromise Plan to Revive Stimulus Talks

The Democratic leaders in Congress endorsed a $908 billion plan put forth by moderates in both parties, offering a significant concession in efforts to jump-start negotiations.

WASHINGTON — The top Democrats in Congress on Wednesday endorsed a bipartisan $908 billion stimulus compromise as a baseline for talks, offering a significant concession in an effort to pressure Republicans to revive stalled talks on providing additional relief before the end of the year.

After months of publicly insisting that another stimulus package must provide at least $2 trillion, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, called on Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, to return to the negotiating table with a bill less than half that size as a starting point.

President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., whose advisers had pushed privately in recent weeks for lawmakers to make compromises to pass an economic aid agreement as quickly as possible, also offered a blessing of sorts for the effort. In a virtual event with laid-off workers and a small-business owner struggling amid the pandemic, Mr. Biden said the bipartisan package “wouldn’t be the answer, but it would be immediate help for a lot of things, quickly.”

The measure, spearheaded by Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, would restore lapsed federal jobless benefits, providing $300 a week for 18 weeks; would include $288 billion for struggling small businesses, restaurants and theaters and $160 billion for fiscally strapped cities and states; and would create a temporary liability shield for businesses operating amid the pandemic.

The Democratic decision to publicly embrace it offered no guarantee of a swift deal with Mr. McConnell, who on Tuesday began circulating a significantly smaller framework with the promise of a presidential signature. Should talks resume, it also remains unclear how hard Democrats would push to expand the size of the package.

The two sides would need to bridge big differences on the details, including two particularly thorny issues: whether to send federal money to state and local governments to help patch budgetary holes opened by the recession, which many Republicans oppose at any dollar amount, and how to limit the legal liability for businesses opened during the pandemic, an effort many Democrats have criticized.

“Of course, we and others will offer improvements, but the need to act is immediate, and we believe that with good-faith negotiations, we could come to an agreement,” Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer said in their statement. The pair had sent a new offer of their own on Monday evening to Mr. McConnell and to Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, but after a group of moderate senators in both parties presented a plan on Tuesday, Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer threw their weight behind the framework “in the spirit of compromise.”

It amounted to a noteworthy admission by Democrats that they could no longer hold out for the sweeping $2.4 trillion package that they had demanded, particularly as coronavirus cases rise across the country and calls for relief continue to mount. For months, Republicans have blamed Democratic leaders for insisting on the expansive plan and blocking smaller pieces of aid — like new loans for small businesses — from advancing.

Democrats have accused Mr. McConnell of blocking an agreement and failing to compromise. Their move on Wednesday was in part an effort to dare him to enter compromise talks, and Democrats could use stalled negotiations as a rallying cry in two runoff elections in Georgia next month that will determine control of the Senate in 2021.

But it was also a bid to find some sort of agreement to bolster the economy that could be enacted before Mr. Biden takes office.

The shift in demands came after Mr. Biden said on Tuesday that any stimulus legislation passed during the lame-duck session “is lucky to be, at best, just a start” and that Congress should act in the coming days. Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer, in their statement, also pointed to the imminent distribution of a vaccine and the federal funds that will be required to safely disperse the first rounds of it across the country.

The compromise plan, drafted by a bipartisan group that included Senators Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia; Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah; and Angus King, independent of Maine, is intended to serve as a stopgap measure through March. It was endorsed by the bipartisan House Problem Solvers Caucus, whose members and staff consulted on it with some senators after unveiling a similar bipartisan proposal.

Mr. Manchin said the group hoped to have text ready as early as Monday.

“In these past 24 hours, there’s been a lot of socializing of the ideas,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, adding that she and other senators involved in the framework had broken off into groups to hammer out individual issues. “We’ve been all kind of working with colleagues on the floor saying: ‘Yeah, this is what we’re talking about. Is this something you can get behind?’”

Mr. McConnell appeared to pan the bipartisan framework on Tuesday, repeatedly reiterating that President Trump’s support would be needed for any coronavirus deal. And speaking to reporters on Capitol Hill, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, declined to weigh in on the bipartisan measure or the offer put forward by Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer, instead reiterating that Mr. Trump would sign Mr. McConnell’s plan.

But some lawmakers indicated that they would be open to supporting the bipartisan framework, even if it crept closer to $1 trillion than some of their colleagues would have liked. The effort received additional support on Wednesday from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the influential business lobbying group in Washington, which said in a statement that it “strongly supports the bipartisan group of lawmakers who have put forward a new pandemic relief package” for the lame-duck session.

“There are message bills, and there are bills that can pass,” Mr. Romney said on Wednesday before Democrats announced their support for the plan. “Our bill that we’ve been working on is one that has support both sides of the aisle sufficient, I believe, ultimately to pass.”

Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Senate Republican, suggested to reporters that “maybe we can merge” the bipartisan framework with Mr. McConnell’s outline and that the group of senators “has had a lot of success in winnowing the list of issues.”

Mr. Biden said on Wednesday that he had been “urging our congressional Republicans to work on a bipartisan emergency package now,” though he stressed that such a package, “at best, is only going to be a down payment.”

He also said that his transition team was already drafting legislation to help bolster the economy, which he would push Congress to approve upon taking office.

“To state the obvious,” Mr. Biden told a woman who lost her job in the pandemic, “my ability to get you help immediately does not exist.”

“We’re going to get through this. You’re going to get through this,” he added. “It’s going to be hard as hell for the next 50 to 70 days, unless the House acts in some way, the Senate acts and passes some kind of material.”





No.8 article:
Marc Benioff Sets His Sights on Microsoft

The Salesforce C.E.O.’s planned acquisition of Slack will have him competing directly with the Goliath that is Microsoft.

SAN FRANCISCO — Five years ago, Marc Benioff negotiated to sell Salesforce, the software company he co-founded in 1999 and has run ever since, to Microsoft. If the deal had gone through, he would have been richly rewarded — but, in the end, just another employee of the tech colossus.

With Tuesday’s news that Salesforce was buying Slack for $27.7 billion, Mr. Benioff did something much more difficult. He is now set to directly compete against Microsoft, one of the world’s most valuable companies, in its own favored territory.

Microsoft has been slugging it out with Slack in the pandemic-fueled rush to enable remote collaboration through communications tools. The faster the nature of work transforms, the more valuable victory will become, and the fiercer the competition.

Mr. Benioff, 56, does not appear to be fazed. Or maybe he is in denial. In a 30-minute interview after announcing the Slack deal and Salesforce’s earnings, he rejected all opportunities to talk about his history with Microsoft or even acknowledge its existence.

“What’s that company?” he said. “How do you spell it?”

Microsoft is sitting on a $137 billion cash hoard and has a well-honed competitive instinct. It gets 115 million users every day for its would-be Slack killer, the Teams chat platform, thanks to the ubiquity of Microsoft Office. Salesforce, which specializes in sales management software, had $9 billion in cash this summer. Slack, for all its brand-name familiarity, had only about 12 million users before the pandemic. It has declined to update its numbers.

Salesforce and Slack might be the underdogs here, if you can consider a $220 billion company an underdog. But they have a not-so-secret weapon in Mr. Benioff. He learned some lessons in showmanship from his mentor, the Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, including how to turn news conferences into events and how to become the human embodiment of a company.

“You’ve got to give Benioff credit. He’s built one of the biggest software companies in the world,” said Mark Moerdler, a senior research analyst at Bernstein. “But this is not going to be easy.”

Before the coronavirus pandemic forced many to stay home, Salesforce was San Francisco’s largest private employer, eclipsing the 168-year-old Wells Fargo. Its offices were in Salesforce Tower, a lipstick-shaped edifice that dominated the skyline and could be seen from around the bay.

Mr. Benioff, who has deep roots in the city, likewise dominated local discourse, challenging the other tech chiefs to step up. He and his wife, Lynne Benioff, contributed $100 million to a new children’s hospital. In 2018, the couple bought Time magazine for $190 million. Forbes pegs Mr. Benioff’s net worth at $9.4 billion.

The mogul might be getting weary of the attention. “Can’t you find a more interesting and better-looking protagonist?” he asked.

In the interview, Mr. Benioff could not be dissuaded or turned aside from his talking points: “Business is the greatest platform for change … The future of our industry is a work-from-anywhere environment … I like to innovate, I like to create, I like to see things and make them happen … I love that we take care of all stakeholders, not just shareholders.”

The question of whether Mr. Benioff can pull off his challenge to Microsoft is likely to become a long-term subject of fascination in Silicon Valley. Over the past two decades, Salesforce has acquired dozens of companies to extend its core products. The biggest acquisition before Slack was Tableau, a data visualization company, which Salesforce bought for $15.3 billion last year.

Mr. Benioff once even had the notion of buying Twitter, back in 2016. But it proved a step too far, although it would have been a wild ride. He is an avid tweeter, much looser than most chief executives. On Monday, he tweeted a picture of former President Barack Obama, who had a copy of Mr. Benioff’s book “Trailblazer” on the shelf.

“Excellent taste in books,” Mr. Benioff wrote.

Initial reactions to the Slack purchase, which is a cash and stock deal, ranged from wildly enthusiastic to cautiously enthusiastic. Slack is losing money, while Salesforce’s collaborative tools are weak.

“Marc has come full circle. From considering a sale to Microsoft, he is now becoming the next Microsoft,” said Venky Ganesan, a managing director at the venture capital firm Menlo Ventures who specializes in software. Mr. Ganesan, who said he knew Mr. Benioff only as a business acquaintance, saluted his ability “to visualize a certain future and then make it happen.”

Daniel Newman, principal analyst at Futurum Research, has been critical of Salesforce in the past but said the Slack deal had a reasonable chance of success.

“You have a product in Slack that people love but which hasn’t been marketed well,” Mr. Newman said. “Salesforce and Benioff can give it faster growth and extract untapped potential. Excuse the buzzword, but maybe this is really one of those synergy moments.”

Except for the question of Microsoft.

Mr. Benioff came of age in Silicon Valley when Microsoft was decidedly the bad guy. His early employer, Oracle, was run by Larry Ellison, who had a long-running and often bitter feud with the Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates. As Salesforce grew, it had its own scrapes with Microsoft over employees and patents.

After Satya Nadella became Microsoft’s chief executive in 2014, he and Mr. Benioff met and tried to work together. Mr. Benioff offered unsuccessfully to buy Microsoft’s Dynamics software line, which Salesforce competed with. When that idea foundered, he offered to sell Salesforce to Microsoft for $70 billion, about $22 billion over its market value. A second attempt at a deal a few months later did not work out, either.

The companies became that Silicon Valley perennial: “frenemies” that competed but also did deals. In 2016, both wanted to acquire the social networking site LinkedIn, whose millions of employment histories offered a rich data trove. They bid against each other. Microsoft, with its deep pockets, won with an offer of $26.2 billion. Mr. Benioff tweeted that it was “anticompetitive.”

Microsoft declined to comment on Mr. Benioff.

Others were not so shy. Clara Jeffery, editor of Mother Jones magazine, asked in a tweet on Tuesday night what Mr. Benioff and Stewart Butterfield, Slack’s chief executive, were going to do “for the people/communities suffering from Covid collapse.” (Mr. Butterfield will continue to lead Slack, which becomes an operating unit of Salesforce.)

A good question, Mr. Benioff said when he was asked about it. He went on to detail his many acts of generosity and how they were “unprecedented for a company of our size.”

He stayed on message to the end.

“Business is the greatest platform for change, and we can all do more to improve the state of the world,” he said. “The bigger Salesforce gets, the more it can do.”





No.9 article:
Getting Creative for the 2020 Office Holiday Party

Because yet another Google hangout is not going to cut it.

On Dec. 18, a festively decorated double-decker bus will stop in New Jersey and New York City to pick up the few employees of Consultancy Media, a broadcast media studio and production company. Each will be handed kits containing prepackaged snacks, rubber gloves, hand sanitizer and a themed face mask, which they will be required to put on before boarding and sitting eight feet apart.

A masked bartender will serve a “Very Consultancy” cocktail,” which guests will occasionally lower their masks to sip. They will pass around a karaoke microphone with gloved hands and — somewhat muffled — belt out everything from Frank Sinatra to heavy metal Christmas tunes as the bus travels past several light shows.

Since no escorts are allowed, the event will meet Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s Covid-19 cap of 10 people at a New York gathering.

Welcome to the office holiday party, an annual rite already imperiled by anti-harassment reforms that now must try to keep a most unwelcome guest, the no-longer-novel coronavirus, from spoiling the fun.

To put it mildly, this been a tough year for corporate America: furloughs, layoffs, pay cuts; juggling parenting or elder care with work (or picking up other people’s slack). Now throw seasonal affective disorder into the mix. “I have been giving mental health talks for large employers and they’re coming to me saying employee morale is lower than ever,” said Dr. Nina Vasan, clinical assistant professor of psychiatry at Stanford University School of Medicine.

Taking a moment to recognize efforts and having fun as a team can help to elevate low spirits, and therefore many employers are adamant about plowing ahead with a holiday celebration. But throwing a party in late 2020 isn’t remotely easy, even for professional event planners and producers.

Cynika Drake, 41, the president of Lavish Lifestyles Concierge in New York City, said her No. 1 goal is to keep clients, staff and vendors safe (No. 2 is to show them a good time). She recently took a Covid-19 tracing course given by Johns Hopkins University and a class about mitigating viral transmission, contact tracing, positive symptom protocol and enforcing guidelines through Health Education Services.

In August Ms. Drake and her colleagues began setting up a drive-in “winter wonderland experience” for a local law firm. Servers dressed in Santa costumes were going to deliver cocoa on roller skates to guests in cars as carolers, jazz musicians and a pianist performed.

But on Nov. 13, local virus protocols tightened and the party is being revamped. The new plan, Ms. Drake said, “will likely include Santa delivering warm brownies, hot chocolate and a link to a playlist of holiday tunes” to employees’ homes.

Keith Willard, 51, the owner of Keith Willard Events in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., has put together an outdoor scavenger hunt for a corporate client. “Each guest will be given a pair of binoculars (to allow social distancing) and company-branded masks,” he said. The clues lead guests to a barn for a dinner with tables of two, 10 feet apart. Executives will appear onstage as masked servers deliver meals and holiday gifts to tables.

But with the virus surging, Mr. Willard and his client are currently deciding if it’s safe to proceed. If not, he’ll get to work on a virtual proposal. “It’s never been this hard,” he said, “and we don’t have an easy job to start with.”

JoAnn Gregoli, 55, the owner of Elegant Occasions by JoAnn Gregoli, has been going all out to wow her holiday clients with lower contagion risk: building an ice-skating rink in the parking lot of a Connecticut corporation, creating a drive-in retro diner for another company — “We are hiring a band to play ’50s music and people can dance around their cars to experience an old-fashioned sock hop,” she said — and renting a beach in Miami for a client’s socially distanced picnic, “temperature checks upon arrival.”

And Heather Roonan, 36, a content manager with GigSalad, an entertainment booking service, said companies are still hiring performers for parties but their services are continually being modified. Santa may toss out gifts but he isn’t getting anywhere near partygoers — “and definitely no lap sitting,” Ms. Roonan said. And since singing has a higher risk of viral transmission, companies are requiring at least 10 feet between guests and carolers.

On the bright side, stressing about looking cute but professional at these mixers will likely no longer be a problem.

The Product Analyst, a tech review site in Memphis, was going to scrap its holiday event but the staff requested one so they found a compromise: a P.P.E.-themed soiree. “With safety as the theme, we can assure a low-risk party, with double the amount of fun,” said the company’s corporate wellness expert, Alicia Hough, 31. She’s challenging her colleagues to turn masks, gloves and gowns into costumes like Avengers characters or spacesuits.

Digital Air Strike, a consumer engagement technology company in Scottsdale, Ariz., is, according to the C.E.O. Alexi Venneri, saying “Giddy-up to 2020” with a party at MacDonald’s Ranch. Seventy staff members in Western attire will “choose their own adventure: explore the desert on horseback, relax on a hayride or ride in their very own stagecoach,” she said.

In the past, the company has had holiday boat rides around the San Francisco Bay with Vanilla Ice performing and partied with Wayne Newton at his estate in Las Vegas. This year, the company is requiring employees to stay outdoors, wear custom face coverings and is prohibiting spouses or dates. “We will feel very safe, especially since we are spreading out all the activities,” Ms. Venneri, 49, said.

Less relaxingly, AllTrails, an outdoor fitness app in San Francisco, is organizing its 50 employees into small groups to hike, mountain bike and trail run on paths with the least amount of foot traffic — located with the company technology, naturally. “Dogs and festive attire will be welcomed,” said Meaghan Praznik, 32, the head of communications.

At Test Prep Insight, in Sacramento, Calif., “Given the constraints put on us by Covid, both physically and financially, we’re doing something a little off the wall for our holiday party this year,” said John Ross, 33, the president and C.E.O. His team is meeting at a mountain for sledding, snowshoeing and a snowman-building competition. “I am bringing supplies — carrots, old scarves, etc. — and the first place team will win $200 in Amazon gift cards,” Mr. Ross said.

When it was time to host an annual office holiday gathering, Daniel Penzing, 34, the general manager of Maze of Our Lives, a marketing company in Schaumburg, Ill., was at a loss. But Jan Neubau, 37, the technical director and head of the party planning committee, drew from his German background and decided to turn the company’s parking lot into a market with bratwurst, fried doughnuts and hot wine. Mr. Neubau said he is hoping people remember that their co-workers “are not just Slack or Zoom robots.”

In the past, office Christmas parties have been big deals to companies like SmileDirectClub, which in recent years hosted its Christmas party at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville with on-ice activities, photo booths and Nashville Predators locker room tours. “Our team members look forward to it every year,” said the company’s chief people officer, Cheryl DeSantis, 50.

This year, the company is offering a catered boxed lunch at the manufacturing facility in Antioch, Tenn., for the team working on-site. Remote employees will party virtually with games like Price Is Right White Elephant.

And if you’re looking for inspiration across the pond (“The Office,” after all, began as a British series), Christopher Panteli, 33, the owner of Leominster Fish Bar, is taking his employees to let off some steam at a local go-karting track. “It will be a 50 lap marathon and the winner takes a huge Christmas bonus,” he said.

Since Mr. Panteli announced his party plans, go-karting is all his staff talks about, he said. It’s “a way to mask the cold bleak reality we have all been living with for the majority of the year.”

For many, a virtual party is the only option this year. And employers know it’s going to take a lot to get staff excited about spending more time in front of a computer. Thus, planners are having to get extra-creative with virtual celebrations, compelling interactivity.

Unexpected Virtual Tours is offering virtual ugly sweater-making contests (for $34.99 a sweater kit will be mailed to each guest) with add-on options like the “Feminist Treat Box,” which includes Stacey Abrams and Kamala Harris confectionery, a Ruth Bader Ginsburg mask and an “Empowered Women” kitchen towel.

For $200 per guest, Don’t Let the Day Go By is offering virtual oyster shucking parties. The company is also hosting gingerbread house decorating, as well as a blackjack master class with Mike Aponte, one of the M.I.T. students who won millions in Las Vegas, as chronicled in the book “Bringing Down the House.”

For a fee starting at $15,000, AccessElite will connect corporate clients over videoconference to Courtney Holston-Toph, an artist in Newport Beach, Calif., to offer ideas for a company mural to be live-painted through Twitch. “Digital prints are mailed to remote workers for their home offices as a way of giving everyone a piece of the company culture they helped create,” Ms. Holston-Toph said.

Other companies are avoiding Zoom altogether, like SEMRush, a digital marketing solutions company in Boston, which is having a livestream “Netflix-style Christmas party” during which employees click a link to bounce between four interactive channels for experiences like standup comedy, D.I.Y. bath bomb workshops, science lessons or a “Black Mirror” virtual quest where attendees guide an actor through a mission.

Spotify, Pandora and LinkedIn employees will be doing face masks together — and not the protective kind. Scratch Goods will send them the ingredients — rejuvenating face masks, a bamboo brush and facial oil — needed for an at-home facial, which they will apply together on their screens.

Intel is hosting its holiday event in virtual reality with the help of Event Farm, an experiential marketing company in Atlanta that is also working with Facebook, Dell, LG and Bosch. “Partygoers will download the V.R. software on their personal computers, design their avatars and mingle with co-workers using their computer’s audio, all while enjoying wine and prepping meals alongside a celebrity chef — meal kits will be sent to their homes ahead of time,” said Ryan Costello, 41, a founder of Event Farm.

For Thanksgiving, Hormel mailed out turkey taco and cocktail ingredients for guided tutorials, as well as led attendees through a dessert-making and table design demo, all topped off with a Boyz II Men live performance. The company won’t yet reveal its Christmas plan but Paul Zahn, 40, the host and planner it hired, promised it will be “next level!”

In the meantime, many employers are scrapping parties altogether and planning to go big in 2021 instead — when, if all goes as hoped, they can bring back the open bar.





No.10 article:
Quotation of the Day: A Wave Smashed a Racer’s Boat. Then a Competitor Came to the Rescue.

“It’s part of life, physically or psychologically, to help another human. I am just part of that.”

JEAN LE CAM, who rescued a capsized competitor during the Vendée Globe, a nonstop, round-the-world sailing race.





No.11 article:
Nobody Is Going to Conventions. Convention Centers Are Growing Anyway.

The pandemic is intensifying the competition among cities, which are rushing to build bigger, more alluring event spaces.

After 20 years of trying, Indianapolis finally landed the American Dental Association convention. Last December, the group agreed to gather there in 2026, promising Indianapolis tens of thousands of visitors and tens of millions of dollars for the local economy.

But there’s a catch: The dentists can back out if the convention center complex does not complete a $550 million expansion: 143,500 square feet of new event and ballroom space as well as two privately financed hotels.

That helps explain why, in the depths of a pandemic that has left many convention centers empty or repurposed into field hospitals or homeless shelters, a 25-member board in Indianapolis voted unanimously in September to add up to $155 million to the public debt.

“We see convention tourism racing back in 2023,” said Chris Gahl, senior vice president of Visit Indy, the nonprofit that markets the Indiana Convention Center and attractions like the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. “When the green flag drops, we’re going to be on the competitive edge.”

For decades, cities large and small have turned to gleaming convention centers and cavernous expo halls to revitalize downtown neighborhoods and perk up local economies. The pitch sounds like a win-win: Conventioneers — often traveling on the company dime — will fill hotels, pack restaurants and spend in stores. And the debt taken out to finance construction can be repaid with taxes targeted at the travelers, so locals don’t have to foot the bill.

Normally, there are more than a quarter-million conventions and trade shows in the United States each year, ranging from the huge CES technology trade show in Las Vegas to smaller expos for janitorial supplies or antique-toy enthusiasts. In 2016, those events drew 84.7 million people, who spent a total of $110.4 billion, according to the latest survey by the Events Industry Council. The economic impact of these events can vary widely, however, depending on their size and whether they draw big-spending international visitors.

To keep its slate of shows — and steal others from rival cites — a convention center must frequently upgrade, expand or remodel. And the arms race keeps accelerating, even with most experts predicting that it could be at least two more years before attendance fully bounces back from the coronavirus pandemic.

“This is a perverse world, where market realities do not affect city decision-making,” said Heywood T. Sanders, a professor at the University of Texas at San Antonio who studies the use of convention centers as urban-renewal tools.

The financial wounds caused by the pandemic have been grievous. In Irving, Texas, the public finance authority behind a year-old convention-center hotel has already defaulted on $37 million of municipal bonds. In Seattle, one plan to finance an expansion failed to meet a legal requirement because hotel-tax revenues have dried up. And in Milwaukee, the pandemic threatened to throw the downtown Wisconsin Center into insolvency.

But none of that has slowed a building spree meant to attract hordes of middle managers, car aficionados and coin collectors.

Georgia budgeted $70 million in July to help Savannah double its convention center’s exhibition hall. In Cleveland, officials are seeking $30 million to upgrade an underused health technology center and add it onto the Huntington Convention Center. And in Terre Haute, Ind., where the foundation for a $32 million convention center is half poured, the county Capital Improvement Board just began working on a plan for a $20 million hotel nearby.

If anything, fewer events have made the competition more intense: The Indianapolis center upgraded its cleaning and air filtration systems this year and poached six basketball tournaments and a candy trade show — the Snacks &amp; Sweets Expo — away from Chicago, where conventions remain forbidden.

“It’s all about putting heads in beds,” said Marty Brooks, the chief executive of the Wisconsin Center, which borrowed $270 million this summer for work intended to meet the demands of the discerning conventioneer: open spaces, pop-up meeting rooms and panoramic windows. Without those improvements, Mr. Brooks said, Milwaukee would lose ground to cities like St. Louis, Nashville, Louisville and Indianapolis.

At the time, the Wisconsin Center was a few months from defaulting on $150 million in debt. But here, the economic destruction of the coronavirus actually helped. The Federal Reserve has cut already low interest rates to rock-bottom levels, so the center could not only stave off a default by refinancing but could borrow even more.

Low borrowing costs have been a lifeline for the Greater Columbus Convention Center in Ohio, which lost events like the North American Bridge Championships and “The Arnold” — the Arnold Fitness Expo, a trade show for bodybuilding equipment, workout clothing and vitamin supplements. The event, named for Arnold Schwarzenegger, is the center’s biggest of the year. With an associated bodybuilding competition, which went on this year but barred most spectators, the event normally draws 200,000 people and fills 18,000 hotel rooms.

In September, the center refinanced roughly $202 million of debt, including for a 28-story hotel tower now under construction and a 2014 overhaul that expanded the center’s event space, upgraded its furnishings and added a glass atrium.

“We were trying to take advantage of lower interest rates,” said Don Brown, the chief executive of the Franklin County Convention Facilities Authority, which owns the Columbus center. “Second, we were trying to deal with the impact of the pandemic on our primary revenue streams, which are hotel occupancy taxes.”

Right now, the center is hosting events that don’t produce much revenue: ad hoc traffic and eviction courts, along with a smattering of events like mock tailgate parties for Ohio State University home football games and a socially distanced screening of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” on Halloween.

“We’ve also had yoga and exercise classes, and dance competitions,” Mr. Brown said.

The loss of hotel-tax revenue has caused “a crisis” in Seattle, said Matt Griffin, a principal of the Pine Street Group, which is the developer of a $1.8 billion expansion underway at the Washington State Convention Center there. The center’s borrowing capacity is limited, by law, to the value of recent hotel-tax revenues. That meant the last round of borrowing to complete the work couldn’t go through.

“We need another $300 million of financing to finish this project, and if we don’t have a plan by the end of the year, we’re going to have to shut it down,” Mr. Griffin said. The assistance could come from the county or the city, he said, but more likely the state government.

“There’s various ways they could do it,” he said. “It’s not straightforward.”

Even in the best of times, convention centers are loss leaders, said Mr. Sanders, the Texas professor. But the convention business has faced severe boom-bust cycles over the past two decades, with steep downturns after the terrorist attacks of 2001, the financial meltdown of 2008 and now the pandemic.

On Tuesday, the organizer of BookExpo, the country’s largest publishing trade show, canceled the 2021 event and said it would rethink its format for the future, suggesting that it would include both “in-person and virtual offerings.” In recent years, BookExpo was held at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.

If enough events go away, local taxpayers could end up paying back debt that centers took on to expand, Mr. Sanders said. “You’ve made a very large bet in an environment of enormous risk and uncertainty,” he said. “And once you place it, you can’t undo it.”

And that drives cities to keep building. Consider the chain reaction caused when the National FFA Organization sought greener pastures.

The group, once known as the Future Farmers of America, is prized for the tens of thousands of conscientious teenagers it brings to town. After 1998, it spurned Kansas City, Mo., its host city for 70 years, despite offers of cash, a free building and other incentives. The FFA was growing fast, and Kansas City wasn’t keeping up: Event space was tight, and local hotels sold out, forcing some teenagers to sleep 60 miles away in Topeka, Kan.

The group decamped to Louisville, Ky., where the fairgrounds were expansive. But soon the hotel crunch was even worse: Some attendees were booking rooms 90 miles away. That was when Indianapolis pounced, landing the 2006 convention with the promise of more hotel rooms and donations from local businesses to hold down registration fees.

But no sooner did Indianapolis bag the future farmers than it lost the Performance Racing Industry Trade Show, which took its business to Orlando, Fla. — where there was more space.

“This isn’t Chicken Little,” Fred Glass, then the president of Indianapolis’s Capital Improvement Board, said at the time. “The sky really is falling. We’re in danger of losing all of our large convention customers.”

So Indianapolis set to work on its fifth expansion since the center opened in 1972. When it was done in 2011, Performance Racing came back. But by 2017, another big client, Gen Con, was bursting at the seams. Up to 70,000 tabletop gaming enthusiasts descend on Indianapolis for four days of Dungeons and Dragons, Magic: The Gathering, cosplay and more.

“We take over the convention center itself, the vast majority of hotel ballrooms downtown, and we’ve been moving into the football stadium as well,” said David Hoppe, Gen Con’s chief executive.

He told Visit Indy that the gamers might have to leave, and asked what the city could do to make them stay.

Now, expansion No. 6 is coming — and, if all goes according to plan, so are all those dentists in 2026.





No.12 article:
Hotter Planet Already Poses Fatal Risks, Health Experts Warn

A new report presented climate change as an immediate public health danger and urged lawmakers to curb greenhouse gas emissions.

Rising temperatures and environmental pollutants are already endangering the health and well-being of Americans, with fatal consequences for thousands of older men and women, a team of public health experts warned Wednesday. Their report, published in The Lancet, called on lawmakers to stem the rise of planet-warming gases in the next five years.

The section on the United States presents climate change as a public health risk now, rather than a hazard faced by future generations. It points to the immediate dangers of extreme heat, wildfires and air pollution, and makes the case for rapidly shifting to a green economy as a way to improve public health.

The coronavirus pandemic, the authors point out, has served as a reminder of the urgent need to strengthen the country’s public health system — something that’s going to be all the more necessary for Americans to deal with the health effects of climate change, which, the authors conclude, disproportionately harm those with the fewest resources to respond to threats.

“The overarching theme I stress to the incoming administration is making health central,” said Dr. Renee N. Salas, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and lead author of the United States policy paper contained in The Lancet report, in a call with reporters. “Climate action is a prescription for health.”

The report contains a set of broad recommendations aimed squarely at the incoming presidential administration. To improve the health of Americans, the authors recommend ending subsidies for fossil fuels, investing in public transit options, and reducing the use of nitrogen fertilizers on American farms, which are a source of both air pollution and planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions.

“We have to stop investing in what is a thing of the past and health-harming,” Dr. Salas said.

The report summarizes the research on how rising temperatures — and more frequent, more intense heat waves in particular — are already damaging human health around the world. In the last 20 years, the report finds, there’s been a 50 percent increase in heat-related deaths among people older than 65, with 296,000 deaths in 2018. Most of those deaths were in Japan, China, India and parts of Europe.

Extreme heat also makes it hard to work, especially outdoors. According to the report, 302 billion hours of potential labor productivity were lost in 2019 alone. Workers in hot, humid countries like India and Indonesia were most affected.

In the last 20 years there were also more days when the risk of wildfires was high. Fires have grown bigger and more severe in landscapes like the Western United States, destroying four million acres in California alone so far this year. The number of days when there is wildfire smoke in the air have risen sharply, too.

The Lancet Countdown on Climate Change and Health, as the paper is formally known, is published each year by the medical journal. Wednesday’s edition was the fifth annual report and was written by experts from more than 35 research institutions all over the world.

The report found that climates suitable for infectious diseases had expanded, with areas ripe for dengue-spreading mosquitoes having grown by 15 percent since the 1950s. It pointed to worrying signs on food security as well. Between 1981 and 2019, the report found, the “yield potential” for several staple crops has dropped, meaning that crops are maturing faster and production is lower than average. The largest drops have been for maize, a staple in parts of Africa and Latin America. The world still produces enough food, though it doesn’t always go to the people who need it most.

The Lancet Countdown calls on national governments to make drastic reductions in emissions in the next five years. Without them, its authors say, it will be increasingly difficult to avert the worst effects of warming. “These next five years will be pivotal,” the authors wrote.

The United Nations published a separate report on Wednesday concluding that governments must reduce the production of fossil fuels by 6 percent a year over the next 10 years to limit catastrophic warming.





No.13 article:
The Best Movies and Shows on Hulu Right Now

We’ve handpicked the finest movies and television shows currently streaming on Hulu in the United States. Take a look.

Sign up for our Watching newsletter to get recommendations on the best films and TV shows to stream and watch, delivered to your inbox.

As the streaming age has expanded and individual services have molded their identities, Hulu has found itself somewhat lost in the shuffle. Thought of first as a repository for new television (and, for many cord-cutters, the “live TV” option of choice), it also houses a library of indisputable TV classics, usually in their entirety.

This Disney-owned service also hosts a rotating library of movies, both new releases and recent classics, rivaling the collections of many of its competitors.

But as is so often the case with these platforms, algorithms are dodgy, recommendations are sometimes inexplicable, and it’s just plain hard to know exactly what’s on offer. We’re here to help.

We also have lists of the best movies and TV shows on Netflix, the best of both on Disney+ and the best movies on Amazon Prime Video.

Julia Garner is “magnificent” as the personal assistant to a TriBeCa-based film executive whose sexual harassment of hopeful young starlets is an open secret. The name “Weinstein” is never once uttered, and it doesn’t have to be; the writer and director, Kitty Green, uses what we already know to fill in the blanks. We don’t even see the monster in question — he’s just a presence and a voice, in snatches of overheard dialogue and muffled fits of rage, and Green’s beautifully controlled film captures, with brutal, pinpoint accuracy, how that presence infects a workplace, and what happens when someone decides not to play along.Watch it on Hulu

Robert De Niro won his second Academy Award for his fiercely physical and psychologically punishing performance in this searing adaptation of the autobiography of the middleweight champion Jake LaMotta. It’s a relentlessly downbeat piece of work, but the force of De Niro’s performance and the energy of Martin Scorsese’s direction are hard to overstate, or to forget. Our critic called it Scorsese’s “most ambitious film as well as his finest.”Watch it on Hulu

The director Baz Luhrmann made his American breakthrough — and helped solidify Leonardo DiCaprio’s status as a teen heartthrob — with this wild, hyperkinetic update and reimagining of Shakespeare’s classic. The star-crossed lovers are here brought to life by DiCaprio and Claire Danes, who poignantly capture the pangs of longing and desire that bring this pair together, consequences be damned; Harold Perrineau, Pete Postlethwaite, and John Leguizamo add fire and passion to the colorful supporting cast. Our critic deemed it “a witty and sometimes successful experiment.” (For more flamboyant ’90s drama, stream “Interview with the Vampire” on Hulu.)

Watch it on Hulu

This 2013 coming-of-age drama from the writer and director Jeff Nichols (“a distinctive and welcome presence in American film”) is an evocative throwback, conjuring up the dizzying freedom of a “Huck Finn”-style boys’ adventure story while fusing it with a contemporary tale of crime and punishment. Matthew McConaughey is the title character, a fugitive hiding out on a remote island who is discovered and then assisted by two young boys (Tye Sheridan and Jacob Lofland). Nichols is beautifully attuned to the rhythms of these small Southern communities, which makes his work somehow both leisurely and urgent. His films sneak up on you, and this one ambles for two hours before landing with the force of a gut punch.Watch it on Hulu

A crew of pill-popping outcasts knocks off pharmacies in the Pacific Northwest and forms a makeshift family in Gus Van Sant’s breakthrough film. He infuses James Fogle’s source novel with the jittery nervousness of its protagonists: This is a film constantly itching for its next fix. But Van Sant captures the harrowing lows of addiction with equal vividness (and a fair amount of gallows humor), arriving at a message of hope that is refreshingly free of “just say no” bromides. Matt Dillon is electrifying in the leading role; our critic called it “the role of his career.”Watch it on Hulu

Paul Reubens became a pop culture sensation thanks to this 1985 comic adventure, which was also the debut feature of the director Tim Burton. Together, they build a wild and weird world for the childlike Pee-wee Herman, played by Reubens, who must leave the bubble of his comfortable small-town life (and the Rube Goldberg contraptions of his charming home) when his beloved bicycle is stolen. His “big adventure” takes him to truck stops and biker bars, to museums and rodeos, from Texas to Hollywood, in a series of gloriously goofy and slyly witty set pieces.Watch it on Hulu

The “Groundhog Day”-style time loop comedy gets an update and rom-com twist with Andy Samberg and Cristin Milioti as a pair of wedding guests stuck reliving the same day, over and over — but together, falling in and out of something resembling love while for everyone around them it’s déjà vu. Samberg and Milioti shine, and the supporting cast is filled out with valuable players (including J.K. Simmons and June Squibb). The director Max Barbakow and the writer Andy Siara work out plenty of clever variations on the premise while gingerly tiptoeing into unexpectedly serious waters. Our critic called it “wildly funny” and “admirably inventive.” (Rom-com fans should also check out “Broadcast News” on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

Loners at a subpar community college join in a study group to muddle through their joke of a Spanish class and end up forging unexpected bonds from their shared misery. It sounds like the set-up for a crushingly typical TV sitcom, but “Community” is anything but; over its six tempestuous seasons, the creator, Dan Harmon, and his inventive writers, turned the classroom laugher into a “bracingly funny” and slyly surreal blend of sketch comedy, science fiction and meta-television — while simultaneously creating the kind of complicated but sympathetic characters and delicate relationships it seemed too cool to indulge. (“Community” fans will also enjoy Harmon’s cult cartoon series “Rick and Morty.”)Watch it on Hulu

The South Korean director Bong Joon Ho, who previously smuggled trenchant class commentary into genre movies like “The Host” and “Snowpiercer,” takes a more direct route with this story of a household of grifters who smooth-talk their way into the home of a clueless upper-class family. What begins as a clever con comedy turns into something much darker (and bloodier), a “brilliant and deeply unsettling” examination of privilege and power, orchestrated by a filmmaker working at the top of his craft; the results were thrilling enough to win not only the Palme d’Or at Cannes, but the first best picture Oscar for a film not in English. (The earlier Best Picture winners “A Beautiful Mind” and “Slumdog Millionaire” are also currently on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

Bong Joon Ho gleefully picks up where “Godzilla” left off with this “loopy, feverishly imaginative genre hybrid,” riffing on urban monster-movie conventions (with generous doses of environmental activism and familial melodrama thrown in). His mutant sea creature is created by the carelessness of the local government and the American military, another sharp inquiry into who the real monsters are. Bong also takes a keen interest in the human dynamics at play, and how the dysfunctional family at the story’s center comes together for a common cause. (For more end-of-the-world entertainment, stream Lars von Trier’s “Melancholia.”)Watch it on Hulu

This long-running showcase for the late, great celebrity chef, author and raconteur is a globe-trotting celebration of the cultures and cuisines of the world, a well-balanced mixture of destinations close (Maine, New Orleans, New York’s outer boroughs) and far (Vietnam, Russia, Egypt, Turkey), which Bourdain explores with both curiosity and bravado. He combines history, political commentary, observation and (of course) food appreciation into an undeniably appealing mix, often propelled by the sheer force of his personality. Bourdain’s willingness to go wherever the journey takes him gives his show an inspired unpredictability and infectious energy.Watch it on Hulu

In a scant two seasons, Donald Glover’s FX comedy/drama has established itself as a true force in modern television — thoughtful, peculiar, cinematic, relentlessly entertaining. Glover (who also created the show, and frequently writes and directs) stars as Earn, a small-timer with big dreams who takes the reins of his cousin’s burgeoning hip-hop career, with mixed results. The supporting cast is top-notch, with Brian Tyree Henry, Lakeith Stanfield and Zazie Beetz as nuanced characters interpreted with fierce precision, but the show is most dazzling for its tonal improvisations; it feels like Glover and company can go anywhere, at any time, and the results are exhilarating. (Pamela Adlon’s acclaimed “Better Things,” also from FX, is a similarly personality-driven comedy/drama.)Watch it on Hulu

Many a dysfunctional family has graced our televisions, but few boasted as many problems as Michael Bluth’s: His father is in prison, his mother is blissfully out of touch, one brother is a blowhard, the other seems to be from another planet, his sister is a dime-store Gwyneth Paltrow and his son is in love with his cousin. This “sharply satirical comedy” steadfastly refused to make its horrifying central family lovable or relatable, save for Michael (played wryly, and winningly, by Jason Bateman), whose dry, bemused reactions make him a useful audience surrogate. Hulu is only streaming the original three seasons of the series (Netflix financed, and thus hosts, its revival), but these are the best ones anyway. (For a portrait of a slightly happier family, check out ‘Parenthood’ on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

When David Lynch and Mark Frost’s surrealist mystery/soap debuted on ABC in 1990, our critic wrote, “Nothing like it has ever been seen on network prime time” — and week after week, Lynch and Frost continued to prove him right. The show’s central preoccupation is the murder of Laura Palmer, a seemingly innocent teen queen, but that mystery is merely the entry point; the show’s real subject is the depravity of small-town life and the secrets that emerge when its careful veneer of normality is cracked.Watch it on Hulu

Few television series run more than a decade without losing their flavor, their laughs, or their heart — but then again, few television series are as special as “Cheers.” Set in a Boston bar owned and tended by a former baseball star and recovering alcoholic (Ted Danson, in the role that understandably made him a star), “Cheers” took the conventions of the character-driven hangout sitcom and perfected them. Thanks to consistently razor-sharp writing and a flawless ensemble cast, the result was “pure comedy that was sophisticated but not pretentious.” Running 275 episodes (without a clunker in the bunch), “Cheers” has gone on to charm subsequent generations of viewers, who have found it as comforting and reliable as … well, as a trip to the neighborhood watering hole. (The show’s long-running spinoff series “Frasier” is also on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

Though separated by nearly two decades, “Bob’s Burgers” is something of a “Cheers” for the 21st century — television comfort food, centering on a neighborhood mainstay and the weirdos who float through its doors (though this show’s characters are allowed to veer into even stranger territory by the animated format). But it’s also a clever riff on the family sitcom, as the establishment’s proprietor is the patriarch of a decidedly oddball family; most surprisingly, it treats that family with genuine affection, peccadillos and all. Our critic compared it to a go-to restaurant, “reliably good, visit after visit.” (“Bob’s Burgers” fans may also enjoy “King of the Hill.”)Watch it on Hulu

Tina Fey co-created and starred in this long-running NBC metasitcom, inspired by her own experiences as head writer for “Saturday Night Live.” It’s written and played with the wink and nudge of knowing showbiz gossip and inside jokes, delivered at lightning pace. She came into her own as a performer over the show’s seven seasons, with the help of an unbeatable ensemble cast: Jane Krakowski as the show’s uproariously vain star, Tracy Morgan as a gleefully hedonistic superstar brought in to boost ratings, Jack McBrayer as the delightfully naïve network page, and (especially) Alec Baldwin as the gruff and cynical network executive in charge of the program. For more fast-paced comedy, try “Broad City” and “Happy Endings.”)Watch it on Hulu

Few shows in television history sounded less promising than a series adaptation of an unloved, unsuccessful teen horror/comedy, launching midseason on a network no one had heard of. But from the ashes of the (vastly compromised, it’s said) 1992 feature film came Joss Whedon’s reimagined and recalibrated seven-season triumph, which slyly conflated the conventions of supernatural horror and high school life, and asked which was truly the fiery hellscape. Though a little bumpy early on — it took some time for Whedon and company to find their tone (and access to convincing special effects) — once “Buffy” finds its footing, it’s unstoppable. (Whedon’s short-lived but much-loved space opera “Firefly” is also available on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

There was little reason to expect much from this cartoon comedy, which the then-nascent Fox network spun off from the animated interstitials of “The Tracey Ullman Show.” But this series, which our critic deemed “refreshingly different,” became the longest-running fiction series in television history, with a jaw-dropping 30 seasons on the books. Not all are great (nothing lasts forever, folks), but particularly in its early, subversive seasons, “The Simpsons” is a whip-smart, lightning-paced mixture of social commentary, pop culture burlesque and anti-“Cosby Show” family comedy. And its best episodes (“Marge vs. the Monorail,” “Last Exit to Springfield,” “A Streetcar Named Marge,” etc.) are among the very finest half-hours in all of TV comedy. (Creator Matt Groening’s follow-up series “Futurama” is also streaming on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

Aardman Animations, the British stop-motion studio behind the Oscar-winning Wallace and Gromit shorts, made its feature debut with this delightful cross between barnyard farce and prison escape caper, in which a headstrong hen enlists a cocky circus rooster to help her and her friends flee their henhouse before the evil farmer turns them into pies. The animation is, per the company’s standard, breathtakingly meticulous. But parents will enjoy this one as much as their kids do, as the directors Nick Park and Peter Lord inject copious doses of droll British wit and winking nods to classic adventure movies. Our critic called it “immensely satisfying, a divinely relaxed and confident film.” (For more stop-motion family fun, stream LAIKA’s “Missing Link.”)Watch it on Hulu

Barry Jenkins followed up the triumph of his Oscar-winning “Moonlight” with this “anguished and mournful” adaptation of James Baldwin’s 1974 novel. It is, first and foremost, a love story, and the warmth and electricity Jenkins captures and conveys between stars KiKi Layne and Stephan James is overwhelming. But it’s also a love story between two African-Americans in 1960s Harlem, and the delicacy with which the filmmaker threads in the troubles of that time, and the injustice that ultimately tears his main characters apart, is heart-wrenching. Masterly performances abound — particularly from Regina King, who won an Oscar for her complex, layered portrayal of a mother on a mission. (That year’s best actress winner, Renée Zellweger in “Judy,” is also on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David’s nine-season ensemble sitcom was, famously, a show “about nothing,” but that label is deceptively simplistic. “Seinfeld” is a show about navigating the inexplicable inconveniences and rage-inducing frustrations of modern life, of trying one’s best to cope in a world that seems solely populated by inconsiderate nincompoops. (And also, subtly, it’s about becoming one yourself.) The four actors at the show’s center were a Marx Brothers of the ’90s, a finely-tuned comedy team whose gifts and timing complemented each other with precision, and the writing — chock-full of idioms and idiosyncrasies that have fully penetrated the American vernacular — is as sharp and uproarious as ever. (The show’s spiritual successor, the darkly funny “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia,” is also on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

Bing Liu was nominated for a best documentary Oscar for this, his debut feature, a candid and sometimes agonizingly intimate portrait of his loose crew of skateboarding pals. He began making videos to capture that activity, recording the skateboarders’ tricks, spills and pranks; they got comfortable around the camera, forgetting it was even there. But it was, observing and chronicling their lives for years on end — and as they got older, Liu used their comfort to eavesdrop on difficult conversations and extraordinary confessions, weaving what A.O. Scott called “a rich, devastating essay on race, class and manhood in 21st-century America.” (Documentary fans will also want to check out “Apollo 11” and “Honeyland” on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

Few series of the 1980s were as influential or acclaimed as Steven Bochco and Michael Kozoll’s seven-season cop drama, which shunned the flash and sizzle typical of police series of the era for something closer to the ground-level realism of ’70s cinema. There were sprawling, complicated narratives, messy and not altogether sympathetic “heroes” and a visual style that seemed to stumble upon scenes rather than stage them. “Hill Street” was operatic yet intimate, institutional but personal; it changed the look, feel and flavor of cop shows for decades to come. (The show’s influence is keenly felt in Bochco’s later “NYPD Blue.”)Watch it on Hulu

Kaitlyn Dever and Beanie Feldstein are the delightful duo — funny, prickly and plausible — at the center of this “fast, brainy, nasty-but-nice teenage comedy” from the actor-turned-director Olivia Wilde, which both embraces the conventions of the John Hughes-style high school movie and shrewdly subverts them. Our heroines are a pair of overachievers who’ve focused solely on their studies all through high school, only to discover on the eve of graduation that their hard-partying classmates nevertheless landed at prestigious universities themselves. And thus, they must recover four years of lost opportunities in a single night of bad behavior and hard truths. (For more character-driven comedy/drama, check out “I, Tonya” and “Support the Girls.”)Watch it on Hulu

Robert Altman’s hit 1970 antiwar comedy didn’t seem like a slam-dunk for television adaptation, thanks to its raw style and bawdy humor. The series creator and TV comedy veteran Larry Gelbart sanded away most of those edges, yet found a way to ground the show in the horrors of war while keeping the laughs digestible. Much of that was because of the chemistry and camaraderie of the flawless cast — particularly Alan Alda’s brilliantly realized characterization of “Hawkeye” Pierce, the unflappable wiseguy who found, over the course of the show’s 11 seasons, that there were some things even he couldn’t manage to make light of. (If you’re looking for a more serious medical series, stream the ’90s fave “ER.”)Watch it on Hulu

The creator Rob Thomas ingeniously fused the conventions of hard-boiled private eye noir with high school drama for this clever, moody and frequently funny three-season marvel (subsequently revived for a 2014 movie and a recent fourth season), which our critics deemed one of the best TV dramas this side of ‘The Sopranos.’ It also made a star out of Kristen Bell, who seamlessly veers from tough to vulnerable as the title character, a postmodern Nancy Drew who answers phones at her dad’s investigation agency and explores the seamy underbelly of her upper-class seaside resort town. The mysteries are top-notch (frequently intermingling season-long puzzlers with one-off cases of the week), but what makes “Mars” special is the relationships — particularly the complex, affectionate byplay between Bell’s thorny Veronica and her protective pop, played by the wonderful Enrico Colantoni. (If you like the neo-noir vibe of this one, check out “Gemini”; Thomas’s uproariously funny comedy series “Party Down” is also available on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

This “subtle and thrilling love story” from the French writer and director Céline Sciamma is an overwhelmingly quiet film — there is no musical score, and seldom a voice that speaks above a whisper. The delicacy of that approach mirrors the story Sciamma tells, of a young artist (Noémie Merlant) sent to paint a portrait of a reluctant would-be bride (Adèle Haenel); they initially regard each other tentatively, suspiciously even, and Sciamma builds their relationship so carefully and patiently that when they finally give in to their shared desire, it’s more thrilling than any action movie. (For more powerful foreign cinema, stream “Grave of the Fireflies” and “Shoplifters” on Hulu.)Watch it on Hulu

Eliza Hittman (“Never Rarely Sometimes Always”) writes and directs the muted yet moving story of Frankie (the sublime Harris Dickinson), a sexually conflicted young man who fears his orientation is at odds with his persona and finds himself struggling to live within the lies he’s built. Hittman’s sensitive screenplay scrutinizes its subject but never judges him; her keen understanding of Frankie’s surroundings and upbringing forbids such simplicity. Performances are subtle but effective, with particular praise due to Madeline Weinstein as the girlfriend caught in his emotional crossfire.Watch it on Hulu

One of modern television’s most discussed and dissected, analyzed and agonized, loved and loathed programs is this six-season story of a group of plane-crash survivors, trapped on a mysterious and (presumably?) deserted island. This simple setup proved fertile soil for shocking twists and copious fan theories, as well as for an admirably all-rules-are-off sense of storytelling, regularly veering off into extended flashbacks, flash-forwards and even the occasional flash-sideways. Some of its loose ends are frustrating, and some of the answers are unsatisfying. But it’s nonetheless a bold experiment in longform storytelling, and one whose “Wait, WHAT?” cliffhangers make for essential binge-watching. (For another unpredictable adventure, add “Killing Eve” to your queue.)Watch it on Hulu

When it began in 2009, this “outrageously entertaining” animated FX comedy from Adam Reed sounded like a one-joke premise, and not exactly a fresh one either: an extended spoof on James Bond-style spy stories, set at a secret intelligence agency during an indeterminate and anachronistic pseudo-Cold War period. And yet it took flight (11 seasons and counting) thanks to the show’s frisky writing, winking self-awareness, willingness to reboot itself entirely, and the skills of the uproarious voice cast, including Jessica Walters of “Arrested Development” as another unstable mother and the “Bob’s Burgers” star H. Jon Benjamin as the boozing, womanizing title character. (Fans of this absurd comedy may also enjoy “Absolutely Fabulous.”)Watch it on Hulu

Avi Belkin’s biographical documentary takes an unconventional but effective approach to chronicling and eulogizing the legendary newsman. Abandoning the traditional devices of omniscient narration and retrospective interviews, Belkin tells Wallace’s story only using archival materials: old clips and kinescopes, behind-the-scenes footage, conversations in which Wallace himself was the (often guarded) subject, and most effectively, interviews in which the journalist’s lines of inquiry spoke to his own struggles. Crisply cut, probing but fleet-footed, Belkin’s experiment is more compelling, and often more informative, than the standard bio-doc. (For another deep dive into a storied journalist, stream “Raise Hell: The Life and Times of Molly Ivins.”)Watch it on Hulu

This “one-season wonder” from the creator Ted Griffin (who wrote the “Ocean’s Eleven” remake) concerns a busted-out ex-cop and a former criminal, two pals who team up to become private detectives. But this is no mere procedural. Griffin and his writers are less interested in the crimes than in the complicated characters who are investigating (and committing) them, making a series that leaves the viewer perpetually unbalanced; you’re never quite sure if you’re going to get a breezy chase scene or a raw, emotional verbal duet. It’s only 13 episodes, so it’s a quick binge. It’s also a sad one, since these characters clearly had so many more stories to tell. (Executive producer Shawn Ryan’s “The Shield” is also available on Hulu, as is the similarly-styled shaggy-dog private eye movie “The Nice Guys.”Watch it on Hulu

This riotous, high-spirited, “charming and funny” family comedy could have been played straight, as a Disney-style, kid-friendly adventure yarn. But the writer and director Taika Waititi (“Jojo Rabbit”) instead delivers a delicious sendup of action movie tropes while sneakily exploring a family dynamic that pays off with surprising warmth and sweetness. Sam Neill amps up the gruff tenderness that made his turn in “Jurassic Park” so memorable, but the real find here is Julian Dennison, a young leading man so unlikely yet so charismatic that the rest of the movie bends around him.Watch it on Hulu

Sitcom creator Michael Schur mated the familial hangout vibe of his “Parks and Recreation” with the police precinct setting of “Barney Miller” to create this “loose, jokey workplace comedy.” Andy Samberg stars as Jake Peralta, an immature police detective who butts heads with his buttoned-up captain (Andre Braugher) — the old loose-cannon/by-the-book odd couple, writ large. The show’s charm, however, lies in its rich ensemble, an assemblage of familiar comic types given dimension and personality by a top-notch supporting cast. (The similarly styled sitcom “Superstore” is also worth your time.)Watch on Hulu

Winner of three Academy Awards — for best actress (Patricia Neal), best supporting actor (Melvyn Douglas) and its black-and-white cinematography (by James Wong Howe) — this widescreen tale of the contemporary West seems, in its opening scenes, like yet another story of a wild cowboy who cannot be tamed. But as played by Paul Newman (also nominated for an Oscar), Hud Bannon isn’t a hero; he’s a brutish, irresponsible lout, and “Hud” refuses to romanticize him. Instead, the director, Martin Ritt, sees Hud for what he is: an artifact of an earlier era, a dinosaur who is just beginning to realize he’s on his way to extinction. Our critic called it “this year’s most powerful film.” (Classic movie lovers should also check out “Johnny Guitar” and “The Furies.”)Watch on Hulu

Winner of the Oscar for best picture of 2009 (and best director for Kathryn Bigelow), this harrowing war drama concerns a team of specialists trained in on-the-ground bomb defusion in Iraq — with a particular focus on Staff Sgt. William James (Jeremy Renner), who’s a bit of a loose cannon. Bigelow mines palpable, sweaty tension from this terrifying work, but she doesn’t settle for cheap thrills; the film is most intense when dealing with James’s internal conflicts and his psychological battles with his team. Manohla Dargis called it “a viscerally exciting, adrenaline-soaked tour de force.” (For more brainy action, check out “Crimson Tide.”)Watch on Hulu

Between his first and second cracks at Batman, the director Christopher Nolan slipped in this twisty, stylish exercise in sleight-of-hand moviemaking — “an intricate and elaborate machine designed for the simple purpose of diversion,” per A.O. Scott — as if to assure the fans of his breakthrough movie, “Memento.” that he was still up to his old tricks This time around, the term “tricks” is literal: In “The Prestige,” Nolan tells the story of two stage magicians in 1890s London, whose friendly rivalry first becomes fraught, then deadly. Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale scheme and connive appropriately in the leading roles; a standout supporting cast includes Michael Caine, Scarlett Johansson, Rebecca Hall and David Bowie.Watch on Hulu

Rod Serling’s innovative, influential, unforgettable anthology series married the tropes of science fiction with the humanism of morality tales, using the social shifts and rampant paranoia of the Cold War era to tell stories both wildly fantastic and uncomfortably familiar. Its theme song remains ubiquitous (ditto Serling’s hard-boiled introductions), and its best episodes have permanently embedded themselves in the common consciousness, but “The Twilight Zone” stands as more than a mere cultural touchstone. “While he hosted weekly visits to other planets and alternate universes,” our critic writes, “Serling asked his viewers to question authority, innovation and the role of faith in their lives.”Watch it on Hulu

Serling’s contemporary Gene Roddenberry likewise used the conventions of genre fiction to tell strikingly contemporary stories about the human condition. The original series is shockingly slender — it only ran three seasons and 79 episodes, yet spawned over a dozen movies and multiple spinoff series. Many of them are also available on Hulu, but this is where it all began, and where the curious viewer should start; the vital narrative elements are all in place, and the original ensemble (particularly William Shatner’s cocky Captain Kirk, Leonard Nimoy’s sensible Mr. Spock, and DeForest Kelley’s exasperated Dr. “Bones” McCory) is hard to top. (The follow-up series “Star Trek: The Next Generation” is also on Hulu, as is the similarly beloved “The X-Files.”)Watch it on Hulu

Over two nights in January of 1971, Aretha Franklin, a gospel choir and a live audience gathered at the New Temple Missionary Baptist Church in Watts to record “Amazing Grace,” her soul-stirring, best-selling, widely acclaimed gospel album. A film crew was there as well, led by director Sydney Pollack, but due to a combination of technical snafus and objections by the Queen of Soul, that footage remained unseen for nearly 50 years — until the 2018 release of this stunning documentary. That delay, if anything, lends it fresh power and electricity; it plays like a vibrant time capsule of a unique moment in African-American music and American culture. Wesley Morris called it, simply, “one of the great music films.” (Music and movies also pair movingly in the films “Wild Rose” and “Love &amp; Mercy.”)Watch it on Hulu

Cultural constants are in short supply, but it seems like we’ll always have NBC’s impossibly long-running late-night variety program, which has been skewering politicians, the news media and the foibles of daily life for 45 seasons (and counting). Hulu doesn’t offer all of them; the service takes a giant leap from Season 5 to Season 30, which means you don’t get the glory days of Eddie Murphy, Adam Sandler, Mike Myers and several other MVPs. But there’s plenty of gold to choose from — particularly those first five years, featuring the original, comically peerless ensemble and such immortal characters as the Coneheads, the Blues Brothers and Roseanne Roseannadanna. (For more sketch comedy, check out “Key &amp; Peele.”)Watch it on Hulu

Mary Kay Place has carved out a remarkable career as a valuable supporting player (including memorable turns in “The Big Chill,” “Being John Malkovich” and “Girl, Interrupted”), but she was rarely given the opportunity to show what she could do in a leading role. The writer and director Kent Jones changed that with this acclaimed independent drama, featuring Place as a prototypical good citizen who spends her days volunteering in her small town, supporting friends and family in various states of duress and contemplating her own mortality. Jones makes this woman seem familiar and knowable, but his subtle screenplay (and Place’s powerful performance) slowly peels away those layers, revealing unexpected regrets and complexities. Our critic called it “a rich and tender study of a woman hollowed out by remorse.” (Admirers of this intimate character study may also enjoy “Little Woods.”)Watch it on Hulu

You can find the DNA of this sophisticated, influential seven-season classic in everything from “30 Rock” to “The Office” to “Sex and the City.” Moore sparkles as a newly single working woman making her way in the big city of Minneapolis, where she spends her days in a bustling TV newsroom and her nights trying to reassemble her personal life. Midway through its run, our critic wrote, “Consistently tight writing and good acting have made this situation comedy the best of its kind in the history of American television.” He wasn’t wrong. (Moore’s other beloved, long-running sitcom, “The Dick Van Dyke Show,” is also on Hulu, as is co-star Betty White’s “The Golden Girls.”)Watch it on Hulu

Noah Hawley’s television adaptation of the Coen Brothers’ 1996 Oscar winner sounded like a sure-fire failure. After all, how could anyone but the Coens manage to recreate and recapture their oddball worldview and idiosyncratic characters? Yet Hawley’s series, a seasonal anthology — each year telling a new quirky crime story, in a different time period — succeeds by taking the entire Coen canon as inspiration (one of the show’s many pleasures is spotting the connections to all of their films) and telling stories that fit snugly into that same, cockeyed universe. Our critics called its first season “oddly winning,” Season 2 “sublime,” and Season 3 “an expertly made meta-concoction.” (“Fargo” fans may also enjoy FX’s “Justified,” another wry, witty neo-Western.)Watch it on Hulu

Shot on the fly in real locations with smartphones and a cast of mostly first-time actors, this “fast, raucously funny comedy about love and other misadventures” from the director Sean Baker (“The Florida Project”) is a vibrant and heartfelt story of life on the fringe. The plot concerns two transgender sex workers (Kitana Kiki Rodriguez and Mya Taylor) and their various fortunes and misfortunes over a 24-hour period in the sketchier stretches of Hollywood. Played differently, the material could have been sensationalistic, but it isn’t; Baker is, above all, a humanist, and he loves his characters no matter what kind of trouble they’re causing.Watch it on Hulu

When this series adaptation of the 2004 feature film — itself an adaptation of Buzz Bissinger’s nonfiction book — debuted on NBC in 2006, our critic led her review with a succinct proclamation: “Lord, is ‘Friday Night Lights’ good.” Over the five seasons that followed, this heart-rending drama, set in the world of small-town high school football (though not, in any traditional sense, solely about that world), taught lessons, complicated assumptions, and developed some of the indelible characters in modern television — chief among them Kyle Chandler as the idealistic and committed Coach Taylor and Connie Britton as his no-nonsense wife. (For more character-driven drama, check out “Queen Sugar” and “The Handmaid’s Tale”; if your interest is football, try Oliver Stone’s “Any Given Sunday.”)Watch it on Hulu

Nostalgia tends to run in 20-year cycles, so filmmakers and television writers spent a good deal of the 1980s meditating on the 1960s — particularly the idealism of the Woodstock era, and how it faded away in the years that followed. This six-season family dramedy certainly trafficked in such wistfulness, but filtered it through a contemporary lens, as the adult iteration of its protagonist (voiced by Daniel Stern, played as a teen by Fred Savage) narrated his journey through middle and high school during this turbulent era. And the show is now seen through a prism of dual nostalgia, recalled with fondness by those who were themselves teenagers when it first aired, confirming that its stories of first love, teen awkwardness and familial rebellion aren’t confined to any specific era. (For more family-based comedy, check out “Malcolm in the Middle.”)Watch it on Hulu

Before laying waste to the American political system on HBO’s “Veep,” Armando Iannucci took his satirical scalpel to the British Parliament with this ruthless four-season comedy. Its ostensible focus is Hugh Abbot (Chris Langham), head of the fictitious Department of Social Affairs, but the showcase character is Malcolm Tucker, the inventively foul-mouthed and delightfully cruel political adviser played with scorched-earth intensity by the future 12th Doctor of “Dr. Who,” Peter Capaldi. However, as with “Veep” (and the spin-off film “The Thick of It”), the true subject is government incompetence, and the stew of ego-boosting, failing upward and general bumbling that seems to define political power on every shore. (For more sharp-witted British comedy, check out the original version of “The Office.”)Watch it on Hulu

When writing about the virtues of the Lucille Ball-Desi Arnaz family sitcom, it’s tempting to just jot down a list of its classic moments: the chocolate conveyor belt, stomping the grapes, mirroring Harpo Marx, “Vitameatavegamin.” That impulse is understandable; the series has been so fully consumed by popular culture that those moments are still immediately recognizable, well over half a century after they aired. In those years, the rules of television comedy were still being written, and “I Love Lucy” wrote plenty of them (its three-camera, shot-on-film, “live in front of a studio audience” set-up was the go-to process for television comedy for decades). But beyond its considerable influence is an inarguable truth: It perseveres because, as our critic noted in 2001, “it’s fantastically, timelessly funny.”Watch it on Hulu





No.14 article:
Crowded Subways? Yes, in Neighborhoods Where People Have to Go to Work

Even as Manhattan stations remain eerily empty, a surge of commuters in other boroughs has pushed overall ridership to 30 percent of normal levels.

Just after sunrise at a subway station in Woodhaven, Queens, the rhythm of riders pouring onto the platform echoed life before the pandemic. In the 10 minutes between trains, the crowd swelled until riders lined the platform and filed into an arriving subway car, snatching the few remaining seats.

Though not quite as bustling as last year, stations like this one and others in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx are experiencing a surge as people who work in retail and service industries return to their jobs in person and join the ranks of essential workers riding the subway.

Even as stations in Manhattan that were once the busiest in the city remain eerily quiet — with as few as one-fifth of typical passenger levels — ridership at some stops in the other boroughs has surpassed 50 percent of pre-pandemic levels. The spike has breathed life back into a system that was drained of nearly all its riders when the pandemic hit in the spring.

It has also provided a little bit of a financial boost to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the subway and is facing its worst budget crisis because of the outbreak.

Still, the widening ridership gulf between wealthier Manhattan neighborhoods and lower-income areas illuminates one of the enduring disparities of the outbreak: Many people with white-collar jobs can still work from home while lower-wage workers, who tend to be people of color with long commutes, are venturing to jobs daily even as the virus resurges.

“Everyone is practically sitting on top of each other now and virus cases are spiking,” said Adela Rivera, 45, who works in accounting for a cleaning services company in Lower Manhattan and takes the J train at the 85th Street-Forest Parkway station in Queens. “It all adds to the anxiety for sure.”

Her station — 85th Street-Forest Parkway — is one of a handful in Woodhaven, a middle-class neighborhood home primarily to immigrants from Latin America and Asia, that has experienced a revival.

Ridership at the station plunged to roughly 14 percent of usual in April, as people who work as clerks, waiters, housekeepers and kitchen staff stayed home after the pandemic lockdown shut down stores and limited restaurants to takeout and delivery.

But as the city slowly reopened, they had to go back to work. As one of the most public transit-dependent neighborhoods in the city, they turned to the subway and buses to travel. By October, around 50 percent of the station’s usual commuters had resumed riding the subway, according to an analysis of transit data by Qri, an open source data company.

“When I started commuting again in July, at least it was a bit emptier, there were spaces between people on the train,” Ms. Rivera said as she waited on the platform, the warm sunlight filtering through the windows of a train as it roared past. “Just look — it’s not like that anymore.”

The small station serves a fraction of the riders of the subway’s hubs in Manhattan: 85th Street-Forest Parkway station handled an average of 89,000 people a month last year, compared with a monthly average of 5.6 million riders who traveled through Times Square-42nd Street.

But with ridership at Times Square and other major hubs like 34 Street-Herald Square and Grand Central hovering at just 20 percent of normal times, the surge of riders across many smaller stations has helped push overall ridership to about 30 percent of usual.

In Queens, more than half of stations have seen ridership return to over 40 percent of usual — more than any other borough. At Junction Boulevard on the No. 7 line and the 111th Street station on the J line, ridership has returned from lows around 10 percent of normal in April to over 55 percent in October.

“At the beginning of all of this back in March, we saw that the folks who were continuing to use the system were essential workers,” said Sarah Feinberg, interim president of New York City Transit, which runs the city’s subway and buses. “Today it continues to be those essential workers and folks with the longest commutes who come into work every day because they cannot do their jobs from home.”

The return of rush hour crowds to many parts of the system is a stark turnabout from the height of the pandemic, when the subway’s usual 5.5 million weekday riders had practically vanished.

In Manhattan, where the median household income is the highest of any of the five boroughs, monthly ridership was around 7 percent of usual in April, according to the Qri analysis. By comparison, in the Bronx — where many transit-dependent essential workers live — roughly 20 percent of the usual ridership was still using the system.

In the months since, the system’s revival has been similarly skewed: Ridership has returned to about 40 percent of normal in Brooklyn and 45 percent in the Bronx. In Manhattan, ridership is still just 25 percent of what it was before the outbreak.

Many of those low-wage workers who are sustaining the subway will likely bear the brunt of the service cuts and fare increases that officials are weighing as the transit agency faces the worst financial crisis in its history.

“The question that the federal government and state have to wrestle with right now is what do we owe those essential workers?” said Nick Sifuentes, the executive director of Tri-State Transportation Campaign, an advocacy group. “Will their commutes to essential jobs get even longer and more unreliable?”

The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the city’s subway and buses, has warned of doomsday cuts like reducing subway service by 40 percent and steep fare increases to make up a $15.9 billion shortfall through 2024.

Transit officials have lobbied Washington for $12 billion in federal aid, but after stimulus negotiations sputtered this fall, the agency pinned the future of the system on the outcome of the presidential election.

Even with President-elect Joseph R. Biden’s victory, if Republicans are able to retain control of the Senate, they will likely resist the much bigger rescue package House Democrats have been pushing.

“The outlook is certainly better than we would have gotten with a second Trump administration,” said Nicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group. “But it’s by no means a guarantee that the M.T.A. will get the full rescue package, the whole $12 billion that it’s asking for.”

For most riders still using the system — many of whom are only just finding their footing after being laid off this spring — higher fares and less reliable service that delays their already long commutes would be a severe hardship.

“I spend three hours commuting on the train every day,” said Angela Kerjah, 57. “And I’m already rushing back to my three little kids at home. If it takes even longer to get home, will I get to see them every night? I don’t know.”

Ms. Kerjah and her friend, Geeta Coyoc, 35, huddled under the small overhang protecting the Woodhaven platform from light rain as they waited for a J train. Both women work as housekeepers for families in Brooklyn and were told by their employers to stay home for four months this spring. But in July, they were called back to work and with trepidation returned to the train.

“I think I was more worried to go back out in July than I was before the lockdown,” said Ms. Coyoc. “After being home and looking at the news on a daily basis and seeing so many deaths, that’s got me scared.”

Since then both women say their concerns about commuting have been allayed after a scientific consensus emerged that the risk of coronavirus transmission on the subway was not as high as many assumed at the start of the pandemic, as long as riders wear masks and crowding remains minimal.

But with coronavirus cases climbing yet again in New York, threatening another shutdown, many riders have renewed concerns about their safety on trains, where they have less control over their surroundings and the safety precautions others are taking.

“At work we are distanced, I’m never really close to anyone,” said Walter Fernandez, 26, who works as a cleaner in an office building in Brooklyn and was sent home at the height of the pandemic. “But here all of the seats are full, you’re right up against everyone and people aren’t always wearing masks.”

Earlier this summer he was called back to work, but decided against returning for fear of bringing the virus home to his mother, who lives with him in Woodhaven. But in August, with cases falling in the city, she returned to her work as a housekeeper and he returned to the office he cleans.

As cases creep up, so has Mr. Fernandez’s anxiety. “I don’t even want to think about it,” he said.

Ten minutes down the J line, Sayda Ighmor, 35, sat on a wooden bench at 111th Street Station on her way to work as a home health aide. Every morning Ms. Ighmor takes the train five stops and then gets on the Q54 bus to get to work, which is the most nerve-racking part of her day.

“It’s so crowded on the buses — even more than the train — and some people still don’t wear masks,” she said.

Every afternoon when she arrives home, she carefully places her shoes beside the door, strips off her work clothes and jumps in the shower.

Ms. Ighmor opted to keep her two children home to do remote schooling this fall because it felt safer. But both she and her husband, who works in food delivery, have continued to work throughout the pandemic.

“You have to go to work,” she said. “You have to pay your bills. What should I do?”





No.15 article:
Young Players, Blurred Boundaries and a Coach on the Move

At France’s national soccer academy, an instructor was investigated after he sent dozens of disturbingly affectionate text messages to a 13-year-old boy. But he was dismissed only after he invited the boy to lunch.

At his next club, the man came under suspicion after the worried mother of a young player approached a team official and asked if it was normal for the boys to be weighed without their underpants on. But he was fired only after he was caught working with an agent to guide players away from the club.

When he turned up working as the youth director for yet another French team this year, two people who knew of his past behavior called the club’s president to warn him. But the French soccer federation, which had once fired the man from his job at its national training center for his inappropriate interactions with a young prospect, said nothing.

Instead, for the past eight years, it has allowed its former staff member to quietly move from job to job, always retaining a highly valued certificate issued by the federation that has eased his ability to continue working in the sport. His contact information remains available to potential employers on the federation’s website.

The man, David San José, has never been the subject of an official complaint of sexual abuse or improper physical contact with a child. But that he has been able to continue working with young athletes despite red flags has raised new questions about the inability, or unwillingness, of sports organizations to conduct meaningful investigations into the conduct of adults responsible for the care of children.

In recent years, that lack of oversight has led to scandal, and criminal charges, in cases involving gymnasts in the United States, soccer players in Britain and figure skaters and swimmers in France. In almost every case, investigations later found, rumors and claims of misbehavior and abuse were well known but ignored.

When contacted to discuss his time at France’s national training center at Clairefontaine and his work history after he left the center there, San José declined to comment. But others, including former federation coaches, officials and employees and 10 former teammates of the boy who received the text messages, agreed to be interviewed.

“I still don’t understand how San José can work with children after what happened at Clairefontaine,” said the center’s former director, Gérard Prêcheur. “I don’t understand how he is still in football.”

The messages, according to teammates and the boy’s mother, sometimes came in flurries: greetings, invitations, declarations of love. To the 13-year-old boy who received them they were confusing. Why would an adult, and especially an instructor at one of the world’s leading soccer academies, be showering him with such attention?

For a while the boy — now 23, and whose identity is being withheld to protect his privacy — kept the messages to himself. He knew he was fortunate, selected among a group of two dozen boys who were given coveted places living and training at France’s national training center at Clairefontaine, arguably the world’s leading soccer finishing school. He knew Clairefontaine had been the launching pad for dozens of top French professional players. So rather than speak up about the disturbing messages, the boy said nothing to his teammates, coaches or parents.

The first inkling that something was wrong came on a bus ride in 2012. The squad of talented teenagers was in a typically boisterous mood. They were poking fun at one another when Tiago Escorza, one of the players, picked up his teammate’s cellphone. Escorza, now 23, recalled seeing messages from the instructor to the boy, telling him he loved him. His reaction was to burst into laughter — and then to read the messages aloud to the rest of the players.

“We all said to him, ‘Is that your father or what?’” said Hedi Mehnaoui, a goalkeeper who was present. Just entering their teens, he said in a recent interview, they were not mature enough to grasp the impact the messages might have had on the boy, or any motives San José may have had for sending them.

But, looking back, Mehnaoui said, he now remembers his friend talking often about quitting the academy. “He never really explained why,” said Mehnaoui, who was the boy’s roommate. “He kept everything to himself, so I didn’t ask too much either.”

A few months later, the boy’s mother also became aware of the messages. Switching on a new cellphone she had bought her son, she discovered a text from San José.

Her husband was furious about the message, she said, but he was also dealing with a serious illness, so she decided she would be the one to confront San José, in person. She did so with a letter, handed to him at Clairefontaine, that instructed him not to send any more messages to her son or to be alone with him under any circumstances. San José, she said, disarmed her by telling her that in his culture — he has a Spanish background — it was routine to say things like “I love you” even to people outside your own family.

The matter might have ended there but for a conversation overheard by two watchmen responsible for looking after the team during a routine evening inspection. They were shown messages — forwarded to two other boys — that they were told had been written by San José. “I’m fed up that it’s always me saying I love you,” one read, according to one of the watchmen.

The next morning, one of the watchmen informed the boys’ coach, Philippe Bretaud, and also Prêcheur, the Clairefontaine director, about what he had learned. Prêcheur, who left Clairefontaine in 2014, said his first reaction was outrage. “I went mad,” he said.

He said he immediately called the boy’s parents and advised them to file a complaint, but that they declined, fearing that doing so could jeopardize their son’s prospects for a soccer career. Prêcheur then showed the messages to his boss, François Blaquart, then the technical director of French soccer. “I remember that they were love messages, totally inadmissible vis-à-vis a child,” Blaquart said.

Blaquart placed San José, who was responsible for players’ nonsoccer education at the facility, on leave and ordered him to leave Clairefontaine, he said, and then followed established guidelines and passed the file to the human resources department of the French soccer federation.

The French federation insisted it thoroughly investigated the accusations, conducting multiple interviews and arranging for a psychologist to speak with the boy. But it also said that it had found no proof of any messages of a sexual or romantic nature between San José and the boy, and that it could do nothing more with the accusations.

“There was no element capable of justifying a denunciation of the federation to the judicial authorities, as the facts mentioned could not characterize a criminal offense,” Florence Hardouin, the organization’s director general, said in emailed responses to questions from The New York Times in November.

Hardouin noted that the player’s family did not report this case to the authorities or file a complaint. But the federation fired San José anyway, after finding he had sent a direct message to the boy and once had invited him to a McDonald’s restaurant, behavior that was, according to Hardouin, “inconsistent with his professional obligations.”

After this article was published on Wednesday, a spokeswoman for the French sports ministry said the organization would open its own investigation into the case.

The federation’s descriptions of the thorough nature of its investigation were disputed by a number of figures present at the time, including several of the boy’s teammates, his mother and former senior officials at Clairefontaine, including Prêcheur, the training center’s director, who said he was never questioned about what he knew.

Mehnaoui, the goalkeeper who roomed with the boy, said the same. “If the federation says it questioned us today, that is a lie,” he said. “No one ever spoke to me. No one.”

Several attempts were made to contact San José by telephone and text message before he eventually replied to a LinkedIn message seeking to discuss his time at Clairefontaine and his later career. San José declined. Then he blocked any further attempts to contact him on the platform. Soon afterward, he deactivated his profile.

Ian Ackley, a survivor of abuse by a former top British soccer coach, now heads a group that supports victims with similar experiences in English soccer. He said potential cases of abuse are frequently resolved quietly, and that efforts are made to draw minimal attention to them.

“But it produces a problem elsewhere,” said Ackley, who said he was abused for almost four years, until he was 13, by a coach at Manchester City. “They don’t want the reputational damage of a public inquiry or investigation, and they don’t want to put people off.”

With no finding of abuse or harassment, San José was allowed to quietly leave his post with his highly rated, federation-backed qualifications intact. The federation said the qualifications allowed San José to work as a volunteer, and under French law there is no provision for a full background check of volunteer coaches.

One of his next stops was at Olympique de Valence, a team playing in the lower rungs of French soccer about an hour’s drive south of Lyon. Malik Vivant, the team’s sporting director, recalled being surprised that someone as qualified as San José was available. Given San José’s tenure at Clairefontaine, Vivant considered it a coup to have hired someone of his pedigree to coach Valence’s under-15 team. Within months, though, Vivant began to have suspicions.

First, the worried mother of a young player approached the club’s treasurer and asked him why players had to be weighed naked. More alarm bells sounded when club officials learned a young player had stayed overnight at San José’s house.

Prêcheur, the former Clairefontaine director, said that when he found out San José was working in Valence, he contacted team officials to tell them what had happened at his academy. Valence eventually removed San José, but not for his interactions with young players; he was dismissed after the club discovered he was working with an agent to pitch its players to other teams. “As I had already had doubts, I didn’t hesitate, and I fired him,” Vivant said.

San José stayed in the region, though, working in schools and most recently at another amateur team, F.C. Rhône-Vallées. Vivant and Prêcheur said they had both warned the team against employing San José, and had described to club officials the incidents that had taken place at Clairefontaine and Valence.

The team’s president, Yves Jacquier, acknowledged that he had received calls warning him about employing San José, including from Prêcheur, but that he had been unable to “get to the truth.” San José, he said, had described the exchange of affectionate messages with the boy at Clairefontaine as a friendly back and forth.

San José also persuaded the boy’s mother to write a letter to F.C. Rhône-Vallées confirming that he had never had physical contact with her son. She obliged in July.

“We received a letter from the mother saying there was no physical act on her son, but that’s all,” Jacquier said. “I never was aware about the text messages, never. I was fooled. He lied to me, to us and I’m responsible. I feel ashamed.”

The club said last week it would terminate San José’s contract.

The French soccer federation, however, continues to insist that it did nothing wrong, and that without proof it has no standing to bar San José from working in soccer, or with children. (The federation awarded him one of its highest-level coaching licenses in 2017.) But France’s sports ministry, reeling from a sexual-abuse scandal in swimming and figure skating, said in a statement to The Times that its guidelines meant it was required to look into the accusations — and at the actions taken by the country’s soccer federation.

While that investigation takes place, others are wrestling anew with the decisions they made. The soccer federation hired a crisis communications consultant soon after receiving questions from The Times about San José. Prêcheur said he was still outraged about what he saw as the federation’s failure to protect a young player. The boy is no longer involved in soccer, and his former teammates now say they wish they had done more to help him. Even the boy’s mother, who in an effort to preserve his dream of a soccer career decided not to rock the boat, is retracing her steps.

Eight years after seeing the message on her son’s phone, she said, she wishes she had just gone to the police.





No.16 article:
Is China Laying Claim to Kimchi, Too? Some South Koreans Think So

When a state tabloid suggested that China had set a global standard for kimchi, social media users accused Beijing of misappropriating a Korean culinary staple.

SEOUL, South Korea — Fermented vegetables are delicious — on this point, many people from China and South Korea can agree. But for some social media users in the two countries, the culinary good will ends there.

A spat is raging this week over a Chinese state tabloid’s claim that China had “led” the development of an international standard for paocai, or pickled vegetables. In South Korea, the claim was seen as misleading because in the Chinese language, paocai also refers to kimchi — the fermented cabbage dish that plays an integral role in Korean cuisine.

It wasn’t clear whether the ambiguity was unintentional or an example of the trolling for which the tabloid, Global Times, is famous. But it prompted ripostes from South Korean officials and newspapers, along with a slew of barbed social media comments about the finer points of pickled cabbage.

“If China plagiarizes the fermentation process of kimchi in the future, then South Korea’s traditional culture may disappear,” one anxious user wrote on Naver, a popular social media platform in South Korea.

The spat opens another front in a tussle for soft power between two countries whose relations sometimes sour over weightier matters, like Kim Jong-un’s nuclear program and the Korean War’s legacy.

It also touches on cultural sore points in South Korea: Nearly 40 percent of the factory-made kimchi consumed there is imported from China, and the tradition of making the dish locally is fading as Korean families eat more non-Korean cuisine.

The kimchi spat began last week, when a global regulator based in Switzerland released a draft definition of the “categories” and “requirements” of paocai. That is the name in Mandarin for a kimchi-like dish of fermented vegetables that is popular in the western Chinese province of Sichuan.

The regulator, the International Organization for Standardization, typically issues such guidelines to ensure that products and services in one country can be used in the industrial processes of another. In this case, it said that a lack of “unified and explicit product quality and safety guarantees” in the paocai industry “greatly limits the international trade and circulation of paocai products.”

The I.S.O. said specifically that its definition “does not apply to kimchi.” But in an article over the weekend, Global Times, which is fiercely nationalistic, said the new standard proved that China had set an “industry benchmark” for “the international paocai market” — a term that essentially includes kimchi.

The tabloid’s needling, if that’s what it was, touched a nerve in South Korea, where many people feel threatened by China’s increasingly assertive presence in the region. Some social media users accused Global Times of cultural appropriation.

With South Korean “cultural content expanding its influence on a global scale, it seems that China is making efforts to claim that such content was traced to them,” Seo Kyoung-duk, a professor at Sungshin Women’s University in Seoul, told the Yonhap news agency, echoing a chorus of online commentary.

South Korea’s Agriculture Ministry said in a statement on Sunday that the I.S.O.’s paocai standard was “completely not related to our kimchi,” adding that the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization had published a definition of kimchi in 2001.

“It is inappropriate to report without differentiating our kimchi from paocai,” the ministry said.

Sandrine Tranchard, a spokeswoman for the I.S.O., said in an email that the organization typically develops standards based on requests from “industry or other stakeholders,” and that its technical committees include experts from industry, consumer groups, academia, governments and nonprofits. 

“We cannot comment on the food or cultural heritage,” she said of the paocai standard.

The spat is hardly the first in Asia over a perceived attempt to lay claim, directly or otherwise, to another country’s tradition.

In 2018, for example, when Singapore announced a plan to ask UNESCO to recognize its street-food vendors as an “intangible heritage,” critics in neighboring Malaysia essentially said that their vendors were better — and that much of Singapore’s cuisine came from Malaysia in the first place. Indonesia had a similar quarrel with Malaysia over batik, the textile-dyeing process.

South and North Korea also campaigned separately to put the kimchi-making season, a centuries-old tradition known as “kimjang,” on UNESCO’s intangible heritage register. The agency agreed to both Koreas’ requests.

Kimchi belongs to an international family of pickled food that includes paocai, tsukemono (from Japan) and sauerkraut (from Germany), said Cho Jung-eun, a director at the World Institute of Kimchi, a research institute financed by the South Korean government.

Ms. Cho said that when the F.A.O. published its kimchi definition in 2001, “China was not interested in kimchi at all, and kimchi was not produced in China at that time.” It was only after about 2003 that South Koreans began moving to China to build kimchi factories, she added, and later still that a local market for the dish developed within China.

Ms. Cho said that kimchi is different from its pickled cousins because of its distinctive blend of garlic, ginger and red pepper powder.

The F.A.O.’s 2001 definition says that kimchi consists of “Chinese cabbage” and other vegetables that are “trimmed, cut, salted and seasoned before fermentation.” A country’s decision to formally accept such definitions is voluntary, and the F.A.O. does not adjudicate disputes about how to interpret them. The agency declined to comment on Tuesday.

Some Chinese users have been striking a conciliatory note, saying on social media that kimchi and “Sichuan kimchi” are both delicious — or even that “our paocai” is not as tasty as its Korean counterpart.

But others are not letting go.

“Sichuan’s is the real kimchi,” a user wrote Monday on Weibo, a Twitter-like social media platform in China. “South Korea’s version is merely pickles.”





No.17 article:
Moderna Plans to Begin Testing Its Coronavirus Vaccine in Children

The company said the trial would involve children ages 12 through 17.

The drugmaker Moderna said on Wednesday that it would soon begin testing its coronavirus vaccine in children ages 12 through 17. The study, listed Wednesday on the website clinicaltrials.gov, is to include 3,000 children, with half receiving two shots of vaccine four weeks apart, and half getting placebo shots of salt water.

But the posting says the study is “not yet recruiting,” and Colleen Hussey, a spokeswoman for Moderna, said it was not certain when the testing sites would be listed or start accepting volunteers. A link on the website to test centers is not yet working, and Ms. Hussey said she was not sure when it would become active.

Moderna announced on Monday that data from its study in 30,000 adults had found its vaccine to be 94.1 percent effective, and that it had applied to the Food and Drug Administration for emergency authorization to begin vaccinating adults. If approval is granted, certain groups of high-risk adults, including people in nursing homes, could receive shots late in December.

But no vaccine can be widely given to children until it has been tested in them. Vaccines meant for both adults and children are generally tested first in adults to help make sure they are safe for pediatric trials.

Moderna’s vaccine has not yet been studied in children or pregnant women. In the new clinical trial in adolescents, girls past puberty will be tested before each injection to make sure they are not pregnant.

“Everyone anticipates that when we test this first in adolescents, then older children, then the real small kids, that the Covid vaccine will work,” said Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University and an adviser on vaccines to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

But children have more active immune systems than adults, and may have stronger reactions, including more fever, muscle and joint aches, and fatigue, Dr. Schaffner said.

“They may be more out of sorts than adults for a day or two,” he said. “You really do want to know, if it’s given in adolescents, what can parents expect? You really want to be able to tell them clearly how you might feel for 24 or 48 hours after you receive the vaccine. And obviously, we really want to be able to tell parents it works.”

If a child had intense side effects and parents were not prepared for it, they might be reluctant to go back for the second shot, Dr. Schaffner said.

Dr. Paul A. Offit, a vaccine expert at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, said that vaccines “for the most part” work equally well in children and adults. Occasionally, as with the hepatitis B vaccine, different doses are required, he said. Moderna will study the same dose in children that it has tested in adults.

Pfizer began testing its coronavirus vaccine in children as young as 12 in October. A large clinical trial found its vaccine to be 95 percent effective in adults, and the company has requested emergency authorization from the F.D.A. Britain approved the Pfizer vaccine for adults on Wednesday, the first country to do so.

AstraZeneca has also tested its vaccine in children, but not in the United States.

As vaccine studies have moved forward, rumors have spread on social media, particularly among people who oppose vaccines in general, that President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. plans to require vaccination for everyone, including children. His team has denied those claims, and Mr. Biden has said that he will rely on scientists’ advice for the best way to end the pandemic.





No.18 article:
C.D.C. Officials Shorten Recommended Quarantine Periods

The agency also urged Americans to stay home during the coming holidays, and to get tested if they do travel.

Federal health officials on Wednesday effectively shortened quarantine periods for those who may have been exposed to the coronavirus, hoping to improve compliance among Americans and reduce the economic and psychological toll of long periods of seclusion.

Citing the spiraling number of infections nationwide, officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also urged Americans again to avoid travel over the holiday season.

“The C.D.C. recommends the best way to protect yourself and others is to postpone travel and stay home,” Dr. Henry Walke, who oversees day-to-day management of pandemic response at the agency, said at a news briefing.

People who choose to travel over the holiday season despite the warnings should consider getting tested for coronavirus infection one to three days before their trip, and again three to five days after return, Dr. Walke and other officials said.

It is the first time the agency has urged testing for domestic travelers; until now, testing was recommended only for Americans traveling internationally. Dr. Walke noted that testing before and after travel “does not eliminate all risk.”

Travelers returning home should keep nonessential activities to a minimum for at least seven days if they are getting tested, and for 10 days if they are not getting tested. (Many states already require travelers to self-quarantine after arrival, though the rules vary from state to state.)

Federal health officials also offered two new ways to shorten quarantine periods. Those without symptoms may end quarantine after seven days if they are tested for the virus and receive a negative result, or after 10 days without a negative test.

P.C.R. or rapid tests are both acceptable, the officials said, and should be taken within 48 hours of the end of the quarantine period. People should continue to watch for symptoms for 14 days.

(Quarantine refers to people who are well but may become ill; isolation refers to those known to be ill.)

Until now, the C.D.C. has recommended a 14-day quarantine period following potential exposure, and Dr. Walke stressed that the full two weeks is still considered ideal and the surest way to curb transmissions.

While a shortened quarantine period may be more palatable to Americans, officials acknowledged that the new guidance might lead to some infections being missed.

“We can safely reduce the length of quarantine, but accepting that there is a small residual risk that a person who is leaving quarantine early could transmit to someone else if they became infected,” said Dr. John Brooks, the chief medical officer for the Covid-19 response at the C.D.C.

Some patients may not develop symptoms until two weeks after exposure, and even longer in a very small fraction of cases. Infected individuals may pass the virus to others before they develop symptoms; recent studies show they are most infectious two days before symptoms begin, and for about five days afterward.

The new recommendations do not have the force of law. Federal officials share them with state and county public health agencies, who make their own determinations based on local conditions and needs.

The agency’s warnings against holiday travel echoed those issued just a week before Thanksgiving. Millions of Americans hit the road nonetheless to spend the holiday with friends and family, though the number of travelers was lower than in a typical year.

“Cases are rising, hospitalizations are increasing, deaths are increasing,” Dr. Walke said. “We need to try to bend the curve, stop this exponential increase.”

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]

Dr. Cindy Friedman, chief of the travelers health branch at the C.D.C., said the agency was reiterating the message further in advance of the Christmas holiday to provide more time for people to plan ahead, “think about the safest option for them and their families” and make “tough choices.”

“We know it’s a hard decision, and people need time to prepare and have discussions with family and friends and to make these decisions,” Dr. Friedman added. Even a small percentage of infected travelers could “translate into hundreds of thousands of additional infections.”

Hospitals are already overwhelmed in many regions, as cases have been rising rapidly, with the country adding over a million new infections during a recent one-week period, according to data maintained by The New York Times.

Daily deaths have been exceeding 2,000 for the first time since early May, and close to 100,000 Americans are already hospitalized.

“We are at the point now, even before Christmas, that there may not be room at your hospital, because we don’t have enough health care workers to take care of you,” said Michael Osterholm, a member of President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s Covid-19 advisory board, who also urged Americans to stay home.





No.19 article:
Good News for Salmon, Bad News for Prospectors

The Trump administration’s indifference to the environment and President Trump’s hostility to the laws providing clean water and air, protecting endangered species and keeping public lands and forests free from commercial intrusion have been so unsparing that one had to blink twice at what, finally, after nearly four years, was a piece of undiluted good news.

Yet there it was: a decision by the Army Corps of Engineers to deny a permit for a massive gold and copper mine in Alaska proposed for the headwaters of Bristol Bay, the heart of a multimillion-dollar regional fishing industry. This is a devastating blow for the project and a triumph for conservationists, Native tribes and commercial fishing interests that believed, quite rightly, that the mine and its discharges would not only destroy a delicate marine ecosystem but also gravely threaten one of the richest salmon fisheries in the world.

The project was proposed roughly two decades ago by a Canadian-British mining consortium (only one of the original partners remains) that promised to add 1,000 permanent jobs to Alaska’s struggling economy while unearthing $300 billion in copper, gold and molybdenum. In 2008, the people of Alaska came very close to blocking the proposal in a referendum supported by three former governors, including two Republicans, and the then-powerful dean of the state’s congressional delegation, Senator Ted Stevens. A huge advertising campaign by the mining industry and a last-minute pro-mining push by then-Gov. Sarah Palin turned the tide in the mine’s favor.

Over time, however, the scientific evidence turned decisively against the project, and in 2014 the Environmental Protection Agency determined that even a carefully designed operation, in the words of Gina McCarthy, the E.P.A. administrator, would most likely cause “irreversible negative impacts on the Bristol Bay watershed and its abundant salmon fisheries.”

That determination did not kill the mine, because the company was still free to file for a permit from the Army corps, which wobbled for a while but ultimately denied the request. The president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., a sportsman who has fished in the region, tweeted his opposition to the mine in August, a rare and welcome burst of environmental stewardship from the first family.

The action by the Army corps seems the death knell for the project, though the company might still contest the decision in court, or file an amended permit application. President-elect Joe Biden had already promised that it would not be built on his watch.

In any case, Mr. Biden has his work cut out for him to find ways to reverse the many environmental travesties hatched during the Trump years, whether by legislation, litigation or executive order. That is a tall order following four years of an administration that gave the oil and gas companies every incentive to pursue what the driller in chief called “energy dominance.” Mr. Biden’s challenges include protecting two national monuments in Utah established by Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, both of which Mr. Trump shrunk beyond recognition (perhaps illegally; the courts will tell); millions of acres of public lands in the West, once set aside for the threatened sage grouse, that the Trump administration hoped to open to drilling; and much of the outer continental shelf, although that particular ambition has been blocked for now by the courts.

The assault continues, even now, as the lame-duck administration seeks to lock in drilling rights in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, proceeds with plans to open up protected areas of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska to drilling and moves toward a narrower and more industry-friendly definition of what constitutes necessary habitat for endangered species. For good measure, the administration is also seeking to end two decades of protections against logging and other development in more than half of Alaska’s Tongass National Forest, an ecological treasure that, like Bristol Bay, provides habitat for salmon and other species and serves as a huge sink for carbon dioxide.

These restorative challenges, it must be said, are in addition to all the things Mr. Biden has promised to do in his $2 trillion plan to fight global warming, and indeed must do to reach his stated goal of net-zero emissions by midcentury. He has already drawn praise for naming John Kerry, former secretary of state and one of the architects of the Paris Agreement, as his envoy to the world on the climate issue and as proof of his determination to re-engage America in what, after all, has to be a global effort to keep greenhouse gases from reaching a point of no return.

Mr. Biden knows that much of his $2 trillion plan has little chance in a divided Congress and that an economywide approach — a carbon tax, for instance, or an updated cap-and-trade bill — is for now a very long shot. Nevertheless, one can imagine a productive legislative package of efficiency measures, infrastructure upgrades, big investments in wind and solar power and electric vehicles, all aimed at reducing emissions and gradually weaning the country from fossil fuels and all tucked into the economic recovery measures that are likely to be Mr. Biden’s first big order of business. Mr. Biden is also expected to make global warming a priority throughout his cabinet departments, in sharp contrast to the current administration, which fired, demoted or otherwise silenced many officials who took the issue seriously.

It’s generally agreed that climate change is the No. 1 issue, the big enchilada, in the environmental space, which means that a lot of the other bad things left behind by Mr. Trump could fall by the wayside. The hope here is that this will not happen and that the other Bristol Bays still waiting to be addressed will get the attention they deserve.





No.20 article:
Can These Period Underwear Crusaders Convert You?

The Hollywood stylist Karla Welch has found a new calling in an up-and-coming menstrual product.

The concept of “blood” and “bleeding” is generally avoided in mass marketing for period products. It was only recently, and with some fanfare, that commercials showed red liquid being absorbed, instead of blue.

But when it comes to period underwear — an increasingly popular type of underwear made with extra-absorbent fabric — it’s difficult to avoid. At least when talking to the founders of the Period Company, a brand that was introduced in October, touting period underwear that was more affordable and sustainable than other menstrual products. For them, bleeding is a kind of profound act.

“Something emotionally begins to happen when you bleed into your underwear and you don’t have tampons, you don’t have pads, you don’t have waste — when you’re just allowed to really kind of be in your period,” said Sasha Markova, who, with Karla Welch, founded the company.

“Flowing is a very different experience, and we feel kind of evangelical about it.”

Ms. Markova, a longtime creative director, is not exaggerating about evangelizing; she refers to switching to their product as “conversion.” As in “We really converted ourselves to the idea of this underwear.” Or “The amazing thing you can begin to do with Gen Z is say: ‘OK, now we’ve got you. Hey, convert your older sisters and your mothers.’”

There’s a spiritual element to this approach, landing somewhere between typically Californian and harmlessly cultish. But conversion really is essential to running the business. The Period Company and every other brand making alternative products (such as the menstrual cup) needs customers who are open-minded enough to break from the products they’ve always used — the products their mothers handed them long ago, “sighingly, with a lot of burden,” Ms. Markova said.

It isn’t an easy adjustment, particularly when generations of women have been raised to dread leaks. (For a time, fear of humiliation was a hallmark of period product commercials, along with the blue mystery liquid.) And there is growing competition for those willing to convert.

Which is why it helps that the company was co-founded by Ms. Welch, a high-profile stylist whose clients include Tracee Ellis Ross, Olivia Wilde and Sarah Paulson. (On Instagram Chelsea Handler and Busy Philipps were among the celebrities giving unpaid endorsements to the brand, wearing matching gifted sweatshirts that read: “Dear Mother Nature: Thank You!”) Ms. Welch has also designed a line of tees in collaboration with Hanes, initially inspired by her client Justin Bieber, as well as jeans with Levi’s.

Four years ago, when her child’s first period arrived, Ms. Welch found herself in a “hot mess,” struggling to guide her now teen, who doesn’t identify as female, through the traditional options.

“Which made me go back to when I got my period, and my mom didn’t even talk to me about it,” she said.

Ms. Welch had also become increasingly determined to reduce her personal waste, including the plastic discarded every time she used an individually wrapped pad.

“I was like, ‘There’s got to be something better,’” she said.

This kind of zeal is fairly common when it comes to alternative period products. The internet teems with articles and videos preaching the gospel of the cup, in particular — even more so than period underwear — and the destructive evils of disposable tampons.

In 2018, this devotion led the Shelton Group, a marketing firm focused on sustainability, to conduct a survey about these products, collecting responses from more than 2,000 people with periods.

In the survey, nearly 60 percent of respondents said they have used or considered using reusable menstrual products.

“We were flabbergasted by that number,” said Susannah Enkema, the group’s vice president for research and insights. But it didn’t come as a surprise that the majority of that group was 18 to 34, the age group most concerned with the environment.

“It’s the perfect product category for Gen Z and young millennials who absolutely, more than any other age cohort, feel a desire — and to some degree an obligation — to go greener,” said Suzanne Shelton, the chief executive of the firm.

At the same time, about 20 percent of respondents said they had decided against reusables. They were more likely to be in their late 30s and 40s, Ms. Enkema said, and resistant largely because they’d already found what worked for them.

“The group that’s rejected these products is a group that doesn’t care as much about the environment,” Ms. Shelton said, pulling no punches with Gen X. “They care more about their personal convenience.” Conversely, the younger group had a different concept of convenience.

“I’m in my early 50s,” she continued. “The idea of period panties or the idea of a Diva Cup seems totally inconvenient. But to these young women, no. What seems inconvenient is having to go buy products every month.”

The younger group also tends to talk more openly about periods, seeing menstruation as a women’s empowerment issue and promoting the idea that “‘this is not dirty, this is not gross, it’s not embarrassing, it’s not something to be whispered about,’” Ms. Shelton said. (The researchers also learned from this group, qualitatively, that it’s no longer acceptable to refer to period products as “feminine hygiene.”)

Still, another 20 percent of respondents said they had never even heard of reusable products until the survey, Ms. Enkema said.

When Ms. Welch turned to period underwear for her child, it was a solution, but it wasn’t perfect. Most pairs ranged from about $25 to $40, and she didn’t want to pay $40 for juniors underwear.

The market’s two dominant brands are Thinx and Knix, both founded in 2013. At one point, Thinx was considered one of the fastest growing companies in the United States. It made headlines for its subway ads and its founder Miki Agrawal, the self-titled “SHE-EO” ousted in 2017 following sexual harassment allegations (which she denied). Another competitor, TomboyX, specializes in gender-neutral underwear, while Ruby Love (formerly PantyProp) was founded to help address urinary incontinence.

The founders of the Period Company said they’re fans of these brands, but, as Ms. Welch has repeated, she and Ms. Markova are more interested in being like Jockey, offering basic no-frills underwear, than like La Perla. Their prices fall between $12 and $14. (Comparatively, a pack of disposable tampon or pads typically costs under $10.)

Their underwear fits tightly but with some stretch, not unlike shapewear, if shapewear had a pad sewn into the crotch between two thick layers of cotton; converting to the underwear seems easiest for those who already rely on pads. There are a few different cuts, including high-rise and bikini. They’re all black, except for two gray junior-size styles. After a day of wear, the product is rinsed in the sink and wrung out, then laundered or hand-washed. Sizes go up to 3X, although the company expects that by the holidays, they will go up to 6X.

“The only way you can really have change is if you’re available to everybody, and you’re affordable and you’re willing to go to a really mass market,” Ms. Welch said. “We don’t want to be posh. We want to be accessible.”

There’s also nothing particularly sensual about the Period Company’s marketing, which uses a lot of text and even footage of the (bloody) cleaning process. Other companies tend to lean into innuendo (see those Thinx ads) or, like many fashionable underwear brands, emphasize an “all bodies are beautiful” approach with unretouched photos of diverse models.

But that’s the thing, Ms. Welch said. Despite her close industry ties, the Period Company doesn’t want to be a fashionable underwear brand.

“I honestly don’t think we live in a fashion category,” she said. “We’re essential, as far as I’m concerned. We’re as essential as the pads and tampons we bought. We live in that world, and I don’t want to live in the fashion world for Period.”

More than any other job she has held in fashion, the Period Company has given her “purpose,” she said.

“I love what I do, but I’ve always, my whole life, felt that I had a purpose,” Ms. Welch said. “Four years ago, when I was starting this, I just felt like I had stepped into that purpose.”





No.21 article:
Israel Takes First Step Toward New Election

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s coalition partners sided with the opposition in a preliminary vote to bring down the government, which has been largely paralyzed over infighting.

JERUSALEM — Israel moved closer on Wednesday to another early election, its fourth in two years, after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s disenchanted coalition partners joined the opposition in a preliminary vote to bring down the unity government in which they serve.

The bill to disperse the 120-seat Knesset, or parliament, and head to new elections heralded a new period of political instability and upheaval even though the government did not immediately fall. The motion passed 61 to 54 with five lawmakers absent, but it must now go to committee and pass three more readings before it becomes law.

In any case, if a state budget is not approved by Dec. 23, the Knesset will disperse automatically and elections will be set for late March. Mr. Netanyahu has so far refused to pass a budget for 2020 or to present one for 2021.

Billed as an emergency coalition, the government was ostensibly formed to fight the public health and economic crises posed by the coronavirus pandemic. Instead, it has largely been paralyzed amid infighting over the long-delayed approval of a state budget while appointments to key vacant positions in the government and public sector have been frozen.

“These last months have been difficult,” Yair Lapid, the leader of the opposition, said in a speech introducing the bill. “They haven’t only been difficult because of the health crisis. They haven’t only been difficult because of the economic disaster. They’ve been difficult because of the depth of the failure of this government.”

The government was sworn in just six months ago, after three inconclusive elections ended without any one candidate able to muster a parliamentary majority. In the end, Mr. Netanyahu of the conservative Likud party persuaded his main rival, Benny Gantz, a former army chief and the leader of the centrist Blue and White party, to join forces with him in a unity government.

Mr. Gantz, who broke an election promise by joining Mr. Netanyahu’s government and has since lost much of his public support, voted on Wednesday to break it up.

Israel is just emerging from a second national lockdown, but with infections rising again, health experts were already warning of a third.

Israeli analysts have predicted for months that Mr. Netanyahu would back early elections rather than see Mr. Gantz take over as prime minister a year from now, as laid out in their coalition agreement. Few people, including Mr. Gantz, expected that to actually happen.

Likud lawmakers have openly declared that Mr. Gantz no longer commands enough public support to serve as prime minister.

With a trial on corruption charges expected to enter the evidentiary phase in February, Mr. Netanyahu is clinging to power so he can fight the case from the advantage of high office. A new election could strengthen his position.

Recent opinion polls put Likud firmly in the lead and indicate that Mr. Netanyahu could even put together a right-wing-religious coalition that could provide him with immunity from prosecution.

The opposition would be entering an election campaign weakened and splintered.

Mr. Gantz and Mr. Netanyahu have blamed each other for the coalition crisis.

“Netanyahu didn’t lie to me — he lied to all of you,” Mr. Gantz said in an angry televised address on Tuesday night. “He didn’t lead me astray. He led the entire nation astray.”

He added: “Netanyahu is on a path of personal survival. The only index for his decision-making is relevance to his ability to evade trial, which is just around the corner.”

In a video statement issued shortly before Mr. Gantz’s speech, Mr. Netanyahu said, “I’ve been saying for a long time, this is not the time for elections — this is the time for unity.” He accused Mr. Gantz of establishing “a government within the government.”

Despite his vote with the opposition to bring down the government, Mr. Gantz left the door open for a deal, saying the government would be saved if a budget were approved by the Dec. 23 deadline.

Some lawmakers said talks were underway to form an alternative government without elections, though the chances were slim that any other coalition could be established and command a majority in Parliament.

In the topsy-turvy world of Israeli politics, Mr. Netanyahu’s and Mr. Gantz’s votes on Wednesday were not necessarily indicative of their true positions.

Mr. Netanyahu is pushing for elections but voted against the bill to disperse the Parliament, wary of being blamed for the early vote, said Yohanan Plesner, the president of the Israel Democracy Institute, a nonpartisan research organization in Jerusalem. Mr. Gantz voted for it, though he is fearful of elections, Mr. Plesner added.

Mr. Gantz is “in a conflict of interest,” Mr. Plesner said, because he does not want to show more weakness by giving into Mr. Netanyahu. By voting against his own government, Mr. Plesner said, Mr. Gantz did “cross a threshold.”





No.22 article:
A Newsletter Proposal, in Six Words

(She said yes! Here’s the story.)

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

When we asked our readers to tell us what they were grateful for in six words, we were expecting to see certain themes.

Health, faith, love, family, marriage. Check.

Pets, grandparents, medicine, science, sunshine. Check.

Some people were grateful for President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. Others for President Trump. Some were grateful for Thanksgiving food; others were grateful for delivery people.

The author Larry Smith popularized the six-word memoir during Thanksgiving one year, a twist on a challenge that somebody may or may not have issued to Ernest Hemingway.

This Thanksgiving, we — staff members of The Morning, The New York Times’s daily newsletter — invited our readers to do a version of the exercise. We wanted to share the joys and gratitude that managed to poke through a year dominated by suffering.

And you, our readers, delivered.

Together, our team sifted through more than 10,000 submissions — many funny, some sad, all heartfelt. Then, we found one of the most consequential and life-changing questions anyone can ask.

There it was, neatly packed into six words: “Will you marry me, Taylor Hollenkamp?”

After a flurry of excitement, we reached out to check if it was real — and if Lauren Few, who submitted the proposal, truly wanted to get engaged in The New York Times. Absolutely, she said.

Ms. Few, 35, had known within weeks of starting their relationship that she had found her person.

“When we were first getting serious, Lauren said: ‘I would marry you now, but for everyone else’s sake, we should wait at least a year before we get engaged,’” Ms. Hollenkamp, 35, said. “We made it 11 months.”

When Ms. Few saw the six-word challenge, she said, she almost felt it was a sign. Her father, Harry Few, who died in 2014, loved Hemingway. Ms. Few said this felt like the perfect way to honor hismemory.

As we waited to learn the outcome of the proposal, subscribers drummed their collective fingers on Twitter.

“WAIT will someone tell me if the proposal in @nytimes briefing was accepted?! Taylor Hollenkamp, what did you say?!” one person wrote. “Who is #TaylorHollenkamp?” another demanded. “Did you say yes? We need to know!!!”

Well before Thanksgiving, Ms. Few had spoken to Ms. Hollenkamp’s family members, who gave their blessing. She had cleared the ring with two of Ms. Hollenkamp’s closest friends.

Unable to sleep, Ms. Few woke up at 5:30 a.m. on Thanksgiving. She grabbed the engagement ring, a lavender sapphire, and Ms. Hollenkamp’s phone, in case an excited friend called with ill-timed congratulations. She crept out of their San Diego home, leaving Ms. Hollenkamp to sleep, blissfully unaware of what was about to happen.

Ms. Few picked up a newspaper at her local coffee shop, buzzing with nerves.

She had originally planned to propose over dinner, but The Morning publishes in, well, the morning. With family across the country — not to mention the Twitter storm that would soon follow — she couldn’t exactly wait.

After she returned with pumpkin spice lattes, it was time to exchange their six words of gratitude. (Ms. Few had challenged Ms. Hollenkamp to come up with her own, as a setup.)

Still unaware, Ms. Hollenkamp went first. “My life has never been happier,” she said.

Then, Ms. Few handed her the newspaper — the print edition also published the collection —and opened it to the story.

Ms. Hollenkamp said she read it five times because she couldn’t believe it was real. “I was like, ‘Wait, I’m Taylor Hollenkamp,’” she said.

“I started bawling and then Lauren asked me herself,” she added. “She put the ring on my finger. I was sobbing and pretty much scream-cried.”

The couple plan to get married in June, then go on a honeymoon in Costa Rica. (They’ve already booked their tickets.) But first, Ms. Hollenkamp said she planned to propose right back. “Lesbian perks,” she said, laughing. “You get two engagements.”

P.S. We can’t promise marriage proposals every day, but what we can promise is the latest news. If you want to receive The Morning in your inbox, sign up here.





No.23 article:
Iran Moves to Increase Uranium Enrichment and Bar Nuclear Inspectors

Iran’s response to the assassination of its top nuclear scientist poses an early challenge to the Biden administration, and may be seen as a provocation by President Trump.

Iran responded Wednesday to the assassination of its top nuclear scientist by enacting a law ordering an immediate ramping up of its enrichment of uranium to levels closer to weapons-grade fuel.

The measure also requires the expulsion of international nuclear inspectors if American sanctions are not lifted by early February, posing a direct challenge to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr.

It was not clear whether the action was the totality of the Iranian response to the killing of the scientist, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, whom American and Israeli intelligence agencies regarded as the guiding force of past efforts by Tehran to design a nuclear weapon, or whether more was to come. Iranian officials have vowed to avenge his killing.

The new law orders Iran’s Atomic Energy Agency to resume enriching uranium to a level of 20 percent immediately, returning Iran’s program to the maximum level that existed before the 2015 nuclear agreement reached with the Obama administration.

Uranium enriched to that level would give Iran the ability to convert its entire stockpile to bomb-grade levels within six months. Despite the lag time, the order to start the process may be seen by the Trump administration as a provocation in its waning days.

Just three weeks ago, after news of modest advances in the size of Iran’s nuclear stockpile, Mr. Trump asked his advisers about military options to stop the country from producing the fuel. He was talked out of considering an attack by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, one of the fiercest of the Iran hawks in the administration, and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Gen. Mark A. Milley, among other senior officials.

The new law also sets a two-month deadline for oil and banking sanctions against Iran to be lifted before inspectors are barred, creating a potential crisis for the early days of the Biden administration. The inspections conducted by the International Atomic Energy Agency, a branch of the United Nations, have been the main public source of information about the progress of Iran’s program.

The timing seems deliberately intended to press Mr. Biden to re-enter the nuclear deal with Iran immediately upon taking office. Mr. Biden has said he would be willing to do so, at least as a starting point, if Iran once again respected the limitations of the 2015 deal.

The speaker of Iran’s Parliament, Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, a former commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, said the measure was meant to send the West a message in the aftermath of the assassination that the “one-way game is over.”

Iran’s Parliament, dominated by conservatives, initially passed the law in an angry session on Tuesday in which lawmakers fumed over the killing of Mr. Fakhrizadeh. A physicist and a high-ranking official in the Defense Ministry, he was killed on Friday in a complex ambush, the details of which are still being debated.

A number of intelligence officials have said Israel was responsible for the attack, though the Israeli government has remained silent.

“The criminal enemy will not feel remorse unless we show a fierce reaction,” Mr. Qalibaf said. Lawmakers stood up in the chamber with fists in the air, chanting “death to Israel” and “death to America” as they passed the bill in a televised session.

The law was ratified Wednesday by Iran’s Guardian Council, an appointed body that oversees the elected government.

President Hassan Rouhani, whose government negotiated the 2015 Iran accord over the objection of Iranian hard-liners, had opposed the legislation, calling it counterproductive.

“The government does not agree with this legislation and considers it damaging for diplomacy,” he said Wednesday before the measure was ratified.

His government is now obliged to carry out the law, though outside experts noted that it could slow-walk the effort, citing technical challenges. And ramping production up to the levels required in the bill would require revisions in the infrastructure deep inside Iran’s main nuclear facility at Natanz — the same one that was hit by a devastating Israeli-American cyber-strike more than a decade ago.

Uranium enriched to 20 percent purity is a quick hop to bomb-grade uranium, which is roughly 90 percent pure. But getting from the current levels of 4 or 5 percent enrichment to 20 percent is a far bigger leap than the final move to bomb-grade fuel.

Iran has said its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes, though American intelligence assessed that Iran had a fully active, secret weapons program run by Mr. Fakhrizadeh until 2003. Israeli officials and some American intelligence officials believe that program has continued at a lower level; the scientist was slapped with new American sanctions in recent years.

By mandating a restoration of production and enrichment levels, the new law essentially wipes away the last of the main constraints negotiated by President Barack Obama and a team of diplomats led by Secretary of State John Kerry.

Under that agreement, which the Trump administration abandoned in 2018, Iran shipped most of its nuclear stockpile out of the country, to Russia. The agreement also limited enrichment to under 4 percent.

A year after Mr. Trump pulled out of the nuclear accord, Iran began rebuilding the stockpile and inching up the enrichment levels. The new law is clearly designed as a pressure device aimed at removing economic sanctions, which have crippled Iraq’s economy and choked off much of its oil exports.

Barring international inspectors, the State Department said Wednesday, would violate Iran’s legal obligations under existing nuclear agreements.

“We have full confidence in the I.A.E.A. to continue carrying out its verification and monitoring activities in Iran, and to report to the board of governors if there is any shortfall in Iran’s cooperation,” the State Department said in an emailed statement.

It was not immediately clear how long it would take Iran to reach 20 percent enrichment, but David Albright, president of the Institute for Science and International Security, said it could be done in as little as six months.

“They know how to do it,” Mr. Albright said in an interview. “They’ve done it before. Something less than six months is the worst-case scenario if they devote all their resources to it.”

Mr. Rouhani’s top adviser, Hesameddin Ashena, said that the brief window for Mr. Biden to act after taking office could allow the hard-line faction to take credit for lifting sanctions and for getting Washington to re-enter the nuclear deal by threat instead of by diplomacy.

But it is far from clear that Iran will be willing to simply go back to the old levels. Some officials have demanded that the United States first pay reparations to Iran for lost oil sales since Mr. Trump reimposed sanctions. Some of Mr. Biden’s aides have said that they could not imagine how that could be politically possible.

And while Mr. Biden has said he wants to go back to the deal, he has also said that returning now to the original provisions, which expired in 2030, would be insufficient. The accord would have to be extended and expanded.

The Biden transition team declined to comment on the Iranian law.

“I think the law is a clear sign that Tehran will not be taking a ‘wait and see’ attitude toward Biden’s Iran policy,” said Henry Rome, a senior Iran analyst at Eurasia Group. “Tehran wants to be at the top of the agenda for the new administration, and escalating its nuclear program is a surefire way to do it.”

The concept of expelling inspectors is not a new one. North Korea did the same during a standoff with the Clinton administration in 1994, and also renounced the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, of which it was a member.

In 2006 the North exploded its first nuclear device, and it has conducted a half-dozen or so tests since. Iran and North Korea have cooperated extensively on missile technology in the years since, and Iranian officials have carefully studied the North Korean experience.





No.24 article:
One Whodunit Nests Inside Another in ‘Moonflower Murders’

The private detective Atticus Pünd appears to have stepped directly from the pages of a classic golden-age mystery and into Anthony Horowitz’s new novel, “Moonflower Murders.” Brilliant, arrogant, indisputably foreign, Pünd prides himself on understanding the inner workings of the human psyche, and is prone to dropping aphoristic bon mots. “The more obvious the answer, the more difficult it can be to find,” he declares.

But here’s the thing about Pünd: He’s not technically a character in Horowitz’s book, but a character in another book, “Atticus Pünd Takes the Case,” which is inside the first book. Yes, there are two novels here — one an old-fashioned whodunit, the other a modern meta-story — meaning that what we are reading can literally be described as a mystery wrapped in an enigma. How these books speak to each other is one of many puzzles ripe for solving.

Horowitz himself is a bit of a mystery. How can a person (other than Stephen King) be this prolific and this consistently entertaining? Horowitz, who created the television series “Foyle’s War” and wrote most of its episodes, is also the author of various young-adult book series, including the wildly popular Alex Rider spy novels and the “Power of Five” fantasy novels; a pair each of Sherlock Holmes and James Bond novels, written in the styles of their original authors and to my mind just as satisfying; and a number of fiendishly clever stand-alone adult mysteries, including two in which he himself appears as a character, playing the sidekick to a Holmes-like detective.

There are also plays, screenplays and many episodes of the TV series “Midsomer Murders” (which he also created). Perhaps Horowitz considers writing “Moonflower Murders” a relaxing break from all those other things? Probably not. It’s a richly plotted, head-spinning novel about a present-day disappearance, a murder eight years earlier and a fictional murder that may be relevant to both. It is not an example of an author phoning something in.

The story begins in Crete, where Susan Ryeland, the 40-something British book editor who featured in a previous Horowitz novel, “Magpie Murders,” has given up publishing to run a small hotel with her boyfriend, Andreas. A British couple named Lawrence and Pauline Treherne, the owners of Branlow Hall, a (much fancier) hotel on the Suffolk coast, arrive with an enticing proposition: They will pay her 10,000 pounds to help locate their daughter, Cecily, who has inexplicably disappeared.

Why Susan? Before vanishing, Cecily told her parents some startling news about a murder that took place in the hotel in 2008: The man convicted of the crime and now languishing in prison was not in fact guilty. She found the proof, she said, in the novel “Atticus Pünd Takes the Case,” the third in a series by the late novelist Alan Conway and, it seems, a coded fictional reinterpretation of the crime. The book’s editor? Susan Ryeland.

The Trehernes suggest that maybe Susan can study the book, find the real murderer, and in the process discover what happened to Cecily. “You worked with the author,” Lawrence says. “I’m sure there are things that might occur to you that we haven’t noticed.”

Maybe, maybe not. Susan remembers Conway, a supercilious jerk, all too well. He liked to conceal puns, anagrams and allusive flourishes within his prose, and she agrees to the Trehernes’ proposal, which involves scouring the book for clues and re-interviewing the people relevant to the original crime, and possibly to Cecily’s disappearance, back in Suffolk.

All this makes us want to try our own luck at literary detection. We’ll read the book and solve the mystery! But Horowitz doesn’t get to “Atticus Pünd Takes the Case” until midway through “Moonflower Murders.” Until then, Susan meets the interested parties and is greeted with the requisite hostility, evasiveness and prevarication.

“I didn’t believe a single word he was saying to me, and the strange thing was, I don’t think he wanted me to,” she says of one of her interviewees, the outwardly charming brother-in-law of the original murder victim. (The man’s wife surely doesn’t want Susan nosing around. “Just go away,” she hisses.)

Just as we’re beginning to make sense of the elaborate tale of Cecily, her husband and their French nanny; the Trehernes’ bitter, less-attractive other daughter; and assorted sketchy relatives, neighbors and hotel workers, we get to “Atticus Pünd Takes the Case” and plunge headlong into another reality.

This second full novel comes with its own title page, dedication, author’s bio and compilation of vacuously favorable endorsements destined to make a book reviewer feel a little sheepish. (“Lock the door, curl up in front of the fire and get into the latest Alan Conway,” says the fake blurb from Good Housekeeping magazine. “It won’t disappoint.”)

Conway’s novel, set in the 1950s, features a beautiful aging actress with a handsome younger husband and a good chance of landing a leading part in Hitchcock’s next movie, “Dial M for Murder.” Sadly, she is bludgeoned to death before she has a chance to meet with the director. (Grace Kelly will end up getting the job.)

Alert readers will admire the way Pünd, the detective hired to investigate, recalls the great Hercule Poirot, and how the story itself feels like a return to the cozy mysteries of our youth. (Conway “revered Agatha Christie and often stole ideas from her,” Susan notes.) But I doubt reading “Atticus Pünd Takes the Case” will help you solve the mystery in “Moonflower Murders” any more than it helped me. The reader’s feeble flashes of understanding are no match for Horowitz’s brand of three-dimensional chess, and the answers will be uncovered only through Susan’s expert textual analysis.

The book (the real, full book by Horowitz, that is) is too long and almost too labyrinthine. But getting lost in the weeds can be excellent fun, especially when the characters start trashing the very genre in which they’re appearing.

“I thought it was the usual load of rubbish,” the clueless police officer assigned to the case says of Conway’s work. “You know my views on detective fiction.”

Even Susan, having reread the novel she herself edited, cheerfully rehearses its narrative problems, reveals what she and the copy editor (unsuccessfully) asked the author to change and grouses about Conway’s general unpleasantness as a writer and a human.

But she admires it all, despite herself. “There’s something very satisfying about a complicated whodunit that actually makes sense,” she says.

Yes, indeed.





No.25 article:
Biden Made Sure ‘Trump Is Not Going to Be President for Four More Years’

Here’s what Joe Biden had to say about the future in our interview.

President-elect Joe Biden was in a good mood as we talked on the phone Tuesday evening for an hour — he in Delaware and I in Bethesda, Md. He apologized, though, for being late. He had been following the breaking news that Attorney General William Barr had announced that the Justice Department had not uncovered any significant fraud that could have affected the results of the presidential election. It’s all over.

Biden joked that Barr had just called him, “asking if I can get him in the witness protection program for endorsing me.”

Considering the Trump team’s hurricane of dishonest claims about the election, the president-elect was entitled to a little laugh at its expense. Otherwise, he was all business.

Biden had a lot to say about how he intends to approach the current Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and his Republican colleagues in order to get his cabinet nominees — and as much of his agenda as possible — through the Senate; how he intends to reshape U.S.-China strategy; and why he is ready to return to the Iran nuclear deal, if Iran does, and end President Trump’s sanctions on Iran.

Biden also spoke in depth about his strategy to connect with rural Americans, who have become estranged from the Democratic Party.

I did ask one personal question: What has it been like to win the presidency under such weird circumstances — with a deadly pandemic and an infodemic of Trump propaganda falsely claiming that the election was rigged?

“I feel like I’ve done something good for the country by making sure that Donald Trump is not going to be president for four more years,” Biden said. “But there’s been no moment of elation. It kind of reminds me of what’s going on with all my grandkids. You know, here I got a granddaughter who graduates with honors from Columbia. There’s no commencement. I’m the commencement speaker. It’s virtual. These kids are graduating with no parties. It’s just one of those moments. There’s a lot of work to do. I’m just focused on getting some things done as quickly as I can.”

Exactly how much he will get done will depend to a large degree on two things, Biden noted. One is how Republicans in the Senate and the House behave once Trump is truly gone from power. And the other is how McConnell behaves if he continues to control the Senate.

Biden’s top priority, he said, is getting a generous stimulus package through Congress, even before he takes office.

We are courting serious long-term economic harm if we don’t deal with the fact that “you have over 10 million people out there who are worried [how] they can pay their next mortgage payment,” and “you have a significantly higher number of people who have no ability to pay their rent.”

When people “are out of the work force too long, you know, that makes it a hell of a lot harder for them to get back in the work force,” Biden said. “Many of them are losing years and years of opportunity.”

The same is true when kids miss significant time in school. “They don’t just lose that semester,” he said. “They end up sometimes two and three years behind.”

A generous stimulus will actually generate economic growth without long-term fiscal harm if in the future “everybody pays their fair share, for God’s sake,” he insisted. “And by that fair share, I mean there’s no reason why the top tax rate shouldn’t be 39.6 percent, which it was in the beginning of the Bush administration. There’s no reason why 91 Fortune 500 companies should be paying zero in taxes.”

But the big question is whether he can get it past McConnell today or tomorrow if the Republicans continue to hold the Senate. A significant number of Republican senators could decide that they want to become deficit hawks again under a President Biden, after four years of uncontrolled spending under Trump that has brought the national debt to record highs.

Biden was careful about how he talked about McConnell, who has been careful not to call Biden “president-elect.” Biden obviously wants to keep the prospects of cooperation open — but also make clear that he may have more leverage with the American people than the G.O.P. realizes if Senate Republicans opt for full-on obstruction.

“Let me put it this way,” he said. “There are a number of things that when McConnell controlled the Senate that people said couldn’t get done, and I was able to get them done with [him]. I was able to get them to, you know, raise taxes on the wealthy.”

“I think there are trade-offs, that not all compromise is walking away from principle,” Biden added. “He knows me. I know him. I don’t ask him to embarrass himself to make a deal.”

At the same time, if Republicans clearly “let all this go down the drain” just so a Biden administration will not get a win, that “may have an impact on the prospect of Republicans running for re-election in 2022.”

“When you have cops and firefighters and first responders across the board being laid off, when you’re not getting the kind of distribution of vaccines out to rural America,” he said, “it has to have some consequences.”

Having been through a lot of political seasons, Biden added, the world could change a lot for Republican lawmakers once Trump is gone, although he certainly will not be forgotten.

“My favorable rating is now 55 percent,” he said. “Trump is down to 42 percent.” A significant number of independents and some Republicans could start to look at the world very differently in the next few weeks, he said.

“I’m not sure [they] can sustain the position that we’re not going to do anything to help the circumstances of keeping businesses open, making sure we could open our schools safely. It is kind of hard to go home” if you are a Republican senator who says “let the states go bankrupt.” Republicans live in those states, too.

On foreign policy, Biden made two significant points. First, I asked him whether he stood by his views on the Iran nuclear deal that he articulated in a Sept. 13 essay on CNN.com. He answered, “It’s going to be hard, but yeah.”

He had written that “if Iran returns to strict compliance with the nuclear deal, the United States would rejoin the agreement as a starting point for follow-on negotiations,” and lift the sanctions on Iran that Trump imposed.

The Iranians are clearly hoping for that. The Iranian foreign minister, Javad Zarif, said on Nov. 17 that a return to full implementation by the United States and Iran can be “done automatically” and “needs no negotiations.”

The nuclear deal was signed in 2015. Trump unilaterally withdrew from it in May 2018, reimposing crippling oil sanctions on Iran, claiming that it was a bad deal to begin with and that Iran was cheating — which was not the view of our European allies or international inspectors.

The view of Biden and his national security team has been that once the deal is restored by both sides, there will have to be, in very short order, a round of negotiations to seek to lengthen the duration of the restrictions on Iran’s production of fissile material that could be used to make a bomb — originally 15 years — as well as to address Iran’s malign regional activities, through its proxies in Lebanon, Iraq, Syria and Yemen.

Ideally, the Biden team would like to see that follow-on negotiation include not only the original signatories to the deal — Iran, the United States, Russia, China, Britain, France, Germany and the European Union — but also Iran’s Arab neighbors, particularly Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.

Earlier this week, I wrote a column arguing that it would be unwise for the United States to give up the leverage of the Trump-imposed oil sanctions just to resume the nuclear deal where it left off. We should use that leverage to also get Iran to curb its exports of precision-guided missiles to its allies in Lebanon, Syria, Yemen and Iraq, where they threaten Israel and several Arab states. I still believe that.

Biden and his advisers are aware of that argument, and do not think it is crazy — but for now they insist that America’s overwhelming national interest is to get Iran’s nuclear program back under control and fully inspected. In their view, Iran’s development of a nuclear weapon poses a direct national security threat to the United States and to the global nuclear weapons control regime, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.

“Look, there’s a lot of talk about precision missiles and all range of other things that are destabilizing the region,” Biden said. But the fact is, “the best way to achieve getting some stability in the region” is to deal “with the nuclear program.”

If Iran gets a nuclear bomb, he added, it puts enormous pressure on the Saudis, Turkey, Egypt and others to get nuclear weapons themselves. “And the last goddamn thing we need in that part of the world is a buildup of nuclear capability.”

Then, Biden said, “in consultation with our allies and partners, we’re going to engage in negotiations and follow-on agreements to tighten and lengthen Iran’s nuclear constraints, as well as address the missile program.” The U.S. always has the option to snap back sanctions if need be, and Iran knows that, he added.

There is going to be a lot of debate about this in the coming months.

On China, he said he would not act immediately to remove the 25 percent tariffs that Trump imposed on about half of China’s exports to the United States — or the Phase 1 agreement Trump inked with China that requires Beijing to purchase some $200 billion in additional U.S. goods and services during the period 2020 and 2021 — which China has fallen significantly behind on.

“I’m not going to make any immediate moves, and the same applies to the tariffs,” he said. “I’m not going to prejudice my options.”

He first wants to conduct a full review of the existing agreement with China and consult with our traditional allies in Asia and Europe, he said, “so we can develop a coherent strategy.”

“The best China strategy, I think, is one which gets every one of our — or at least what used to be our — allies on the same page. It’s going to be a major priority for me in the opening weeks of my presidency to try to get us back on the same page with our allies.”

China’s leaders had their issues with Trump, but they knew that as long as he was president, the United States could never galvanize a global coalition against them. Biden’s strategy, if he can pull it off, will not be welcome news for China.

While Trump was focused on the trade deficit with China, with little success, despite his trade war, Biden said his “goal would be to pursue trade policies that actually produce progress on China’s abusive practices — that’s stealing intellectual property, dumping products, illegal subsidies to corporations” and forcing “tech transfers” from American companies to their Chinese counterparts.

When dealing with China, Biden concluded, it is all about “leverage,” and “in my view, we don’t have it yet.” Part of generating more leverage, though, is developing a bipartisan consensus at home for some good old American industrial policy — massive, government-led investments in American research and development, infrastructure and education to better compete with China — and not just complain about it. Both Democratic and Republican senators have draft bills calling for such a strategy. The U.S. semiconductor industry in particular has been lobbying for such an approach.

“I want to make sure we’re going to fight like hell by investing in America first,” said Biden. He ticked off energy, biotech, advanced materials and artificial intelligence as areas ripe for large-scale government investment in research. “I’m not going to enter any new trade agreement with anybody until we have made major investments here at home and in our workers” and in education, he said.

And this time, he insisted, rural America will not be left behind. There is no way Democrats can go another four years and lose almost every rural county in America. For their sake and the country’s, Democrats have to figure out what is going on there and speak to rural voters more effectively.

“You know, it really does go to the issue of dignity, how you treat people,” Biden said. “I think they just feel forgotten. I think we forgot them.”

“I respect them,” Biden added, and he plans to prove it by “tackling the virus” in “red and blue areas alike.”

We have “got to end the rural health care crisis right now by building on Obamacare, assuming it survives at all, with a public option [and] automatically enroll people eligible for Medicaid. There’s strong support for that — and particularly [from] people in rural states, like Texas and North Carolina, that reject expansion. We can boost funding. I visited 15 rural hospitals. And the biggest problem is there’s not enough reimbursement for them to be able to keep open.” And they are often the biggest employer in that town or city.

A lot of these rural hospitals and clinics could benefit from telemedicine, but they don’t have the broadband connectivity. “We should be spending $20 billion to put broadband across the board,” Biden said. “We have got to rebuild the middle class,” but “especially in rural America.”

Before we signed off, I asked the president-elect just how he reacted to Republican senators threatening not to confirm Neera Tanden as director of the Office of Management and Budget, because of her trail of nasty tweets about Republicans. Should nasty tweets be disqualifying in this day and age?

“That disqualifies almost every Republican senator and 90 percent of the administration,” Biden chuckled. “But by the way, she’s smart as hell. Yeah, I think they’re going to pick a couple of people just to fight [over] no matter what.”

Biden closed by reflecting on the ugliness of the last four years — first seeing the glass half empty but then deciding in the end, who knows, maybe it’s half full.

“Seventy-two million people is a lot of people to vote for” Trump, he said. But maybe, just maybe when Trump is gone from the immediate scene, “I’m not so sure that ugliness stays. There may be 20 percent of it. Twenty five percent of it, I don’t know.”

But some portion has to come back to a place where we can collaborate.

“We got to figure out how to work together,” he said. Otherwise, “we’re in real trouble.”





No.26 article:
Rockets’ Russell Westbrook Traded to Wizards for John Wall

Westbrook and Wall were both unhappy on their teams. Houston is also giving up a future first-round pick in the trade, which will reunite Wall with his college teammate DeMarcus Cousins.

The Houston Rockets continued their franchise overhaul on Wednesday night by trading Russell Westbrook to the Washington Wizards for John Wall in a swap of disgruntled point guards.

The Rockets will also acquire a future first-round pick in the trade which they can receive as early as 2023.

There has been growing apprehension in Houston about the All-Star guard James Harden and his willingness to stay with the Rockets. But Houston remains intent on starting the season with Harden on the roster and hopes that the Wall acquisition can help re-establish a good relationship with him before management considers a trade, according to a person familiar with the Rockets’ thinking who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.

Westbrook joins the Rockets’ former coach Mike D’Antoni and their former general manager Daryl Morey on the list of high-profile departures since the Houston’s meek second-round playoff loss to the Los Angeles Lakers.

Wall has not played in almost two years because of left Achilles’ tendon woes, but the Wizards’ willingness to surrender a first-round pick persuaded Houston to make the trade after some initial reluctance to engage Washington. The Rockets previously explored a Westbrook deal with the Knicks and the Charlotte Hornets.

“The decision to part ways with John, one of the greatest players in franchise history, was extremely difficult,” Wizards General Manager Tommy Sheppard said in a statement. “What he has meant to our organization and our community is immeasurable and will not be forgotten.”

The trade reunites Westbrook, nine times an All-Star, and his former Oklahoma City Thunder coach Scott Brooks in Washington. Brooks, now the Wizards’ coach, has been a strong advocate for a Westbrook deal despite the limited trade market Houston had found for Westbrook, the N.B.A.’s 2016-17 Most Valuable Player Award winner.

Wall, a five-time All-Star who had spent his whole 10-season career with the Wizards, reunites in Houston with DeMarcus Cousins, his former college teammate at Kentucky and a close friend. The Rockets signed Cousins this week to a one-year, nonguaranteed contract in hopes that Cousins, 30, a four-time All-Star, can recover from the Achilles’ tendon and knee injuries that have plagued him for the past two years.

Both Westbrook, 32, and Wall, 30, have three seasons left on their contracts worth slightly more than $130 million.

The Rockets acquired Westbrook from Oklahoma City in July 2019 in a trade that cost Houston the veteran guard Chris Paul, two future first-round draft picks and the right to swap two additional first-round picks. Westbrook averaged 27.2 points, 7.9 rebounds and 7.0 assists as a Rocket, but the pairing with Harden fizzled in the playoffs.

D’Antoni and Morey abruptly walked away from their contracts shortly after Houston’s second-round elimination. D’Antoni wound up with the Nets as an assistant coach, and Morey is Philadelphia’s new president of basketball operations. The Rockets have since hired Stephen Silas as D’Antoni’s replacement and promoted the club’s longtime team counsel, Rafael Stone, to replace Morey — but reports of both Harden’s and Westbrook’s discontent with the direction of the franchise have been prevalent for weeks.

The trade will give both Westbrook and Wall an opportunity to start over. Westbrook not only gets to rekindle his partnership with Brooks but also form another All-Star backcourt tandem alongside Bradley Beal, who averaged 30.5 points per game last season. And Wall will now launch his comeback from what is widely regarded as the sport’s most dreaded injury alongside Harden.

The Nets’ Kevin Durant, himself trying to bounce back from an Achilles’ tendon injury like Wall, said this week that he has worked out with Wall in Los Angeles and said he “looked amazing to me.”





No.27 article:
Chinatown: Time Travel Through a New York Gem

Chinatown,Resilient and Proud

Doyers Street





No.28 article:
Long Delayed Ravens-Steelers Meeting Is Hardly Must-See TV

The division rivalry was rescheduled three times as Baltimore recorded more than 20 positive coronavirus tests.

It was a usual Wednesday afternoon television lineup, with Judge Judy on one channel arguing with a 19-year-old suing his mother after an altercation over the family air-conditioner. Other programming choices: TMZ Live dissecting a Taylor Swift video, Guy Fieri playing grocery games and Maury Povich being, you know, Maury.

But on NBC was the N.F.L.’s version of matinee theater — brought to viewers after three postponements and a six-day delay triggered by more than 20 positive coronavirus test results of Baltimore Ravens players and staff. Not surprisingly, despite a worthy battle, Baltimore lost to the Steelers, 19-14, at Heinz Field in Pittsburgh.

The exceedingly rare N.F.L. midweek afternoon performance even included a halftime pep talk from Commissioner Roger Goodell, who offered a promise to fans in a televised interview: “Absent a medical issue, we’re going to play the games.”

About three hours earlier, the league revealed that 61 players and 95 other personnel had returned new positive coronavirus test results in the last half of November.

Signing off with a smile before the second-half kickoff, Goodell looked into the camera and said: “It’s a great game.”

An N.F.L. season unlike any other soldiered on. Despite the peculiar circumstances, which included a trio of Steelers also not in uniform because they were on the league’s Covid-19 reserve list, the teams played with an intensity that made for a competitive game. The artistic stylings, however, left plenty to be desired. But that will happen when a virus-stricken team like Baltimore is missing nine starting players, including the league’s reigning most valuable player, quarterback Lamar Jackson, and six other Pro Bowlers.

The Ravens, who had 10 consecutive days of positive test results, originally had been scheduled to play the Steelers in prime-time on Thanksgiving. The game was postponed to Sunday, then Tuesday and finally Wednesday, as new positive cases were confirmed.

“We kept getting hit with these gut punches and the players kept coming back the next day and the next day,” Ravens Coach John Harbaugh, whose team’s record fell to 6-5 after a 5-1 start to the season, said. “I’m proud of them — we wanted to play on Thursday, we wanted to play on Sunday, we wanted to play on Tuesday and Wednesday.”

Asked if his players ever lost faith in the league’s decision-making, Harbaugh replied: “No, I’m sure there’s questions. Everybody did their best. We didn’t bat a thousand, nobody can against this thing.”

Harbaugh also indicated that none of the Baltimore players who tested positive for the virus appeared to be seriously ill, although he added that the team would probably issue a more detailed statement later.

Pittsburgh quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, who played a voluminous if unspectacular game and completed 36 of 51 attempts for 266 yards with one touchdown pass and an interception, admitted there were challenges to weathering all the postponements and ongoing news developments about both teams in the last six days.

“The hardest thing about this week was probably the mental aspect of it,” said Roethlisberger, whose Steelers remained the N.F.L.’s only undefeated team with an 11-0 record. “It’s mentally draining to prepare for a game and then not know when it is and it keeps moving around. That’s the part that I’m most proud of the guys — mentally it wasn’t easy but we made it happen.”

In his interview during halftime, Goodell addressed several other pressing issues confronting the N.F.L. as cases of the virus have surged and interrupted team practices, thinned rosters and disrupted the typical functioning of franchises. Chief among those questions concerned the league’s willingness to continue with Wednesday’s game after the Ravens organization had a surfeit of positive test results.

“By having the delays a couple days that gave us the confidence that we understood where the virus was coming from, how it was continuing to spread and that we were in the last stage of that,” Goodell said. “And be comfortable that the game could be played safely.”

Mike Tirico, who called the game for NBC, asked Goodell why Sunday’s game involving the Denver Broncos and the New Orleans Saints was not delayed despite Denver losing four quarterbacks to the league’s virus protocols.

“We want to make sure that we’re preventing the spread of the virus,” Goodell answered. “And that’s why when we see high-risk close contact like we had in Denver, regardless of the position group, we’re going to make sure that those players aren’t in a position where they can affect others.”

Lastly, when Goodell was asked if the N.F.L. was considering putting teams in a bubble for the postseason, he replied: “We would consider further isolations to reduce the risk for all of our personnel so that they’re not exposed to the virus and bring it into the facilities or the club.”

While the Steelers scored first in Wednesday’s game, the Ravens took a 7-6 lead late in the first quarter on a 1-yard touchdown run by Gus Edwards (Pittsburgh kicker Chris Boswell missed the extra point after the Steelers’ opening touchdown).

The Steelers stormed back to take a 19-7 lead into the game’s final minutes. Baltimore had started former Washington quarterback Robert Griffin III, who scrambled for meaningful yards occasionally but left the game after completing 7 of 12 passes for only 33 yards with one interception. He was replaced by Trace McSorley, who heaved a 70-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Marquise Brown with a little less than three minutes remaining in the game. But the Steelers successfully ran out the clock after the Ravens’ score.

Wearing a mask throughout his news conference, Harbaugh thanked his team.

“They fought through this really unique deal,” he said. “They didn’t blink.”

With a slight shake of his head, Harbaugh added: “This is a crazy year in a lot of ways.”





No.29 article:
Hidden in Plain Sight: The Ghosts of Segregation

The six faded letters are all that remain, and few people notice them. I would never have seen them if a friend hadn’t pointed them out to me while we walked through New Orleans’s French Quarter. I certainly wouldn’t have realized their significance.

On Chartres Street, above a beautifully arched doorway, is a curious and enigmatic inscription: “CHANGE.” Now part of the facade of the Omni Royal Orleans Hotel, the letters mark the onetime site of the St. Louis Hotel &amp; Exchange, where, under the building’s famed rotunda, enslaved people were once sold.

All human landscapes are embedded with cultural meaning. And since we rarely consider our constructions as evidence of our priorities, beliefs and behaviors, the testimonies our landscapes offer are more honest than many of the things we intentionally present.

Our built environment, in other words, is a kind of societal autobiography, writ large.

Several years ago, I began to photographically document vestiges of racism, oppression and segregation in America’s built and natural environments — lingering traces that were hidden in plain sight behind a veil of banality.

Some of the sites I found were unmarked, overlooked and largely forgotten: bricked-over “Colored” entrances to movie theaters, or walls built inside restaurants to separate nonwhite customers. Other photographs capture the Black institutions that arose in response to racial segregation: a Negro league stadium in Michigan, a hotel for Black travelers in Mississippi. And a handful of the photographs depict the sites where Black people were attacked, killed or abducted — some marked and widely known, some not.

I called the project Ghosts of Segregation.

The small side window at Edd’s Drive-In, for example, a restaurant in Pascagoula, Miss., appears to be a drive-up. It was actually a segregated window used in the Jim Crow-era to serve Black customers.

The locked black double doors aside Seattle’s Moore Theatre might be mistaken for a service entrance. In fact, this was once the “Colored” entrance used by nonwhite moviegoers to access the theater’s second balcony.

These sites surround us, but finding and verifying them requires months of due diligence.

Many of the places I’ve photographed were found after conducting research online, in person and on location. I have reached out to scholars, historians and ordinary people who might share their insights, experiences and suggestions. Local libraries and museums often guide me to forgotten places. Historical preservation websites and publications such as The Oxford American, The Clarion-Ledger and many other news sources add immeasurably to my understanding.

In 2018, I was perusing the website for the Seattle Civil Rights &amp; Labor History Project, which led me to a theater company site that mentioned the Moore Theatre’s segregated entrance. Another site, historylink.org, helped confirm the nature of the door and identify its precise location. Google Street View allowed me to get a sense of its relatively current state.

The very existence of the door shocked me. I had walked past it countless times over the 40 years I’ve lived in Seattle, never giving it a thought. It wasn’t until the summer of 2020 that the tragic nature of this obscure door resonated with the sobering reminder on the marquee.

After being tipped off by a contributor to a website called Preservation in Mississippi, I verified the history of the window at Edd’s Drive-In with the manager, Becky Hasty, who told me that the owners had retained it as a reminder of the past. “If we don’t remember where we’ve been,” she said, “we might get lost again.”

Slavery is often referred to as America’s “original sin.” Its demons still haunt us in the form of segregated housing, education, health care, employment. Through these photographs, I’m trying to preserve the physical evidence of that sin — because, when the telling traces are erased, the lessons risk being lost.

Many of the locations I’ve documented have already disappeared. The painted sign for Clark’s Cafe in Huntington, Ore., which trumpeted “ALL WHITE HELP,” was destroyed shortly after I photographed it. The Houston Negro Hospital School of Nursing has since been demolished.

I often wonder: Does such erasure remedy the inequalities and relieve the suffering caused by systemic racism? Or does it facilitate denial and obfuscation?

A technical note on the images themselves: Each picture in this series is composed of hundreds of separate overlapping photographs, which I later merge together. The technique, commonly referred to as “stitching,” allows me to produce highly detailed and immersive prints.

The exposures are made from a single vantage point with a camera mounted on a panoramic head, atop a stationary tripod. The structural integrity of the scene is of paramount importance, since the photographs are meant to be precise documentation of erasable evidence. If you were to stand beside me and photograph the scene with your smartphone, our pictures would look similar, though mine would contain greater detail and more nuanced light.

These photographs are less about the places themselves and more about the people who once populated them. My goal is to heighten awareness, motivate action and spark an honest conversation about the legacy of racial injustice in America.

The photographs are also a testament to the endurance of the racial inequalities that have plagued American society, projected backward and forward in time.

The deaths this year of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, among many other Black Americans, prompted a long-overdue national reckoning, spurring one of the largest movements in U.S. history.

And these pictures prove that if you look carefully enough, you’ll find that the evidence of the structures of segregation — and the marks of white supremacy — still surrounds us, embedded in the landscape of our day-to-day lives.

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to receive expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.





No.30 article:
Georgia Republicans Contort Themselves to Avoid Trump’s Fury

Many in the state G.O.P. are expending significant effort to seek cover from the president’s outrage over his defeat, hoping to retain the support of his base.

ATLANTA — Even though Gov. Brian Kemp has already certified Georgia’s 16 electoral votes for Joseph R. Biden Jr., his fellow Republicans plan to hold a pair of State Senate committee hearings Thursday that are likely to dig into the question of whether the state’s election was, as President Trump falsely puts it, “rigged.”

The lawmakers will not fulfill Mr. Trump’s ultimate wish, expressed in a tweet earlier this week: that enough proof of fraud will be uncovered for him to prevail. But Georgia, perhaps more than any other state in the nation, continues to be haunted by a sort of zombie campaign to produce a Trump victory, one month after Election Day.

Many of the state’s Republicans continue to expend significant effort — and contort themselves into political pretzels — to navigate the president’s outrage that he lost the state, in the hope of demonstrating to his supporters that they are doing all they can to ferret out any trace of fraud to back Mr. Trump’s baseless claims.

The effort, which also encompasses numerous lawsuits and an influential far-right disinformation campaign, will not change the election result, barring some Hail Mary upending of a race that has already been certified. But it may have other powerful consequences for the political future of Georgia — and by extension, the nation, given Georgia’s unquestionable new status as a battleground state.

For some Republicans, the most urgent concern is that the president’s ongoing effort to undermine faith in the election process will depress conservative turnout in the all-important Jan. 5 runoff races for the seats held by Georgia’s Republican U.S. senators, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler. That anxiety has only increased as Mr. Trump persists in his attacks on the state’s voting integrity.

On Wednesday, a group of 19 prominent Georgia Republicans — among them former Gov. Nathan Deal and two former U.S. senators, Saxby Chambliss and Johnny Isakson — issued an open letter warning that the focus on fraud allegations could “detract” from the runoffs, which will determine which party controls the U.S. Senate.

“We have watched with increasing concern as the debate surrounding the state’s electoral system has made some within our party consider whether voting in the coming runoff election matters,” they wrote, warning that if Republicans did not turn out in full force, “the trajectory of our State and Nation will be irreparably altered on January 5th.”

Their concerns came to life Wednesday afternoon at a park in the upscale Atlanta suburb of Alpharetta, where hundreds of Trump supporters gathered, waving American flags and Trump flags, to cheer two lawyers who have challenged the Georgia election results in federal court, Sidney Powell and L. Lin Wood.

“You’re here because we the people will not let them steal our vote!” Mr. Wood, a prominent right-wing Atlanta lawyer, told the cheering crowd. “We will not let them steal our freedom. Every lie will be revealed! And on January the 20th of 2021, Donald J. Trump will be sworn in as president of the United States of America.”

Mr. Wood later addressed state officials while making the case that the Georgia process was too corrupt to participate in. “We’re not going to vote on your damned machines made in China,” he said. Ms. Powell, who has been disavowed by Mr. Trump’s legal team but continues to press legal challenges on the president’s behalf, echoed Mr. Wood’s warning, urging “all Georgians” not to vote “unless your vote is secure.”

But in other ways, the momentum seemed to turn against Mr. Trump this week. On Tuesday, a top state election official, Gabriel Sterling, laced into the president, pleading with him to scale back the conspiratorial rhetoric that Mr. Sterling said was inspiring people to make violent threats against election workers.

On Wednesday, Mr. Sterling’s boss, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger — like Mr. Sterling, a Republican — seemed to close the door on the president’s long-shot hopes of subverting the vote of the people. Noting that the U.S. attorney general, William P. Barr, had just said that the Justice Department found no widespread fraud in the national race, Mr. Raffensperger said, “Our investigators have seen no widespread fraud either.”

He added that a second recount of Georgia ballots, set to be finished by midnight Wednesday, would show that Mr. Biden was indeed the winner. And the secretary of state notably referred to Mr. Biden as the president-elect.

At the same time, political expediency is a significant factor. Mr. Raffensperger, who is up for re-election in 2022, is one of a number of top Georgia Republicans who are bending their actions to two diverging imperatives: defending the integrity of their state’s election while trying to survive the bizarre and evolving political weather systems generated by the mercurial Mr. Trump.

The president may spout conspiracy theories and acrimony — he has publicly attacked Mr. Raffensperger and Mr. Kemp for not acceding to his wishes — but he is also the most popular figure in the Republican Party. Nationally, Mr. Trump’s sustained assault on voting integrity, while false, has persuaded many Republicans that there was something crooked about the election. And no one is sure whether, or for how long, he will continue to command the fealty of his party.

Mr. Raffensperger, 65, most likely concerned about his future in politics, has tried to survive Mr. Trump’s onslaught with a mix of pushing back and staying in line. Last Thursday, Mr. Trump called Mr. Raffensperger an “enemy of the people.” Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler, the Senate candidates, who are Trump loyalists, have called Mr. Raffensperger incompetent and have called on him to resign.

Still, on Wednesday, even as Mr. Raffensperger declared that Mr. Trump had lost, he made it clear that he was still a Trump man at heart: “We wish that our guy would have won the election,” he said, “but it doesn’t look like our guy has won the election.”

Mr. Kemp, who is also up for re-election in 2022, has followed a similar strategy. On Monday, in a tweet, Mr. Trump called Mr. Kemp “hapless” and urged him to intervene in the election. That same day, Mr. Kemp’s campaign sent out an email declaring that Georgia Republicans “must unite as a Party to advance President Trump’s bold, conservative agenda.”

But the fact remains that Mr. Raffensperger and Mr. Kemp have refused to give Mr. Trump what he wants most: an opening that would allow the results to be overturned (Mr. Kemp has not only certified the state’s 16 electors; he has also refused to call a special session of the legislature, which people like Mr. Wood have demanded, and where the election results could ostensibly be overturned).

Brian Robinson, a Republican political consultant in Georgia, said Mr. Kemp and Mr. Raffensperger “are facing a much different political calculation today than Loeffler and Perdue.”

“They have time for the politics to change,” he said of Mr. Kemp and Mr. Raffensperger. “Loeffler and Perdue don’t. They have to respond to the politics of the minute, of the second.”

Aside from trying to assuage Mr. Trump, Republicans in Georgia also appear to be laying the groundwork for new limits on voting, and particularly on absentee voting. Mr. Trump has baselessly claimed that there was something fraudulent about the signature-matching system election officials used to verify the identities of absentee voters.

That concern has been echoed by Mr. Kemp, who has called for a sample audit of signatures on absentee ballot envelopes from the recent election. Mr. Raffensperger, meanwhile, has opened an investigation into whether get-out-the-vote groups encouraged nonresidents to send in absentee ballot applications; the groups include the New Georgia Project, founded by Stacey Abrams, a former Democratic candidate for governor.

To the left, this smacks of voter suppression — a charge Ms. Abrams often brought against Mr. Kemp when he was secretary of state and presided over his own gubernatorial contest with Ms. Abrams in 2018.

This week, Nse Ufot, chief executive of the New Georgia Project, said that Mr. Raffensperger was “resorting to desperate attempts to smear law-abiding organizations and scare eligible Georgians from registering to vote in critical upcoming elections.” Mr. Raffensperger’s office said on Wednesday that Ms. Ufot’s group had sent an absentee ballot registration form to his dead son.

Thursday’s meetings of the State Senate’s judiciary subcommittee and government oversight committee are being billed as efforts to study Georgia’s election laws and take suggestions for what can be done to improve the way elections are conducted. The committee, on its agenda, is inviting “anyone with firsthand knowledge of problems with the election or fraudulent activity relative to the election” to “submit sworn statements of fact.”

At the rally, Mr. Wood, the lawyer, told the crowd to meet him at the state Capitol on Thursday morning.

When Mr. Trump arrives in Georgia two days later to stump for Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler, Republicans praying for a return to unity are hoping he plays nice, going light on the conspiracy theories and focusing on the Senate races.

“I would be highly surprised and very disappointed,” Mr. Chambliss, the former senator, said in an interview, “if Donald Trump came to Georgia this weekend and had any comments that weren’t positive about any Republican politician.”





No.31 article:
Why the U.K. Approved a Coronavirus Vaccine First

When early results from the final trials began to roll in, scientists were well prepared. Now, they face the logistical challenge of putting the vaccine to work.

LONDON — The first rigorously tested coronavirus vaccine was given a green light for use on Wednesday in Britain. Doses of the vaccine, made by the American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and a small German company, BioNTech, will be injected starting next week, the government said.

In leaping ahead of the United States to allow mass inoculations, Britain added to the pressure on American drug regulators, who were summoned to the White House on Tuesday by President Trump’s chief of staff to explain why they were not ready to do the same.

The two countries vet vaccines differently.

Rather than accepting the findings of vaccine makers, American regulators painstakingly reanalyze raw data from the trials to validate the results, poring over what regulators have described as thousands of pages of documents. Dr. Stephen Hahn, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said on Tuesday that the F.D.A. “is one of the few regulatory agencies in the world that actually looks at the raw data.”

Regulators in Britain and elsewhere in Europe lean more heavily on companies’ own analyses. Instead of sifting through raw trial data and crunching the numbers themselves, regulatory agencies often will study a drugmaker’s reports and, unless there are anomalies, ground their decisions in company-provided documents.

The question of whether Britain had authorized a vaccine in haste, or the United States was wasting valuable time as the virus was killing about 1,500 Americans a day, provoked a spirited debate among scientists and industry experts on Wednesday. European regulators said that Britain’s authorization was so limited that it only applied to specific batches of the vaccine, a claim that Pfizer denied, and that British officials did not address.

Dr. Paul Offit, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania and a member of the F.D.A.’s vaccine advisory panel, said in an interview on Wednesday that regulators’ success in approving vaccines, while minimizing unforeseen errors, justified a rigorous approach.

“That we’ve been able to get on top of viruses with such a minimal amount of casualties is remarkable,” he said, adding that American regulators were only days away from finishing their own review.

The F.D.A. has scheduled a meeting of an independent panel of experts for Dec. 10 to review Pfizer’s vaccine. British regulators seek opinions from a specialist committee, too, but that group has the flexibility to review data and meet as it needs to, allowing it to move more quickly.

“In the U.K., they’ve just been able to say, ‘We have the data, we’re having the meeting,’” said Stephen Evans, a professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine.

To speed the process, Britain’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency had its experts review vaccine data as it became available, and separate teams worked in parallel on different parts of the process, rather than one waiting for another to finish.

“If you’re climbing a mountain, you prepare and prepare,” Dr. June Raine, the agency’s chief executive, said on Wednesday. “We started that in June.”

When early results arrived on Nov. 10, she said, “We were at base camp.” And later, she said, “When we got the final analysis, we were ready for that last sprint.”

Britain broke from the European Union’s regulatory orbit to approve a vaccine early, owing to emergency powers that the bloc gives countries in the case of a pandemic. Once Britain consummates its split from the European Union on Dec. 31, those powers to approve vaccines on its own will become permanent.

The countries that remain in the European Union are waiting for its regulator, the European Medicines Agency, to authorize a vaccine. Like the F.D.A., the European regulator has scheduled a Dec. 29 meeting to consult outside experts and offer an opinion on the Pfizer vaccine.

The agency’s job is complicated by its obligation to solicit the views of all 27 E.U. countries. That process has been accelerated during the pandemic, but it will still take several days for countries to weigh in after the meeting, which is likely to delay vaccinations until early January.

Pfizer plans to ship 800,000 doses to Britain in the coming days. Starting Tuesday night, those doses were being prepared for shipping at a factory in Puurs, Belgium, BioNTech said.

The doses will be packaged in boxes, with dry ice keeping them at the South Pole-like temperatures they require, before they are put on trucks or planes and taken to Britain. They will arrive in government distribution warehouses by the weekend, Pfizer said on Wednesday.

British hospitals have already begun emailing staff members to schedule vaccinations, with a London hospital system indicating that its first doses will be given at 7 a.m. on Monday. Britain placed advance orders for 40 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine but most of those are expected to be administered next year. Each patient needs two, a month apart.

A government advisory body released its list of vaccine priority groups on Wednesday. At the top of the list are nursing home residents and workers, followed by people older than 80 and health and social care workers.

In practice, though, government officials said on Wednesday that, because of the difficulties of storing and moving the Pfizer vaccine, they would initially restrict vaccinations to a network of 50 hospitals. As a result, nurses, doctors, nursing home staff and people age 80 or over who had scheduled appointments would be first in line for the vaccine, ahead of nursing home residents.

Pfizer has said that the vaccine can survive for five days in a normal refrigerator. But Britain’s National Health Service still has to consider issues like staffing at non-hospital sites and transport difficulties within the country in deciding how to administer the vaccine.

The National Health Service has roughly 150,000 doctors and more than 330,000 nurses and midwives.

The British decision will not in itself bring vaccinations closer anywhere else. But Pfizer executives said on Wednesday that they had already heard from other countries that, in light of Britain’s go-ahead, were looking to accelerate their own approval processes.

American regulators, despite months of pressure from Mr. Trump, have maintained that they will follow their plan and review Pfizer’s vaccine to the F.D.A.’s standards.

The United States has pre-ordered 100 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Most of its supply will come from a separate factory in Kalamazoo, Mich. Still, many questions remain about how vaccine makers like Pfizer will fulfill the orders of wealthier nations that have procured supplies in advance.





No.32 article:
The Deep State Is on a Roll

Three cheers for Anthony Fauci and all the other glorious cogs.

President Trump was right about the “deep state” — sort of. There exist, in government, people and forces rigged to foil disruption.

But the deep state isn’t, as he suggested, a reflexive defense of a corrupt status quo. It’s a righteous defense against the corruption of democracy, which he continues to attempt.

And that defense is holding. Three cheers for the deep state, which has been on a roll these past three weeks.

I’m thinking of Brad Raffensperger, Georgia’s secretary of state, who supervises its elections. He refused to cry foul and fraud just because others in his party couldn’t abide Joe Biden’s victory in a state that hadn’t gone to a Democrat in a presidential election for nearly three decades.

“People are just going to have to accept the results,” he told The Washington Post. “I’m a Republican. I believe in fair and secure elections.” He ordered a recount, but as President Trump, the two U.S. senators from Georgia and plenty of others on the right pilloried him, he stuck to his assurance that a fair and secure election was precisely what Georgians had participated in and what had delivered the state’s electoral votes to Biden.

He was bolstered on Tuesday by another top-ranking Georgia official, another Republican not about to let the republic go to hell. Gabriel Sterling, Georgia’s voting system implementation manager, scolded and shamed Trump at a news conference at the state Capitol, warning the president that his unwarranted smearing of the balloting in Georgia was “inspiring people to commit potential acts of violence” and that “someone is going to get killed.”

“It has to stop,” he said. That was the deep state speaking, and its words were gold.

Raffensperger and Sterling are hardly the only Republican election officials who have refused to buy into Trump’s conspiracy theories. They have restored some of the faith and hope in me that the past four years eroded.

So have Lee Chatfield, the Republican speaker of Michigan’s House of Representatives, and Mike Shirkey, the Republican majority leader of Michigan’s Senate, who took that scary trip to the White House almost two weeks ago and then took a pass on propping up Trump.

“We have not yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election in Michigan and, as legislative leaders, we will follow the law and follow the normal process regarding Michigan’s electors,” they said in a joint statement immediately following their meeting with the president. Follow the normal process. Such milquetoast verbiage, and such a titanic reassurance.

Also in my deep state: Judge Stephanos Bibas of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia, a Trump appointee who, in a blistering ruling on Friday, rejected the president’s efforts to invalidate millions of Pennsylvania ballots. “Voters, not lawyers, choose the president,” he wrote on behalf of the three judges hearing the case, all appointed by Republicans. “Ballots, not briefs, decide elections.” Such statements of the obvious, and such sweet, sweet relief.

Was there a seed of truth in Trump’s fulminations about insiders so stuck in their ways and attached to their stations that they might balk instinctively at newcomers and new ideas? Absolutely. That’s a danger within any sprawling and enduring organization. It’s something to watch for and worry about.

But Trump’s watching was paranoid. His worry was hysterical. And his motive wasn’t the improvement of government but the inoculation of self. The deep state saw through that, and the deep state stirred.

“Deep state” isn’t the right term — its overtone is too clandestine, its undertone too nefarious — but let’s go with it, co-opt it, turn a put-down into a point of honor, the way gay rights activists did with “queer” and anti-Trump feminists did with “nasty woman.”

Let’s define it ourselves, not as a swampy society of self-preserving bureaucrats in Washington but as a steadfast, tradition-minded legion of public officials and civil servants all over the country, in every branch of government.

These officials and servants are distinguished by a professionalism that survives and edges out their partisan bearings, by an understanding that the codes of conduct and rules of engagement become more important, not less, when passions run hot. They’re incorrigible that way. Invaluable, too.

“Thank God for the deep state,” John McLaughlin, a former deputy and acting director of the C.I.A., said in October 2019 at a panel on election security at the National Press Club in Washington. It was organized and sponsored by the Michael V. Hayden Center for Intelligence, Policy and International Security at George Mason University, and McLaughlin’s fellow panelists were other former leaders of the C.I.A. and F.B.I.

But my deep state is both deeper and broader than those agencies. It extends beyond the diplomats (William Taylor, Marie Yovanovitch) and security officials (Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman) who played starring roles in Trump’s impeachment.

Anthony Fauci is the steely superhero of my deep state, and he’s flanked and fortified by all the government health officials who also pushed back against the quackery of Scott Atlas, the Trump-flattering pandemic adviser who resigned on Monday.

They belong to a quiet and then not-so-quiet resistance that blunted, thwarted or tried to blunt and thwart Trump’s worst impulses when it came not just to public health but also to foreign policy, immigration, the environment. In The Times late last week, Lisa Friedman described such efforts within the Environmental Protection Agency.

“With two months left of the Trump administration,” she wrote, “career E.P.A. employees find themselves where they began, in a bureaucratic battle with the agency’s political leaders. But now, with the Biden administration on the horizon, they are emboldened to stymie Mr. Trump’s goals and to do so more openly.”

That’s the deep state rearing up. That’s the deep state roaring. It should be music to our ears.





No.33 article:
Netflix Holiday Movies: Ranked, Listed and Checked Twice

The streaming service has plenty of holiday cheer to spread around. We look at what’s on offer for this season.

Netflix can’t match Hallmark’s prodigious output when it comes to holiday movies, but then it doesn’t seem to try. Instead, the streaming platform offers a curated slate boasting, at least in theory, bigger budgets, splashier ambitions, and more diverse casts and stories.

But while Netflix showed some Christmas game the past two years, it engaged the autopilot for its 2020 batch. So much so that the low-budget indie pickup “A New York Christmas Wedding” — a flawed but endearingly scrappy lesbian rom-com — is a more compelling watch that most of the Netflix originals.

But ho-ho-ho we must, so below are the 2020 Netflix original holiday movies available at the time of writing, ranked from best to worst.

Netflix’s prestige entry in the holiday sweepstakes, “Jingle Jangle: A Christmas Journey” is not great, but it does feature a surprisingly prickly performance by Forest Whitaker, as well as musical numbers that are fairly decent, if often derivative (Madalen Mills’s anthemic “Square Root of Possible” sounds like an answer song to “Defying Gravity” from “Wicked”).

Whitaker’s Jeronicus is a gifted toymaker and inventor who sank into bitterness and rancor after his apprentice (Keegan-Michael Key) stole his blueprints and ruined his business. Since this is a holiday movie, there is zero suspense about the ending: it’s no spoiler to say that Jeronicus’s plucky, precocious granddaughter (Mills) will help restore justice along with Grandpa’s faith in family, humanity and the power of song and dance. The treacle can get thick — the movie glances in the direction of “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” but lacks Roald Dahl’s wicked humor — but overall “Jingle Jangle” goes down fairly easily.

Everything that went right for “The Christmas Chronicles” a couple of years ago began and ended with the casting of Kurt Russell as a funky Santa Claus with Kenny Rogers grooming and a sexy red shearling coat. Goldie Hawn turned up for a cameo as Mrs. Claus, and the good news is that her role has been beefed up in this year’s sequel. The bad news is that “Part Two” is jacked up on holiday juice and everything has been beefed up — more special effects, more elves, more plot. With Chris Columbus (of “Home Alone” fame) now at the helm, “The Christmas Chronicles 2” pairs the original’s plucky, precocious heroine Kate (Darby Camp) with Jack (Jahzir Bruno), the scaredy-cat son of Kate’s mom’s new boyfriend, and sends them up to the North Pole. The kids, however, are merely pawns in a nasty game played by Belsnickel (Julian Dennison), a disgruntled former employee of the Clauses, who has turned the elves into destructive gremlins. Never mind that the movie can’t even be consistent about Santa’s powers: Once again it all boils down to Russell, and once again he delivers.

“Operation Christmas Drop” earns bonus points simply by taking us away from the wintry Midwest that seems to be the default set for every other holiday flick. Here we are transported to Guam, where briskly efficient congressional aide Erica Miller (Kat Graham, of “The Vampire Diaries”) has been dispatched to investigate and possibly defund the local Air Force base. Obviously, this puts the base’s Christmas tradition of parachuting supplies to thousands of islanders at risk. Erica’s local guide is the hunky Capt. Andrew Jantz (Alexander Ludwig), a freakishly nice guy who also happens to be single. The two meet semi-hostile but it doesn’t take long before the captain’s own Operation Charm succeeds and Erica lets down her hair, both literally and figuratively. As far as eye candy and holiday spirit go, “Operation Christmas Drop” does the job, which is enough to put it on the podium in this annus horribilis of Netflix Christmas movies.

Sloane (Emma Roberts) and Jackson (Luke Bracey, Australia’s latest export) are singles and averse to complications. They decide to be each other’s date, no strings attached, for the holidays — all of them. Accordingly, “Holidate” takes us through St. Patrick’s Day, Easter, Cinco de Mayo and so on. A tip to the creative team: there is this thing called a music montage, you see, and it would have allowed you to string some of those celebrations together in a five-minute sequence. The movie starts promisingly, cutting the usual saccharine with a sour-candy tang. But desperation eventually sets in — diarrhea gags are way past their expiration date by now — and “Holidate” limps to its predictable denouement. Too bad, because it could have been among the best seasonal rom-coms.

Two years ago, Vanessa Hudgens made her entry into the Netflix holiday landscape with “The Princess Switch,” a sugar-frosted fantasy that combined two surefire crowd-pleasers: royalty and dessert. She actually embodied both by portraying Margaret, Duchess of Montenaro, and Stacy, Baking Queen of Chicago. In the sequel, Stacy flies to Netflixworld Europe to attend Margaret’s coronation. Hudgens goes for a three-peat by also playing Margaret’s grifting cousin Fiona, and while she seems to have a bit more fun with Fiona than with her other two roles, one wishes she had gone all the way and channeled her performance from the decadent “Spring Breakers.” Paradoxically the movie doesn’t bother to make sense while holding on to the guardrails, and so it never fully exploits the situation’s comic potential. Maybe next time? Actually, forget I said that.

The cast of “Midnight at the Magnolia” may be the least diverse on this list, but the movie actually feels not so much white as beige, or whatever Pantone calls the color of blandness. Maggie (Natalie Hall) is dating a guy prone to wearing sweater vests, so you know that relationship is doomed — especially since astute viewers will have spotted the one true love standing right next to her: longtime best friend and confidante Jack (Evan Williams). After they are both dumped, Jack and Maggie pretend to be in love with each other for the sake of the radio show they co-host. Movies burdened with insipid leads often make up for them with amusing sidekicks; “Midnight at the Magnolia” does not even try. Jack may refer to their “crazy families,” but the characters are all so aggressively innocuous, they make the models in an L.L. Bean catalog look like sociopathic hoodlums.

Christine Baranski livens up, as is her wont, mediocre lines in this Dolly Parton musical, with Jenifer Lewis providing a barnstorming assist. On its own, this casting would have been enough to lift “Christmas on the Square” a few spots in this ranking. But the movie’s overbearing sanctimoniousness gets in the way, fogging up any camp goggles you might attempt to watch it with. We are meant to root against Baranski, who is handing out eviction notices so that an idyllic — if you love the 1950s at their most oppressive — town square can be replaced with a mall. But siding with this fantasy heartland’s good citizens against “the Wicked Witch of the Middle” is not easy when they gleefully sing “roast her, toast her, choke her” in church, as Pastor Christian (Josh Segarra) looks as if he’s about to get the pitchforks out of storage.





No.34 article:
Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, 94, Is Dead; Struggled to Transform France

As a conservative president, he sought to make government more responsive to the people but was thwarted by an economic slowdown, demographic shifts and an imperious bearing. He died of Covid-19.

Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, the modern-minded conservative who became president of France in 1974 vowing to transform his tradition-bound, politically polarized country, only to be turned out of office seven years later after failing to accomplish his goals or to shed his imperious image, died on Wednesday at his family home in the Loir-et-Cher area of central France. He was 94.

His foundation said the cause was complications of Covid-19.

A polished product of France’s best schools, Mr. Giscard d’Estaing had been encouraged to believe that it was his destiny to rise to the pinnacle of government. And he did, swiftly.

But by the time he was ousted from the presidential palace in 1981, roundly defeated in his re-election bid by the socialist François Mitterrand, few French were ascribing greatness to him.

Mr. Giscard d’Estaing (pronounced ZHEES-carr DEHS-tang) had come to office declaring that he would take hold of the overbearing presidency he had inherited from Charles de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou and make it more responsive to the will of the people — soften it.

But the French government remained centralized under his administration, and the power it gave the French president remained far greater than that enjoyed by his Western European and American counterparts — a point of which Mr. Mitterrand was sure to remind voters in the campaign. He plainly alluded to Mr. Giscard d’Estaing’s aristocratic mien in asserting that the president had behaved like “a sovereign monarch with absolute power.”

As president, Mr. Giscard d’Estaing was hindered by an economic slowdown in Western Europe after more than two decades of almost continuous postwar expansion. A demographic shift had resulted in an aging larger segment of the French population being supported by an economically active smaller base — a situation that became even more acute throughout Europe during the global economic crisis set off in 2008.

But he drew praise for presiding over an expansion of nuclear energy that supplied France with abundant cheap electricity and helped its industries remain competitive. And while he had a mixed, often disappointing record in foreign policy, he was at his best in Western European affairs.

Mr. Giscard d’Estaing pushed for the establishment of the European Council, where heads of government met regularly. And the Franco-German alliance, a cornerstone of Western European unity after World War II, was at its strongest under him, thanks largely to his close friendship with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of West Germany.

Valéry Marie René Georges Giscard d’Estaing was born on Feb. 2, 1926, in Koblenz, Germany, where his father, Edmond, was serving as a finance ministry official for the French occupation of the Rhineland after World War I. His mother, May Bardoux, belonged to a family active in conservative politics; she claimed to be a descendant of Louis XV, the Bourbon king who ruled from 1715 to 1774. Edmond Giscard traced his lineage to a noble family that thrived before the French Revolution. Those claims of noble blood have been disputed by historians, however.

Valéry attended the prestigious Lycée Janson de Sailly in Paris. Still a teenager during World War II, he joined a tank regiment of the Free French Forces as Allied troops advanced into Germany in 1945. He received both the Croix de Guerre and the Bronze Star.

After the war, he graduated near the top of his class in the École Polytechnique and the École Nationale d’Administration, the elite institutions of higher learning that trained generations of technocrats to run the government bureaucracy.

On completing his studies in 1952, he married Anne-Aymone Sauvage de Brantes, a descendant of a steel dynasty. Each brought a chateau to the marriage, his being near the city of Clermont-Ferrand in the Auvergne region of central France. They had another house in Auteuil, one of Paris’s most fashionable neighborhoods. They had two sons, Henri and Louis Joachim, and two daughters, Valérie-Anne and Jacinte. (Information on survivors was not immediately available.)

Mr. Giscard d’Estaing began his rapid ascent through government in 1953 with a stint in the finance ministry and as an administrative aide to Prime Minister Edgar Faure. He then won election to the National Assembly in 1956, representing Auvergne in a seat that had been held by his maternal grandfather and great-grandfather. He soon earned a reputation as a brilliant technocrat and a polished speaker.

When President de Gaulle founded the Fifth Republic in 1959, he invited Mr. Giscard d’Estaing to rejoin the finance ministry. Three years later, de Gaulle elevated him to finance minister. At 34, he was the youngest official ever to fill that post. He immediately impressed Parliament by delivering his first budget speech without notes.

Mr. Giscard d’Estaing embraced Gaullist policies. He sought to limit American influence in Europe by calling for alternatives to the dollar in global trade and finance. He warned about the growing presence of American corporations in Europe. But de Gaulle and his prime minister, Pompidou, were less enthralled by the popular reaction to their finance minister’s domestic policies.

While Mr. Giscard d’Estaing did succeed in cutting the annual inflation rate, his austerity policies — cuts in public spending, tax increases, and wage and price controls — fostered a recession and drew cries of outrage from business and labor; in January 1966 he was summarily dismissed as finance minister. It was the first setback in his career, perhaps in his life, and he still sounded crushed when talking about the incident years later.

“I was sacked like a servant,” he told The Observer of London in 1972. Critics pointed out that in fact he had been a civil servant.

Forming a moderate conservative political faction of his own, Mr. Giscard d’Estaing then campaigned against the aging de Gaulle on an issue, parliamentary reform, that ended de Gaulle’s political life in 1969 through a popular referendum. De Gaulle immediately stepped down after a majority of the French voted against it.

While many Gaullists never forgave Mr. Giscard d’Estaing, he nonetheless formed a political alliance with Pompidou, a de Gaulle protégé, who went on to win election as president in 1969.

The new president rewarded Mr. Giscard d’Estaing by appointing him finance minister a second time. When Pompidou died of cancer in 1974, Mr. Giscard d’Estaing emerged as a conservative coalition’s candidate for president against a powerful Socialist-Communist alliance led by Mr. Mitterrand.

In one of the closest, most exciting elections in French history, Mr. Giscard d’Estaing gained a wafer-thin victory margin of about 425,000 votes out of 25.8 million ballots cast. At 48, he was the youngest head of state since Napoleon. His grace and intelligence led pundits to call him the “Gallic Kennedy.”

Mr. Giscard d’Estaing sought to build on this honeymoon by casting himself as more relaxed and less pompous than his predecessors. For formal occasions and photographs he wore a business suit instead of buttoning his tall, slender frame into the traditional morning coat or military uniform. He occasionally played romantic tunes on an accordion for television crews.

But other attempts to set aside his aristocratic style and project a populist image backfired. When this new president claimed to have donned disguises and strolled anonymously down the Champs-Élysées, cartoonists gleefully depicted him in a beret and dark glasses, with a cigarette dangling from the side of his mouth, as he sat at a sidewalk cafe. When he asserted that as a teenager he had participated in the French Resistance against Nazi occupation by furtively distributing anti-German pamphlets, he was mocked by left-wing rivals and a skeptical news media.

A sagging image wasn’t the president’s only problem. Huge spurts in global oil prices, first in 1973 and again in 1979, led to sharp increases in fuel costs, which helped provoke economic slowdowns or recession throughout Western Europe.

Mr. Giscard d’Estaing was able to claim a notable success by committing France, more than any other country, to nuclear energy. Nuclear power plants provided almost all the nation’s electricity, thus sharply reducing oil imports. He also saw that government subsidies and investments were channeled toward large private corporations in aircraft manufacturing, high-speed trains, automobile production and other industrial sectors deemed to be important for economic competitiveness.

But in many cases, such state intervention merely hid companies’ flaws and inefficiencies. The economy slowed, putting a strain on public finances. Yet expectations among the French remained high, because the postwar era had left them with free education through the university level, free medical benefits, subsidized housing, generous pensions, and unemployment payments that nearly equaled an employee’s last salary.

Much to the public’s displeasure, the government was forced to pursue an austerity program to close the gap between public spending and revenue. Unemployment, particularly among young people, rose steeply.

In his re-election campaign, Mr. Giscard d’Estaing tried to draw an alarming picture of what life would be like under a left-wing government. “Adieu to the stability of the franc and the freedom of enterprise,” he asserted, “adieu to nuclear independence and France’s rank in the world — we have seen it happen elsewhere; we would see it here as well.”

But the scare tactic failed. Years of economic austerity and rising discontent with the president’s style brought Mr. Mitterrand and his Socialist-Communist coalition to power in 1981.

After stepping down from the presidency, Mr. Giscard d’Estaing remained active in politics, returning several times to the National Assembly from his Auvergne district.

He re-emerged in the news this year when Ann-Kathrin Stracke, a reporter for WDR, a German public broadcaster, accused him of repeatedly groping her buttocks after an interview in 2018. His lawyer said that Mr. Giscard d’Estaing had no recollection of the incident. An official police investigation was opened, but there has been no word on its status.

Mr. Giscard d’Estaing came to shed his image of moderation in favor of a more nationalist posture in the national debate over immigration. In an interview in 1991 with the newspaper Le Figaro, he asserted that “the type of problem we will be facing” concerning immigration has moved “toward that of invasion.” He suggested that French citizenship should be conferred as a “blood right” — a nebulous phrase borrowed from neo-fascists and often construed as racist — rather than as a birthright.

Taking an active role in European Union politics, he staunchly opposed attempts by Turkey to become an E.U. member on the grounds that it was a Muslim, non-European nation; he thus became the first European politician of such high stature to voice that position publicly.

(Negotiations on Turkey’s membership remain stalled over E.U. members’ concerns on matters like human rights, immigration and the rule of law.)

Mr. Giscard d’Estaing was blunt about any talk of embracing Turkey. “In my opinion,” he told the leading French daily, Le Monde, in 2002, “it would mean the end of Europe.”





No.35 article:
As Trump Rages, Voters in a Key County Move On: ‘I’m Not Sweating It’

Pre-election tensions ran high in Bucks County, Pa. But Biden supporters there are increasingly comfortable tuning President Trump out and moving on, with an eye toward January.

DOYLESTOWN, Pa. — Even before the presidential transition was underway, Mike Carr had started to move on with his life.

It’s not as though much about American politics had changed in the immediate aftermath of the election, he noted. President Trump was still tweeting baseless conspiracy theories about voter fraud in all caps; cable news panels were still debating the effect the frenzy of accusations would have on democracy.

These were the kinds of things that, before the election, would have demanded Mr. Carr’s full attention. For most of the president’s term, Mr. Carr, a 53-year-old real estate lawyer, had been relentlessly attuned to the news cycle and the damage he felt Mr. Trump had done to the country. But ever since Nov. 7, when the election was called for Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Carr has given himself permission to keep the television on mute.

“It’s like a weight has been lifted,” said Mr. Carr, who voted a straight Democratic ticket on Nov. 3, as he did in 2016. “It’s so nice not to be as plugged in.”

In Bucks County, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia and one of the state’s most consistently competitive counties down ballot, ardent Biden supporters like Mr. Carr could be forgiven for not unplugging entirely. Their candidate may have won their state by 1.2 percentage points, their county by more than four, but Mr. Trump and his legal team have continued to dispute the results, filing multiple lawsuits, losing multiple lawsuits and parroting unfounded allegations of fraud in the parking lot of a landscaping business not 45 minutes away.

By trying to sow distrust in America’s electoral infrastructure and egging on his advisers as they speak openly of a second term, Mr. Trump has confirmed some of his detractors’ worst fears.

Yet even in a state at the center of the president’s attacks, in a county where pre-election tensions ran high, many Biden supporters find themselves increasingly comfortable tuning out, moving on and looking forward to January.

As in other counties across Pennsylvania and the country, Bucks County has seen a spike in coronavirus cases in recent weeks, with about 64 residents dying from the virus in November, the highest toll since the spring. For many voters here, worries about the virus, coupled with an overwhelming sense of Trump fatigue, have relegated the president to little more than a postelection footnote.

Sure, these voters acknowledged, Mr. Trump may still hold the power of the presidency and may, in their estimation, have no qualms about abusing it. But when it comes to the results of the election, they’ve taken to viewing his message as more of a nuisance with a sell-by date than a lasting danger to democracy — the rantings of a sore loser rather than the opening act of a coup by the leader of the free world.

“He’s just a whiny kid who didn’t get his way. I’m not sweating it,” said Blake Lertzman, 39, while taking a smoke break outside his technology repair shop in the Bucks County seat of Doylestown. “Right now it’s all about the virus. I worry about me and my girlfriend and my community.”

As for Mr. Trump’s fervent efforts to overturn the election, “nobody cares,” Mr. Lertzman went on, “unless you’re the kind of person who goes on Newsmax.”

Doylestown, which has about 8,300 residents and is over 90 percent white, leans further left than many other boroughs and townships in Bucks County. Nevertheless, many residents take pride in their region as an incubator of centrist politics, citing the county’s record, for instance, of voting for Hillary Clinton for president in 2016 while helping re-elect Senator Pat Toomey, a Republican.

Republicans and Democrats alike here recall Mike Fitzpatrick, the moderate Republican congressman who died of brain cancer this year, with fondness. And while many Democrats lament that his brother and successor, Brian Fitzpatrick — a Republican who represents Pennsylvania’s First District and just won re-election by 13 points — voted against impeaching Mr. Trump, they will also note unprompted that Mr. Fitzpatrick was recently ranked by the Lugar Center, a nonprofit in Washington, as the most bipartisan member of the House.

“We generally produce candidates in both parties that are pretty moderate,” said Ron Strouse, the mayor of Doylestown, a Democrat who describes himself as a “practical progressive.” “The history of ticket-splitting certainly showed this year.”

Still, like a number of other self-consciously moderate locales across America, Bucks County was not insulated from the partisan and cultural crosscurrents that defined the presidential election. And as the county seat, Doylestown played host to their suburban Philadelphia iteration.

“Rallies, counter-rallies, protests, demonstrations — we’ve had more than 45 since the beginning of this year alone,” Mr. Strouse said. In early September, hundreds gathered in the borough for dueling Black Lives Matter and “Back the Blue” demonstrations, the latter of which included a sea of Trump merchandise and a man reportedly shouting racial slurs and displaying a Nazi salute.

In October, as part of a pro-Trump “road rally,” more than 1,000 of the president’s supporters clogged traffic for miles as they converged on Doylestown, where they were met by a counter-demonstration of Biden supporters.

Local businesses boarding up in anticipation of summer protests, Trump supporters brandishing Confederate flags as they cruised down Main Street: Doylestown residents recited no shortage of ways their typically placid borough had seemed “tense” in the lead-up to the election.

But in the weeks since, even as Mr. Trump has electrified much of his base with his false claims of fraud and his campaign’s harried appeals via text to “chip in $10” to “STOP THE RADICAL Left from counting any ILLEGAL ballots,” Doylestown has remained at a calm remove. Demonstrations by Trump and Biden supporters alike, once a near-constant presence across town, have ground to a halt.

“People are more willing to tune out the theater now,” said Anthony Palazzolo, 30, who is a volunteer at the Doylestown Historical Society and a registered Republican who voted for Mr. Biden. “I’ve noticed it in small things, like people are less on their phones and interacting more on the sidewalks. People are seeing the light at the end of the tunnel.”

According to Mr. Palazzolo and others, the growing sang-froid about Mr. Trump’s conspiracy-mongering, even among the area’s most ardent Democrats, is in part a credit to local party leadership, members of which were quick to present a unified front after the county’s votes were tabulated — offering Bucks County residents a bipartisan show of confidence in their own results even as the president tried to seed doubt and promote division across the state.

“Our county had a great election, and that’s all I can say,” said Pat Poprick, the chair of the Bucks County Republican Committee. “I do not think there was any quote-unquote fraud here.”

Yet for all their fears of Mr. Trump, many Biden supporters here also expressed confidence that the country’s democratic institutions and traditions were robust enough to withstand the president’s attempts to subvert them — if only for two more months.

Larissa Hopwood, 41, a children’s musician and teacher, was among Mr. Biden’s most vocal supporters in Doylestown, taking the lead in organizing pro-Biden rallies to counteract the steady stream of Trump demonstrations.

Ms. Hopwood said the stakes of the presidential election could not have felt higher, particularly because she is the mother of a gender nonconforming child. The day after the election, she attended a “Protect the Results” rally in town. But armed with a confidence that, come Jan. 20, Mr. Biden will be president of the United States, no matter how many lawsuits Mr. Trump files, she has found herself embracing a new sense of lightness, however incrementally.

“I didn’t even realize it for awhile, but for a week after Biden won, I posted zero Instagrams,” she said. “I think my mind-set was, ‘Let’s just tune it out: We had our victory.’”

Still, despite feeling perhaps a bit less compelled to post and engage daily with political content, she admitted being frustrated by how “puffy” her social feeds seemed shortly after the election — posts about lighter topics like, say, “The Crown,” or People magazine’s “Sexiest Man Alive” cover.

But any concerns about complacency among fellow progressives seemed to stem less from concerns over Mr. Trump’s language and actions in this moment, and more from a desire to maintain momentum heading into the Biden era. In other words, Ms. Hopwood said, she’s not terribly worried that a presidential coup is afoot. “There are government employees in charge of making this transition happen,” she said. “I mean, we are still the United States.”

And ultimately, for Mr. Biden’s supporters here, blocking out the president is all the easier when even the neighborhood’s most outspoken Trump supporter seems to have moved on.

Daniel Compain, 65, a Cuban-American who fled Fidel Castro’s regime as a child, beamed as he recalled how pedestrians would grimace as they passed the enormous Trump flag he’d hung outside the window of his apartment near Main Street.

In an interview at a Starbucks nearby, he maintained that he would not accept the results of the election until the Electoral College officially voted in mid-December. He also had questions, he said, about whether Dominion voting machines had deleted ballots cast for Mr. Trump, echoing false claims made by the president and his personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani.

And yet when asked why he had decided to take his Trump flag down, Mr. Compain responded as if the answer were self-evident.

“Well, the election is over,” he said.





No.36 article:
After Biden Win, Nation’s Republicans Fear the Economy Ahead

Polling shows that Republicans have turned bearish on the outlook for their family finances since the election, while Democratic optimism is rising.

Optimism about the economy has taken a nosedive among Republicans. But the economy did not drive the change. The presidential election did.

After President Trump’s loss to former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., more than 40 percent of Republicans who were polled for The New York Times said they expected their family to be worse off financially in a year’s time, up from 4 percent in October. Democrats expressed a rise in optimism — though not as sharp as the change in Republican sentiment.

The new polling, by the online research firm SurveyMonkey, reaffirms the degree to which Americans’ confidence in the economy’s path has become entwined with partisanship and ideology. In the days after the election, for the first time since Mr. Trump took office in 2017, Democrats and independent voters expressed higher levels of confidence in the economy than Republicans did.

Democrats in November were nearly three times as likely as they were in October to say they expected good or very good business conditions in the country over the next year. They were more than twice as likely as they were in October to say they expected “continuous good times economically over the next five years.”

Republicans were actually more likely to say that they were doing well in November, compared to October. But nearly three in four said they expected “periods of widespread unemployment or depression” in the next several years, up from three in 10 in October.

Nancy Veits, a Republican voter in Los Angeles County, said the economy was a major factor in her decision to vote for Mr. Trump. A retired small-business owner, Ms. Veits, 81, said that she appreciated the president’s commitment to deregulation — and that she feared for the economy after his departure.

“The economy was working,” she said. “I think that under Biden it’s going to be more difficult.”

David Keyston, a survey respondent in Waco, Texas, has a similar set of concerns. He runs his own nonprofit business distributing books about alternative health and healing. Business was good before the pandemic, he said, and has actually improved since the virus began to spread.

Mr. Keyston, 66, said that he didn’t like Mr. Trump’s penchant for Twitter or his demeanor in office. But he said he liked many of Mr. Trump’s policies, like his tax cuts and his promise to build a border wall and to keep the United States out of wars. And he said Mr. Trump had managed the economy well both before and during the pandemic.

“I think he’s tried under the circumstances to do the best he can to maintain some level of economic stability,” he said.

Now, Mr. Keyston’s outlook has turned more dour. He worries that Mr. Biden will impose new restrictions that will cripple the economy, including a nationwide lockdown, a charge that Mr. Trump repeatedly leveled against Mr. Biden, though Mr. Biden did not call for such a lockdown.

“A lockdown will kill this country,” Mr. Keyston said.

Big partisan shifts in confidence have become common following elections in recent decades. Republicans’ economic sentiment fell when Barack Obama was elected president in 2008, then soared when Mr. Trump was elected in 2016. Republicans’ self-reported confidence remained well above Democrats’ for the entire Trump administration, until the election caused the pattern to reverse again.

“It reflects what we’ve seen in the survey data the whole time, which is that everyone is tying their own political beliefs to their views of the economy,” said Laura Wronski, a research scientist for SurveyMonkey. “It’s just kind of crazy to see how entrenched these beliefs are.”

Democrats’ views of the economy have also shifted after elections, but generally less than Republicans’, a pattern that was particularly stark this year. Ms. Wronski said enthusiasm among Democrats might have been tempered because they did not see the election as an unmitigated victory.

Janet Garrow, a survey respondent in Seattle, said that she thought Mr. Biden would do a better job with the economy than Mr. Trump, but that she didn’t expect a quick rebound from the pandemic-induced recession.

“I think the economic impact is devastating, and it’s going to take people decades to recover,” she said.

A retired judge, Ms. Garrow, 67, said her own finances are stable. But she said the economy wasn’t working for many Americans even before the pandemic.

“There was a lot of stagnation,” she said. “Sure, you might have had a job, but did your wage or your salary go up with what your cost of living really was?”

Ms. Garrow, a Democrat, said she supported many of Mr. Biden’s signature policy proposals, such as raising taxes on the wealthy and making public colleges free to students from middle-class families.

Perhaps more surprising, some of Mr. Biden’s proposals earn support from Republican voters. More than four in 10 Republicans support raising taxes on people earning more than $400,000 a year. Three-quarters of Republicans support a proposal to guarantee paid sick leave to workers during the coronavirus pandemic.

Liberal economists with links to Mr. Biden say the results show the popularity of his plans and the challenges of reaching out to supporters of Mr. Trump whose economic hopes were low before he won the 2016 election.

“We live in a country where, for all of our lives, we have seen economic inequality increase — across incomes, across wealth, across firms,” said Heather Boushey, an economist whom Mr. Biden said on Monday he would name to his Council of Economic Advisers. “A lot of communities have been left behind. People have become frustrated.”

“One of the things about Donald Trump is he acknowledged that reality,” she said. “It would be important for people on both sides of the aisle to continue to acknowledge that.”

William Spriggs, the chief economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. labor federation, said that the polling reflected the “partisan politics” now embedded in economic confidence surveys, and that it offered a message to Mr. Biden on the importance of pushing for policies like paid leave that have attracted Republican opposition in Washington.

“We absolutely need it, on a zillion levels,” Mr. Spriggs said. “I think this is going to be the challenge for the administration — because things like this, which Americans understand are common sense, doesn’t mean it’s politically feasible. The Republicans who are in office thumb their nose at these polls. The issue is, will the administration take them on?”

George R. Hood, a survey respondent in northern Kentucky, said he identified as a political moderate, not a liberal. But he said the country needed to invest more in public health, education and other priorities, and he said it made sense to raise taxes on corporations and the wealthy in order to pay for that spending.

“I just don’t see the socioeconomic situation improving unless we’re willing to spend a little more money,” he said.





No.37 article:
The White House Christmas Decorations Look Strikingly Normal

Blood-red trees these are not.

The first lady has overseen holiday decorations at the White House since 1961, when Jacqueline Kennedy hung ornaments of toys, birds and angels themed to “The Nutcracker” ballet on a Christmas tree in the Blue Room. This year was no different.

In a one-minute video posted to Twitter on Monday, Melania Trump unveiled this year’s theme, “America the Beautiful,” which she translated as green trees decorated with red, gold and silver ornaments and white lights, a style so traditional that it could grace the cover of Martha Stewart Living. The East Colonnade this year features simple black urns holding plumes of foliage and greenery from each state and territory.

The bold aesthetic choices that drew so much flak and snarky memes in Christmases past are noticeably absent. There are no blood-red trees, as there were in 2018, which various news outlets called “creepy” and “deeply haunted.” There is nothing akin to the icy, underlit branches of 2017 that turned the East Colonnade into what some likened to a barren, dystopian landscape.

This year, a toy train — the “White House Express” — circles a wreath placed on a center table. Crafty ornaments bear the names of children from Maryland, Michigan and the Northern Mariana Islands. Other decorations celebrate “pioneers for gender equality,” as the first lady’s office put it, including the artist Georgia O’Keeffe.

This is Mrs. Trump’s last Christmas at the White House as first lady, and if her tree trimmings seem unimpeachable by design, that may be the point. She received an early lump of coal in her stocking in September, when her former adviser Stephanie Winston Wolkoff published a tell-all memoir, “Melania and Me.”

Among the newsworthy comments Mrs. Trump made in the book — and in secretly recorded conversations Ms. Winston Wolkoff released — was her complaint about the chore of the holidays, and her negative press coverage compared to her predecessor, Michelle Obama.

Mrs. Trump was heard on the recordings delivering a profanity-laced rant about “Christmas stuff” and decorations. “But I need to do it, right?” she added.

Mrs. Trump has also been tasked with spreading cheer at a time when daily deaths from Covid-19 are approaching tallies not seen since the spring and many Americans are canceling holiday plans out of fear of spreading the virus. Her decorations, including a snow-covered mini hospital and ornaments of a garbage truck, a nurse’s hat and a lab coat, nod to the pandemic and essential workers.

Early reviews of the decorations have been charitable.

CNN highlighted a tree in the Vermeil Room with ornaments featuring a portrait of President John F. Kennedy and sailboats, and another tree in the library celebrating the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, which gave women the right to vote, noting, “Significant thought and detail went into the Americana decorations.”

The Independent wrote: “Ms. Trump and an army of volunteers put together a warmer, less edgy display that runs throughout the Executive Mansion.”

Even outlets that have been harshly critical of Mrs. Trump’s take on the holidays couldn’t work up the energy this year. Consider this tepid headline from Mashable: “Melania Trump unveils her final White House Christmas decorations and they’re fine.”

The website gave grudging respect to Mrs. Trump, and seemed almost disappointed not to carry on the recent holiday tradition, undertaken by much of the media, of skewering the White House Christmas design choices. “Playing it safe is probably a good strategy this year,” the article said. “This theme is harder to meme, for sure.”





