No.1 article:
The Coronavirus, Raging in Battleground States, Looms Over Election Day

From Wisconsin to North Carolina, the latest surge of the coronavirus is spiraling, especially in battleground states.

CLEVELAND — They voted from cars and at outdoor tables. They stood in lines spaced far apart. They strapped on masks and pumped sanitizer into their palms. All across America on Tuesday, voters cast ballots in a presidential election in which the uncontrolled coronavirus pandemic was both a top issue and a threat.

As millions of Americans turned out to vote, the nation was facing a rapidly escalating pandemic that is concentrated in some of the very states seen as critical in determining the outcome of the presidential race. From Wisconsin to North Carolina, infections were on the rise as the nation barreled toward 10 million total cases.

The virus that has left millions of people out of work and killed more than 230,000 people in the United States will be one of the most significant challenges for the winner of the presidential race, and it loomed over every chapter of the election, down to the final ballots.

In the last hours of campaigning, President Trump — who, regardless of the election outcome, will be in charge of the nation’s response to the pandemic for the next two and a half critical months — was at odds with his own coronavirus advisers and suggested that he might fire Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious-disease expert. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. told voters in a final pitch that “the first step to beating the virus is beating Donald Trump.”

In Virginia, voters’ temperatures were taken at some polling sites. In Wisconsin, the mayor of Wausau, a small city where cases are spiking and tensions are high, issued an order banning guns at polling places. And in Texas, an election judge did not wear a face covering, prompting accusations of voter intimidation and such intense heckling that the judge called the local sheriff to report that she felt unsafe.

The pandemic, which drove record numbers of Americans to cast ballots early or by mail, rarely strayed far from voters’ minds.

“I just don’t want another shutdown,” said Rachel Ausperk, 29, a first-time voter who said she chose President Trump in Ohio, a highly contested state that reported more new coronavirus cases on Tuesday than on any day since the nation’s outbreak began more than eight months ago.

In Miami, Eddie Gil, 50, said that he, too, had been guided by concerns about the coronavirus and how it was being handled. He said he voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 but chose Mr. Biden this year, in part because of the president’s handling of the pandemic.

“The government has failed all the small businesses,” said Mr. Gil, who opened a gym in January but said the pandemic forced him to close. “I’m very disappointed,” he added. “I thought putting a real estate businessman in office would drain the swamp.”

The coronavirus outbreak shaped nearly every aspect of the 2020 election, and only intensified as voters went to the polls. The United States shattered records in recent days, reporting more than 85,000 new cases a day, nearly double the caseload at the start of October. Deaths have increased slowly to more than 800 daily, more than in early July but far fewer than in the spring. Though the country is conducting more testing, that does not fully account for the increase in cases.

In a collision of two powerful forces shaping 2020, the virus was raging most ominously across political battlegrounds around the Great Lakes. Several swing states recorded records or near highs on Tuesday, including Minnesota, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, which have all announced more cases over the last seven days than in any other weeklong period during the pandemic.

In Wisconsin, a prize eyed by both parties, more than 100,000 virus cases have been reported in the past month, and deaths and hospitalizations have spiked, leaving many to fear that worse news could be ahead.

Voters who entered a polling location in Kenosha, Wis., first passed a handwashing station outside the front doors. Then there was a kiosk of free masks, wipes and hand sanitizer just inside the lobby. The room where they voted was a large, airy gymnasium with tables spaced at least 15 feet apart.

David Sconzert, a poll worker, said he carefully considered whether to show up on Election Day at all. A cancer survivor, he said he tested positive for the coronavirus in early October yet feared he did not have the immunity that would prevent him from catching it again.

“I almost called it off,” he said. “But then I just thought, ‘No. I’m taking a chance.’”

Inside a community basketball gym in Cleveland, poll workers fastened on masks and sat down behind cardboard and plastic shields that encased them on three sides. Looking more like a row of bank tellers, they greeted voters, who were expected to give an electronic signature by slipping on disposable plastic finger shields and then guiding their hands under a narrow opening. Voter booths, spaced out around the gym, had been meticulously measured with a six-foot rope.

Raven Payne, a 25-year-old first-time poll worker, had one job all day: sanitation. Dressed in a bright yellow vest, plastic gloves, a face mask and a face shield, she had a distinctly buglike appearance as she hovered around the room, swooping in to clean, wipe and scrub each booth in between voters.

A mile away, about 40 people sick with the coronavirus were lying in beds at the main campus of the Cleveland Clinic. Across Ohio, more people are hospitalized with the virus than at any other time during the pandemic; around the country, more than 50,000 people were in a hospital with the coronavirus on Tuesday, up 67 percent from a month ago.

When Americans found themselves voting in the middle of the 1918 flu pandemic, infections also surged in October, peaking around Election Day. After voters turned out for the midterm elections that year, deaths continued at a fairly high rate throughout November and into December. At the same time, some places were lifting restrictions on public gatherings and people were flocking to the streets to celebrate the armistice ending World War I, two factors that contributed to new infections.

This year, experts are hopeful that the flood of mail-in voting and precautions at the polls will protect Election Day gatherings from becoming superspreader events. But with cases soaring nationwide and health officials overwhelmed, it may be difficult to determine in the coming weeks what effect voting may have had.

The next few weeks are seen as crucial for controlling the pandemic, as colder weather forces people indoors and families gather around the table at Thanksgiving.

No matter the outcome of the election, one person will be in charge of the nation’s Covid-19 response through the next critical period: Mr. Trump.

The president, who was hospitalized for the virus in October, has largely shut down the White House Coronavirus Task Force, and in recent days downplayed the country’s spiraling cases, saying that the nation is “rounding the corner.”

Dr. Deborah L. Birx, the White House’s coronavirus response coordinator, issued an urgent plea on Monday for an “aggressive balanced approach that is not being implemented,” in a private memo that was earlier reported by The Washington Post.

In many places, voters and poll workers took extraordinary measures on Tuesday to try to protect themselves. They wore American-flag-themed masks, used napkins to drop off votes in ballot boxes and even passed ballots with the help of salad tongs.

“People just love the tongs,” said Tommy Nickerson, a ballot worker in Oakland, Calif., where workers in face masks used tongs to collect ballots from drive-through motorists. Across the street, people cast ballots at tables set up outside.

Some thought the virus — and all the precautions — was overhyped.

“I don’t think it’s as big as they say,” said Ann Roth, a 57-year-old voter from Papillion in suburban Omaha, who cast her ballot for Mr. Trump. “People are going to do what they’re going to do.”

In Michigan, another key swing state that Mr. Trump carried by a razor-thin margin four years ago, Democrats were focused on driving up turnout in Detroit. The pandemic was especially devastating for the city.

“It hit us like an atomic bomb,” said Ronald Lockett, the executive director of the Northwest Activities Center, where there was a line out the door to vote on Tuesday.

Mr. Lockett said he had the coronavirus this year, had to cut his staff during the pandemic, and had lost hundreds of thousands of dollars because he had not been able to hold events. He cast his vote for Mr. Biden, he said, in large part because he hoped the former vice president would guide America out of the pandemic.

“This election,” he said, “is going to determine the future of Covid.”





No.2 article:
At the End of a Chaotic Campaign, an Election Day That Defied the Worst Fears

There were glitches and partisan skirmishes as voters went to the polls, but for the most part the system held up.

The worst fears about a chaotic end to a chaotic campaign failed to materialize on Tuesday as the final day of voting went off with little more than sporadic glitches and confrontations even as the tension over the outcome and aftermath remained undiminished.

The most litigated, disrupted and polarized election in generations came to a close with voters who had not already cast their ballots by mail or in person during early voting trooping to the polls on an Election Day redefined by the coronavirus pandemic.

There were scattered problems and hints of battles still to be fought: The authorities in Michigan sought to hunt down the source of robocalls that warned voters to “stay home.” A federal judge ordered the Postal Service to make an intensive sweep for mail-in ballots that had yet to be delivered. And legal skirmishes broke out in and around Philadelphia as Republicans sought to challenge votes in the critical Democratic stronghold.

With a record number of votes already having been cast, election officials across the country reported relatively smooth operations on Tuesday, with nothing more than the usual long lines at polling places — made longer by social distancing — and machine malfunctions.

The scale of the turnout and the shift to mail voting led to slow counts in some major cities in battleground states. In Philadelphia, about 20 percent of the absentee ballots had been counted by 9 p.m. In Milwaukee, election officials said they would not be done until 5 a.m. on Wednesday at the earliest.

Appearing after midnight in Wilmington, Del., Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee, called for patience as the count proceeded in the states where the outcome is likely to be determined, including Pennsylvania.

“It ain’t over till every vote is counted, every ballot is counted,” Mr. Biden said.

Early on Wednesday, President Trump said on Twitter, “We are up BIG,” and claimed without evidence that Democrats “are trying to steal the election,” an assertion that led Twitter to say his post was “disputed and may be misleading.”

But while the process of determining the winner could well prove to be as contentious as Mr. Trump has threatened to make it, much of what experts had feared might happen on a most unusual Election Day did not come to pass.

In the past several days and weeks, foreign countries interfered less than they had leading up to the 2018 midterm elections, the director of the National Security Agency, Gen. Paul M. Nakasone, told reporters on Tuesday. And although there were reports of Russian trolls trying to amplify debunked claims of election fraud, they were limited in scope and there was no evidence of either widespread hacking or rampant Election Day disinformation efforts.

Fears of violence that led some shopkeepers and homeowners to board up their windows and doors had not been realized as of early Tuesday evening, and there were only scattered and limited reports of intimidation at voting precincts.

By the end of a day that was expected to push the percentage of Americans voting to its highest level since 1908, with a predicted total of around 160 million votes, it had become clear that the nation’s creaky elections infrastructure was proving to be more resilient than either the Republicans or Democrats had expected.

“We have not seen major systemic problems or attempts to obstruct voting,” said Kristen Clarke, president of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, which runs the Election Protection Hotline, adding that problems had been “isolated and sporadic.”

Conducted over weeks in which coronavirus infections reached new highs nationwide and with Mr. Trump aggressively seeking to cast doubt on the integrity of the voting system, the election posed challenges that both voters and the officials running it largely adapted to meet.

Television images showed election workers in downtown Philadelphia making quick work of opening and counting stacks of mail ballots. Voters met long lines in Detroit with high spirits, and no major reports of unrest.

Even in Georgia, which became a symbol for all of the challenges of the nation’s election infrastructure when its new voting system experienced a wholesale breakdown in the spring, officials reported generally “steady movement” at polling stations, despite reports of some nagging issues with malfunctioning voting machines.

“It has been steady as she goes throughout the state,” Gabriel Sterling, an official at the Georgia secretary of state’s office, told a group of reporters in midafternoon on Tuesday. Waiting times around the state, he said, averaged two minutes.

Across Omaha, lines at polling places were shorter than in past days. Lined up were people like Ann Roth, 57, a voter who said God told her that the president was going to win, and Happy Sadjo, 47, who immigrated from the West African nation of Togo and called Mr. Trump an “American dictator.”

In polling locations across northern Philadelphia — a Democratic stronghold of the type that Mr. Biden is counting on to give him an edge in a vital battleground state — voters lined up as early as 6 a.m., an hour before the polls opened.

“I think Philadelphia is ready for a change, and they’re going to turn out,” said Sonia Bacchus, who arrived at William Rowen Elementary School early and came equipped with a folding chair for the lines. “Oh yeah.”

The vast expansion of early voting options could reveal a vastly different electorate: Of the 100 million voters who cast early ballots, nearly 30 percent did not vote in 2016, according to TargetSmart, a Democratic data firm.

But arduous work lay ahead with the counting of the record volume of mail-in ballots, especially in states like Pennsylvania that do not start counting absentee ballots until Election Day and are likely to take days to complete the task.

Democrats were keeping a particularly wary eye on the Postal Service, which reported that its processing system had not recorded the delivery to elections offices of some 300,000 ballots — and that mail slowdowns were particularly having adverse effects in Democratic party strongholds like Philadelphia, Detroit, Atlanta and South Florida.

Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of the Federal District Court in Washington, D.C., ordered sweeps in trouble spots on Tuesday to ensure that all ballots are found and delivered. The Postal Service said it was working into the evening to try to meet the court’s demands, though on its own time frame.

The entire voting process still faced the constant and continuing threat of litigation. Over the course of the election, more than 400 election-related lawsuits were filed across the country, and courts were still issuing major rulings as voting was getting underway. A federal appeals court in Texas rejected a Republican appeal to try and knock out more than 127,000 votes that had been cast at drive-through voting locations in Harris County.

Over the course of the day, Republicans accelerated their legal challenges in Pennsylvania, which both campaigns view as the likely epicenter of any legal fight over the ultimate result.

As Republicans ratcheted up criticism of senior Democratic officials overseeing voting in the state, Republican candidates and activists filed suits in federal and state courts seeking to disqualify the votes of Pennsylvanians who were given an opportunity to fix problematic mail-in ballots that had already been received, or to file replacement, provisional ballots. Judges agreed to hear those cases on Wednesday.

The Trump campaign also complained that election officials in Philadelphia were keeping the campaign’s observers too far from counting tables. The observers were there to observe the process as absentee ballots were processed and counted for potential challenges, but the campaign had yet to file suit as of late afternoon.

In Nevada, the Trump campaign filed an emergency motion on Tuesday afternoon, asking the Nevada Supreme Court to halt the processing of some mail-in ballots in Clark County until local election officials allow for expanded access to observe the processing of mail ballots. The court denied the motion on Tuesday evening.

Later, the Trump campaign successfully filed an emergency suit to extend poll hours in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas, by one hour.

The efforts were part of Mr. Trump’s longstanding drive to raise doubts about the integrity of the entire voting system and give himself grounds to challenge any unfavorable outcome or lengthy counting process by claiming fraud.

Though it threatened to undermine confidence in the final results, it also thrust voting rights to the center of the national political debate in a way not seen since the civil rights era, driving Democratic turnout, Biden campaign aides said.

Election officials from both parties tended to agree, determining that all the questions about voting this year forced Americans to vote earlier, spreading the strain on the system across weeks and avoiding a single, last-minute crush.

“Voters really thought about how they were going to vote months ago, and many had a plan and have executed on that,” said Kim Wyman, a Republican and the secretary of state in Washington, who oversees one of five predominantly vote-by-mail systems in the country and became an adviser to her colleagues in other states this year. “That’s exciting that we had that kind of engagement.”

Still, the president’s attacks on the voting system also created an unusual situation in which his own supporters indicated to pollsters that they were less likely to vote by mail than their Democratic counterparts were, creating a bipartisan expectation that the president would lead the in-person, election-day vote and trail in the mail ballots.

That divide on the degree of the threat from the pandemic was visible on Election Day. At a polling location in Dallas, an election judge refused to wear a mask inside, bringing complaints from voters throughout the day.

At an afternoon news briefing with reporters during a visit to his Virginia campaign headquarters, the president renewed his complaint that the Supreme Court did not step in to block Pennsylvania’s decision to count all ballots with postmarks on or before Election Day that arrive at elections offices up to three days afterward.

Several states are similarly planning to count late-arriving ballots, meaning that if the outcome is close, it may be days before the winner is known for sure.

On Monday night, Twitter had flagged a post by Mr. Trump that predicted violence in response to the Supreme Court decision allowing Pennsylvania, for now, to stick to its extended counting deadline.

And on Tuesday, it highlighted a statement by the Philadelphia District Attorney’s office debunking a claim amplified by Mr. Trump’s aides and supporters that Democrats had illegally hung a poster promoting the Biden ticket at a downtown polling station.

“Misinformation being spread online has driven more calls to the Election Task Force hotline,” said Jane Roh, a spokeswoman for the Philadelphia district attorney, “than actual incidents at polling sites.”





No.3 article:
Biden Says Trump Is ‘Not Who We Are.’ Do Voters Agree?

Election Day came to a close with no clear winner, but it affirmed the persistence of deep national divisions.

From the start of his 2020 campaign, Joseph R. Biden Jr. insisted that President Trump was an aberration, his norm-breaking, race-baiting tenure anathema to the national character.

“It’s not who we are,” Mr. Biden often said, “not what America is.”

And at the end of the 2020 campaign, an anxious, quarrelsome country seemed to be turning a question back at him: Are you sure?

For millions of Trump supporters, the last four years have been a time when things changed for the better, when they felt they had a president who knew exactly who they were. They cheered pre-virus jobs success, shifts in the tax code, trade fights with China and the emerging rightward tilt of the Supreme Court. But they often responded more viscerally to the fury than the finer points: Mr. Trump’s eager brawls against elites and institutions, against threats to conservatives’ preferred social order, against shared enemies.

For many Democrats, the story of this White House is far uglier: division for its own sake and for Mr. Trump’s personal aggrandizement, coaxing an American backslide that harnessed the levers of government to settle scores and buoy white supremacists, international strongmen and anyone else who spoke well of the man in charge.

On Tuesday, this abiding conflict — over which vision of America will endure, over whether this president is more protector or destroyer — was put to the voters at last.

Early returns produced no winner but affirmed the persistence of national fissures, as Democrats who had indulged in fantasies about the catharsis of instant victory were left once more to wonder if they understood America as well as they had assumed.

But even before any final verdict was to be rendered, this election season had already supplied some answers to the question of who we are — evidence of all that Mr. Trump has changed, and all that he hasn’t, and all the work that will await Mr. Biden if his bet is rewarded.

America is now a nation where businesses in many cities boarded up their windows in anticipation of election violence. It is a nation where partisans daydream about seeing their political opponents in jail and where the sitting president has pressed his own Justice Department to follow through. It is a nation where Black Lives Matter protesters have pressed their cause in the streets and where caravans of Trump backers have filled highways and waterways with a procession of MAGA flags.

It is a nation where faith in institutions, already dismal, was not helped by a year in which federal authorities could not safeguard their own people against a deadly disease.

And it is a nation, if voter turnout levels are instructive, that was moved as never before in modern memory to stand and be counted, in defiance of contagion and ostensible suppression. Americans braved polling places in masks and gloves, hand-delivered mail ballots just in case, waited in lines that zagged and folded over themselves across whole neighborhoods — a kind of small intestines of democracy.

“I honestly can’t say I know any institution that is working,” said Aalayah Eastmond, 19, a survivor of the Parkland, Fla., massacre and a first-time voter who has spent much of the year in Washington protesting racism and police violence. “But one thing I do know that is working is the power of the people.”

How much of the recent past can be undone, and how much the electorate wants it undone, is a question no campaign can resolve in full. There is danger in any sweeping assertion about the ideals of a country that narrowly chose to follow its first Black president with the man who pushed a racist conspiracy about that president’s birthplace.

But in some ways, given the distinctiveness of the choices, the decision in this election will be especially revealing about how America sees itself and what it expects of its leaders.

In interviews this fall, voters supporting each candidate described fears that the nation would soon appear unrecognizable to them, if it was not already. This campaign, they suggested, had doubled as a national X-ray, with both sides distressed about what might turn up on the scan.

“You learn a lot about yourself and other people and the country,” said Luke Hoffman, 36, standing outside the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia in a “Vote” mask before a recent televised forum with Mr. Biden. “The sheer polarization is terrifying.”

Katherine Smarch, 51, who traveled to Lansing, Mich., to see Eric Trump speak at a gravel pit last month, said that any pro-Trump sentiment she might express on social media was doomed to be met with taunting and hostility.

“It just feels so foreign,” she said. “This is the kind of thing that happens in a foreign country.”

Yet there is maybe some comfort, at least, in the idea that the electorate appears to be operating with mostly full information about its options.

While the stakes of a Trump presidency could still seem theoretical four years ago — “What do you have to lose?” he asked his audiences — the magnitude and responsibility of the office are by now impossible to misconstrue.

There had once been a thought that the gravity of the job might transform Mr. Trump, that America’s guardrails would check him, that the “adults in the room” (as they often liked to call themselves) would head off his most reckless impulses.

Little of it took. He is who he has been.

The institutions often bent to him, aided by Republicans in Congress. Advisers and aides came and went, and often never much disagreed with him anyway.

And in the run-up to Tuesday, Mr. Trump left little doubt that a second term would look like very much like the first: chaotic, retaliatory, uninterested in unity.

Even in the shared suffering endemic to this year of virus and relative isolation, Mr. Trump presided over partisan clashes concerning once apolitical subjects like adherence to public health guidelines, fostering divisions that trickled down to the national rank and file.

“WHERE’S YOUR MASK?” Biden supporters chanted at their counterparts protesting a Democratic car rally in Atlanta last week.

“WHERE’S YOUR DIAPER?” the president’s side called back, mocking their caution.

Mr. Trump’s array of us-versus-them closing messages in recent weeks included a meritless suggestion that doctors were inflating the coronavirus death toll for profit; an extended feud with the television program “60 Minutes”; and unsubtle hints that he would refuse to accept voting results he deemed unfavorable.

And Mr. Biden’s case often seemed to boil down to a more consistent question: Do you believe this guy?

If the whole of Mr. Trump’s tenure has often felt like a rolling challenge to precedent, the coming days may stand as a kind of super exam, particularly if the president makes premature claims about the outcome.

Of course, how Mr. Trump chooses to conduct himself has never been up to the American people. The tautological lesson he learned from his own rise always seemed to be this: If no one had the power to tell him no — or even bothered trying — it was a yes.

Mr. Trump also understands well that many millions of people are with him, win or lose, holding him up as the figure girding the nation against would-be decline and leftward creep.

“We didn’t vote for him to be our pastor or our husband,” said Penny Nance, the chief executive of Concerned Women for America, a conservative Christian group. “We voted for him to be our bodyguard.”

Mindful of Mr. Trump’s grip on his core supporters — and still traumatized from the shock of 2016 — many Democrats have only occasionally allowed themselves to consider Mr. Biden’s thesis that this president might one day be seen as a historical blip.

Both those who love and loathe Mr. Trump have tended to ascribe to him a sort of political superpower, assuming that gravity would never apply. They have rarely dwelled on the fact that he was elected despite a popular vote deficit against a 2016 opponent whom wide swaths of Americans disdained and distrusted.

“This is someone who the majority of Americans have never been open to,” Cornell Belcher, a Democratic pollster who worked on former President Barack Obama’s campaigns, said of Mr. Trump. “I understand that lightning can strike twice in the same place. But it sure as hell ain’t probable.”

Suggesting that the president’s appeal to “racial aversion” was his only “special sauce,” Mr. Belcher said the successive elections of Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump amounted to “a country grappling,” not a decisive ruling on the national direction.

Mr. Biden has presented himself as the kind of “transition candidate” capable of guiding the nation through that grappling, a bridge to whatever should come after. He outlasted a large and historically diverse primary field as the Democrat most singularly focused on removing the president and worrying about the rest later. He hammered Mr. Trump on matters of competence and integrity and asked Senator Kamala Harris to join his ticket, keeping a pledge to name a woman as his running mate and nodding to the overwhelming support Mr. Biden has enjoyed from Black voters since his election as Mr. Obama’s vice president.

It was not lost on his allies that Mr. Biden, a man of institutions, was offering himself up to a country that seemed to be losing its trust in them, one where crises of confidence have touched Congress, law enforcement and the courts.

The work of repair, he argued, was not as simple as removing Mr. Trump. That was merely a prerequisite. And while he has long professed affection for a bygone era of bipartisanship, Mr. Biden has also already run up against the realities of the moment, navigating progressive calls to expand the Supreme Court and watching Republican former Senate colleagues entertain misleading attacks on the Biden family.

If anything, the campaign’s final frames included often ubiquitous reminders of the rupture that will remain after the election — and perhaps only widen once the winner is clear.

Last week in Texas, vehicles with Trump flags and signs surrounded a Biden-Harris campaign bus and appeared to be trying to slow it down and force it to the side of the road.

Mr. Trump called the drivers supporting him “patriots” who did nothing wrong. The F.B.I. said it was investigating. Mr. Biden sounded something like a disappointed parent, waiting for the collective tantrum to pass.

“We are so much better than this,” Mr. Biden said over the weekend. “It’s not who we are.”

For better or worse, he seemed to believe it.





No.4 article:
As America Awaits a Winner, Trump Falsely Claims He Prevailed 

The president made his unfounded claim even though no news organizations declared a winner between him and Joseph R. Biden Jr., and a number of closely contested states still had millions of mail-in ballots to count.

With no winner declared in the 2020 presidential race, President Trump appeared in the White House just after 2 a.m. on Wednesday to brazenly claim he had already won the election — and to insist that votes stop being counted even though the ballots of millions of Americans had yet to be tallied. 

Speaking with a mix of defiance, anger and wonder that the election had not yet been called in his favor, the president recounted his standing in an array of battleground states before falsely declaring: “Frankly, we did win this election.”  

No news organizations declared a winner between Mr. Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr., and a number of closely contested states still had millions of mail-in ballots to count, in part because state and local Republican officials had insisted that they not be counted until Election Day. 

Mr. Trump said, without offering any explanation, that “we’ll be going to the U.S. Supreme Court,” and added: “We want all voting to stop.” 

No elected leader has the right to unilaterally order votes to stop being counted, and Mr. Trump’s middle-of-the-night proclamation amounted to a reckless attempt to hijack the electoral process as results in key battleground states were still not final, something without precedent in American politics. 

The president contradicted himself about the vote-counting as he claimed he was gaining strength in Arizona, where votes cast on Election Day were breaking in his favor but where mail-in ballots favored Mr. Biden, the Democratic nominee. Mr. Trump spoke at times from a teleprompter, but he veered off his prepared remarks to make unfounded claims about voting fraud. “We don’t want them to find any more ballots at 4 in the morning,” he said.

The president made his remarks as Mr. Biden was leading in Arizona, a battleground that has been trending more toward Democrats in recent years. If Mr. Biden were to win there, it would be the first state Mr. Trump won in 2016 that flipped to the Democrats this year. 

A short time before Mr. Trump spoke, Mr. Biden adopted a different tone and approach as he addressed supporters in his home state of Delaware. Mr. Biden projected optimism but asked voters for patience. He pointed to Pennsylvania and Michigan, among other battlegrounds, as slow-counting states that he expected to win.

“As I’ve said all along, it’s not my place or Donald Trump’s place to declare who’s won this election,” Mr. Biden said. “That’s the decision of the American people. But I’m optimistic about this outcome.”

Mr. Biden added: “It ain’t over till every vote is counted.”

His campaign manager, Jen O’Malley Dillon, issued a statement on Wednesday morning condemning Mr. Trump’s remarks. “The president’s statement tonight about trying to shut down the counting of duly cast ballots was outrageous, unprecedented and incorrect,” she said, adding, “It will not happen.” 

“If the president makes good on his threat to go to court to try to prevent the proper tabulation of votes,’’ she said, “we have legal teams standing by ready to deploy to resist that effort. And they will prevail.’’

Mr. Trump’s remarks added another bizarre twist to one of the most extraordinary election cycles in the nation’s history. For weeks leading up to Election Day, and in voting across the country on Tuesday, Americans overcame their fears of the coronavirus, long lines at the polls and the vexing challenges of a transformed voting system to bring the campaign to a conclusion, with the fate of Mr. Trump’s tumultuous White House reign hanging in the balance.

Voter enthusiasm never waned. Turnout was expected to break the record of 139 million votes set in 2016, and the percentage of eligible Americans who voted might be the highest in more than a century. More than 100 million early votes had already been cast before Election Day, a record.

As of early Wednesday morning, the race remained shrouded in uncertainty, as Mr. Biden failed to achieve any early breakthroughs, and as Mr. Trump clung to a lead in a number of Southern states that Democrats had hoped to flip into their column. 

Mr. Trump dashed Democrats’ hopes of picking up both Florida and Ohio, two swing states that have tilted to the right in recent years, and that Mr. Trump carried four years ago. He also turned back a challenge from Mr. Biden in Iowa, a smaller state where Mr. Biden made a late effort to pick up its six Electoral College votes.

Mr. Trump did not have a clear upper hand, but the prolonged suspense was, at least at the start, something of a victory for the president, who was at risk of being eliminated from contention if one of the big, historically Republican states of the Southeast had defected to Mr. Biden. That was still a possibility in North Carolina or Georgia, where the vote tally was closely divided.

In Georgia, there appeared to be a large number of uncounted ballots in the Atlanta metro area, and those votes were expected to tilt solidly to Mr. Biden. And in a number of the state’s rural counties, Mr. Biden was slightly outperforming the margins posted by Stacey Abrams, a Democrat who lost a race for governor there two years ago by about 55,000 votes.

Vote-counting was moving relatively slowly in some battleground states on Tuesday night because of the scale of the turnout, a backlog of absentee ballots received by mail and scattered problems with processing the vote. And each state handled the counting and releasing of its ballots differently. 

Ohio, for example, released the results of all of its mail ballots after the polls closed — making the state seem to tilt toward Mr. Biden until more Election Day votes were cast. Similarly, Michigan released its day-of votes in the first hours after polls closed, making it seem that Mr. Trump enjoyed a wide advantage in a hotly contested state.

Much of the uncertainty hanging over the election arose from the inconsistent or patchwork array of state-level policies hurriedly put in place to enable voting amid a public health disaster. In a number of states, like Pennsylvania and Michigan, local Republican officials blocked Democrats’ efforts to make it easier to count ballots cast before Election Day, raising the possibility of a drawn-out count in some of the most important battlegrounds — the very occurrence Mr. Trump protested Wednesday morning.

Democrats feared that in some cases a Supreme Court now dominated by conservative justices could ultimately limit vote-counting in a way that would aid Mr. Trump, a possibility the president raised in his remarks.

For all the angst about a potential breakdown in voting procedures in advance of Election Day, there were no prominent reports of technological failures or chaos at the polls, nor was there any evidence of significant civil unrest midway through the evening. There was still the potential for considerable uncertainty in the slower-counting states, but none of the numerous doomsday scenarios on the logistics of voting seemed to come to pass.

Mr. Biden, the former vice president, was outperforming Hillary Clinton in a number of the country’s large metropolitan areas, but Mr. Trump was reprising or enlarging his margins in many rural areas. With far less support going to third-party candidates this year, Mr. Biden was effectively picking up many of those votes in urban areas while Mr. Trump was adding them to his margins in less populated areas.

In the battle for the Senate,  Democrats gained a seat they were widely expected to win in Colorado, as former Gov. John Hickenlooper defeated Senator Cory Gardner, a first-term Republican. But Republicans made up for that setback in Alabama, where Senator Doug Jones, a Democrat elected in a 2017 special election, lost the seat to Tommy Tuberville, the former football coach.

While it was too early to say which party would control the chamber in January, Democrats faced disappointment in three solidly red states where they were making a bid to stretch the campaign map. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and chairman of the Judiciary Committee, easily defeated Jaime Harrison; Representative Roger Marshall of Kansas defended an open seat that Democrats had contested aggressively; and Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa turned back a challenge from Theresa Greenfield. 

The absence of a decisive shift toward Mr. Biden in the conservative-leaning states that reported their votes earliest raised the prospect of a drawn-out wait for clarity in the Northern battlegrounds, where both parties expected him to run stronger. 

In several of the largest swing states on the map, including Michigan and Pennsylvania, local officials were strictly limited in their ability to process ballots cast before Election Day, making it unlikely that they would be called for either candidate by the end of Tuesday night.

Still, the possibility of a romping victory by Mr. Biden appeared far slimmer than it did going into Election Day, based on a mountain of public polling data that showed him to be a clear front-runner across virtually the entire map.

Mr. Biden, 77, appeared to be underperforming with Latino voters, especially in the critical battleground of Florida, where he led Mr. Trump by only single digits in the group, according to exit polls. Mrs. Clinton won Latinos in the state by a wider margin four years ago; Mr. Trump’s improvement appeared to reflect the success of his insistent anti-socialist message in South Florida, where Cuban-Americans and other immigrant communities are wary of far-left policies.

ImageSupporters of President Trump in the Little Havana neighborhood of Miami. The president improved his standing among Hispanic voters in the city.Credit...Scott McIntyre for The New York TimesAs states began to be called there were no early surprises. Mr. Biden picked up states throughout the Northeast as well as Virginia and Illinois, and the reliable Democratic prizes of New York and California, according to The Associated Press. Mr. Trump won in parts of the South, as well as conservative-leaning Indiana and West Virginia and states in the Northern Plains. 

Mr. Biden carried New Hampshire, a small state Mrs. Clinton won by a tiny margin four years ago. Mr. Trump had tried to seize the mercurial Northeastern state this time, but fell well short of doing so.

The onset of the coronavirus pandemic in the winter recast the election as a referendum on Mr. Trump’s leadership in a crisis, restricted the activities of candidates up and down the ballot and upended the voting habits of tens of millions of Americans.

To the end, Mr. Trump insisted that the pandemic was quickly dissipating, despite mountains of evidence that the virus was spreading more rapidly than ever throughout the country. He blamed Democrats and the news media for overhyping the threat from the virus, and never formulated a factual rebuttal to Mr. Biden’s charge that his passivity and ineptitude had led to thousands of needless deaths.

Mr. Trump campaigned vigorously across battleground states in the final days, hoping that a robust turnout from late-voting Republicans and rural white people would help him overcome the advantages Mr. Biden had built across a diverse coalition, especially with white suburban women.

Mr. Biden, who held a steady lead in the polls throughout the general election, maintained a more modest pace with smaller gatherings that showcased his emphasis on public safety in a health crisis. He spent the final days of the race denouncing Mr. Trump’s failure to control the pandemic and his public attacks on scientists in his own administration.

Mr. Biden’s candidacy also had the potential to create a history-making moment for his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is of Indian and Jamaican descent; she was seeking to become the first woman on a winning presidential ticket. And Mr. Biden would be only the second Catholic president, along with John F. Kennedy. 

According to recent polls, Mr. Biden appeared to have succeeded in making himself a kind of safe harbor for a wide array of voters unhappy with Mr. Trump, including women, white voters with college degrees, people of color, young people and older adults. But Mr. Biden’s coalition was more impressive for its breadth than its depth, and despite its size and diversity, most voters supporting him appeared more excited to reject Mr. Trump than to install Mr. Biden in his place. 

Mr. Trump, by contrast, was relying on a far narrower base of support: rural and less educated white voters, and especially men, who continued to embrace his message of hard-edge nationalism and cultural grievance even as the economic downturn deprived Mr. Trump of the chance to campaign on several years of comfortable growth.

Even aside from the pandemic, the 2020 campaign unfolded against a backdrop of national tumult unequaled in recent history, including the House’s vote to impeach the president less than a year ago, a remarkable wave of racial justice protests in the spring, spasms of civil unrest throughout the summer, the death of a Supreme Court justice in September, and the hospitalization of the president in October.

As a result, Election Day arrived with the nation on edge, confused in some places about new voting systems and court battles over the electoral process, and worried about flare-ups of violence in the aftermath of a disputed result. 

Mr. Trump, 74, encouraged those fears, and the underlying social divisions that fostered them: On the eve of the election, he made a baseless claim that a court decision on Pennsylvania’s ballot-counting procedures would lead to street violence. No American presidential race in half a century or more has featured the same scale of civil unrest and uncertainty about the legitimacy of the political process, and no modern campaign has been so defined by an incumbent president who seemed to relish both factors the way Mr. Trump has.

ImageElection workers with the Philadelphia City Commissioners office sorted through ballots at the Pennsylvania Convention Center on Tuesday.Credit...Kriston Jae Bethel for The New York Times

Recent opinion surveys found that Mr. Biden had a strong advantage among people who had already voted. For Mr. Trump, catching up would depend on turning out voters in large numbers on Election Day and winning them by a sizable margin.

The race was the most expensive presidential campaign ever, and Mr. Trump’s much-lauded messaging apparatus was quickly eclipsed by a behemoth Biden operation that caught and far surpassed the Trump campaign in fund-raising. In the final month of the campaign, Mr. Biden’s spending surged, giving him a more than two-to-one advantage on the airwaves and online, according to Advertising Analytics, an ad tracking firm.





No.5 article:
Robert Fisk, Intrepid War Correspondent, Dies at 74

“You cannot get near the truth without being there,” he said. Working for British newspapers, he ranged across the Middle East, Bosnia, Northern Ireland and elsewhere.

Robert Fisk, a dauntless journalist who was widely praised by colleagues and competitors alike for relentlessly chronicling the Middle East’s many agonies, but who was also faulted by some critics as insufficiently tough at times on despots, died on Friday in a hospital in Dublin. He was 74.

He had what appeared to be a severe stroke, according to his editors at the British newspaper The Independent.

With muscular reporting and a pugilistic writing style, Mr. Fisk, who had British and Irish citizenship, covered wars both civil and resolutely uncivil in the Middle East and beyond — in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Bosnia, Kosovo, Israel and the occupied territories, Northern Ireland, Algeria and Lebanon, where he long made Beirut his base.

“You cannot get near the truth without being there,” he said in “This Is Not a Movie,” a 2019 documentary about his work. Across nearly five decades, the last three for The Independent, Mr. Fisk was unquestionably there.

He made no pretense of adhering to conventional notions of journalistic objectivity, essentially arguing that there was no “on the other hand” in certain situations.

“I think it is the duty of a foreign correspondent to be neutral and unbiased on the side of those who suffer, whoever they may be,” he said in a 2010 speech at the First Congregational Church in Berkeley, Calif. His dispatches earned him many accolades; seven times he was named the British Press Awards’ international journalist of the year.

Among his coups were three interviews in the 1990s with Osama bin Laden. Mr. Fisk wrote in The Independent in 1993 that Bin Laden, then yet to be universally known as Al Qaeda’s leader and the mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States, “looks every inch the mountain warrior of mujahedin legend.”

But he stopped well short of being star-struck. In 1996, a Bin Laden functionary called and told Mr. Fisk to fly to Afghanistan for a meeting. Mr. Fisk, who spoke Arabic, later recalled having told the man, “Call me back in a week.” He was not about to “let him snap his fingers, and then I come,” he told The San Francisco Chronicle in 2003. He would later denounce the 9/11 attacks as a “hideous crime against humanity.”

Mr. Fisk was hard on those he deemed the oppressors, though his critics said that he could be unduly harsh. Israel and its treatment of the Palestinians were frequent targets, as were the United States and its misadventures in the Middle East. He could be rough on fellow news gatherers whom he dismissed as being guilty of “hotel journalism,” shunning his brand of shoe-leather reporting.

He did not spare the political class in Lebanon, either. Lebanon was “one of the most educated nations in the region,” he wrote after the August port explosion that leveled much of Beirut. “And yet,” he added, “it cannot run its currency, supply its electric power, cure its sick or protect its people.”

His sympathy for the underdog, while genuine, struck some as oddly placed on occasion. One such instance came in December 2001 while he was reporting along Afghanistan’s border with Pakistan. After he was beaten by Afghan refugees, Mr. Fisk, who often referred to himself in the third person, wrote that had he been in their situation, he would have done the same thing: “I would have attacked Robert Fisk. Or any other Westerner I could find.”

Not infrequently, his reporting ran counter to received wisdom. Skeptics, however, felt he was overly eager at times to embrace counterintuitive assessments.

During Syria’s devastating civil war, Mr. Fisk found himself accused by his critics of siding with that country’s president, Bashar al-Assad, by casting doubt on reports that the government had launched chemical attacks in a Damascus suburb. In the years after the 9/11 attacks, he speculated, without evidence, that the hijacked United Airlines Flight 93, which went down in a Pennsylvania field, may have been struck by a missile.

Still, his judgment often proved on the mark. He observed correctly, for instance, that the 1993 Oslo agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization would not lead to true peace. And unlike more than a few others, he anticipated the quagmire that the 2003 American invasion of Iraq would become.

Robert Fisk was born on July 12, 1946, in the town of Maidstone, England, southeast of London. He was the only child of William Fisk, a town official and a World War I veteran who kept a diary of that conflict’s horrors, and Peggy (Rose) Fisk, an amateur painter who in later years became a Maidstone magistrate.

When he was 12, Robert saw the 1940 Alfred Hitchcock film “Foreign Correspondent,” and decided that this would be the life for him. He graduated from Lancaster University in northwestern England in 1968. Much later, in 1983, he received a doctorate in political science from Trinity College in Dublin, his thesis on Ireland’s neutrality and relations with Britain in World War II.

Mr. Fisk worked for several small newspapers before joining The Sunday Express and then, in the early 1970s, The Times of London. He covered the Troubles in Northern Ireland, then moved to Beirut in 1976, soon after the outbreak of civil war there; it would become a decades-long stay. He left both The Sunday Express and The Times after disputes with editors and signed on with The Independent, then a fledgling newspaper, in 1989.

From 1994 to 2006, Mr. Fisk was married to Lara Marlowe, an American-born journalist who is now a Paris-based correspondent for The Irish Times. A few years after they parted, he married Nelofer Pazira, an Afghan-Canadian filmmaker and human rights activist. She is his only immediate survivor.

Mr. Fisk wrote a half-dozen books, perhaps the most prominent being “Pity the Nation: Lebanon at War” (1990) and “The Great War for Civilisation: The Conquest of the Middle East” (2005). In the latter book, he described how the victors of World War I redrew world maps, creating the borders of Northern Ireland, Yugoslavia and much of the Middle East.

“And I,” he wrote, “have spent my entire career — in Belfast and Sarajevo, in Beirut and Baghdad — watching the people within those borders burn.”





No.6 article:
After 2016 Shock, Wisconsin Democrats Picked Themselves Off the Floor

Hillary Clinton’s narrow loss refocused the party’s efforts to reclaim support and power after years of Republican statehouse dominance.

MADISON, Wis. — If there is a symbol of the Wisconsin Democratic comeback following the shock of President Trump’s 2016 victory and nearly a decade of being beaten into submission by the Republican state legislature, it is Jill Karofsky.

Ms. Karofsky stunned most of Wisconsin, and herself, when in April she won an 11-point victory in a race for a State Supreme Court seat, during an election the state’s Republicans blocked its Democratic governor from delaying because of the coronavirus pandemic.

“I did not see a path for us to win,” Justice Karofsky said during a six-mile run on Monday. But when the polls opened April 7, she said, “I went for a run and I came home and I looked at my phone and I saw all those brave people voting in Milwaukee. And that’s when I started to have a glimmer of hope.”

For Wisconsin Democrats, hope has been something in short supply since 2010, when Republicans won control of the state’s government and began to systematically dismantle a progressive political infrastructure built up over generations.

While Justice Karofsky’s race was officially nonpartisan, her allies made the battle lines clear — the contest was a referendum on Mr. Trump and Republican governance in the state. And her victory, with its surprise margin, provided an important psychological boost to a party beaten down by the state’s dominant Republicans and still spooked by 2016, when Hillary Clinton, who never visited the state, lost Wisconsin by just 22,748 votes — a margin seared into the memory of the state’s top Democrats.

Only in the final hours of the 2020 campaign, when more than half the state’s voters had cast pre-Election Day ballots, did Wisconsin Democrats allow themselves to say out loud that they believed former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. would carry the state by a healthy margin when counting was expected to be completed on Wednesday.

It is a bullishness borne of the combination of high turnout in Madison and Milwaukee, signs they had won back some rural Democrats who voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, and the feeling that, since 2016, they have finally won more than they’ve lost. Democrats also believe that a recent statewide surge in coronavirus cases has helped refocus voters on the president’s handling of the pandemic.

After Mrs. Clinton’s loss in Wisconsin, Democrats here began organizing from the ground up. The Democratic National Committee and other liberal organizations began in 2017 to make investments in the state that the party neglected during the Obama years. In 2019, the Democratic Party of Wisconsin elected as its chairman Ben Wikler, a veteran Moveon.org organizer who in the last 18 months has raised record sums for the party, bringing in more than twice the funds as his Republican counterparts.

All this took place in the ashes of the devastating 2016 contest, when Democrats were certain of a victory, but disinclined to do much to make one happen.

During that campaign, Mandela Barnes, who would be elected lieutenant governor two years later, asked people to pose with him in photographs for Mrs. Clinton’s Instagram page. “People were like, ‘Ehhh, I don’t really know about that.’” Mr. Barnes said. “I was like, ‘We’re friends!’ But also, damn.”

But despite the new optimism, after so many searing defeats, there is a sense among voters that nothing is to be taken for granted.

“For the past 10 years it’s been like living with a boot on our necks,” said Andy Olsen, a policy advocate for an environmental organization who spent Tuesday morning reminding voters at Madison’s Monona Terrace to text three friends to remind them to vote, too. “We kept getting knocked down and trying to get back up again. People are cautious about getting their hopes up too much.”

Even before the April court election, there were already signs that the state’s fragile Trump coalition was crumbling. Republican margins in the Milwaukee suburbs dropped precipitously during the 2018 midterm elections, while Democrats clawed back some of the voters Mr. Trump won in 2016, especially in the Fox Valley, a key battleground region of the state.

Without Mrs. Clinton as a foil, many of these voters began to judge Mr. Trump on his own and didn’t like the results.

“I voted for Trump four years ago out of default,” said Ted Schartner, a plasterer from Green Bay who voted for Mr. Biden last Wednesday. “I regretted it almost right away. I didn’t like the way things were heading.”

While voters were coming to terms with a Trump presidency, Wisconsin Democrats found themselves digging out of their collective nadir. Not only was it the first time since 1984 that a Republican had carried the state’s electoral votes, but Democrats were locked out of state government, gerrymandered into a deep minority in the state legislature and facing a State Supreme Court controlled by conservative justices.

By the time Mr. Trump won the White House, Wisconsinites had already gotten used to the constant partisan warfare that would define his administration.

“You go to a gathering of friends and it turns into politics right away,” said Roben Haggart, who has served as Minocqua’s town clerk for 22 years. “It always turns into an argument.”

Mr. Trump’s victory here led to talk that Wisconsin, with its large population of white working-class voters, had become a fixture of the Republican Electoral College map, out of reach for Democratic candidates.

The state’s Democratic infrastructure was in shambles, but little by little voters began to turn against Mr. Trump. In January 2018, a Democrat won a special election to a rural State Senate district Mr. Trump had carried by 17 points. That fall, Democrats rode anger against Mr. Trump to a sweep of the statewide elections, ousting Scott Walker, a two-term governor who had crippled the state’s public-sector labor unions.

In June 2019, Wisconsin Democrats elected as their state chairman Mr. Wikler, who had moved his family into his childhood home in Madison. Mr. Wikler brought an organizing and fund-raising heft the state had never seen. The Democratic Party of Wisconsin has raised $58.7 million in the last two years, more than twice the haul for the state’s Republicans.

“Trump’s win, in a lot of ways, accelerated and pushed forward necessary change within our party,” said Alex Lasry, a senior official for Milwaukee’s pro basketball franchise who is weighing a run for the seat of Ron Johnson, a Republican senator, in 2022. “Democrats realized we can’t just sit on the sidelines in these off-year elections.”

Representative Mark Pocan, a Madison Democrat, said Mr. Biden’s campaign and Mr. Wikler’s leadership created a dramatically different political landscape than four years ago.

“The Biden campaign is 180 degrees different than what we had four years ago,” Mr. Pocan said. One important difference: Mr. Biden has visited Wisconsin three times since the primary. “The candidate never came post-primary four years ago, we had no resources specifically for Wisconsin — or very little resources.”

The 2016 contest was marked by a drop in turnout among Black voters in Milwaukee, who are now a key part of Mr. Biden’s hopes for a Wisconsin victory.

The Rev. Greg Lewis, the executive director of the Milwaukee Souls to the Polls effort, said the Black electorate in the city had changed, thanks in part to Mr. Trump’s presidency. Since 2012, Mr. Lewis said, the money that was absent in 2016 is now flowing to community leaders for get-out-the-vote efforts, just as Black Milwaukeeans have become more engaged in removing Mr. Trump.

“These groups weren’t active four years ago, because we didn’t have funding or resources to do any of the things we’re doing right now,” Mr. Lewis said. “I just think the Democratic Party didn’t come into the community enough to energize and make sure that people were willing to do what needs to be done.”

By October, Wisconsin’s coronavirus spike was among the worst in the country — and by far the worst of any presidential battleground state. The president’s approval rating on the pandemic in Wisconsin had fallen from 51 percent in March to just 40 percent, according to a Marquette Law School poll.

“We’ve got people that are supposed to be leading the country that have just thrown up their hands and said, there’s nothing we can do about this pandemic — which is just demonstrably not true,” said Kate Walton, an emergency room nurse in Madison who said she voted for Mr. Biden.

One after another, Biden voters across the state in the last week said their votes were motivated primarily by a desire to oust Mr. Trump.

“I wouldn’t vote for Trump for nothing, even if you paid me all the money he says he’s worth,” said Terri Konkol, a 58-year-old Milwaukeean who on Saturday voted for Mr. Biden from her wheelchair. She blamed the president for the virus’s spread in the state. “In our whole lifetimes have we ever had to wear masks?”

Rose Goeb, 62, a Milwaukee preschool teacher, voted early for Mr. Biden on one of the first days she could.

Of Mr. Trump, she said, “I made up my mind a long time ago that this man does not have the character or discipline to be president.”

And on Tuesday in Madison, among a line of voters waiting to cast ballots when the polls opened at 7 a.m. was Helen Hawley, an artist who was inspired by Senator Bernie Sanders and a fierce desire to remove Mr. Trump.

“It’s hard to be hopeful about anything right now,” said Ms. Hawley, 40. “But it’s better to have hope than to not. Hope is just something I hold onto because it’s a good idea.”





No.7 article:
U.S. Quits Paris Climate Agreement: Questions and Answers

President Trump’s withdrawal formally came into force the day after Election Day in the United States. Here’s what it means.

WASHINGTON — Au revoir, Paris Agreement. As of Wednesday, under United Nations rules, the United States is officially out of the global climate accord. Here’s a look at how it happened, what it means and what might happen next.

You could be forgiven for thinking the United States quit the global climate change agreement a long time ago. Ever since 2017, when President Trump announced his intention to abandon the pact, he’s spoken about withdrawal as if it was a done deal. In fact, however, pulling out of the Paris Agreement has been a lengthy process.

On Nov. 4, 2019, the earliest possible day under United Nations rules that a country could begin the final withdrawal process, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo filed paperwork to do so. It automatically finalized a year later. So, as of Wednesday morning, the United States is officially no longer a part of the group of nations pledging to address climate change.

President Trump has called the Paris Agreement “job-killing” and said it would “punish the American people while enriching foreign polluters.”

Technically, though, the Paris Agreement doesn’t require the United States to do anything. In fact, it’s not even a treaty. It’s a nonbinding agreement among nations of all levels of wealth and responsibility for causing climate change to reduce domestic emissions.

The accord essentially ties together every nation’s voluntary emissions pledge in a single forum, with the understanding that countries will set even tougher targets over time over time. The United States under President Barack Obama promised to reduce its emissions about 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025, but progress on that goal stopped under the Trump administration.

There are some reporting requirements to ensure that countries are making progress, but the Trump administration flouted those and so far has suffered no consequences.

Almost every country in the world. Of the 195 countries that signed the Paris Agreement, 189 went on to formally adopt the accord. Initially Nicaragua and Syria withheld their support from the pact but both eventually joined the agreement.

As of Wednesday, in addition to the United States, the countries that originally signed but have not formally adopted the Paris Agreement are: Angola, Eritrea, Iran, Iraq, South Sudan, Turkey and Yemen.

So far, no other country has followed the United States in renouncing the Paris Agreement. At one point President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil threatened to do so but he later reversed course.

In recent weeks there have been a spate of ambitious climate commitments from Europe and Asia. The European Parliament voted last month to cut emissions 60 percent by 2030, with the goal of reaching carbon neutrality by 2050. That measure will now be considered by the European Union’s council of ministers. China vowed to become carbon neutral by 2060. That pledge was followed by ones from South Korea and Japan, both of which vowed to zero out net emissions by 2050.

“There’s momentum continuing to build even with the U.S. pulling out,” said Alden Meyer, a director at the Union of Concerned Scientists and a 30-year veteran of international climate negotiations.

“The question is, would it continue without the U.S. fully on board?” he said.

Not necessarily. Leaving the Paris Agreement does not in itself mean the United States will stop addressing climate change.

On the other hand, it does mean the federal government has formally abandoned, for now at least, President Obama’s goal of cutting emissions about 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.

In reality, the United States under President Trump walked away from that target years ago. Right now, we’re about halfway to the Obama-era goal and not on track to meet it. So, while emissions probably won’t rise, they also won’t fall fast enough to avert the worst effects of climate change.

No. Any future president could opt back in.

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has pledged that he would recommit the United States to the Paris Agreement on Day 1. In practical terms that means on Inauguration Day, Jan. 20, his administration would send a letter to the United Nations notifying it of America’s intention to rejoin. The American return would become official 30 days later.

Other countries would most likely give a Biden administration some time to get on its feet but would also want to see strong early signs that the United States has substantial plans to cut domestic emissions from cars, power plants and other sources.

By the time the United States joins other countries at the next United Nations climate conference, scheduled for Glasgow in November next year, it would be expected to have an emissions-cutting target even more ambitious than the Obama-era one.

If the United States stayed out of the agreement, it could still have a voice in United Nations climate negotiations. That’s because it would still be a member of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the body that created the Paris Agreement. America would, however, be reduced to observer status, which means its negotiators would be allowed to attend meetings and work with other countries to shape outcomes but not be allowed to vote on decisions.

“They will still have influence, but nothing like they would as full players,” Mr. Meyer said.





No.8 article:
9 Ways Outdoor Dining Will Change New York

Street and sidewalk tables won’t just survive the pandemic. They’ll make the city a different place.

Covid-19 has changed New York City’s restaurant culture more than any event since Prohibition. The most obvious effect, happening now and getting worse by the week but already dismal to contemplate, will be the death of hundreds and possibly thousands of small, independent businesses, each loss radiating out to employees, communities and suppliers many miles away. The crisis is so immediate and overwhelming that it is hard to imagine what life will be like after it’s over.

But when the pandemic is under control and restrictions on dining have been lifted, at least one emergency measure will remain. The outdoor dining program that allowed more than 10,000 restaurants to set out tables and chairs on the city’s sidewalks and streets is here to stay, according to Mayor Bill de Blasio and the City Council.

In the general calamity, it’s been easy to overlook the enormous implications this move will have for restaurants, streets and neighborhoods. It’s not too soon to start making a few predictions about a city whose character will be shaped as much by the umbrellas and chairs at ground level as it is by the lights and spires of its skyline.

Restaurants won’t just be serving outdoors; they’ll also be assembling food and perhaps cooking it, to whatever extent the Fire Department allows. Already this summer and fall, the scent of smoke and Scotch bonnet peppers has filled the air in Crown Heights and Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn, as Jamaican cooks prepare jerk chicken in barrel smokers on corners and in parking lots. Soon every Mexican restaurant will want its own sidewalk taco cart, every izakaya its own open-air hibachi, every seafood house a spread of oysters and clams on ice to lure passers-by.

With a few exceptions, the city’s restaurants have traditionally favored quiet, discreet, even coy exteriors. This is all about to change as the industry conducts a large-scale experiment in capturing the attention of pedestrians. Remember the inflatable pink flamingoes in the middle of Seventh Avenue? They may have been lonely at first, but soon they will feel very much at home as pool toys, thatched umbrellas, palm trees and other items associated with spring break become regular features of New York street life. It won’t just be tiki-adjacent décor, though. Will flashing lights bring in customers? What about those “waving their arms” tube puppets that used-car dealers love? We’ll find out.

Last week, I ate at a table placed on Arthur Avenue in the Bronx, several blocks of which are closed to traffic on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. After my veal Parm and spaghetti arrived, a gentleman rode a bicycle along the avenue. On the handlebars, he’d balanced a jukebox playing Tony Bennett. Can the strolling accordionists be far behind? Since the outdoor dining program started in June, musicians have been playing for tips. Tomi Jazz, the Japanese jazz bar in Midtown, moved its entire operation outside to a shack built on East 53rd Street where small combos play quietly every non-rainy night. Tilt your head, squint your eyes and you can see the glimmer of a New York where street music is as deeply woven into street life as it is in New Orleans.

A lawyer would say that musicians are allowed play in public, without amplification, anywhere they like. A New Yorker would say, “Good luck with that.” Already, restaurants are fielding complaints from neighbors who apparently have no room in their hearts for music. Joshua Jennings, a jazz trumpeter who played several nights this summer on Cornelia Street in Greenwich Village, said it was one of his favorite locations until a few people who live there began threatening to have the city revoke the block’s permission to close itself to traffic and place tables in the street. Before it came to that, a restaurateur on the block politely asked them to find somewhere else to play. (Mr. Jennings says they’ll be outside Da Toscano on Minetta Lane this weekend, weather permitting.)

A lot more people live above outdoor dining areas than did a year ago. Neighbors will say that sidewalk and street seating draw not only jazz musicians but also rats, panhandlers and out-of-control bachelorette parties. In our grid of grievances, this means that some restaurants are going to have to fight off attacks on their ability to operate outdoors. Liquor licenses will be the first targets. Privilege will assert itself. I hope restaurants can follow the rules and then stand their ground. They add more to the city’s culture than the parked cars they’ve displaced.

Citi Bike stations in the pavement were a start, but they didn’t seem truly ours, partly because of the corporate branding. But once you’ve gotten used to enjoying dinner and a cocktail on a patch of blacktop that would otherwise be taken up by a RAV4, you begin to wonder what else could sit in the street. Some cities have given parking spaces to shared trash bins so leaking garbage bags no longer sprawl on the sidewalks. What about community gardens? Meditation classes? Soccer match broadcasts? Desks with outlets and Wi-Fi for the permanently WFH? More tables and chairs set aside for people who can’t afford a restaurant meal?

Calls across the country to “defund the police” have led to new interest in other ways of keeping streets safe. A block with a popular outdoor dining area could be a less appealing site for street crime. “As we’re talking about reforms to policing — when you have more people, when you don’t have abandoned places, there’s more safety,” said Michael Kodransky, the global research manager of the nonprofit Institute for Transportation &amp; Development Policy. “That’s the theory of eyes on the street,” he said, citing an idea laid out by Jane Jacobs in her 1961 book “The Death and Life of Great American Cities.”

Restaurants and bars with significant sidewalk and street frontage will see a dramatic increase in overall seating once indoor dining is back in full swing. The city is providing the outdoor space free of charge, but many storefront owners won’t be as generous. Most of them are too worried about collecting any rent at all to be focused on how much they might charge a year from now, said Michael A. Tortorici, a partner at the real estate brokerage Ariel Property Advisors. After the state of emergency ends, the fairly lawless world of outdoor dining will be more strictly regulated in ways that will affect restaurant earnings. “It’s very hard to predict right now” how rents will respond, he said. “But revenue sharing is something people are talking a lot about these days.”

The stripped-down, nearly instant approval process that allows restaurants to set up sidewalk and street seating turned out to be far more fair than the complicated and expensive former system for getting sidewalk dining permits. A 15-seat Nigerian restaurant in the South Bronx is almost as likely to clear the regulatory hurdles as the trattoria on Madison Avenue charging $40 for a plate of ravioli. But we won’t be in a state of emergency forever. New regulations are coming to keep bus and bike lanes safe, and to make sure that outdoor dining is accessible to people with disabilities, Polly Trottenberg, the commissioner of the Department of Transportation, told members of the City Council in September.

Still, it will be a great loss if the system is recomplicated so much that restaurateurs again need to hire a lawyer, an architect and an expediter to get permits. The whole city has benefited by encouraging restaurants of all sorts, from the most well-off to the leanest and scrappiest, to lend their own flavor to public spaces. Our economy is struggling, but our street culture, after decades of changes that made it more boring, is interesting again.

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.9 article:
As Augmented Reality Evolves, the Reporting Is All Around You

A new storytelling initiative is rooted in the belief that information is “not going to be on a sliver of glass forever.”

Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.

As wildfires ravaged the West Coast and toxic smoke billowed and tainted the air this summer, those safe in their homes in other parts of the country were able to get a glimpse of the air quality just by holding up their phones. Through the use of a specialized Instagram filter, viewers of The New York Times on Instagram could project floating smoke particles into their living rooms or backyards. They could see what Westerners were living through.

Through the use of augmented reality, or AR, which lays a computer-generated image or animation over a user’s view of the real world, The New York Times was able to create an immersive experience intended to produce a deeper level of understanding.

In a recently announced collaboration with Facebook, which owns Instagram, The Times has started an Instagram-driven augmented reality initiative meant to create more personal and interactive experiences for users.

The project will use Spark AR, a developer platform owned by Facebook, which gives creators access to a suite of tools and software needed to create augmented reality filters and camera effects and then distribute them on Instagram and Facebook. The social media conglomerate is not involved in any storytelling or editorial decisions.

Though The Times has published journalism using augmented reality, or AR, on its website and through its own app since 2018, this series is the first time the technology has been published solely to be consumed through social platforms.

“We’re reaching a newer audience who is more familiar with this storytelling medium,” said Karthik Patanjali, graphics editor for special projects. Mr. Patanjali began experimenting with AR and Times journalism four years ago. “We knew this medium had a lot of potential, but nobody had used it for journalistic storytelling,” he said. “It was all dancing hot dogs.”

The Times’s new AR Lab, composed of around a dozen reporters, editors, developers, project managers, 3-D artists and designers, will work to produce content accessible not only to The Times’s 10.7 million Instagram followers but to anyone who uses the social media platform, making pieces of the organization’s journalism reachable for a new audience. According to Dan Sanchez, an editor for emerging platforms at The Times, the team hopes to use AR to create an immersive hook into the journalism The Times already produces online and make use of Instagram’s “swipe up” feature, linking long-form pieces, to reach people who might not already have a direct connection to the newspaper.

To help the storytelling process, the AR team works closely with desks across the newsroom, from Climate to Cooking to Games, to find opportunities to incorporate the technology in methods that feel complementary and purposeful. So far, along with the project that highlighted the toxicity caused by the wildfires, the initiative has also brought to life interactive artifacts to commemorate the centennial of the 19th Amendment and a filter that demonstrates decreases in air pollution around the world during the Covid-19 lockdowns.

“The whole point of this project is to really dig into how we can connect the physical world to layers of visual information,” Mr. Sanchez said. “If you’re an Instagram user, you can actually see those layers of information over top of the physical world, and you can actually manipulate them and remix them, and experience them on your own.”

The team’s latest project, which was published on Saturday, is an immersive experience informed by infectious-disease experts that illustrates how different masks trap and hold assorted sizes of microscopic particles. By creating these participatory filters, those working on the project hope to help users create a new world and space they can explore on their own.

“If we can take a piece of evidence and put it right in front of you so that you can see it, sense it and know its scale, I think that’s pretty huge,” said Noah Pisner, a 3-D immersive editor. “There’s a lot of ways we can use it to just improve the work that journalists are already doing. We want it to be something that’s additive.”

According to those on the team, augmented reality’s current role in journalism is meant to be supplemental the same way a video, a photo or a graphic might be. While it’s meant to enhance the narrative experience at the moment, some editors believe this shift toward AR indicates not only a shift in journalism, but a shift in how we obtain and view information as a whole, Mr. Patanjali said.

“You won’t be consuming information like this forever,” he said. “It’s not going to be on a sliver of glass forever. It’s going to be around you. These are all steps toward that future we’re preparing ourselves for. The world is 3-D. Why shouldn’t the information we present also be?”





No.10 article:
As Counting Begins, a Flood of Mail Ballots Complicates Vote Tallies

Battleground states will use quite different methods to count the record number of mail-in ballots. But they may be the way of the future.

[President-elect Joe Biden’s victory prompts spontaneous celebrations.]

Voters returned nearly 64 million mail-in ballots before Election Day, a pandemic-driven record that is certain to make for a more complicated vote count this year but could also reshape American elections for years to come.

The counting is underway, but there are major differences among battleground states in how that plays out, and potential legal challenges — particularly from the Trump campaign — are likely to further complicate the process.

Some battleground states, like North Carolina, have been processing ballots for weeks. Elections officials there expect at least 97 percent of votes to be counted on Tuesday night. But in one of the most hotly contested states, Pennsylvania, the Trump campaign and Republican allies blocked counties from processing votes ahead of the election.

Mail-in balloting this year doubled from 2016, and for many voters, the shift has been a revelation.

In Atlanta, Frank Casaceli ran up the stairs of a library on the Georgia State University campus on Sunday, placed his absentee ballot in an official county drop box, and quickly headed back to his parked car. At age 42, it was the first time he had ever voted.

“Usually I work 12 hours a day,” Mr. Casaceli said, explaining why he had skipped out on the polls for the past two decades. The convenience factor, driving to the drop box on a traffic-free Sunday afternoon and skipping the lines at polls, had removed a major impediment to his participation.

Mr. Casaceli voted for President Trump, who has spent much of the 2020 campaign admonishing people like him, who cast their mail-in ballots in the closing days of the election. Mr. Trump returned to the issue on Monday at a rally in Fayetteville, N.C.

“Get your ballots in and have them in long before the third, and have them counted before the third,” he said, while assailing a recent Supreme Court ruling that rebuffed his campaign’s attempt to curtail the acceptance of Pennsylvania ballots that are postmarked by Election Day but arrive in election offices up to three days later.

“What a ruling, what a horrible thing that they’ve done,” he said of the court. “Do you know that puts our country in danger? Do you know what can happen during that long period of time?” he said, and then, answering his own question, said “cheating can happen like you’ve never seen.”

The president’s persistent claims of a rigged election, however, are baseless. But with more Democrats voting by mail than Republicans, Mr. Trump has tried to sow doubts about the process and the validity of those ballots.

“I don’t care how hard Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing he can do to stop the people of this nation from voting, no matter how he tries,” former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said at a rally in Pittsburgh. “Trump doesn’t want y’all voting. He doesn’t want Americans voting. He thinks only wealthy folks should vote. And when America votes, though, America will be heard.”

Five states were already largely voting by mail in the years before the pandemic: Colorado, Washington, Oregon, Hawaii and Utah. Now the rest of the country appears to be moving in that direction as well, notwithstanding the president’s stance, concerns that absentee votes have a higher rejection rate than in-person votes, or stories of ballots that were never delivered or went astray. (Absentee and mail-in votes are largely interchangeable terms.)

“I believe the usage of mail balloting in this election will continue a trend towards expanded mail balloting that we’ve seen across the country. In particular, states with permanent absentee ballot lists will likely see their numbers swell, which may eventually lead the way to all-mail ballot elections,” said Michael McDonald, a professor of political science at the University of Florida.

This year’s mail-in vote totals will climb well past the nearly 64 million that election officials had recorded through Monday. Some ballots have already arrived at election offices around the country but have not yet been entered into the system. Others have been mailed, but not yet delivered.

Dr. McDonald, who tracks election statistics, says that, as of Tuesday, just over 28 million absentee ballots requested by voters had not been entered as returned to election officials. In an analysis posted on his website, he said that those ballots are rightly a concern to Democrats, but that there still may be time for many of them to be counted.

While many states require that ballots arrive at elections offices by the close of polls Tuesday, some permit extra time, as long as the ballots are postmarked by Election Day.

About 15 election workers in Fulton County, home to Atlanta, were busy Monday processing ballots in a large room at the State Farm Arena — space lent to the county by the Atlanta Hawks basketball team.

Huddled around white plastic Postal Service trays containing tens of thousands of ballots, the workers were methodically opening them, placing ballots and envelopes in separate stacks, then scanning the ballots into machines resembling large printers.

While the scanning is ongoing, the actual vote tallying will not take place until after polls close, but having the ballots already scanned is a significant advantage.

By contrast, Republicans who control the Pennsylvania Legislature thwarted efforts by county leaders and the governor to begin processing mail-in ballots there, which as a result did not begin until Election Day.

“The legislature has refused to give counties the time they need,” said Amber McReynolds, chief executive of the National Vote at Home Institute, which advocates voting by mail, and the former head of Denver’s election system. “When the president started tweeting about vote by mail, we pretty much lost all the momentum we had with legislatures in certain states. I really wish we hadn’t had the tweeting.”

Mr. Trump originally voiced concern in March, during an appearance on “Fox &amp; Friends,” that Republicans would never be elected again if coronavirus-related voting changes championed by Democrats were enacted. Those concerns could have been the underlying reason for his subsequent repeated claims that voting by mail was vulnerable to mischief. By July, Mr. Trump was claiming that it would lead to large-scale election fraud.

Some Republicans worried that the president’s assault on mail voting had undermined efforts at both the party’s national and state levels to encourage its voters to apply for absentee ballots.

After all, it was Republicans who had pioneered a strategy during the 1980s of promoting absentee voting, focusing on Floridians who escaped to milder climates during the summer.

One advantage of the mail voting process is its convenience for people whose work schedules are busy or inflexible. Frequently they are lower-paid workers whose votes skew Democratic.

Democrats have embraced mail-in ballots in this election at a far higher rate than Republicans, according to numbers from states that report the party registration of voters.

In the battleground state of Florida, a major prize with 29 electoral votes, 2.1 million Democrats have returned mail ballots compared to 1.4 million Republicans. (Republicans in Florida lead, however, in early, in-person voting, a separate category of early voting.)

Despite the convenience of mail voting, and the possibility that it is partly responsible for turnout increases this year, it has downsides. In every election there are votes that go uncounted because of machine malfunctions or other snafus. Research shows that those votes, known as the “undercount,” are higher when mail ballots are used.

Part of the undercount this year — a yet-undetermined number — is made up of those voters who applied for absentee ballots but did not receive them.

A Gwinnett County, Ga., man, Patrick Boyle, had planned to cast a vote for Mr. Biden. But Mr. Boyle, who is working temporarily in the wine industry in Oregon, received his Georgia ballot on Saturday — too late to use it — even though he requested it more than a month ago.

A postal worker came to his door and delivered the ballot in a good-sized box, first requesting to see his identification.

“Everything about it was confusing,” said Mr. Boyle, 27. “The return address is some warehouse in Detroit.”

Mr. Boyle’s partner, who had requested a ballot from Fulton County, Ga., in September, never got hers at all, he said.

Amid Mr. Trump’s criticism of mail-in voting, he himself cast an absentee ballot this year, as he has in the past — and as have some of his supporters.

Rose Bryant, a 68-year-old retiree who attended Mr. Trump’s rally Monday in Fayetteville, said “I don’t like it” when asked about the move to broader mail-in voting, even though she and her husband have cast absentee ballots in the past. “This is how Democrats find a way to cheat.”





No.11 article:
China Halts Ant Group’s Blockbuster I.P.O.

A dual listing in Shanghai and Hong Kong was postponed one day after Chinese regulators summoned Jack Ma and other executives of the financial technology giant.

Ant Group challenged China’s state-dominated banking system by bringing easy-to-use payments, borrowing and investing to hundreds of millions of smartphones across the country. On Tuesday, Chinese officialdom reminded the company who was really in charge.

In a late-evening announcement that stunned China, the Shanghai Stock Exchange slammed the brakes on Ant’s initial public offering, which was set to be the biggest stock debut in history with investors on multiple continents and at least $34 billion in proceeds.

The stock exchange’s notice to Ant said that the company’s proposed offering might no longer meet the requirements for listing after Chinese regulators had summoned company executives, including Jack Ma, the co-founder of the e-commerce titan Alibaba and Ant’s controlling shareholder, for a meeting on Monday.

Neither the regulators nor Ant has said in detail what was discussed at the meeting. But the timing of the conversation, mere days before Ant’s shares were expected to begin trading concurrently in Shanghai and Hong Kong, suggested discord with the company or with Mr. Ma, who spun Ant out of Alibaba in 2011.

Though he is not part of Ant’s management, Mr. Ma has been a spirited champion for the company’s mission of bringing financial services to small businesses and others in China who he says have been ill served by stodgy, government-run institutions.

Shortly after the Shanghai exchange’s announcement, Ant said it was suspending the Hong Kong leg of its listing as well. The company apologized to investors “for any inconvenience.”

“We will keep in close communications with the Shanghai Stock Exchange and relevant regulators,” the company said, “and wait for their further notice with respect to further developments of our offering and listing process.”

Shares of Alibaba, a major Ant shareholder, fell 8 percent on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday.

Over the past decade, Ant has transformed the way people in China interact with money. The company’s Alipay app has become an essential payment tool for more than 730 million users, as well as a platform for obtaining small loans and buying insurance and investment products.

But competing against China’s politically connected financial institutions always came with risks. Regulators have looked warily upon Ant’s fast growth in certain areas, fearful it might become too big to rescue in the event of a meltdown.

Ant has pivoted in response. Instead of using its own money to extend loans, the company now primarily acts as an agent for banks, introducing them to individual borrowers and small enterprises that they might not otherwise reach. It describes itself as a technology partner to banks, not a competitor or a disrupter.

This business model works just fine for many of Ant’s investors, evidently. The company’s expected market valuation after the dual listing, more than $310 billion, would make it worth more than many global banks. Mr. Ma, already China’s richest man, would become even richer.

Still, Ant’s future remains at the mercy of Chinese regulators, whose views on the melding of tech and finance are still evolving.

“The regulators have long been looking at the risks in this area and how it should be regulated, but it’s all suddenly coming out at this specific time,” said Yu Baicheng, head of the Zero One Research Institute, a think tank in Beijing focused on finance and tech. “It’s definitely a statement of the regulators’ attitude.”

An article on the website of Economic Daily, an official Communist Party newspaper, praised the decision to suspend Ant’s share sale, calling it in the best interest of investors.

“Every market participant must respect and revere the rules — no exceptions,” the article said.

Besides Mr. Ma, the meeting on Monday with the regulatory agencies included Ant’s executive chairman, Eric Jing, and its chief executive, Simon Hu. “Views regarding the health and stability of the financial sector were exchanged,” Ant said in a statement.

In another sign of the continuing scrutiny, the nation’s banking regulator, the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission, issued new draft rules on Monday for online microfinance businesses. Among them were higher capital requirements for loans and tighter controls on lending across provincial lines.

The Shanghai exchange’s suspension of the Ant I.P.O. appeared to take note of the draft rules, saying that recent changes in the regulatory environment had affected Ant significantly. Bai Chengyu, an executive at the China Association of Microfinance, said the new rules could cause the entire microfinance industry to shrink.

The famously outspoken Mr. Ma did not ingratiate himself with the authorities when he said, in a recent speech in Shanghai, that financial regulators’ excessive focus on containing risk could stifle innovation.

“We cannot manage an airport the way we managed a train station,” he said. “We cannot use yesterday’s methods to manage the future.”

The head of consumer protection at China’s banking regulator, Guo Wuping, slapped back on Monday, calling out two popular features in Alipay by name in a sharply critical article in 21st Century Business Herald, a government-owned newspaper.

Mr. Guo argued that online finance products were not fundamentally different from traditional ones, and that financial technology companies should therefore be regulated in the same way as established institutions.

Huabei, a credit function in Alipay, is no different from a credit card issued by a bank, Mr. Guo wrote. And Jiebei, an Alipay loan feature, is no different from a bank loan. Ant has called Huabei and Jiebei the most widely used consumer credit products in China.

Loose regulation has allowed financial technology companies to charge higher fees than banks, Mr. Guo wrote. This, he said, “has caused some low-income people and young people to fall into debt traps, ultimately harming consumers’ rights and interests and even endangering families and society.”

Ant declined to comment on Mr. Guo’s article.





No.12 article:
Need a Good Cry? In Mexico, a Town Picks the Best Person for the Job

Cemeteries were closed on the Day of the Dead, depriving Mexicans of mourning rituals. But one town went ahead with its annual weeping competition, giving everyone a chance to share in a cathartic cry.

MEXICO CITY — With the virus still raging, much of Mexico closed graveyards and canceled public festivities on the Day of the Dead, robbing many of the chance to collectively grieve those they’ve lost.

But one city, adapting to the pandemic, put its annual tradition of selecting the best mourner in the country online — and in doing so, gave Mexicans the chance to share in a good, cathartic, soul-cleansing cry.

San Juan del Río, in central Mexico, takes the country’s unique approach to death, which is embraced as a part of life, very seriously. One of its main attractions is a Museum of Death. And its annual competition for best mourner, created to honor the ancient practice of hiring weeping women to witness burials, drew hundreds of spectators.

Normally, the contestants would take turns crying in front of a live audience, but the risks posed by people wailing before a crowd of hundreds were too great. The virus has killed more than 92,000 in Mexico and cases continue to rise.

After checking with the contest’s sponsor, a local funeral home, the tourism bureau announced last month that they would accept video entries by email. Participants were invited to submit videos of themselves sobbing for up to two minutes, to be evaluated by a panel of judges. Twenty-seven contestants sent entries — double the number who took part last year.

Many of the participants took a melodramatic approach, setting their allotted two minutes of weeping at a grave site and scream-crying with the gusto of a telenovela star. Others went the comedic route, such as a woman from Aguascalientes who bawled about the apparent onset of menopause, addressing her tears to her wayward period.

“You were always so punctual,” she wailed. “And then one day, without saying anything, you never came back.”

“Laughing at death is part of Mexican culture,” said Eduardo Guillén, the head of the city’s tourism bureau. “It’s a way of confronting the problem and feeling less vulnerable.”

Mr. Guillén said that only women were invited to compete because of “tradition,” though he said the city was open to allowing male criers to participate.

For years, the contest was dominated by a mother-and-daughter duo who regularly won first place, but they didn’t enter this year — cracking the field wide open to newcomers from across Mexico.

Princesa Katleen Chávez Arce, from Baja California, won the top prize and a cash award of about $164. Ms. Chávez, an actress, had never tried professional crying. But this year, she said, gave her plenty of experience with the amateur variety. After she relocated to Mexico City to try to act in movies, the pandemic dried up her work opportunities. In September, she gave up and moved back home.

“The crisis hit me,” she said. “So yes, I cried, and for about a week I did absolutely nothing.”

In Ms. Chávez’s slickly produced video, she starts by giggling and then transitions into a sob while gazing at a dead man’s tomb near her hometown. “I asked for his permission before doing this exercise,” she said.

In second place was the unlikely Ma Silveria Balderas Rubio, whose daughters heard about the contest online and persuaded her to enter. Ms. Silveria, 58, said that she pretended to be one of the inconsolable grievers she has seen at funerals to get herself to emote enough.

“I have been to burials where people cry like that, and it makes sense, but I can’t cry that much,” Ms. Silveria said. “I cry, but not that much.”

Her performance, shot on a cellphone in a single take, presented a conundrum for judges. On one hand, it is as simple as can be, set in a sparse room without a coffin visible in the shaky frame. But Ms. Silveria’s anguished weeping, hyperventilated breathing and insistence that she “just saw him yesterday” seem startlingly real.

“The video is very homemade, and all she does is cry,” said Juan Carlos Zerecero, a local theater teacher who helped judge the competition. Still, he said, that is really the idea. “That’s what we’re asking them to do, no?” he said. “To me, she’s crying in a very truthful way.”

Ms. Silveria said that after watching the video she wished she had something more dramatic with her body, like some other contestants who “throw themselves at the tomb, grab the coffin and things like that.”

Perhaps the most relatable entry was put forward by Brenda Anakaren Torres Villarreal, who dedicated her video to crying about the year 2020. Ms. Torres Villarreal, 31, sprays her cameraman with disinfectant before removing a mask to shriek about how the year left us “depressed, out of work and in quarantine.”

Her inspiration, she said, was the unconscionable number of horrors that occurred this year. “It is without a doubt one of the worst years that we have ever lived,” she said. “If you’re not crying about 2020, you’re not crying about anything.”

But the point wasn’t to wallow, Ms. Torres Villarreal said. It was to laugh at all this misery.

“Mexicans always have the capacity to find comedy in tragedy,” she said, “to find the good part of it, even if that doesn’t exist.”





No.13 article:
Businesses Underground Are Desperate. Even the Oyster Bar Can’t Survive.

Since March, 77 of the 321 retail businesses still operating in the subway system have permanently closed, according to the transit agency.

Even as trains sat mostly empty and silence filled Vanderbilt Hall, for one day it felt like a time capsule in a corner of Grand Central Terminal: The station’s famed Oyster Bar, which had shuttered for seven months because of pandemic restrictions, had reopened and 80 of its 81 reservations slots were filled.

Inside bartenders sloshed cocktails, shuckers pried open shells and regulars slid onto leather chairs in a scene familiar since the restaurant opened in 1913. 

But the liveliness was fleeting. As days passed, the flood of customers dwindled to a trickle. Then, only two weeks after the restaurant reopened, it closed.

For over a century, the New York City subway has served as the backbone of the city’s economy, shuttling riders to workplaces and tourists to famed sightseeing spots. At the same time, the system spawned its own economic ecosystem of businesses sustained by the millions of people traipsing through stations every day.

But when the pandemic decimated ridership, those establishments lost almost all their customers, dealing a blow at least as devastating, if not worse, as the pain the outbreak has inflicted on businesses above ground. 

The number of transit-linked businesses, from newsstands and hot dog vendors to florists and shoe shiners, had already been in steady decline as print newspapers lost favor and tighter regulations meant to make the subway system cleaner and less cluttered shut down stores. 

Now the prolonged period of low ridership has made the situation even worse. 

Since March, 77 of the 321 retail businesses still operating in the system have permanently closed, according to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the city’s subway.

“How do we survive?” said Jairo Cardenas, 62, a cobbler who runs a shoe shine shop along the Eighth Avenue stretch of the Times Square station, typically one of the system’s busiest stops. “We don’t have tourists, people are all working from home. We have nothing.”

At the Oyster Bar, Sandy Ingber, the executive chef and a co-owner, was optimistic during the initial rush of old customers excited to finally visit. But within days, the flurry of reservations dried up.

As dinners dwindled, the staff did too. First to be let go were the waiters, then some cooks. Mr. Ingber fought to keep his last shucker — it is an oyster bar after all — but soon even he was laid off. 

“It’s just not sustainable,” Mr. Ingber, 66, said.  “Until we have more foot traffic in Grand Central we just can’t do it.”

He is not sure when the restaurant might reopen. 

“People are very worried about going into restaurants indoors, much less going into a train station,” he said.

In an effort to keep remaining shops open, the transit agency adopted a plan last week to offer long-term rent relief, adjusting rents to reflect current sales until business returns to normal.

“We want to make sure when the system comes back, we haven’t lost all the amenities for our customers,” said Janno Lieber, the head of the authority’s construction and development.

Still, some shop owners say with subway ridership at just 30 percent of normal levels — and unlikely to rebound to pre-pandemic levels anytime soon as more businesses keep their workers home — rent relief may not be enough to keep them afloat.

“Without people coming back to offices, we are dead,” said Dominick Abruscato, 72, who owns the Royal Barber Shop at the Fulton Street station in Lower Manhattan. 

Since 1937, business executives and other workers have sought out this unassuming corner of the station for a haircut. In recent years, many have come specifically to see Mr. Abruscato, an Italian immigrant who began cutting hair when he was 8, turned professional when he was 14 and began working in the shop 40 years ago.

“I don’t even have hair anymore and I wouldn’t go elsewhere,” said the shop’s lone client, John Silverman, 71, as he sat in Mr. Abruscato’s barber chair one recent afternoon.

Like all other nonessential businesses in the city, the shop closed for three months this spring during New York’s initial lockdown. The first three days after he reopened in June were hectic, Mr. Abruscato said. Around 45 clients booked appointments each day. But after that, the cascade of daily customers slowed to two or three.

“I’m trying,” he said. “I’m trying to stick around, but I don’t know what’s going to happen.” 

Farther north at the Times Square station — the system’s de facto town square where nine lines intersect — the owner of a women’s clothing store, Backwoods, said revenues had not reached more than 25 percent of normal levels at the store.

“When 42nd Street reopened it was really depressing,” said the owner, John Ruesch, 63. “You work really hard for 30 years to build a business and then all of a sudden there are no customers.” 

But in a reflection of how the pandemic has changed riding trends — emptying usually packed Manhattan stations, while pushing ridership higher in other boroughs where essential workers tend to live —  his store’s second branch in the Jackson Heights-Roosevelt Avenue/74th Street station in Queens is faring far better. That store is making about half its usual revenue and may help both shops survive.

Even iconic stalwarts have not been spared from the financial free-fall.

Down a long corridor from Backwoods, Record Mart — which sold vinyls and sound equipment — had been a fixture in the station for half a century.

But in recent years its owner, Lou Moskowitz, had watched as the bank across the mezzanine closed and his record sales eroded as most retail moved online. The pandemic felt like a catalyst for an inevitable end. At the beginning of June, the store closed permanently.

“Things are just so different now, it’s hard to have a record store in the subway moving forward,” said Mr. Moskowitz, 53, who took over the shop from his father 14 years ago. “And I just knew that no one is going to be using the subway, so it wouldn’t pay to reopen.”

News of the store’s closure felt like a death knell for riders who could recall when stores like the Record Mart were at their peak. When the city took over the privately operated subway lines in 1940, a transit system that had shuttled shoppers to stores on the streets suddenly offered retailers an opportunity to sell to them before they left the station.

During the 1960s, over 170 newsstands catered to riders’ reading desires for their morning commute. Workers purchased flowers on their way home. And hundreds of stores selling everything from candy to schoolchildren to panty hoses to working women found their niche among the steady stream of riders.

But the heyday did not last long. After trash-conscious transit officials cracked down on subway food stands in the 1980s and the proliferation of smartphones replaced newspapers at the turn of the century, many of those shops vanished. By the early 1990s, there were just 50 newsstands. Today most stand empty on subway platforms, entombed in metal security gates.

“I suspect part of it was economic,” said Joe Cunningham, a subway historian, explaining the decline. “That and cleaning up the subway were the main drivers.” 

The M.T.A. has made a push in recent years to revamp empty retail spaces to make the system more appealing to riders and also produce some money for the system: last year, retail real estate generated around $60 million in revenue — down from around $80 million the year before, transit officials say.

The transit agency has announced plans for new pop-up shops and high-tech vending machines, and has tried to lure developers with offers to overhaul entire mezzanines in major stations. 

The first such venture opened at the 59th Street-Columbus Circle station, where an empty corridor was transformed into a mini mall known as the Turnstyle Underground Market, complete with a doughnut stand, paella restaurant and a soap store selling bath bombs.

“We’re in a time when people want to move quickly in and out of public spaces,” said Mr. Lieber, who is leading the initiative. “People may want their path of travel to give them the convenience retail they need.”

The authority is hoping to overhaul the two mezzanines in Times Square station, where empty shops are plastered with bright blue posters advertising the space to developers.

Mr. Cardenas, the cobbler at the station, looks at the posters quizzically when he opens his store. Even before the pandemic, the flashy signs reminded him that his time in the station was probably limited.

These days, the message feels even more prescient. Before the pandemic, around 80 people a day would stop in his cramped store, where the smell of leather cleaner hangs in the air. But in recent weeks, he says he is lucky if 10 people stop in. He has laid off three of his four employees.

“It’s terrible, the business is so, so terrible,” he said. “Every day, the business is getting killed.”





No.14 article:
Dr. Philip Lee Is Dead at 96; Engineered Introduction of Medicare

As a top health official for Lyndon Johnson and a fighter for social justice, he used government money as a cudgel to compel hospitals to desegregate in the ’60s.

Dr. Philip R. Lee, who as a leading federal health official and fighter for social justice under President Lyndon B. Johnson wielded government Medicare money as a cudgel to desegregate the nation’s hospitals in the 1960s, died on Oct. 27 in a hospital in Manhattan. He was 96.

The cause was heart arrhythmia, his wife, Dr. Roz Lasker, said.

From his office at the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, as the assistant secretary for health and scientific affairs from 1965 to 1969, Dr. Lee engineered the introduction of Medicare, which was established for older Americans in 1965, one year after Johnson had bulldozed his landmark civil-rights bill through Congress.

“To Phil, Medicare wasn’t just a ‘big law’ expanding coverage; it was a vehicle to address racial and economic injustice,” his nephew Peter Lee, the executive director of Covered California, which runs the state’s health care marketplace under the Affordable Care Act, was quoted as saying in a tribute by the University of California, San Francisco. Dr. Lee was the university’s chancellor from 1969 to 1972, after leaving the Johnson administration.

Dr. Lee’s use of Medicare funding to desegregate hospitals “changed the economic lives of millions of seniors,” Mr. Lee added.

Provisions in the Medicare legislation subjected 7,000 hospitals nationwide to rules barring discrimination against patients on the basis of race, creed or national origin. The law required equal treatment across the board — from medical and nursing care to bed assignments and cafeteria and restroom privileges — and barred discrimination in hiring, training or promotion.

Before the law took effect in 1966, fewer than half the hospitals in the country met the desegregation standard and less than 25 percent did in the South.

“I remember during one of my visits,” Dr. Lee told the journal of the American Society on Aging in 2015, “a cardiologist at Georgia Baptist Hospital told me, ‘Well, you know, Dr. Lee, if I put a nigger in with one of my white patients, it would kill the patient. My patient would die of a heart attack.’”

By February 1967, a year or less after many of the law’s provisions had taken effect, 95 percent of hospitals were compliant, Dr. Lee said.

“He was largely responsible for that effort,” said Professor David Barton Smith of Drexel University and author of “The Power to Heal: Civil Rights, Medicare and the Struggle to Transform America’s Health System” (2016).

Dr. Lee hailed from a family of physicians — his father and four siblings were doctors — and while working in the Palo Alto Medical Clinic (now the Palo Alto Medical Foundation), which his father founded, he saw firsthand the effects on the poor and the elderly of inadequate health care and the lack of insurance coverage.

As early as 1961, he was a consultant on aging to the Santa Clara Department of Welfare in California, and as a member of the American Medical Association and a Republican at the time, he defied both the A.M.A. and his party in testifying before Congress on behalf of a precursor to Medicare that would have helped pay for hospital and nursing home care through Social Security for patients over 65.

Dr. Lee was branded a socialist and a Communist (no matter that he had served as a doctor in the Korean War).

In 1987, after leading the University of California, San Francisco, and heading health policy and research programs there as a professor of social medicine, he further riled fellow physicians when, as chairman of Congressional commission, he recommended a standardized national limit on how much doctors enrolled in the Medicare program, with a vast pool of patients available to them, could charge above a fixed schedule.

He was called back to Washington in 1993, again to be an assistant secretary, this time of the renamed Department of Health and Human Services under the Clinton administration. Serving until 1997, he advised the White House on its ultimately failed effort on health care reform.

In 2015 he endorsed the Obama administration’s Affordable Care Act and suggested that the country could go even further in guaranteeing universal health care.

“In 1967, President Johnson said we would continue to work until equality of treatment is the rule,” Dr. Lee wrote in Generations: Journal of the American Society on Aging. “By making Medicare an option for all Americans, the kind of care I receive could be available to everyone.”

Philip Randolph Lee was born in San Francisco on April 17, 1924, to Dr. Russell Van Arsdale Lee, who had lobbied for national health insurance as a member of a commission appointed by President Harry S. Truman, and Dorothy (Womack) Lee, an amateur musician.

His interest in medicine, he told Stanford Medicine Magazine in 2004, “began with house calls with my dad from the age of 6 or 7.”

He earned his bachelor’s and medical degrees at Stanford University in 1945 and 1948. As a member of the Naval Reserve, he was on active duty as a doctor at the end of World War II and again from 1949 to 1951, during the Inchon invasion in Korea. He received a master of science degree from the University of Minnesota in 1955 and had fellowships at the Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine in New York and the Mayo Clinic.

“Phil moved from clinical medicine to health policy and then devoted his life to addressing issues at the nexus of civil rights, social justice and health,” Dr. Lasker, his wife, said in an email.

His prominent role in shaping Medicare and other federal health policies was preceded by a stint, 1963-65, as director of health for the Agency for International Development. As chancellor of the University of California, San Francisco, he was credited with increasing racial diversity among its staff, faculty and student body.

In 2007, the university named its Institute for Health Policy Studies, which he founded in 1972, in his honor.

He was also lauded for his aggressive role in confronting the AIDS epidemic as the president of the newly-formed Health Commission of the City and County of San Francisco from 1985 to 1989.

The author of a half-dozen books, Dr. Lee was an early critic of the pharmaceutical industry in “Pills, Profits and Politics” (1974, with Milton Silverman).

Dr. Lee’s first two marriages, to Catherine Lockridge and Carroll Estes, ended in divorce. In addition to his wife, he is survived by five children from his first marriage, Dorothy, Paul, Margaret, Theodore Lee and Amy Lee Pinneo; a stepdaughter, Duskie Estes, from his second marriage; five grandchildren; two step-grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.





No.15 article:
15 Sean Connery Movies to Stream

Whether as James Bond or Indiana Jones’s father, the Scottish star played the man’s man with an earthy sexiness, as these performances prove.

Sean Connery died Saturday at the age of 90. Best known for originating the role of James Bond in movies, the Scottish actor had a career that lasted nearly 60 years, most of which he spent playing a variety of “man’s man” roles — from suave spies to violent brutes. At a time when most popular British thespians were known as Shakespearean-trained aesthetes, Connery became an international star with a screen presence that was earthier and sexier. His musical highland burr and awe-inspiring physicality immediately drew eyes and ears, even when he was playing opposite some of the most accomplished and attractive performers of his generation.

These 15 movies go beyond Bond (though there a couple of can’t-miss 007 adventures in there) to illustrate how Connery commanded the screen, from his roguish youth to his distinguished latter years.

“Dr. No” introduced James Bond to the big screen, but the second film in the series beefed up the mythology, expanding the entire concept of a superspy suavely combating would-be world conquerors. In the character’s first heyday, Connery grounded the increasingly outlandish gadgets, villains, sidekicks, and femmes fatale. While later Bonds (including some played by Connery) would became almost too cartoonishly glib, the 007 in “From Russia With Love” has a certain gruff gravity, even as he’s effortlessly seducing women and dispatching SPECTRE operatives.

The third of the Connery Bonds established many tropes of the series: The stand-alone pre-credits action sequence, a tricked-out Aston Martin DB5, the eye-catching international locales and an array of silly gadgetry. (Bond is advised never to use the passenger-side ejector seat button, which of course only raises expectations.) “Goldfinger” is absurd beyond parody, with one of the best (and most plausible) evil-villain schemes in the franchise, and its lightness of touch makes it a standout among early 007 adventures. It’s the sort of movie where Bond has to free himself from a metal slab while a laser beam slowly moves toward his body.

In one of Alfred Hitchcock’s more disturbing thrillers, Connery plays the wealthy Mark Rutland, drawn to Marnie (played by Tippi Hedren), whom he knows to be psychologically damaged. He marries her anyway, and dedicates time and resources to fixing her wide range of problems — from kleptomania to a violent fear of sex. As played by Connery (and written by the screenwriter Jay Presson Allen, adapting Winston Graham’s novel), Mark can be seen either as the kindly guardian of a troubled person or as a total sicko who gets off on controlling someone too broken to fight back.

While Connery was becoming one of the world’s most popular movie stars as James Bond, he consciously took roles in films that let him show different sides of his personality and talent. The director Sidney Lumet pushed the star to give his best performance of the 1960s in an adaptation of Ray Rigby’s play “The Hill,” about a brutal British military prison designed to break the spirits of insubordinate soldiers. In a complex study of how the values of strength and discipline sometimes conflict, Connery plays a former officer who challenges the authority of his jailers and becomes a hero to his fellow inmates.

The image of a pony-tailed Connery with a Fu Manchu mustache, thigh-high boots and a red loincloth has been known to turn some potential viewers away from the writer-director John Boorman’s visionary postapocalyptic allegory. But if you can accept that a lot of the silliness in “Zardoz” is purposeful, it’s surprisingly easy to fall under Boorman’s strange spell, and to appreciate Connery’s fearless performance as a rebellious warrior whose terrifying rawness shakes up a utopian society of timid intellectuals.

In Sidney Lumet’s hit adaptation of the Agatha Christie whodunit, Connery joins a cast of international stars (Ingrid Bergman, Anthony Perkins, Vanessa Redgrave, and John Gielgud among them) who fall under the penetrating gaze of Hercule Poirot (Albert Finney) after a passenger is murdered on a train. There’s not much to “Murder on the Orient Express” as cinema, since the bulk of the film involves Poirot interrogating the passengers one by one in the same train car. But it’s the ultimate brainteaser for amateur sleuths in the audience, even if they’re unlikely to see the big twist coming.

Connery had one of his best screen partners in Michael Caine, in the director John Huston’s extraordinarily entertaining adaptation of Rudyard Kipling’s rip-roaring novella. The pair play globe-hopping mercenaries and con men who stumble into an Afghan community where they’re briefly hailed as gods. A tongue-in-cheek take on old-fashioned Victorian adventure, the film sees Connery doing what’s almost a spoof of the classic British pulp hero — more dim and thuggish than noble.

A film about aging and almost-forgotten legends, Richard Lester’s 1976 historical romance “Robin and Marian” has Connery as Robin Hood, returning from the Crusades to find Nottingham’s poor still suffering, the Merry Men scattered, and Maid Marian (Audrey Hepburn) living a life of anonymous service as a nun. Typical of Lester, there’s an enjoyable casualness to “Robin And Marian,” even as the heroes are worrying that they’re too past their prime to escape certain death. And though he still had decades left to go in his career, Connery is entirely convincing as an aged Robin, fighting to convince his true love that there’s still life left in her wearying bones.

The director Michael Crichton’s crackling adaptation of his own novel has nothing more or less on its mind than delivering a twisty, entertaining little caper and it pays off handsomely. Looking resplendent in their mid-1800s top hats and mutton chops, Connery and Donald Sutherland are an appealingly roguish team of thieves conspiring to steal a gold shipment from a moving train. This isn’t any ordinary smash-and-grab job, however: They first have to acquire four keys from different sources to access two heavily guarded safes. Crichton devotes himself to detailing the complicated logistics of the heist; fun and suspense follow.

The plot of Terry Gilliam’s children’s fantasy — or at least Terry Gilliam’s idea of a children’s fantasy — sends an ordinary little boy through a portal in his wardrobe closet, where he joins a band of thieves as they jump from one notable time period to another. Connery appears as King Agamemnon of ancient Greece, who adopts the boy after he inadvertently assists him in slaying an enemy. It’s the most joyous section of the film, as Agamemnon treats him with fatherly affection and the kingdom cheers him as a conquering hero. The kid looks like he would happily stay in that time and place forever, so it’s a comedown when he’s whisked along to his next stop: the Titanic.

Connery won the best supporting actor Oscar for his robustly entertaining turn as Jim Malone, an Irish-American police officer who risks his neck to help Eliot Ness (Kevin Costner) assemble a team and bring Al Capone (Robert De Niro) to justice in Prohibition-era Chicago. Connery’s speech about “The Chicago Way” is the standout and it’s also illustrative of the partnership that anchors the film, with Malone providing the muscle and moxie essential for Ness to get Capone. “The Untouchables” is also crackerjack entertainment, reconciling the ostentatious style of the director Brian De Palma with the studio sheen of a Hollywood prestige production.

Even though the director Steven Spielberg added Connery to the “Indiana Jones” universe primarily as a nod to the actor’s James Bond persona, he fits perfectly alongside Harrison Ford — two growly action heroes playing characters who deftly defy death on a daily basis. As Indy’s emotionally distant father, Connery brings some poignancy to the franchise, and perhaps was even responsible for loosening Spielberg up a bit. “Last Crusade” is lighter and funnier than any other film in the series, with a refreshing smoothness to the storytelling.

The first and best of the Jack Ryan thrillers casts Connery as a rogue Russian submarine captain who enters into a dangerous cat-and-mouse game with Alec Baldwin’s Ryan, who has to figure out whether the officer intends to defect to America or threaten its Eastern shore with a nuclear payload. Connery’s Russian accent may be suspect, but his stolid yet soulful presence in “The Hunt for Red October” is critical to the dramatic tension, which hinges on hidden motives and shrewd calculation. Though the director John McTiernan was the top genre filmmaker at the time, hot off “Predator” and “Die Hard,” much of the suspense here comes from the heady, high-stakes chess match between the two leads.

By appearing as a small-house British publisher in this classy adaptation of John le Carré’s novel, Connery was able to revive his 007 spy persona while adding the maturity and gravitas of a plausible real-world espionage plot. A murderer’s row of character actors — including Roy Scheider, James Fox, John Mahoney, J.T. Walsh, and Klaus-Maria Brandauer — fill out the cast, but “The Russia House” is notable mainly for the romantic chemistry between Connery and Michelle Pfeiffer, who co-stars as a Russian who slips him notebooks that cast doubt on the Soviet Union’s capacity for nuclear war.

For a thriller as flagrantly ridiculous as “The Rock,” actors of Connery’s stature are an essential ballast to keep the enterprise from flying off the rails. In Michael Bay’s flashy tale, Connery plays a former Alcatraz inmate and escapee who accepts a pardon in exchange for his expertise in helping break up a kidnapping scheme on Alcatraz Island. When a disgruntled Marine general (Ed Harris) and his men hold tourists captive on Alcatraz in exchange for $100 million, Connery and Nicolas Cage’s F.B.I. chemical weapons specialist are brought in to keep them from launching deadly rockets into San Francisco. “The Rock” is like watching a 136-minute trailer for itself, but it doesn’t take itself too seriously.





No.16 article:
YouTube Cut Down Misinformation. Then It Boosted Fox News.

To battle false information, YouTube cut its recommendations to fringe channels and instead promoted major networks, especially Fox News.

After the 2016 election, engineers at YouTube went to work on changes to a YouTube algorithm that had become one of the world’s most influential lines of computer code.

That algorithm decided which videos YouTube recommended that users watch next; the company said it was responsible for 70 percent of the one billion hours a day people spent on YouTube. But it had become clear that those recommendations tended to steer viewers toward videos that were hyperpartisan, divisive, misleading or downright false.

New data now shows that the effort, which was completed last year, mostly worked. In the weeks leading up to Tuesday’s election, YouTube recommended far fewer fringe channels alongside news videos than it did in 2016, which helped it to reduce its spread of disinformation, according to research by Guillaume Chaslot, a former Google engineer who helped build YouTube’s recommendation engine and now studies it.

YouTube’s efforts also had a knock-on effect: the amplification of Fox News.

“The channel most recommended in our data set in 2016 was Alex Jones,” the notorious internet conspiracy theorist, who has since been barred from YouTube, Mr. Chaslot said. “Now it’s Fox News.”

In several analyses of YouTube’s recommendations on popular news and election videos over the past month, Fox News was consistently the most recommended channel, sometimes by a wide margin, according to data from Mr. Chaslot and Marc Faddoul, a researcher at the University of California, Berkeley.

The data also showed that the Fox News clips most frequently recommended by YouTube were from its pro-Trump prime-time shows that often attack Democrats and sometimes spread unreliable information about voter fraud and the coronavirus.

The findings were affirmed by separate data that showed Fox News’s views on YouTube have more than doubled over the past year, surpassing six billion on Monday, according to Social Blade, a social media analytics firm. That rate outpaced every other major American news network aside from NBC News, which grew nearly twice as fast over the period but had 2.3 billion total views, according to the data.

Facebook, which has also tweaked its algorithms to steer people toward more reliable information, has shown similar results. Fox News has far outperformed other large news outlets when measured by users’ interactions with posts, the only such data publicly available.

The ascent of Fox News on the social media platforms was a reminder that tech companies have been walking a tricky line between limiting misinformation and appeasing politicians complaining that Silicon Valley is biased — all while still keeping people clicking, watching and sharing on their sites.

YouTube’s promotion of Fox News’s unabashedly conservative pundits also undercut arguments from some of those same pundits that the biggest tech companies are trying to silence them.

The Fox News star Tucker Carlson recently criticized comments by a Google executive that the company, which owns YouTube, would try to improve its search results to promote “better quality of governance” and decision making.

“What does that mean?” Mr. Carlson said. “In other words, they want to subvert democracy.”

YouTube has recommended that clip of Mr. Carlson more than almost any other news-related video in recent weeks, according to Mr. Chaslot’s data.

The researchers and other analysts estimated that Fox News’s growing popularity on YouTube and Facebook was largely due to its fitting into their algorithmic sweet spots. The network has been rubber-stamped as an authoritative source, which tells the algorithms to give it a boost, while its conservative talk shows’ partisan headlines are effective at drawing clicks, which also tells the algorithms to keep promoting them.

MSNBC and CNN were also among YouTube’s most recommended channels on recent popular news videos, according to Mr. Chaslot’s analysis, though less than Fox News. YouTube also frequently directed people toward their videos that had more partisan and sensational headlines.

“Clickbaitiness is still really important, as it was in 2016,” Mr. Chaslot said.

Farshad Shadloo, a YouTube spokesman, said in a statement that YouTube’s algorithm changes contributed to a 141 percent increase in the time people spent watching videos from Fox News, MSNBC, CNN, NBC News, ABC News and CBS News collectively over the past year.

“Since 2018, we’ve been focused on ensuring when people come to YouTube looking for news and information, they get it from authoritative sources,” he said.

A Fox News spokesperson said the network had worked hard to elevate its presence on YouTube. Fox News created a team focused on the platform and has made a point of posting videos that perform well with YouTube’s search engine and with viewers, such as live broadcasts of breaking news.

On Facebook, Fox News’s page accounted for 10 percent of all interactions with posts about the election over the past week, according to CrowdTangle. That was second only to President Trump’s official page, at 18 percent, and above Breitbart’s at 6 percent.

The next major network was CNN at 2 percent, roughly on a par with the page of “Fox &amp; Friends,” the Fox News morning show. Facebook declined to comment but noted that interactions do not entirely reflect a post’s reach, though they are the only measure of a post’s popularity that the company makes available.

In one analysis, Mr. Chaslot and Mr. Faddoul collected recommendations daily on videos posted by 800 of YouTube’s most popular news-related channels over the three weeks that ended on Oct. 27. Fox News accounted for more than 3 percent of the 300,000 recommendations collected, more than twice the rate of the next-closest channel, the History Channel. CNN and MSNBC accounted for about 1 percent of recommendations.

When the researchers analyzed only videos about the election from the same channels, Fox News accounted for 10 percent of all the recommendations, nearly three times the rate of the No. 2 most-promoted channel, MSNBC. Other analyses of recommendations alongside some of the most popular election-related videos also showed Fox News as the most-promoted channel.

Given the enormous size and influence of social networks like YouTube and Facebook, changes to how they promote content often causes unforeseen outcomes, such as news organizations writing headlines or framing stories to please the new algorithms, said Arvind Narayanan, a computer scientist at Princeton University who studies the effect of algorithms on society.

“YouTube is constantly tinkering with its algorithms,” he said. “And when it does that, it always is going to have both intended and unintended effects.”





No.17 article:
In a New Uniform, Tom Brady Battles Back Against His Nemesis, the Giants

With victory assured, Brady smirked. It was most certainly not a smile, nor was it a grin. Call it a knowing snicker.

Once again, it was the underdog Giants across the field who were leading the game, and on his sideline Tom Brady could not help but vehemently bang his helmet on the bench in enduring frustration. Since Brady had seen this turn of events more than once before, he had safely removed his head from the helmet first.

That was in the first half of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ visit to MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., on Monday night. About 90 minutes later, in the contest’s closing seconds, with the Buccaneers clinging to a slim lead, Brady returned to the team bench as the Giants ran a play near the Tampa Bay goal line that could send the game into overtime.

Still and motionless, Brady awaited the result with the grimmest of expressions.

But Eli Manning is no longer a Giant, and Brady traded in his New England Patriots jersey in March. The Giants, defeated in 17 of their last 20 games, fell just short again, losing, 25-23.

With victory assured, Brady smirked. It was most certainly not a smile, nor was it a grin. Call it a knowing snicker, but at that moment, it felt as if Brady was more than simply relieved to again exorcise an old demon in the Giants, against whom he has three consecutive victories since the bitter Super Bowl defeat after the 2011 regular season.

Yes, any opportunity to add to the woes of the reeling Giants was a bonus, but Brady could be forgiven if he was sensing the accomplishment, and great timing, of his daring career shift eight months ago. Not only are the Brady-inspired Buccaneers (6-2) one of the best teams in the league, the Patriots (2-5) may be staggering toward a complete overhaul with Coach Bill Belichick — of all people — even conceding his team is undermanned.

As Brady was warming up on the field before Monday’s game, the N.F.L. was newly absorbing comments from Belichick, who said his team’s lack of depth this year was a result of the Patriots’ abundant spending in recent seasons, which left them with little room to pursue players in the 2020 off-season.

“It’s obvious we didn’t have any money,” Belichick told the Boston sports talk radio station WEEI on Monday. “It’s nobody’s fault. I mean, it’s what we did the last five years. We sold out and won three Super Bowls, played in a fourth and played in the A.F.C. championship game. This year, we had less to work with. It’s not an excuse, it’s just a fact.”

In the wake of the Patriots’ troubles so swiftly after Brady’s exit from New England, all manner of comparisons are in vogue. Most obvious, Brady’s six victories in Tampa Bay and the two earned by his Patriots successor, Cam Newton, who has six interceptions and one lost fumble in his last four games. Brady has one interception and has not lost a fumble in his last six games.

More popular when it comes to fun facts in the aftermath of Brady’s departure from his football home for the previous 20 seasons is his record as a regular-season starter in New England and Tampa Bay, 225-66. Belichick’s record as a head coach without Brady as his starting quarterback with the Patriots and when he was head coach in Cleveland: 56-68.

After Monday’s game, Brady may have been only 200 miles from the site of his many glories in Foxborough, Mass., but the conversation was entirely about his new workplace. Brady was disappointed in his early play on Monday night, when the Giants built a 14-3 lead and Brady was being hounded by a persistent Giants pass rush. (Some things never change when Brady faces the Giants.)

“I had guys open that I missed,” Brady said of his wide receivers, who at that juncture were not actually getting much separation from their defenders. “We’ve got to execute better.”

Tampa Bay Coach Bruce Arians, who lured Brady to the Buccaneers, blamed the low energy setting of a fan-free Monday night football game for Brady’s slow start.

“I’ve never driven to the Meadowlands and the scene is empty — we did not find energy fast enough,” Arians said.

Then, referring to the Giants’ rookie coach, Joe Judge, Arians added: “We got kicked in the mouth and credit Joe Judge — he had his team ready. They played their tails off.”

The Giants did indeed have seemingly every early advantage, and if Daniel Jones, the Giants’ second-year quarterback, had not overthrown or misfired in attempts to connect with his best target, Darius Slayton, who was open downfield several times, the Giants might have been leading by three touchdowns, or more.

But Jones continues to make the same mistakes repeatedly, most notably in his decision-making when under pressure. Monday, instead of conceding a sack when under siege or heaving the football out of bounds, he threw two needless, reckless interceptions. The second of those turnovers, on the second play of the third quarter, led to 9 consecutive points by the Buccaneers and their first lead in the game.

By the fourth quarter, Tampa Bay had extended its lead to 25-17, but Jones almost redeemed himself when he led the Giants on a 13-play, 70-yard drive that ended with a precise, impressive throw to wide receiver Golden Tate in the back of the end zone for a touchdown. A 2-point conversion attempt to tie the game with 28 seconds remaining was unsuccessful when Buccaneers defensive back Antoine Winfield Jr. broke up a Jones pass intended for running back Dion Lewis at the goal line. A collision between Winfield and Lewis on the play drew a penalty flag for defensive pass interference, but it was nullified after a consultation among four game officials.

At the game’s end, an incensed Judge stormed from the sideline and appeared to be screaming in the direction of one or more officials.

Brady, who completed 28 of 40 passes for 279 yards and two touchdowns, left the field quickly, his sights no longer on his old nemesis the Giants but on an altogether new rival in the N.F.C. South, the New Orleans Saints, who are the Buccaneers’ opponent Sunday and who defeated Brady in Tampa Bay’s season-opening game.

But there was a last scene. Buccaneers tight end Rob Gronkowski, who caught his 93rd touchdown pass from Brady early in the third quarter, jogged up to his longtime teammate and bumped fists. Together, the New England expatriates jogged stride for stride toward the visiting locker room.





No.18 article:
They Had Big Dreams. Now, ‘We’re Just Trying to Stay Alive.’





No.19 article:
G.O.P. Candidates Hold Leads in Competitive House Seats in New York

The initial tally of in-person ballots also favored Republicans in several State Senate races, but it was unclear how many mail-in ballots were yet to be counted.

ALBANY, N.Y. — Battered by a unrelenting pandemic and a crippled economy, New Yorkers experienced an Election Day like no other in the state’s history.

New York, as expected, quickly awarded its 29 electoral votes to the Democratic candidate, the former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., despite President Trump’s long association with the state, both as a Queens native and a headline-grabbing builder in New York City.

But while Mr. Biden’s win in the state was echoed by House members in overwhelmingly Democratic districts in New York City, the same was not true in many swing districts.

[Get live New York election results.]

Representative Max Rose, a first-term Democrat, was badly trailing Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis, a Republican who ran for New York City mayor in 2017, in a swing district covering Staten Island and parts of Brooklyn.

Ms. Malliotakis was not alone: Republicans also jumped out to commanding leads in several House races that were thought to be competitive, including two contests each on Long Island and in Central New York.

The initial count of in-person ballots also favored Republicans in several State Senate races on Long Island, where G.O.P. challengers were leading against first-term Democratic incumbents. But it was not clear how many mail-in ballots were yet to be counted.

No state has suffered more in the coronavirus outbreak than New York: More than 33,000 people have died here since March. The pandemic tore through New York City and its suburbs in the early days of spring, prompting a series of changes to election procedures, including a huge expansion of absentee ballot options that delayed results in a June primary by weeks and looked likely to slow the tally for the general election as well.

Indeed, only a few results were immediately available, as election officials pleaded for patience amid a torrent of votes: More than 1.2 million voters sent in mail-in ballots statewide, according to election officials.

Each county has its own schedule for counting the absentee ballots, but most — including those in New York City — will not begin the process until Monday.

The election was also occurring against a backdrop of debate and demonstrations about systemic racism in policing and society as a whole, themes echoed in campaigns all over the state to fill 27 congressional seats and 213 in the State Legislature.

In Albany, eyes were on the State Senate, where Democrats had hopes of attaining a veto-proof supermajority that would cement the state’s reputation as one of the nation’s most liberal and perhaps dilute the power of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a third-term Democrat, to thwart legislation he dislikes. But initial vote counts suggested that the Democrats would likely fall short.

The deep political divisions in the nation rippled through the election campaign season in New York, a solidly Democratic state that nonetheless has large regions populated by more conservative voters, especially in rural areas north and west of New York City.

On Sunday, those tensions devolved into fistfights in Manhattan, and a temporary blockade on the Mario M. Cuomo Bridge across the Hudson River, as supporters of Mr. Trump stopped traffic, waved banners and posed for videos. Some businesses in the city and elsewhere boarded up windows in the days leading up to the election in anticipation of possible protests.

Whatever relationship the president had with the city eroded during his first term, as he pursued a hard-right agenda and frequently fought with Mr. Cuomo. In 2019, he formally moved his place of residence to Florida, a swing state.

The governor’s reaction — “Good riddance,” he said, on several occasions — summed up the feeling of many downstate residents toward the president, whose support in polls had dipped into the 20s on occasion.

The president has retained some pockets of popularity, including in the North Country — the swath of Adirondacks between Lake Ontario and Vermont — where Representative Elise Stefanik, a steadfast supporter of Mr. Trump, captured a fourth term.

In the 27th Congressional District, a largely rural region outside Buffalo, Representative Chris Jacobs won a rematch against Democrat Nate McMurray. Mr. Jacobs captured a full two-year term after being elected in June to fill out the term of Chris Collins, who resigned last year shortly before pleading guilty to federal insider trading charges.

On Staten Island, Assemblywoman Malliotakis was expressing confidence on Tuesday, declaring victory. But The Associated Press had not called the race, nor had Mr. Rose conceded, saying in a speech late Tuesday that “every vote must be counted.”

Mayor Bill de Blasio — a two-term Democrat who is unpopular in that right-leaning borough — had become a central campaign issue in the race for Mr. Rose’s seat. In a twist, Ms. Malliotakis’s campaign suggested in recent days that Mr. de Blasio had endorsed Mr. Rose, something the Democratic incumbent vehemently denied. (The mayor said that he had not issued a formal endorsement, but that he normally supported Democrats.)

Republicans also seemed poised to hold on to a seat in the Syracuse area, where Representative John M. Katko, a Republican, had a commanding lead over a Democrat, Dana Balter, in a district Mr. Trump lost four years ago. In a neighboring district, Representative Anthony Brindisi, a first-term Democrat, trailed the Republican he had unseated, Claudia Tenney, by nearly 11 percentage points.

Republicans were doing well in some more moderate areas, including on Long Island, where Representative Lee Zeldin seemed assured of winning a fourth term, with the backing of the president and his surrogates, and where a Republican, Andrew R. Garbarino, was leading a contest for an open seat created by the retirement of Peter T. King, a 14-term Republican.

The state’s congressional delegation is overwhelmingly Democratic, including an older liberal cohort led by Representative Jerrold Nadler, who won a 16th term, and Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, whose June primary race was not called until August.

Ms. Maloney survived her primary and won re-election, but Representative Eliot L. Engel, a 16-term incumbent, was ousted in the primary by Jamaal Bowman, a fiery insurgent making his first run for public office. Mr. Bowman was elected on Tuesday in a safe Democratic district including parts of the Bronx and Westchester County.

Other prominent Democrats like Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Hakeem Jeffries, also easily won new terms.

The state’s congressional delegation was also expected to welcome a number of younger progressives to its ranks, including two Democrats — Ritchie Torres, a city councilman representing the Bronx, and Mondaire Jones, a Hudson Valley lawyer — who would become the first two openly gay Black members of Congress. Mr. Torres was declared a winner in his race for the 15th Congressional District, and would also be the first openly gay Afro-Latino member of Congress.

Democrats, with an enormous cash advantage in State Senate races, were hoping to win a supermajority, even given opposition from a political action committee, Safe Together New York, which was backed by $4.5 million donated by Ronald S. Lauder, the billionaire cosmetics heir and a prominent supporter of conservative causes.

Despite election anxiety, the long lines that characterized early voting in New York City had largely evaporated come Tuesday, perhaps because of the influx of early voters — more than 1.1 million New Yorkers had voted early in the city — as well as preparations by election officials.

Police officials used trucks and barricades to create a “frozen zone” around Trump Tower, the president’s namesake tower on Fifth Avenue. Officers were at polling stations with thousands of others on standby, as police officials sought to assure the public that voting would be protected, and violence would not be tolerated.

“My message to anyone who wants to cause violence and destruction is don’t even try it,” said Chief Terence A. Monahan, the force’s top uniformed official. “We know who you are, and you will be arrested.”

Whereas five million registered voters had to contend with fewer than 90 polling sites for the week of early voting, the New York City Board of Elections had set up more than 1,200 on Tuesday. And despite scattered mechanical issues and the occasional tardy-to-open polling site, lines moved quickly.

At the High School of Art and Design in Midtown East, Bernard Aanonsen, 28, said this Election Day felt exceptional, saying that it was a moment that needed “leaders to take action and be bold.”

“When we look back,” he said, “this will be considered one of the most important elections of our times.”





No.20 article:
Democrats Battle for Senate Control as They Maintain Grip on House Majority

The two parties grappled for advantage in the fight for the Senate majority as Democrats aimed to add to their majority in the House.

Democrats were on track early Wednesday to maintain a firm grip on the House, but their path to seizing the Senate majority from Republicans was rapidly narrowing as the two parties continued to fight for control of the levers of power in Congress with the fate of the presidency still uncertain.

Partial results suggested that House Democrats were running strong in many of the competitive districts they swept up in 2018, but they were struggling to make further inroads into the Republican-leaning suburbs, where they had expected a surge powered by discontent with President Trump. Instead, as votes continued to be counted, Republicans were newly optimistic they could claw back seats, particularly in rural areas and traditionally conservative strongholds in places like Oklahoma City and Staten Island.

The Senate outcome rested on a handful of states where Democrats still hoped to topple incumbent Republicans, but their pickup opportunities were dwindling fast on an unusually large battleground that stretched from Maine to Alaska and could tilt with the presidential results. At stake was the ability of the next president to fill his cabinet, appoint judges and pursue his agenda, and the two parties had waged a pitched battle to the end, pummeling voters with advertising backed by record sums of money, totaling hundreds of millions of dollars.

Republicans scored crucial wins in Iowa, Alabama and Montana, and were running stronger than expected in North Carolina and Maine, where the results were still too close to call early Wednesday morning.

Democrats needed a net gain of three or four seats to take Senate control, depending on whether former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee, won the presidency, which would allow his vice president, Kamala Harris, to cast tiebreaking votes.

They flipped seats in Colorado, where John Hickenlooper, the former Democratic governor, easily defeated Senator Cory Gardner, and in Arizona, where Mark Kelly, a former astronaut, beat Senator Martha McSally.

But Tommy Tuberville, the former Auburn football coach, easily won back deep-red Alabama from Senator Doug Jones. In Iowa, the victory by Senator Joni Ernst over Theresa Greenfield, a Democrat with roots in the state’s farming community, scuttled Democrats’ hopes for a key pickup. And in Montana, Steve Daines beat back a challenge from the state’s popular Democratic governor, Steve Bullock.

That left both sides closely watching Maine, North Carolina and Georgia, where partial returns showed exceedingly tight races between Republican incumbents and their Democratic challengers.

Earlier, Republicans had breathed a sigh of relief when Senator John Cornyn was declared the winner in Texas, despite a record turnout, and again when Senator Lindsey Graham, a close ally of Mr. Trump’s, won re-election in South Carolina after a tougher-than-expected race. In Kentucky, Senator Mitch McConnell, the top Republican, secured a seventh term, though it was unclear whether he would remain majority leader.

“Tonight, Kentuckians said, ‘We’re not finished yet,’” Mr. McConnell told supporters in Louisville. “Kentucky wants more of the policies that built the best economy in our nation’s modern history — not socialism.”

At least one Senate race taking place in Georgia, an unexpectedly competitive battleground this year, was headed for a winner-takes-all January runoff that could decide the balance of the Senate only weeks before Inauguration Day if Tuesday’s contests did not. The state’s other race could also end up in a runoff, but it was too early to be certain.

In the fight for the House, Democrats began the night more clearly on the offensive, bolstered by a stunning fund-raising advantage, Republican recruitment failures and Mr. Trump’s eroding support in America’s cities and suburbs. Two years after gaining 41 seats to reclaim the majority, Democrats were trying to push into suburban districts that Republicans had not lost in decades around St. Louis, Indianapolis, Atlanta, Phoenix, Omaha and even once ruby-red parts of Texas.

But while strategists in both parties had said a second blue wave could wash out 10 to 20 Republicans, by Wednesday morning, returns indicated that no such sweep had materialized. A handful of Republican incumbents in newly competitive suburban districts held onto their seats, and some Democrats who had been confident of victories were vanquished, including first-term Representative Joe Cunningham, who was defeated by Nancy Mace, the first woman to graduate from the Citadel, in his Charleston-based district.

At the same time, Democrats fell short of snatching victories in solidly red districts that the party had hoped to make competitive, and lost more ground in the increasingly conservative rural Midwest, with the defeat of Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, the chairman of the Agriculture Committee who served three decades in Congress.

“We have held the House and now, when — after all the votes are counted, we’ll see how much better we will do than that,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday night. But she also tried to play down Democrats’ lackluster performance.

“It’s not just about the quantity,” she added. “It’s about the quality of leadership that they provide for our country.”

Republicans began the cycle hoping to grab onto Mr. Trump’s coattails and a booming economy to wrest back the 30 or so districts he won in 2016 that Democrats claimed two years later. But those hopes were dashed by the pandemic, which has left the economy in tatters and the nation counting more than 230,000 deaths to date.

Still, they found some unexpected bright spots on Tuesday night. With Mr. Trump making significant inroads among Cuban-Americans in Miami, Representative Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, a first-term Democrat, was edged out by Carlos Gimenez, the Miami mayor, and Representative Donna E. Shalala lost to Maria Elvira Salazar, a former television anchor.

Republican veterans Ann Wagner of Missouri, Steve Chabot of Ohio and Rodney Davis of Illinois also held off stiff challenges, and Republicans were on track for better-than-expected result in a handful of Texas House races where Democrats saw pickup opportunities.

The battle for the Senate was being waged on even friendlier turf for Republicans. Though they were defending 23 states, compared with just 12 for Democrats, almost all of them were places that Mr. Trump carried in 2016 — creating a real possibility that voters could render a split decision on Tuesday, dividing power between the White House and Senate.

For the second election season in a row, Democrats ran with an almost singular focus on health care, blistering Republicans for their campaign to overturn the Affordable Care Act. The law, and its protections of pre-existing conditions, took on further resonance in the face of a public health crisis unlike any the nation has seen in generations and the confirmation just a week before Election Day of a Supreme Court justice, Amy Coney Barrett, who Democrats argued would strike down the law.

In race after race, Republicans’ chances appeared to hinge on the unexpected strength of Mr. Trump, a polarizing leader who has enraptured their core supporters even as his inflammatory style and unorthodox policy positions have frustrated them and alienated crucial voting blocs. A few Republicans, like Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who was battling for political survival in the race of her career, were willing to wag their fingers at the president, but most knew they could not risk his ire, or the support of his loyal base, if they were to have any shot at re-election.

Worried about Mr. Trump’s chances, though, many Republicans closed their campaigns with warnings to voters of the risks posed by putting the White House and Congress under full Democratic control.

In North Carolina, Cal Cunningham, a telegenic Iraq war veteran who led for much of the year, was at grave risk of falling short in his effort to oust Republican Senator Thom Tillis. Mr. Tillis had a lead of nearly 100,000 votes early Wednesday, but North Carolina accepts postmarked mail-in ballots until Nov. 12, making a final call premature.

The race in Maine has been just as steady, with the Democrat, Sara Gideon, the speaker of the State Legislature, threatening to unseat Ms. Collins, a four-term Republican and one of the last centrists left in her party. After easily winning re-election in 2014, Ms. Collins struggled to stay afloat as her race became a national referendum on the Republican Party, and she was battling to win a majority to avoid activating the state’s newly enacted ranked-choice voting system, which could badly hurt her chances.

“We’ve never given up because that is what we Mainers do — we work hard, we show up for work every day and we get the job done,” Ms. Collins told her supporters, addressing them in a snowy parking lot in Bangor. “I wish that I could thank each of you by name, that would take all night — on the other hand, we may be here all night.”

Democrats remained hopeful about two races in Georgia, where Jon Ossoff, a 33-year-old documentary filmmaker, had mounted a strong challenge to Senator David Perdue, and the Rev. Dr. Raphael Warnock was challenging Senator Kelly Loeffler in a special election to replace the retired Republican senator Johnny Isakson. With multiple Democratic and Republican candidates splitting the vote, Ms. Loeffler was headed to a runoff with Dr. Warnock, after Republican Representative Doug Collins conceded. Mr. Ossoff and Mr. Perdue could end up in a runoff, too, but were both still jockeying to clear the 50 percent required under Georgia law to win outright.

Mr. McConnell, 78, handily beat back a challenge from Amy McGrath, a former fighter pilot. Democrats poured $100 million into the contest, but Ms. McGrath never commanded the kind of support in the solidly Republican state to make the incumbent nervous.

Both parties had other targets, but they were considered stretches. For Republicans, the best option was Michigan, where John James, a Black Iraq war veteran who ran for the Senate unsuccessfully in 2018, was trying to unseat Senator Gary Peters. Democrats believed they had an outside shot of defeating Dan Sullivan in Alaska.

The outcome of the Senate contest promised to heavily shape the next two years in Washington. If Democrats were able to grab control of the House, Senate and White House at once for the first time since 2010, they could abolish the legislative filibuster — the last major vestige of minority rights in the Senate — and push through an ambitious slate of bills on voting rights, gun safety, policing and prescription drug prices. They would most likely reserve much of their political capital for expanding the Affordable Care Act and raising taxes on the wealthy to offset that and other new programs.

Nodding to the possibility of all-Democratic control, Mr. McConnell warned during his victory speech: “This is no time to declare war on our institutions because one side is angry that the framers made it hard to achieve radical change.”

But Democrats feared that even if Mr. Biden were to win, they could fall short in the Senate, saddling the incoming president with a Republican majority ready to oppose him on nearly every front, dashing liberal hopes and swiping his agenda off the table. Facing a Senate led by Mr. McConnell, Mr. Biden could even have an uphill battle winning its approval to fill his cabinet, and he would certainly face opposition to liberal nominees to the federal courts.

Similarly, if Mr. Trump were re-elected and Democrats controlled both the House and Senate, his second term could be a frustrating exercise in stalemate.





No.21 article:
Quotation of the Day: Waiting to Vote Could Be Tedious. Waiting for Results? Agonizing.

“If you think, ‘Don’t think about the election, don’t think about the election, don’t think about the election’ then the election has become your mantra, and that’s not going to do you any good.”

MICHAEL MILLER, director and co-founder of the New York Meditation Center, on how hard it can be to find a moment of inner peace as a seemingly never-ending season of political anxiety has ground on.





No.22 article:
Either Trump or Biden Will Win. But Our Deepest Problems Will Remain.

For politics to function, we need to act at the local, personal level.

A presidential election naturally concentrates our country’s attention. For a time, everything seems to depend on the answer to one clear and simple question.

But then what? On rare occasions, the country’s fate really does rest on a discrete set of policy choices embodied by competing candidates.

More often, though, our deepest problems aren’t really amenable to resolution by a president. These problems have been adding up to something of a social crisis, evident not only in the breakdown of our political culture but also in the isolation and despair that have driven up suicide and opioid-abuse rates, and in a sense of alienation that leaves whole communities feeling excluded from the American story and in turn angrily rejecting it.

Even in a time of bitter partisanship, we know we need more than the right person in power. Each party treats the other as a mortal threat to America’s future, and so persuades its voters that electing the wrong president would make things worse.

But that doesn’t help us see how to make things much better. If you think our country has bigger problems than just the people you disagree with, then you’re likely to find that they aren’t swept away by an election victory.

In fact, these problems now make it difficult for us to have traditional policy arguments. As the intensity of the election subsides, we now need to ask ourselves how to deal with hopelessness and hostility, because they undermine the preconditions for a functional politics.

The answers may be closer than we think. At the heart of our pervasive crisis of alienation are widespread failures of responsibility, deep-seated cultural divisions and a deadly dearth of solidarity. Such challenges can seem impossibly immense when we look at our country from the top down. No president could resolve them, no Congress could address them. But from the bottom up, there are more opportunities to take them on.

That’s not because there is some magic to local action. It’s because what has broken down is fundamentally communal and institutional, so that a recovery of the ethos required for our national politics to function is likely to happen closer to the interpersonal level.

It can begin with a simple question, asked in little moments of decision: “Given my role here, what should I be doing?” As a parent or a neighbor, a pastor or a congregant, an employer or an employee, a teacher or a student, a legislator or a citizen, how should I act in this situation? We ask that question to recover relational responsibility.

A failure to ask that question — and so to accept the obligations that come with whatever positions and privileges we have in our lives — is behind many of the most significant problems we face. It’s why so many of our fellow Americans have been left feeling that our institutions have failed to treat them like human beings.

It has been at the heart of President Trump’s failures, as he has plainly neglected to ask himself how a president should act. But it has also characterized to varying degrees some of his critics, who have forgotten their distinct responsibilities — as journalists or scientists, legislators or law enforcement officials — and have instead become performers in our manic political theater.

But more important, it is at the heart of the way we Americans have failed one another by failing to ask what the roles we each have in particular institutions — familial, communal, religious, educational, professional, civic and political — demand of us in key moments. Often what they demand is restraint and responsibility, doing your job rather than building your brand.

And implausible as it may seem, our country is starving for such straightforward integrity. The hunger for it doesn’t take the forms we might expect. It doesn’t look like earnest appeals to virtue and rectitude.

It might look more like students demanding conformity when what they really seek is morally legitimate authority. It might look like communities angry at generations of mistreatment reaching at first for a vocabulary of resistance and rejection but ultimately yearning for inclusion, equal justice and belonging. Or it might come in the guise of a populism that insists it sees corruption in all directions but is ultimately desperate for an integrity that it can barely name.

We tend to look at forms of breakdown in our society in terms of what they produce: anger, cynicism, a rejection of tradition. But we would be wise to also consider what they implicitly demand and yearn for: responsibility, integrity and, above all, solidarity.

Our national politics needs these, too. But they will come from below — from local and state government, where it’s harder to avoid dealing with concrete problems, and from civil society, where we encounter one another on a personal level. We cannot stand with our arms folded and hope we’ve finally elected the people who will deliver them. They must begin with us, where we are.

They start when we see problems around us as reasons to think creatively about how to act together: to help people who are short of food in this pandemic, to organize schools that will teach our children what our community cherishes most, to help our neighbors feel respected and safe, or to care for our environment or protect and welcome the unborn.

Different Americans will have different priorities. But pursuing them effectively requires understanding those priorities as our responsibilities and approaching our society in the first person plural — speaking less about “them” and more about “us.”

That is only a beginning — not a substitute for better public policy but perhaps a prerequisite for it. Some of the deepest troubles of this moment require us to see our society as the sum of our affinities and obligations to one another, and so to heal what’s broken from the bottom up.





No.23 article:
Betty Dodson, Women’s Guru of Self-Pleasure, Dies at 91

She was a second-wave feminist who taught consciousness raising with a twist, and her workshops on masturbation, buoyed by the internet, have inspired millions.

Betty Dodson, a feminist sexologist and evangelist of self-pleasure who taught generations of women how to masturbate in workshops, books and videos, seeing the do-it-yourself climax as a liberating social force, died on Saturday at a nursing home in New York City. She was 91.

The cause was cirrhosis of the liver, said Carlin Ross, her business partner.

Ms. Dodson was a second-wave feminist making erotic art when she began hosting consciousness raising groups — but with a twist — in her Manhattan apartment. The method involved a genital show and tell, so that women could see that vulvas came in all shapes, sizes and colors; this was followed by clitoral attention with a vibrator. As she refined her teaching, she realized that she had found her calling.

“This masturbation business,” as she liked to say, was a kind of social justice work. If women could learn to pleasure themselves properly, she reasoned, they could end their sexual dependence on men, which would make everybody happy.

“The most consistent sex will be the love affair you have with yourself,” she wrote in “Sex for One” a quasi memoir and how-to guide that began as a short primer in Ms. Magazine and that has been translated into 25 languages since Random House first published it in 1987. “Masturbation will get you through childhood, puberty, romance, marriage and divorce, and it will see you through old age.”

Gloria Steinem, a co-founder of Ms. Magazine, wrote in an email: “Betty Dodson was a brave and daring advocate for women’s right to sexual knowledge and pleasure. Her workshops turned women on to the beauty of our own bodies, and her outrageous honesty allowed more women to speak our truths.”

It was Ms. Dodson’s experience with orgies — group sex, in the parlance of the day — that brought home to her the fact that even in such a free-spirited setting, women were performing their orgasms and didn’t seem to have a clue about how to get there on their own. Also, she said, the women always ended up in the bedroom examining her collection of vibrators while the men talked shop — stocks and sports, mostly — in the living room.

“Organized group sex is a little bowling league kind of thing,” she told Enid Nemy of The New York Times in 1971. “It’s super‐compulsive — there’s a frantic quality to it. It’s weird.”

Ms. Dodson enraged some second-wave feminists, who conflated her work with pornography, a bugbear for that generation. (Her slide show of vulvas at a National Organization for Women conference was particularly controversial, though a vibrator demonstration was quite popular, and she sold out the box of devices she’d brought with her.) But later generations have been inspired by her sex-positive teachings, and the internet continues to buoy her fame and promote her mantra: “Better orgasms, better world.”

Carol Queen, a sex educator and activist, recalled meeting Ms. Dodson in the late 1980s as part of her doctoral work in sexology at the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco and being captivated. (Ms. Dodson would receive an honorary doctorate from the institute.)

“Once she was on this path, she absolutely embraced it,” Dr. Queen wrote in an email. “She found it important, she saw it was important to others, and that was it — she basically never stopped. Women flocked to her workshops, and some stayed around to develop their own styles of teaching, or activist work, or went back to school so they could be therapists or midwives or whatever style of work that would let them be themselves and make a difference. I’m not sure there’s anyone I know of in the sexuality activists of my generation who wasn’t inspired (and in many cases egged on) by Betty.”

Annie Sprinkle, the 1970s porn star and prostitute-turned-sex educator, was also a Dodson acolyte. “To teach sex in such an explicit hands on way requires enormous courage, experience and conviction,” Ms. Sprinkle said in a phone interview. “Betty had it all. She popularized the clitoris and clitoral orgasms and gave the clitoris celebrity status.”

Last year, at age 90, Ms. Dodson famously made the actress and entrepreneur Gwyneth Paltrow blush when Ms. Dodson appeared — gruff-voiced in her signature pixie cut and clad in a denim jacket emblazoned with patches (“Come Together,” read one) — on an episode of Goop Lab, Ms. Paltrow’s six-part Netflix series. She was there to explain her method and her workshops, now in their 50th year and taught not just by Ms. Dodson but by bodysex leaders, as they are known, all over the world.

What happens in a workshop? Ms. Paltrow asked Ms. Dodson. “Everyone gets off,” Ms. Dodson replied.

It was a remarkably moving and educational episode, which surprised many viewers, since Ms. Paltrow has promoted practices — vaginal steaming, for one — that have irritated sex educators, feminists and doctors. There was a lesson in female anatomy (the vagina and the vulva are different things, Ms. Dodson told Ms. Paltrow), a photo montage of vulvas and a finale that showed Ms. Dodson helping Ms. Ross, her business partner, achieve a climax.

Netflix declined to say how big the episode’s viewership was, but a spokesperson for Goop said that anecdotally it was the most popular episode in the series. Shown in a Manhattan movie theater last December, the episode received a standing ovation.

Betty Anne Dodson — she was proud that her initials spelled BAD — was born in Wichita, Kan., on Aug. 24, 1929. Her mother, Bess (Crowe) Dodson, worked in a dress shop; her father, Frank Dodson, was a sign painter and an alcoholic. She had three brothers, Rowan, Billy and Dickie, and leaves no immediate survivors.

Ms. Dodson said that she and her brothers played as equals when they were children, which not only developed her muscles but “added to my sense of entitlement as I got older,” she wrote in “Sex by Design: The Betty Dodson Story” (2010), her second memoir.

When she was in the ninth grade, she recalled, a family friend and drinking buddy of her father’s shoved his hand into her pants when she had asked to drive his car. She kept silent, she wrote, because she felt complicit in what she experienced as a transaction. But when the same man groped the breasts of her best friend in her kitchen, she threatened him with a knife. “You’d better get out of here before I shove this knife in your stomach,” she said she had told him.

In 1950, at age 20, Ms. Dodson moved to New York City to become an artist, supporting herself as a freelance illustrator of lingerie ads and studying at the Art Students League of New York. She married an advertising executive, but they were sexually mismatched, she said, and her unhappiness and shame about it accelerated her drinking. After they divorced amicably, she got sober, and it was in a meeting for alcoholics that she met a man who would teach her about self-pleasure. They maintained a sexual relationship until his death in 2008. (Ms. Dodson was essentially agnostic about the gender of her partners, describing herself as a “heterosexual bisexual lesbian.”)

Her art career floundered in the 1960s and ’70s — a representational artist of erotica was out of step with the art world’s appetites at the time. But the workshops were taking off.

Vibrators were the key to her method. Her first devices were the so-called scalp massagers of the day, but they got too hot — workshop attendees had to hold them with pot holders — and vibrated too powerfully. Once she found her go-to, the Hitachi Magic Wand — which she liked because it was easy to hold and dispersed its vibrations — she never looked back. She called it the Cadillac of vibrators. In the last decade or so, as the sex toy industry has evolved to produce ever more design-forward, feminized devices, the Wand retains a quaint, gawky look.

Eager for her imprimatur, manufacturers have regularly sent her products hoping for an endorsement. Ms. Dodson always tried every one, Ms. Ross said, but none was ever up to snuff. A curved wand came close, but its shape caused it to slip at the crucial moment and turn itself off. “I would never represent this product,” she told Ms. Ross, and tossed it in her “toy chest,” where she kept her collection of rejects.

“She could have signed on with any of the companies,” Ms. Ross said, “but you couldn’t buy her, and you couldn’t script her.”

In a profile that ran last March, just as the country was shutting down in quarantine, Ms. Dodson told Ruth La Ferla of The New York Times, “Partner sex, that’s over now. But I wouldn’t turn down a good-looking guy if he walked in now.”





No.24 article:
If Restaurants Go, What Happens to Cities?

When the Church Brew Works opened in 1999, it amounted to a rare bit of good news for the Lawrenceville neighborhood of Pittsburgh. Its population had shrunk by half since 1960. A quarter of its residents were over 65, mostly old-timers who once worked at the steel mills that hugged the Allegheny River.

The community had “its guts ripped out,” said Sean Casey, who opened the brewery in a Catholic church that had been deconsecrated six years before. Its immediate neighbor was a building where drug dealers made crack cocaine.

It’s hard to recognize that Lawrenceville today. Carnegie Robotics has a facility in the neighborhood, as does the National Robotics Engineering Center and Caterpillar’s automation center. The population is much younger.

The Church Brew Works had a hand in this transformation. “As the technology sector started to be more successful, it attracted young professionals with disposable income wanting to eat better,” said Michael Madison, a law professor at the University of Pittsburgh who has blogged about the city.

The brewery not only provided food and beer. People “come in and discover the lost art of conversation,” Mr. Casey said.

The coronavirus pandemic has shut down many of these conversations. Business has declined 75 percent. By next summer, when Mr. Casey hopes things will get back to normal, “we are going to have had 17 months of not turning a profit.”

And the story is the same across thousands of restaurants. It raises a question that will reverberate in Lawrenceville and beyond: What will happen to America’s urban centers when the restaurants are gone?

By Aug. 31, over 32,000 restaurants and 6,400 bars and nightspots that had been open on March 1 were marked closed on Yelp. In New York City — perhaps the nation’s dining-out capital — a survey by the Hospitality Alliance found that 87 percent of restaurants were not able to pay all of their August rent.

In September, the New York state comptroller estimated that one-third to one-half of the 24,000 restaurants in the city could close permanently over the next six months. Forty-three percent of bars were closed on Oct. 5, and spending at those still open was down 80 percent from the same day in 2019, according to Womply, a company that provides technological platforms to small businesses.

In a desperate call for help, the Independent Restaurant Coalition, newly formed to lobby for the survival of restaurants not affiliated with large chains, argued in a letter to Congress in June that “this country risks permanently losing as many as 85 percent of independent restaurants by the end of the year.”

Downtown restaurants in big cities are suffering the most. And it is urban America — the big cities and their downtowns that rely on restaurants as a fundamental social glue — that will feel the shock of their demise most intensely.

In 2019, restaurants, bars, food trucks and other dining outlets took at least 47 percent of the food budget of consumers in cities with populations above 2.5 million, according to government data. That compares with 38 percent for people outside urban areas. In the early 1970s, by contrast, urban consumers devoted 28 percent of their food budget to dining out.

Restaurants have been a key element of America’s urban transformation, helping draw the young and highly educated to city centers. This has often turned industrial and warehouse districts into residential areas. It has also overhauled many low-income neighborhoods, sometimes forcing longtime residents out of town.

While high-tech industries and their well-paid jobs have undergirded these changes, social and cultural establishments have also proved pivotal. Already in the last two decades of the 20th century, cities with more restaurants and theaters per person were growing faster than their peers, notes a study by the economists Edward Glaeser, Jed Kolko and Albert Saiz, even as rents grew faster than wages.

In one recent study, Jessie Handbury of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and Victor Couture of the University of British Columbia document how after decades of suburbanization, the young and educated started moving back into the downtowns of large U.S. cities.

They were driven by rising disposable income, mostly, as the high-tech economy increased the payoff of a college education. Declining rates of marriage and childbearing not only freed up time and money, but also increased the demand for social spaces — largely provided by restaurants, bars and cafes.

“A distinct and persistent feature in downtowns is their high density of restaurants,” Ms. Handbury said. “It’s the feature that attracts people to downtowns — especially the young and college educated.”

There are other attractions. Nightclubs, museums — the opera, even. Public safety is paramount. Good public transportation also helps. But as Erik Hurst of the University of Chicago puts it, “Restaurants are huge.” They are hangout places and dating places. “When you think of other urban amenities, there is nothing that is as democratized.”

Honey Butter Fried Chicken opened in the formerly industrial enclave of Avondale on the North Side of Chicago in 2013. Parachute, a Korean-fusion restaurant, opened up the street a year later. Then came a Montessori school down the block two years after that. A couple of years ago, Matthew Hoffman, the artist of “You Are Beautiful” fame, opened a studio and retail shop across the street.

“One thing we noticed is that not a single person came in to our retail shop on Mondays, when Honey Butter was closed,” Mr. Hoffman said. “But it’s been a great relationship. They’ve sent chicken over. We’ve sent art and stickers back.”

That ecosystem is now in danger. Honey Butter Fried Chicken is hanging in there. “The fried chicken sandwich is kind of built for takeaway,” said Josh Kulp, who runs the enterprise with a partner, Christine Cikowski. But Parachute, which has a Michelin star, is straining to make it selling food to go. “$15,000 a week is break-even,” said Beverly Kim, who owns the restaurant with her co-chef and husband, Johnny Clark. “But last week we did $8,000; this week $6,000. We are bleeding money like crazy.”

Service is also limited to takeout orders at Lula Cafe in Logan Square, about a mile and a half to the south, and business is down about 80 percent. “No one is not losing money,” said Jason Hammel, a Brown graduate who moved to Illinois in the 1990s to learn writing from David Foster Wallace but ended up a restaurateur. “I can make it for two or three more months,” he said, “but without federal aid I don’t know if I can survive the winter.”

Versions of this story are being repeated in restaurant after restaurant across urban America. In Atlanta, Michael Lennox opened the Golden Eagle, an evening cocktail joint, and the daytime taco shop Muchacho in a former train depot in 2017, expecting an AMC theater in a new development across the road to drive business their way. But the theater opened two weeks before the pandemic arrived, and it has been closed since.

As restaurants fail, cities will lose economic output and jobs, of course — over two million restaurant jobs and 173,000 bar jobs were lost between February and August. But they also stand to lose their glue.

In a recent research paper, Sitian Liu of Queen’s University in Canada and Yichen Su of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas conclude that the declining value of urban restaurants is contributing to a residential reorganization in which suburban housing is in great demand while the market in the densest urban areas is dormant. In a nutshell, if you can’t go out to eat, why even live in the city?

The demise of restaurants weakens the central economic pillar of superstar cities: the gain in productivity that comes from having many smart young creative people sharing ideas in the same place.

Michael Andrews, an economist at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, studied the value of this social interaction by looking at what happened when it was shut down.

In the 1910s, before Prohibition, several states passed laws banning alcohol consumption. At a stroke, this closed the saloons that had operated in counties where alcohol consumption had been legal. Mr. Andrews detected that in these formerly “wet” counties, patenting activity dropped.

The reason, Mr. Andrews determined, had little to do with drinking. Rather, the saloons had provided a critical social space for the exchange of ideas.

Mr. Andrews and Chelsea Lensing at Coe College are working on another study, about the importance of coffee shops to innovation. Looking at the expansion of Starbucks from its base in Seattle starting in the 1980s, their preliminary results suggest that patenting activity increased when Starbucks came to town. The same happened when Dunkin’ Donuts, Peet’s Coffee and other chains arrived.

“The overall lesson,” Mr. Andrews argued, “is that having these sorts of informal gathering places where people can get together and share ideas, bouncing from conversation to conversation, are extremely valuable for creativity.”

All this could bounce back, of course, once a vaccine or a treatment removes the threat of Covid-19 from the dining experience. Restaurants are already a high-churn business. Few survive for more than a year. Even if a large share fail, entrepreneurial cooks with a line of credit could take their place.

The question is how quickly. Mr. Glaeser, for instance, is confident that restaurants and amenities will return, but he argues that “it could take as long as a decade to work through this thing,” even if a vaccine is developed quickly.

The longer the shock, the more likely it is to produce permanent scars.

Mr. Couture’s baseline assumes that as the pandemic subsides, maybe next spring, bars and restaurants reopen quickly and cities are back to pre-pandemic normal. But he admits that there are other possibilities.

The hit to restaurants and other local businesses could combine with the rise of remote work to push more people to the suburbs, eroding the urban tax base and reducing city services, and “tip us into some kind of new equilibrium in which some cities are declining,” he said.

The economic equilibrium sustaining Mr. Hammel’s restaurant in Logan Square is already giving way. “If Lula reopened tomorrow, I would struggle,” he said. Most of his staff members were people in their 20s — musicians, actors, a photographer, somebody doing social work — who couldn’t afford to stay in Chicago without a job and have left. Winter is coming. At this point, he said, “the city is not a viable place anymore.”





No.25 article:
Coronavirus Study in Germany Offers Hope for Concertgoers

Findings from a test event with 1,200 attendees suggest that indoor concerts have a “low” impact on infection rates, providing they are well ventilated and follow hygiene protocols.

LONDON — Researchers in Germany may have some good news for frustrated concertgoers across the world whose activities have been constrained by the spread of the coronavirus.

Analysis of an indoor concert staged by scientists in August suggests that the impact of such events on the spread of the coronavirus is “low to very low” as long as organizers ensure adequate ventilation, strict hygiene protocols and limited capacity, according to the German researchers who conducted the study.

“There is no argument for not having such a concert,” Dr. Michael Gekle, part of the team at Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg who conducted the study, said in an interview. “The risk of getting infected is very low.”

The study was posted online and announced at a news conference on Thursday but has not yet been peer reviewed.

The test event, one of the first close examinations of how a virus might be transmitted among a crowd at an indoor venue, was closely watched in the global entertainment industry, which has been hampered by lockdown restrictions in most countries since the pandemic broke out early this year.

Some experts expressed skepticism about the results, saying they needed to be replicated and reviewed, and that more information was needed about how researchers used the modeling.

Dr. Gabriel Scally, president of epidemiology and public health at the Royal Society of Medicine, said the findings were potentially “useful,” but that it might be difficult to replicate the controls that the researchers had implemented at many real-life events.

To gauge contacts during the concert, which was held in Leipzig, volunteers were first tested for the virus and given temperature checks before entering the venue. Each person was given a hand disinfectant laced with a florescent dye and a digital location tracker, and different social distancing scenarios were simulated over 10 hours. They included breaks for attendees to go to the bathroom and to simulate buying food and drink from vendors.

Participants were not distanced in one scenario, partially distanced in a checkerboard formulation in a second, and strictly distanced in a third.

Researchers also used a fog machine to observe the movement of air inside the venue and calculate the likelihood of exposure to aerosol droplets.

In one model, jet nozzles on the roof above the arena’s highest rows sent fresh air through to the inner floor of the arena. In another, fresh air was sucked into the arena from the rooftop and the jet nozzles were switched off.

Computer modeling found that 10 times as many people would be exposed to an infectious person’s aerosols in the second scenario compared with the first, suggesting that regular circulation of air decreased the density of any viruses in aerosols, the researchers said. Social distancing further decreased exposure to the aerosols, they said.

“We knew that ventilation was important but we didn’t expect it to be that important,” said Dr. Gekle.

The simulation also found that prolonged contact — of at least several minutes — was the highest during breaks in programming, and when audience members entered the venue.

But Paul Linden, a professor of fluid mechanics at University of Cambridge, said that the computer modeling had not taken into account factors such as heat rising from an audience or indoor air turbulence, and that it was difficult to pinpoint whether it was the pattern of air flow or less ventilation in the venue that led to increased exposure to aerosols. As a general rule, he added, venues needed to bring in as much clean air as possible to lower transmission rates.

The German team has already made a series of recommendations for safety guidelines at live events including installing new ventilation technology that effectively and regularly exchanges air, seated food and drink breaks, making masks compulsory and directing attendees through multiple entrances.

Event organizers received the findings with cautious optimism.

“Obviously if masks are going to work for larger gigs then that’s big progress,” said Emily Eavis, co-organizer of the Glastonbury Festival, an outdoor event that drew crowds of about 135,000 people before the pandemic shut it down this summer, though she added it was much too early to tell. “We are hoping for more news by the end of the year.”

And researchers in other countries are working on similar studies in the hope of finding a safe and viable way to reopen nightlife even with the pandemic still present.

“We are monitoring closely and with huge interest all the similar initiatives in Europe,” Marta Pallarès, a spokeswoman for Primavera Sound, an annual festival in Spain, said in an email.

Primavera Sound’s organizers are helping to conduct a study testing whether rapid coronavirus tests for can be an efficient screening measure for live music events. “All these projects are tremendously important in order to secure a new future for live music,” she added.





No.26 article:
I’m a Chess Expert. Here’s What ‘The Queen’s Gambit’ Gets Right

The Netflix show about a female chess prodigy in the 1950s and ’60s is one of the best screen adaptations of the game yet. But there are a few wrong moves.

This article contains spoilers for “The Queen’s Gambit.”

In the Netflix series “The Queen’s Gambit,” the character Benny Watts walks up to Beth Harmon, the show’s heroine, at the start of the 1967 United States Chess Championship. The location is a small auditorium on the campus of Ohio University.

Uttering an expletive, Benny gestures around the hall and complains about the conditions, noting that the best players in the country are competing, and yet the venue is second rate, the chess boards and pieces are cheap plastic, and the few spectators seem bored at best.

As a chess master who grew up in the era just after the one in which the series takes place, and who wrote the chess column for The New York Times for eight years, I can attest to the scene’s almost painful authenticity. Many tournaments of that era were played in odd and sometimes dingy locations. Even the U.S. championship was not immune; the 1964-65 competition was not even held.

The exchange between Beth (played by Anya Taylor-Joy) and Benny (Thomas Brodie-Sangster) reflects an insider’s knowledge of chess in the United States at the time that the show is set and is one of the many reasons that the series is one of the best and most successful screen adaptations of the game, a short list that includes the 2016 film “Queen of Katwe” and “Searching for Bobby Fischer,” from 1993.

The show’s creators have also done a particularly good job at capturing and dramatizing the high tension of chess tournaments and the sometimes total obsessiveness that the game can inspire. Although it is played for comic effect, there is more than a grain of truth to the scene in which Harry Beltik (Harry Melling) hauls a big box of chess books out of his car and starts passing them to Beth in her living room, only to discover that she has already read most of them. And most skilled chess players have probably played at least a few games entirely in their heads by calling out the moves while speeding down a highway, as Beth and Benny do.

Over the decades, it has become almost a running gag among chess fans to point out mistakes in onscreen portrayals of the game. Dan Lucas, one of the senior officials at the United States Chess Federation, has kept an unofficial list for years. Among the most common transgressions: boards that are oriented incorrectly (there should always be a white square in the right corner), incorrect arrangements of pieces (such as reversing the kings and queens on their starting squares) and characters who don’t know how to move and handle the pieces.

Working with two consultants, Garry Kasparov, the former world champion, and Bruce Pandolfini, a well-known New York City chess coach, the creators of “The Queen’s Gambit” have avoided those errors. (Pandolfini even has a cameo role as a Kentucky tournament director.) The actors were trained on how to play and to move pieces like experts, which is usually done with swift, almost machine-gun-like movements. Taylor-Joy actually developed her own, more fluid style, as she explained in an interview with Chess Life magazine, which was based on her training as a dancer. In the series, she scoops the pieces up and then softly flips them over.

The games portrayed in the series are not just realistic, they are real, based on actual competitions. For example, the match in which Beth defeats Harry for the Kentucky state title was from a game in Riga, Latvia, in 1955; the last speed chess game in which she beats Benny was played at the Paris Opera in 1858; and the game in which she faces the Russian champion Vasily Borgov (Marcin Dorocinski) in the series finale was played in Biel, Switzerland, in 1993.

Despite the efforts to make the chess scenes believable, there are still areas in which the series comes up short. The most apparent is in how fast the players move during the tournaments. As one tournament director tells Beth before a competition in Cincinnati, each player has two hours to make 40 moves, which was, and still is, a standard time control for such games. But in every match, Beth and her opponents make each of their moves after taking only a few seconds to think about them. At such a tempo, they would finish their games in minutes, not hours. The speed is understandable for filmmaking because watching players sit at a board for hours, barely moving, is not riveting. But it is also not accurate.

Nor is having competitors talk during some of the games. Other than offering a draw — essentially agreeing that the match ends in a tie — players do not speak to each other during matches. It is not only considered bad sportsmanship, it is also against the rules. But several times, as in Beth’s game against Harry in Episode 2, in which she gloats near the end, and in her game against a young Russian prodigy in Mexico City in Episode 4, Beth and her opponents engage in verbal exchanges. The dialogue makes the games more understandable and spices up the drama, but once again, it is not true to life.

Though “The Queen’s Gambit” is a work of fiction and the characters that appear in it never existed, there are passing references to players who did, among them the world champions José Raúl Capablanca, Alexander Alekhine, Mikhail Botvinnik and Boris Spassky.

There is also a curious moment when Harry compares Beth to Paul Morphy, an American, who played that famous game at the Paris Opera in 1858 and who is widely considered the greatest player of the 19th century. The comparison seems like a misdirection. Despite her self-destructive tendencies, Beth does not resemble Morphy. She is closer to a female version of another champion: Bobby Fischer.

That may not be accidental. Walter Tevis, who wrote the 1983 novel on which the series is based, was a passionate and knowledgeable amateur player. In making the protagonist a woman playing a game that had long been dominated by men — and which continues to be today, though no one knows the reason — Tevis may have been expressing a hope that one day there might be true equality of the sexes over the board.

Fischer himself had been very dismissive of female players, saying in a 1963 interview that they were “terrible” and that a likely reason was that “they are not so smart.” Making Beth recall a female Fischer may have been a sneaky, and wonderful, way to send up that assessment.

The parallels between Beth and Fischer are numerous (minus her drug use, which, by the way, would have only diminished, not improved, her play).

“The Queen’s Gambit” covers a period from 1958 to 1968. That coincides with the peak of Fischer’s career, which ran from 1957, when he won the U.S. championship at 14, to 1972, when he won the world championship at 29 and quit competing.

Beth wins the 1967 U.S. championship. That was the year Fischer won his eighth and final American title.

After her adoptive mother dies in Mexico City, Beth, who is in her late teens, finds herself living alone. Soon after Fischer’s older sister, Joan, married and moved out, his mother, Regina, did, too, to pursue a medical degree. That left Fischer, at 16, living on his own.

Fischer was somewhat antisocial and one-dimensional — there was little that he liked to talk about outside of chess. Beth is more likable, a necessity for a leading character in a show, but she has some similar traits.

She learns Russian in order to be prepared to face the Soviet players; Fischer taught himself Russian so that he could read Russian chess journals, which were the best sources of information.

Unlike the other top players in the show, Beth is able to make a living at chess. Even Benny, a past U.S. champion, lives in a dingy basement. Fischer was a pioneer as a full-time professional player in the United States. Kasparov has often said that it was Fischer’s demands for better playing conditions and larger prizes that professionalized the game.

When Beth needs money to go to Russia, she asks the government to pay for the trip. Fischer’s mother once picketed the White House to try to raise money for the United States chess team.

One of the reasons Beth does not have enough money for the trip is because she has bought too many dresses. Fischer, even though he was often scratching for money, had his suits and shoes custom made.

Finally, Beth and Fischer have similar, aggressive playing styles. And when playing white and facing the Sicilian Defense, they both play the same system: the Fischer-Sozin Attack.

When it comes to how chess is portrayed onscreen, chess players are a notoriously picky and unforgiving crowd. We will pounce on any mistake. Though “The Queen’s Gambit” has its flaws, in the end the series is a clear winner.





No.27 article:
‘Song Exploder’ and the Inexhaustible Hustle of Hrishikesh Hirway

The creator of several podcasts and a new television series is a popular investigator of the creative process. But his most personal case remains unsolved.

Making something new is like climbing a mountain without a map. Only at the end of the journey does the route come clearly into view.

On the new Netflix series “Song Exploder,” based on the podcast of the same name created by Hrishikesh Hirway, the blind expeditions of popular music artists, including R.E.M., Alicia Keys and Ty Dolla Sign, are recognized as their own form of entertainment. Using a mix of interviews and behind-the-scenes footage, the series spotlights the chaotic trail of stumbles, breakthroughs and revelations that led to the creation of a single song.

Hirway, a podcast impresario and the host and an executive producer of the “Song Exploder” television series, is a devoted connoisseur of the creative process. He is an artist himself — he makes music with the bands the One AM Radio and Moors, and composes scores for film and television — but is best known for his growing portfolio of podcasts, all of which circle the basic question of what it takes to make something meaningful.

In addition to “Song Exploder,” Hirway created and hosts or co-hosts “The West Wing Weekly” (co-hosted by a friend and actor from the series, Joshua Malina); “Partners”; and, most recently, “Home Cooking,” with the chef and best-selling author Samin Nosrat, also a friend. The Netflix show, which premiered in September and will return next month with a second batch of episodes featuring Dua Lipa, Nine Inch Nails, the Killers and Natalia Lafourcade, has afforded him a bigger canvas and a powerful patron that few other independent podcasters have been able to reach. But the more successful Hirway has become at chronicling other artists’ journeys, the more he finds himself haunted by the gaps in his own.

HIRWAY, 41, IS TALL, with a swoop of black hair, a Zen disposition and one of those improbably smooth radio voices that could double as a treatment for hypertension. “I have this daydream that when I’m older I’ll just make music and narrate audiobooks,” he said, during a series of interviews in October.

For the time being, he was busy with his actual jobs, which included recording and editing biweekly episodes of the “Song Exploder” and “Home Cooking” podcasts, preparing to record a special edition of “The West Wing Weekly” with its creator, Aaron Sorkin, mixing the soundtrack for a video game score he had written and adding the finishing touches to the latest episodes of the Netflix series.

When we first spoke, he was at the spartan-chic home in Los Angeles that he shares with his wife, a fashion designer. He took our video call in his garage recording studio, surrounded by a piano and guitars, where he spends 10 to 11 hours every day. If anything, quarantine had only increased his productivity. “Home Cooking,” another of Hirway’s daydreams, on which he and Nosrat respond to listeners’ cooking conundrums, began in March as a response to the first wave of the Coronavirus pandemic.

“He’s an ideas machine — ‘What about this? What about that?’” Nosrat said. “One of his super powers is that he’s very good at knowing what will work and what won’t.”

The son of Indian immigrants who settled in Peabody, Mass., Hirway didn’t intend to become a media maven. His father was a food scientist, and his mother worked for Sears. Hirway fell in love with music as a child — first playing piano, then, in high-school bands, drums and guitar — and, to his parents’ distress, studied art at Yale. After graduating in 2000, he worked as a graphic designer while attempting to turn his college band, the One AM Radio, into a full-time gig.

For a while, he succeeded. The band — a blog-era indie rock project whose songs, including “Accidents” and “An Old Photo of Your New Lover,” were featured in the romantic comedy “Save the Date” and on the CW dramas “One Tree Hill” and “Gossip Girl” — toured internationally and released four albums between 2002 and 2011. But, by 2012, after a disappointing commercial response to the last the One AM Radio album, Hirway felt mounting pressure to pivot to a more sustainable career.

“I had been trying to satisfy this rebellious streak and make my own way in the world,” he said. “But there’s another side of me that feels this responsibility to live up to the potential my parents had imagined that I had, and that they had come to this country and worked so hard to create.”

Hirway decided to become a film composer, thinking that it would allow him to continue making music and maintain a more stable lifestyle. But steady work in the insular movie industry eluded him.

In 2013, he came up with another plan. While touring for the One AM Radio, he’d become a regular listener to three podcasts, the movie trivia show “Doug Loves Movies,” the history-oriented “The Memory Palace” and “WTF with Marc Maron.” Maron’s show, on which the host and fellow comedians shared war stories from the comedy world with spellbinding, intramural candor, reminded Hirway of his own conversations with other musicians. He thought of creating his own podcast, on which prominent artists would reveal the secret ingredients to their songs. Rather than assuming the risk of making the show on his own, he would take the idea to his old contacts at music streaming services, including Spotify and Rdio, and propose they hire him to make it in-house.

Nobody bit, and Hirway resumed work as a graphic designer to pay his bills. But, several months later, he tried again, this time approaching a podcast company, Maximum Fun, that distributed “The Memory Palace.”

“It was an entirely coherent idea that made immediate sense right from the start,” said Jesse Thorn, the founder of Maximum Fun and host of the podcast “Bullseye with Jesse Thorn,” who greenlit “Song Exploder” in 2014. (The show is now distributed by Radiotopia.) “And he was such a skilled editor and producer that he needed very little help to get it up and running.”

If listening to “WTF” feels like hanging out in Maron’s singular, hyperactive brain, “Song Exploder” is, in its own way, equally personal. The show is a reflection of its creator’s constitutional minimalism. Each of its nearly 200 episodes, which have featured interviews with artists including Lindsey Buckingham, Björk and Solange, is surgically edited (run times can be as short as 11 minutes) and fastidiously produced, interweaving isolated elements of the featured song with the artist’s anecdotes and reflections.

Hirway excises his own side of the interview, presenting the story as a continuous, first-person narrative. At first, this was in part a defense against his insecurities as an interviewer, but that worry proved misguided. What Hirway lacked in journalistic training he more than made up for in intuition and firsthand experience.

In the R.E.M. episode of the television show, we see him in action, quizzing the reticent Michael Stipe about “Losing My Religion.” At the beginning of the interview, Stipe coyly declares the protagonist of his most famous song a “total fabrication.” But then Hirway asks him to try inhabiting the character behind the lyrics. Before long, his subject, beginning to thaw, is ruminating at length about insecurity, disillusionment and the pain of heartbreak.

“OK, so maybe there’s a little bit of autobiographic material in there,” he eventually allows.

Morgan Neville, the director of “20 Feet from Stardom” and a director and executive producer of the “Song Exploder” television series, said Hirway’s ability to connect with the guests on a granular level was the show’s secret weapon.

“The artists instantly know that he gets it — there’s a shorthand there,” he said. “It’s like we get to eavesdrop on two people having an intimate conversation.”

Though it was intended as a side hustle, podcasting quickly became a full-time job, and then a way of life. Hirway’s subsequent shows, which, like “Song Exploder,” he owns or co-owns and operates through his company, Translucence, have been designed to satisfy his creative impulses — a catalog of itches, scratched.

In that sense, Hirway’s approach to making new podcasts resembles a songwriter’s approach to writing new songs, driven more by instinct and the thirst for authentic self-expression than by the calculated strategies of a traditional media mogul. But his ultimate goal — for his day job to support his music making, rather than the other way around — has remained out of reach.

“Every time I take on a new job or new project, it’s one more step away from that goal,” he said. “I love being able to scratch all of these different parts of my brain, but when I’m working on music, it’s just a different kind of emotional response.”

One way to correct the balance would be to sell off the podcasts (Hirway says his company, of which he is the sole full-time employee, is profitable, though he declined to share revenue figures) or delegate his responsibilities to someone else. But that may be easier said than done.

In 2019, while developing the Netflix series with Neville, Hirway took a year off from hosting the “Song Exploder” podcast. He temporarily handed the reins to the musician Thao Nguyen, and though Hirway was still involved in booking and editing, some listeners assumed that he was gone for good. Their comments, and the discomfiting feeling they left in the pit of his stomach, were a reminder that sometimes the hardest part of making something is letting it go.

“People were saying, ‘Oh, he’s gone; he’s not the host anymore,’” Hirway recalled. “Part of me felt like, Hey, wait a minute. I’m right here!”





No.28 article:
The Many Lives of Lentils

In stew, in pasta or in a bright, vegetarian loaf, there’s much to be done with this trusty legume, David Tanis writes.

At my house, dinner is not a three-course meal every night. More likely, it’s a main course and a green salad. Sometimes, it is a one-pot main course, though not always. (I find that even when cooking a simple meal, at least two pots and pans are often involved.) And, quite frequently, dinner is meatless.

While I consider myself a carnivore, my first love will always be vegetables. I’m quite happy to have a vegetarian meal several times a week.

In addition to fresh vegetables, whole grains and dried legumes are usually part of the picture. I’m a big fan of every type of bean, whether cannellini or garbanzo, with a cupboard full of them to choose from. Lately, it is lentils that most strike my fancy. Aside from being delicious, they have the advantage of being quick-cooking. It usually takes no more than 30 minutes to simmer a pot, so they are perfect for a relatively fast meal.

For most uses, any kind will work, but even among lentils, there are lots of types to choose from. If the meal is leaning in a Spanish direction, I might go with Pardina lentils, a small brown variety good for stews, soups or salads. For an Italianate dish, I like Castelluccio lentils from Umbria. When I want to veer toward Turkish flavors, I choose split red lentils.

What follows are three lentil dinners I highly recommend. They are all vegetarian, and all have the advantage of tasting good, perhaps better, when prepared in advance. Lastly, each of these dishes can benefit from a drizzle of fruity extra-virgin olive oil as a final flourish, to make them that much more luscious.

This rustic stew improves after a day in the fridge. At the very least, try to cook it an hour or two ahead of the meal, so the elements have time to meld. (You can also make it to eat over several days, or to freeze for later.) Any size green or brown lentil will work here, if you can’t get the small Spanish Pardina lentils (or French lentilles du Puy). But the smoky pimentón is vital: Along with extra-virgin olive oil, it provides real depth of flavor.

There are many versions of pasta with lentils, a multitude of which are thick and stewlike, more lentil than pasta. This one emphasizes the pasta. The saucy lentil topping is similar to a traditional Bolognese ragù. The addition of fennel — seeds, bulb and chopped green fronds — gives it a surprising brightness and zest. For even more flavor, put your saved-up Parmesan rinds to use in the sauce. (Meat eaters: Add a little chopped anchovy or Italian fennel sausage.)

You may have encountered the kind of vegetarian lentil loaf that masquerades as something else. With its brownish-grey color and a red ketchup glaze, it tries to emulate the homespun comfort of meatloaf. Most recipes call for Worcestershire and barbecue sauce to make it taste beefy. This delicate red lentil loaf is worlds away from that. It’s all about the undisguised flavor of the lentil: sweet and vegetal. The seasoning is a little bit Turkish, with lemon, cumin, cilantro, dill and yogurt. It is delicious served at room temperature or warm. The loaf is easier to cut if cooled, with slices heated through in the oven. Even better is to griddle the slices with a little oil in a nonstick or cast-iron pan until crisp and golden on both sides.

The earthy, smoky flavors in this lentil stew send me on a beeline to the Northern Rhône Valley of France, ancestral home of the syrah grape, which with its peppery, savory flavors will be an excellent complement to this dish. Look for St.-Joseph, Crozes-Hermitage or a midaged Cornas, coincidentally just what we drank in Wine School recently. You could also try syrahs from California or Australia, as long as they are made in a restrained style. Other red options? You could drink a new-wave grenache, like those coming from the Sierra de Gredos region of Spain, or an aglianico from Campania, as long as it’s not too tannic. Or if you want a white, I think this dish would go really well with a good chenin blanc. ERIC ASIMOV

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.29 article:
2020 Will Not Be Decisive

An election is supposed to be a reality check. It promises the finality of decision, in which the back-and-forth of political argument gives way to the undeniability of a particular outcome on a particular day.

Scoff at the possibility that Donald Trump could ever be the Republican nominee (as I did, once upon a time), and a succession of primaries will reveal the hollowness of your supposed expertise. Insist on the certainty of polling or political science, or some variable (rally size, yard signs, boaters) of your own choice, and the election result will put your certainty to a decisive test. Claim that your particular obsessions are shared by the American people, and on Election Day the people in their majesty will render a verdict on your claim.

But that finality is still socially and politically constructed. And democracies can fail — a scenario on many people’s minds these days — when that constructedness dissolves, when it becomes possible to deny the finality of election results outright, to continue the contest outside the system or to substitute a different form of decision for the verdict of the ballot box.

We are not there yet in America, but people are right to sense that we’re in a liminal place, where a combination of factors has made our election results much less decisive than in the country’s past.

One factor is the increasingly immersive power of ideological narratives and virtual realities. If you can react to an election loss by retreating immediately into a storyscape where the outcome was a cheat, carried about by means of voter fraud or Russian interference, then the decisiveness of any given outcome will inevitably diminish.

Another factor is the interaction of political polarization with America’s two-party system and constitutional design. A country with two parties that are increasingly ideologically consolidated, and a narrowing band of swing voters in between, will produce fewer landslides and more nail-biters, and more swings back and forth from election to election, than a country with looser and more fluid coalitions. If that country’s electoral system also allows candidates to win the state’s highest office with a minority of the popular vote, then under polarized conditions this scenario will become more commonplace, decoupling the official decision of the election from the apparent preferences of the voting majority.

The irony is that historically, America’s Electoral College tended to produce more decisive-seeming outcomes, both because it magnified the scale of a geographically well-distributed victory and because the possibility of losing even with a slight popular majority created incentives to seek supermajorities — to overwhelm countermajoritarian redoubts with nationwide landslides.

You can think of the 2020 campaign as a test of whether that kind of incentive structure can be made to work again. The 2016 election, as I wrote over the weekend, was an example of a shocking but non-decisive-seeming result, in which all the weirdnesses associated with Trump’s minoritarian victory gave people in both parties reasons not to learn any lessons from the experience.

But Joe Biden’s campaign, with its steady “moderate blue-collar Joe” energy and disdain for Twitter fads, seemed to learn more lessons than the campaigns of rival Democrats. If Biden’s push to the nomination and now the presidency was uncreative and unambitious in all kinds of ways, it still seemed to go further than any candidacy since Barack Obama’s in 2008 in trying to be rhetorically unifying, in seeking a broader-than-last-time coalition.

The Trump presidency and campaign, meanwhile, appeared to write off the possibility of winning a landslide or even a simple popular-vote majority, relying on their Electoral College advantages while conspicuously resisting the Democratic Party’s attempts to count as many votes as possible. The scenario in which Trump’s 2016 campaign-trail populism coalesced into a majority-building agenda was foreclosed early; the scenario in which Trump rode a strong economy to an easy victory was foreclosed by the coronavirus. Which has left an indecisive outcome and yet another minoritarian government as his best 2020 hope.

From a systemic perspective, from the point of view of America’s potential governability, even those of us who would oppose much about a Biden presidency could draw something hopeful from the seeming possibility — as of 24 hours ago — of a landslide Democratic win. That would mean that the system can still deliver clear decisions, even if only for one cycle, and it would create incentives for whatever follows Trump in the Republican Party to seek a similarly decisive victory in its turn.

But that possibility has evaporated as of this writing, taking what remains of the expert class’s credibility with it. Instead at the moment we seem headed toward the indecision of another too-close-to-call and potentially litigated endgame, with razor-thin margins no matter which man wins. Which implies that even under what seemed like favorable conditions for a decisive outcome, the evolving ways we’re polarized — by age, geography, sex, class and faith — are still the more powerful forces, dragging us ever back toward stalemate.

It’s one more sign, as if we needed more, that our system’s method of uniting power with legitimacy is slowly losing both.





No.30 article:
Brady, Brees and Roethlisberger Just Won’t Go Quietly. Luckily for the N.F.L.

Those quarterbacks, as well as Philip Rivers, are showing signs of wear and tear but still thriving in the twilight of their careers. They have the Steelers, Saints, Buccaneers and Colts on course to make the playoffs.

With a combined age of 85 years and 30 days, Tom Brady and Drew Brees will be the oldest pair of starting quarterbacks in N.F.L. history when the Tampa Bay Buccaneers host the New Orleans Saints in Sunday night’s marquee matchup. The previous record of 84 years and 243 days was set by Brady and Brees when the Saints and Buccaneers squared off in the regular season opener. The pair will set another record in the likely event that they meet in the playoffs.

Brady (43) and Brees (41), along with Ben Roethlisberger (38) of the Pittsburgh Steelers and Philip Rivers (38) of the Indianapolis Colts comprise the N.F.L.’s quarterboomers, a generation of still-spry living legends who can teach the league’s whippersnappers a thing or two, at least so long as they are perched behind fortresslike offensive lines and supported by star-studded rosters.

These 40-ish quarterbacks should not be mistaken for creaky has-beens who are merely coasting on their reputations. The Buccaneers, Colts, Saints and Steelers have a combined 23-6 record through Week 8. Brady is tied for third in the N.F.L. with 20 touchdown passes, while Roethlisberger is tied for seventh with 15. Brees and Brady rank seventh and ninth, respectively, in the league in efficiency rating. Brady and the others are keeping their teams near the front of the playoff chase while outperforming many would-be challengers 10 to 20 years younger.

That’s not to say that the veterans never show signs of age. Roethlisberger, who used to shrug off would-be tacklers and launch downfield missiles, now more often flings short passes to a coterie of young playmakers. Rivers throws like an old knuckleballer with petroleum jelly on his fingers, his passes mysteriously wobbling and weaving their way through defenders to their targets. Brees shares snaps with the fleet-footed Taysom Hill to compensate for his ever-decreasing mobility.

Even Brady looks at times like a classic rock legend supported on his farewell tour by a 60-piece orchestra and a choir that swells whenever he cannot reach a high note. And in case that’s not enough, scheduled to join the band this week is the former Pro Bowl wide receiver Antonio Brown, who had been suspended from the league after pleading no contest to burglary and battery charges related to a dispute in January and for threatening a woman who accused him of sexual misconduct.

The quarterboomers appeared to be on their last legs at the end of the 2019 season. Roethlisberger missed most of the year with an elbow injury. Teddy Bridgewater was performing Brees’s trickier stunts. Rivers threw 20 interceptions in his final season with the Los Angeles Chargers. The Giants mercifully benched Eli Manning, who at 38 could no longer keep up with his peers. Brady looked washed up as the New England Patriots’ roster crumbled around him.

It finally appeared to be time for all of them to cede the spotlight to new superstars like Patrick Mahomes and Lamar Jackson, or to any of a dozen lesser candidates who still cannot quite string together three games in which they are healthy and productive.

But a healthy Roethlisberger returned to a rebuilt Steelers roster. Rivers has been rejuvenated by the sturdy Colts offensive line and a reunion with the game-planning guru Frank Reich, who coached Rivers in some of his best recent seasons. And Brady has thrived since a divorce with the Patriots that has left Bill Belichick eating microwave dinners over the sink and grousing to anyone with a sympathetic ear.

Age brings a measure of wisdom, which is one reason quarterbacks old enough to own Dave Matthews Band boxed CD sets are so effective. There is no coverage scheme or blitz package that Brady and the others cannot instantly diagnose and counterattack after 17 to 21 N.F.L. seasons. The peculiarities of 2020 may even have increased their advantage: The veterans are recalling tactics from memory that their opponents learned this summer in Zoom meetings.

There’s more to the quarterboomers’ success than just residual talent and life experience, however. The Buccaneers, Colts, Saints, and Steelers are going “all in” to win a Super Bowl in their quarterbacks’ golden years by adding weapons, maxing out the salary cap and planning almost exclusively for the short-term future. Younger quarterbacks may get stuck behind jury-rigged offensive lines or with middling receiver corps as their teams economize and strategize for long-term success, but Brady and the others are granted every available immediate advantage.

A reckoning will come for their teams once Brady and the others fade or retire. The Saints are almost $93 million over the projected 2021 salary cap, per OverTheCap.com; the team may have to be relegated to a seven-on-seven league to make ends meet. The Colts and Steelers have no quarterbacks-of-the-future in the wings, and neither team will be in position next year to draft one. The Buccaneers, who are paying Brady a guaranteed $25 million this season, are making the sort of Faustian bargain that guarantees dire consequences. Any of these teams could soon look like the ruins of the Patriots empire, and only one of them (at most) can win the Super Bowl that will make it worthwhile.

That mix of sustained excellence, presumptive entitlement and win-at-any-cost ambition makes it possible to both admire and resent the quarterboomers. In many ways, they are re-enacting a well-trod generational conflict: Old-timers, still vital but also benefiting from past accomplishments, are lording their continued success over youngsters too shackled to bad coaches or endangered by leaky offensive lines to pick themselves up by their bootstraps just yet.

That said, anyone who suffered through Carson Wentz versus Ben DiNucci in last Sunday night’s game between the Philadelphia Eagles and Dallas Cowboys knows that we should cherish matchups like Brady vs. Brees while we can.





No.31 article:
Feel Inspired, America

There is much to celebrate about our democracy, from record voter turnout to creative volunteerism.

In 2016 Scott Duncombe, a software developer in Portland, Ore., saw on the news that Cleveland residents had to wait hours in long lines to vote. His heart went out to them. In Oregon, there are never any lines because everybody votes by mail. So he called up a pizza place in Cleveland and ordered a bunch of food to raise their spirits.

The effort grew. This year, the volunteer-driven nonpartisan project, Pizza to the Polls, has delivered more than 53,000 pizzas to polling places in 48 states. About 30 staff members and volunteers on Election Day were scanning for texts and social media posts from voters at polling sites with long lines. Their fleet of trucks, with “Democracy is delicious” printed across the side, also handed out free milkshakes, burgers and empanadas.

“Instead of doomscrolling Twitter, this is a way to bring a lot of joy,” Mr. Duncombe said.

There’s something beautiful about that. For all the drama, anxiety, animosity and fear this election has brought, it has also brought many examples of patriotic volunteerism, much of it nonpartisan. As contentious and scary and possibly violent as this election might turn out to be, Americans are fighting for the future of a country that we all agree is worth fighting for.

Voters have turned out in record numbers. Volunteers are making sure their votes are counted quickly and correctly. They are helping voters maintain social distance, sanitizing pens and handing out the iconic “I Voted” stickers. Tens of thousands of young people volunteered to serve as poll workers, replacing the seniors who typically fill the role but did not feel comfortable doing so amid the pandemic.

That volunteerism is even more notable since it is happening during a pandemic. The most consequential election in generations is taking place during a year when politicians and campaign volunteers can’t go door-to-door as they did before. Instead of feeling defeated, Americans came up with creative ways to meet the moment. Jazz musicians put on a virtual benefit concert. Video gamers and entertainers are using the livestream platform Twitch to encourage voting with a 12-hour Election Day virtual party called #TwitchTheVote. The singer Leslie Odom Jr., star of the musical “Hamilton,” released a video of himself singing “Wait for It,” to encourage Americans to be patient and wait for all votes to be counted. The video is a public service announcement promoted by RepresentUs, a grass-roots anti-corruption campaign.

Across the country, all kinds of people have thrown themselves into this election, in ways big and small. Katie Mazzocco, a small-business owner in Pittsburgh, fell ill with Covid-19 in March and has been bedridden — yet found the strength to write 300 postcards to get out the vote. A Ukrainian immigrant, Yana Duke, who said she hadn’t had much involvement in politics before, decided to throw herself into volunteering for a campaign and distributing yard signs in Cincinnati. Joe LaMuraglia, a resident of Savannah who has been staying in Boston during the pandemic, drove all the way to Georgia and back — a trip of about 2,000 miles — just to cast his vote after his absentee ballot did not arrive in the mail.

In August, just after the Democratic National Convention took place virtually, Margo Wright, a Black woman in Brooklyn who founded an educational technology company, wanted to do something to increase voter turnout in Black communities. She feared that the pandemic, which has disproportionately hurt Black people, would rob them of their chance to vote. So she pulled together a group of like-minded friends who built a website to help people figure out how to vote early and in person in places where they were eligible to do so.

Their nonpartisan effort, VoteEarly2020, is just one of many volunteer-driven projects responsible for the wild success of early voting this year. More than 100 million Americans cast their ballots before Election Day, more than double the number in 2016. That’s astonishing — and inspiring.

It is easy to be overwhelmed reading about efforts to suppress the vote — like the shameless attempts by Republicans in Texas to throw out more than 127,000 votes cast in Harris County. But that despair should be balanced by the stories of trained volunteers who are standing by to rescue ballots in Georgia, Pennsylvania and North Carolina that were rejected for minor reasons, like signatures that don’t seem to match. Those volunteers have been reaching out to voters whose ballots have been rejected and are trying to “cure” them, sometimes by getting those voters to the polls to cast in-person provisional ballots.

The 2020 election has turned brother against sister and father against son. And it has resonated through the generations. In Chicago, a lawyer named Anurima Bhargava made a video about losing her brother a few weeks before Joe Biden had lost his son. In the video, she talked about what Mr. Biden told her parents about their shared loss, and how much his words meant to her family. Nobody paid her to make that video. She made it because she wanted to tell her fellow Americans about the importance of having a president who intimately knows death, especially in the midst of a pandemic.

It is notable that a widely read argument in support of re-electing President Trump was penned not by the Trump campaign but by an ordinary supporter, Robby Starbuck. His list of Trump accomplishments was viewed by nearly two million people on Twitter alone. You don’t have to agree with what he wrote to feel proud to live in a country where ordinary people have a voice.

Yes, the election has been nerve-racking. We live in a country where too many Americans are forced to wait in unacceptably long lines to vote, especially if they are Black and poor. But we also live in a country where perfect strangers send them pizza to make their waits a bit easier. Yes, corrupt politicians are scheming to throw out ballots they assume were cast by the other side. But armies of ordinary citizens are making it their business to ensure that as many votes are counted as possible. The only thing that keeps our democracy intact is our shared belief in it and our communal willingness to guard against threats.

That’s the same spirit that impressed Alexis de Tocqueville about the United States all those years ago: The civic spirit of volunteerism, on the part of ordinary people, is what links us together and makes us whole. With the nation as divided as it is, facing major challenges from coast to coast, we’re going to need a lot more of it.





No.32 article:
In ‘Knife’s Edge’ Pennsylvania, Trump’s Fortunes Rely on His Rural Base

If President Trump is able to outperform the polls in the battleground state of Pennsylvania, it will be because he re-energized white, blue-collar voters in places like Butler County.

[President-elect Joe Biden’s victory prompts spontaneous celebrations.]

BUTLER, Pa. — “Here he comes!” cried Jeannie Cook over the chomp of rotor blades as a fleet of helicopters flew out of the setting sun, blinding thousands of eyes turned toward the arrival of President Trump in the heart of red America.

No president had ever visited Butler County, according to that day’s Butler Eagle. “It almost feels like Christmas Eve,” the newspaper editorialized.

But rather than Santa Claus, it was Mr. Trump dropping in for the third of four rallies in Pennsylvania in one day, mostly in places where he had trounced Hillary Clinton in 2016. If Mr. Trump is able to outrun the polls in Pennsylvania and other battlegrounds that show him trailing Joseph R. Biden Jr., it will be because he re-energized the white blue-collar voters in places like Butler County, home to a steel mill that employs 9,000.

Supporters like Ms. Cook, 62, viewed the president in heroic terms and had no doubt that he would be re-elected. “Because he’s the greatest president,” she said.

As voters cast ballots on Tuesday, Pennsylvania loomed large as the potential tipping point for the presidency, and perhaps Mr. Trump’s best hope to maintain his hold on one of the so-called blue wall states, along with Michigan and Wisconsin, that he narrowly won four years ago to secure the White House. His advisers believe the state is on a “knife’s edge,” the closest contest on the map.

Mr. Biden spent all or part of the final three days in Pennsylvania, the surest sign of its significance, visiting his childhood home in Scranton on Tuesday.

“From this house to the White House with the grace of God,” he scrawled on the wall.

Vote counting is expected to take longer in the state than in many other key battlegrounds, and legal fights are already underway. But if Mr. Trump defies the polls, his frenetic schedule of rallies in the homestretch may deserve much of the credit, reminding his base why they voted for him in droves four years ago, when he promised to protect their jobs from foreign competition and from immigrants.

As the sun set on Saturday in Butler County, which is just north of Pittsburgh, Mr. Trump marveled at his supporters packed shoulder-to-shoulder and largely not wearing masks, despite daily records of coronavirus infections. “You can’t even see the end of people,” he beamed. “There’s a lot of people here.”

Pictures from that giant rally shook some prominent Pennsylvania Democrats. “That’s not photoshop,” John Fetterman, the state’s lieutenant governor, a Democrat, wrote in a string of Twitter warnings. “Can’t fake a crowd like that.”

Phillip Keil, who came to hear Mr. Trump, was optimistic. “I think it’s going to be a landslide,&quot; said Mr. Keil, 65, who owns a power-washing business in Gibsonia, Pa. Like the president, he put more faith in crowd sizes, yard signs and other omens than polling, which has the president behind an average of 5 points in Pennsylvania. Driving to the rally in a pickup festooned with Trump signs and flags, Mr. Keil said, “I had one finger given to me and five beeps and hurrahs.”

To fervent Trump supporters, many of them sealed under a dome of misinformation from the president and his media supporters, he is a champion. He has done the best that any president could have managing the coronavirus scourge, supporters say. He lowered taxes and triggered a roaring economy. He alone stands between a free Republic and an all-out assault on liberty if Democrats win control in Washington.

Watching the president’s arrival on Saturday in Butler from her porch just beyond the airport, Nadine Schoor, 63, compared his leadership of the country to that of a stern but all-knowing father.

“I look at President Trump and we’re the family — the country’s the family,&quot; said Ms. Schoor, who works for the county government. “And he’s the parent. He’s got a lot of tough love, and he doesn’t care what anyone thinks to get something done that he knows is right.”

All of Pennsylvania does not look like Butler County. On Election Day there were lines of people stretching out of sight in the Democratic strongholds of Philadelphia and elsewhere.

Rich Fitzgerald, the county executive of Allegheny County, which includes Pittsburgh, boldly predicted, “I fully expect Joe Biden to carry Allegheny County by 150,000 votes this time.” Mrs. Clinton’s margin in the county four years ago was 108,000 votes.

Mr. Trump faced a particularly uphill battle in suburban Pennsylvania, where his support among women has eroded over the last four years.

Bucks County, just outside Philadelphia, went for Mrs. Clinton by less than a percentage point in 2016. By the 2018 midterms, it went for the Democratic Senate candidate by 14 points. This year, Mr. Biden hopes to run up his margins in places like Bucks, where disaffected Republicans were not hard to find.

“I feel that Trump is just an embarrassment to the country,” said Andy Innocenti, a 62-year-old retail manager. He is a Republican but this year he voted for Mr. Biden and “Democratic right down the line” to send a message to his own party.

The Biden campaign expressed confidence that it had run up a cushion of support in early voting, after Democrats returned 1,641,000 mail-in ballots by Tuesday morning, compared to 586,000 that were returned by Republicans.

Republicans were expected to vote disproportionately in person on Tuesday, and Mr. Trump’s campaign had made a far larger investment in ground operations.

Both polling and analysis of the more than 100 million votes cast before Tuesday nationwide suggests that Mr. Trump has lost ground with college-educated voters compared to four years ago. To compensate, he must drive up his advantage with white working-class voters even higher than in 2016.

In Armstrong County, where Mr. Trump won 74 percent of the vote four years ago, Pat Fabian, a Democrat on the county commission, predicted that Mr. Biden would “shave that by 10 or 15 percent” — an improvement that if repeated across Pennsylvania would likely doom Mr. Trump.

The Trump campaign in Pennsylvania has pointed to its months of in-person canvassing and outreach to low-frequency voters, which in some counties resulted in a surge of newly registered Republicans. The state includes 2.2 million non-college-educated white voters who didn’t vote in 2016, more than in either of the other blue wall states of Michigan and Wisconsin, which had gone steadily Democratic for years until 2016.

In Bucks County on Tuesday, Wendy Hummel, a 72-year-old Republican, was waiting to cast her vote for Mr. Trump because he was “for life and not death,” referring to abortion. She was willing to overlook Mr. Trump’s own less-than-pious personal history. “He is in his walk with the Lord,” she said, “and he’s learning like the rest of us.”

Across the hallway, in a middle school where the line to vote zigzagged throughout the school and where so many cars had piled into the lot that many were parking on the grass, Jessica Voutsinas had been clutching her vote-by-mail ballot for more than two and half hours. She was concerned with Republican efforts to disqualify such ballots, and planned to surrender it and vote in person instead.

Ms. Voutsinas, 24, called herself a climate change voter and was unsure how Bucks, a swing county in a swing state, would vote.

“It seems aggressively moderate to me,” she said.

Outside the Trump rally in Butler, a supporter named Jeff, who declined to give his last name because he distrusts the media, acknowledged that “it looks bad” for Mr. Trump winning a second term. He blamed the media for not reporting the president’s successes and “the criminal activities the Biden family has been involved in.’’

Among the president’s triumphs, he named “rescuing a lot of women and children who were abducted” for sex trafficking, part of the baseless QAnon conspiracy theory.

Mr. Trump has fanned myriad conspiracy theories. For months he has raged that he will only lose if the election is “rigged’’ and he has insisted that mail-in votes counted after Nov. 3, which are expected to favor Mr. Biden, would be fraudulent — a groundless charge.

In such an atmosphere, with Mr. Trump’s base unprepared to accept a loss as legitimate, Mr. Biden’s task of bringing together the country, should he become president, would be immeasurably more difficult.

On the final pre-election weekend, Emily Skopov, a Democrat running for the State Legislature, canvassed in an affluent suburb of brick homes north of Pittsburgh, where almost every resident was a registered Republican. Almost no one was willing to speak with her.

One couple who did listen to Ms. Skopov’s pitch (“I’m not a communist or a socialist!’’ she quickly said) was Brian and Patty O’Connor, whose opinions mirrored the gender gap that has imperiled Mr. Trump.

Mr. O’Connor, a lawyer, denounced Mr. Trump’s personality but said he would vote for his re-election. Ms. O’Connor said she was “embarrassed” to have voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 yet she remained undecided days before the election. “We have five kids, we put them through schools; taxes are a big issue to us,’’ she said. “We are practicing Catholics. Abortion’s a big issue — sometimes. Personally, I don’t like Donald Trump.’’

“I don’t know, I really tell you, I’m undecided,’’ she added.





No.33 article:
Vienna Reels From a Rare Terrorist Attack

The gunman, who killed four people and wounded 23, had been arrested for trying to join ISIS, raising questions about whether he should have been closely watched.

BERLIN — He was armed with an automatic rifle, a pistol, a machete and a dummy suicide belt. For nine minutes, the 20-year-old gunman turned the cobbled streets of central Vienna into a war zone, firing so many shots from so many places that the authorities initially believed there were multiple attackers.

By the time the police shot him on Monday night, he had killed four people and wounded 23, shocking a country where deadly terrorist attacks are rare.

But the shooter, a 20-year-old dual citizen of Austria and North Macedonia, was well known to the authorities. Two years ago he was sentenced to prison for attempting to travel to Syria to join the Islamic State, raising questions about whether someone so firmly on the radar of Austria’s intelligence and law enforcement agencies should have been more closely watched.

In addition, Slovakian authorities alerted Austria in July that he had traveled to Slovakia to try to buy ammunition for his AK-47, a senior Austrian official confirmed Tuesday.

Few details have been released about how the shooting unfolded or who the victims were, but the authorities have identified six locations in one neighborhood where they say shots were fired.

The dead, who have yet to be publicly identified, include three Austrians and one German, and range in age from 19 to 34, the senior official said. Little is known about them other than one was a young man who was shot on the street, another a waitress in a bar. Among the wounded was a 28-year-old police officer.

Monday’s violence comes after recent terrorist attacks in France — including the beheading of a teacher near Paris and a knife attack at a church in Nice — that have both been linked to Islamist extremists.

Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria said in an address to the nation on Tuesday that the shooting was “definitely an Islamist terrorist attack,” which he called “an attack out of hatred, hatred for our basic values.”

But Mr. Kurz, his interior minister and the mayor of Vienna all vowed that the attacker would not divide Austrian society or alter Austrians’ way of life. The chancellor warned against making assumptions about Austria’s Muslim community.

“This is no fight between Christians and Muslims, or between Austrians and migrants,” Mr. Kurz said. “This is a fight between civilization and barbarism.”

He urged citizens to remember that “our enemy is never all those belonging to a religion, our enemy is never all the people that come from a particular country” but rather “our enemy is extremists and terrorists.”

Ümit Vural, the president of the Islamic Faith Community in Austria, condemned the “cowardly, revolting attack,” calling it “an attack on our Vienna” and “an attack on all of us.”

Two Turkish-Austrians and a Palestinian who braved the gunfire to bring an older woman to safety and help save the life of the 28-year-old policeman were celebrated in the Austrian media as heroes.

The interior minister and the police said investigators were still reconstructing the events of the previous evening, trying to determine how just one attacker, as they now believe, could have been responsible for the gunshots recorded at all six locations identified as scenes of the crime.

The first emergency calls reached the police at 8 p.m. Monday from Seitenstettengasse, a street where the city’s main synagogue is surrounded by bars in the heart of a bustling area known as the “Bermuda Triangle” because it is easy to get lost there, especially after a few drinks. There, the gunman could be seen on video firing his AK-47 at a young man in the street. He ran away, then returned to the scene, and shot the young man again with a pistol.

Another victim was found on Fleischmarkt, a street several minutes’ walk from the synagogue, and another on a nearby square beside the Franz-Josefs-Kai canal. Both had been fatally shot. The 28-year-old police officer was also shot there, surviving only because of the young men who dragged him to safety.

Around the corner, a woman waiting tables at a bar in the Ruprechtsplatz, a square named for the city’s oldest church, was shot and killed. At 8:09 p.m., police officers fatally shot the gunman in the same square, where his body lay for hours as specialists tried to gauge the danger posed by what appeared to be a belt of explosives strapped to his waist. It turned out to be fake.

Barely 24 hours after the assault, the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, calling the shooter a “soldier of the caliphate,” according to a statement translated by the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online extremist messaging.

It was not clear from the claim whether the terrorist group had helped plan the attack or if others were involved. ISIS has used similar language before in asserting responsibility for assaults by individuals acting on their own.

Two years ago, the attacker, Kujtim Fejzulai, then 18, had planned to travel to Syria with a friend to join ISIS, his former lawyer, Nikolas Rast said. When the friend changed his mind, he went on his own. But he made it only as far as Turkey, where he was arrested and taken back to Vienna to face charges of attempted jihad and attempting to join a terrorist organization.

He was convicted and sentenced to 22 months in prison, but was released in December, after serving only about a year.

Mr. Rast, who represented Mr. Fejzulai at the trial, said that his client’s good behavior in prison — he even took part in a de-radicalization program — led to his early release.

He said that Mr. Fejzulai had appeared to show remorse. There had been no sign that his parents shared his extremist views, Mr. Rast said, adding the man’s mother had been the one to alert the authorities when her son first was missing.

“He gave the impression of a young man who was searching for who he was,” Mr. Rast said. “At no point did I have the impression that he was dangerous.”

But evidence found in the suspect’s home on Tuesday, including a stockpile of ammunition, indicated that since his release from prison he appears to have led a double life — presenting himself to the world as fully integrated into society, while embracing a radical ideology in private, Karl Nehammer, the Austrian interior minister, said in a news conference Tuesday.

“There were no warning signs about his radicalization,” Mr. Nehammer said.

But apparently the Austrian authorities missed at least one, the notification from Slovakia that Mr. Fejzulai had traveled there in search of ammunition for an AK-47. He failed to buy any because he could not produce a gun license.

Investigators also believe he worshiped at a mosque that Austrian intelligence services suspect of promulgating extremism, an official said.

Sometime before the attack, Mr. Fejzulai posted a photograph of himself to social media, wielding a machete and a rifle with a message that “clearly indicated his sympathy for I.S.,” the minister said, using an abbreviation for the Islamic State.

Chancellor Kurz vowed to shed light on how a man whose militant aspirations had come to the attention of the authorities in 2018 was able to slip through the net.

“The attacker tried to join the Islamic State some time ago and was arrested and convicted,” Mr. Kurz said in a telephone interview Tuesday. “He was in prison and was released early. We need to get to the bottom of why the justice system let this attacker go early.”

At least 14 people in Austria who have been linked to the suspect have been detained and are being questioned, and 18 locations are being searched, Mr. Nehammer said. The police in Switzerland said they had detained two men, ages 18 and 24, on suspicion of a connection to the attacker in Vienna, but gave no further details.

Throughout Tuesday, the cobbled streets of Vienna’s city center, normally full of tourists, government employees and other citizens, were largely empty, save for hundreds of heavily armed police officers. School attendance was optional, most stores were closed and residents were encouraged to stay home.

At several of the restaurants where the shootings took place, half-drunk glasses and untouched food still sat on tables, as if the guests had just left. Elsewhere, panicked flight was in evidence — knocked-over chairs and broken beer bottles were scattered not far from a trail of blood.

Michael Kramer, 33, who lives just yards from where the young man was killed, said he had spent the night with a friend and returned only when the police blockade was lifted later Tuesday.

“You always think you are in a bubble and that nothing can happen, and then something like this happens right in front of your door,” he said, surveying the scene in disbelief.

“We often see ourselves as a blessed island where violence and terror is only known from abroad,” Chancellor Kurz said. “But the sad truth is, even if we live in a generally safe country, we don’t live in a safe world.”





No.34 article:
Robocalls Grab the Attention of Election Officials

“Hello, this is just a test call,” a female robocall voice intones. “Time to stay home. Stay safe and stay home.”

The calls began back in June, according to YouMail, a service that offers robocall blocking for smartphones. But they have increased greatly as the election has approached, grabbing the attention of some election officials in recent days.

YouMail found evidence that the robocalls have reached 280 of the country’s 317 area codes since this summer, peaking at more than 600,000 calls in one day. Over all, the company has tracked 10 million similar calls in October.

Though the calls do not mention the election explicitly, their timing and lack of information were suspicious, said Alex Quilci, YouMail’s chief executive. Robocalls in favor of a political candidate typically include some “get out the vote” information or a call for donations, he said. These did not.

“It’s worthy of investigation to try to figure out what’s going on here,” Mr. Quilci said. “To do something at this scale is a bit of work.”

Mr. Quilci added: “What scares me is that this shows that someone&quot; — a foreign or domestic bad actor — “could cause havoc with robocalls.”

The Washington Post earlier reported news of the robocall campaign.

Election experts focused on disinformation tend to focus on the spread of false information on social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter. But misinformation can reach voters through a variety of mediums, including text messages and robocalling. Such methods can help misinformation stay under the radar, allowing it to spread widely before it is noticed.

On Tuesday morning, Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel warned constituents that “multiple robocalls” had gone out to Flint, Mich., residents directing them to vote on Wednesday.

“Obviously this is FALSE and an effort to suppress the vote,” Ms. Nessel said in a tweet. “No long lines and today is the last day to vote.”

The New York state attorney general, Letitia James, announced on Tuesday that she was investigating the robocalls. 

“Attempts to hinder voters from exercising their right to cast their ballots are disheartening, disturbing, and wrong,” Ms. James said in a statement. “What’s more is that it is illegal, and it will not be tolerated.”





No.35 article:
For Some Veteran Stars, NASCAR’s Appeal Is Fading

Jimmie Johnson, the seven-time champ, is the latest big name to move on while still in his mid-40s.

AVONDALE, Arizona — When the checkered flag falls on Sunday at Phoenix Raceway for the final race of NASCAR’s 2020 Cup Series, it will also fall on the stock car career of one of its most decorated drivers, Jimmie Johnson, a seven-time champion.

Johnson is a part of a wave of retirements in recent years that has carried away NASCAR’s marquee stars like Dale Earnhardt Jr., Danica Patrick, Tony Stewart and Jeff Gordon. Many longtime second-tier stars, such as Clint Bowyer, Greg Biffle, Michael Waltrip, Jamie McMurray, Kasey Kahne and Carl Edwards, have ended their careers, or are now ending them, as well.

With Johnson gone, NASCAR’s elder statesmen will be Kevin Harvick, 44, and Kurt Busch and Ryan Newman, who are both 42 and are the only two drivers remaining in the sport who started before Dale Earnhardt Sr. died in 2001.

The drivers who have stepped away cited health concerns, changing consumer interest in the sport, challenging economics, new rules and radically different schedules. Johnson, for one, wants to keep racing, but he may do it in the IndyCar Series.

NASCAR has made significant changes in recent years: breaking races into segments, awarding points differently and designating the final third of a season as a playoff elimination tournament. 

Johnson gave an upbeat reason for retiring: “I’m fulfilled,” he said. Certainly, his list of accomplishments in the sport needs no embellishment: 83 Cup victories — sixth on the career list — and a record-tying seven top driver titles.

Johnson, at 45, is still competitive, fit and relatively unscathed physically from 21 years of banging fenders and trading paint at NASCAR’s premier level.

“But it’s a grind,” admitted Johnson, who is the oldest full-time driver in the series.

By traditional NASCAR standards, Johnson is hanging up his helmet much earlier than did the other seven-time champions: Richard Petty raced until he was 55; Earnhardt Sr. was going strong at 49 when he died in a wreck; Darrell Waltrip retired at 53, after 28 seasons in Cup racing; Cale Yarborough also raced 28 seasons.

Johnson said he thought two decades was plenty. “It seems like a more common number for a career these days,” he said. “I don’t think you will see guys racing at this level for 25, 30 years anymore.”

He added: “We go 38 weeks now, with really intense competition. It’s almost nonstop.”

Off the track, the most popular drivers, like Johnson, are also swamped with commitments to sponsors, the press and social media. The scramble for sponsor money has become almost as intense as the racing on the track; losing deep-pocketed longtime backers like Home Depot, Lowe’s, DuPont, GoDaddy and Budweiser dented the income potential for stars like Stewart, Johnson, Gordon, Patrick and Earnhardt Jr.

For midlevel racers, in Earnhardt’s estimation, the income hit has been worse — up to 90 percent.

Gordon acknowledged that some drivers would rather retire than “take a step back” in what they are paid.

“I assure you, though, there are still guys being paid tens of millions to drive these cars,” Gordon said. A select group, to be sure, that might include Harvick, Kyle Busch and Chase Elliott. He added, “Talent still matters.”

But there is no shortage of up-and-coming talents hankering to drive for a fraction of the previous going rate.

Johnson said, “When I started out, I would have driven for free; in fact, I would have paid to have that ride I got.”

Ominously, wrecks are a growing concern — not only for the ruinous economic toll on financially challenged teams, but also for the physical toll on drivers. It’s the era of the multicar crash, the Big One, when NASCAR’s close-quarters racing can result in chain-reaction melees.

Repeated head injuries caused Earnhardt Jr. to step back after 18 Cup seasons. Patrick estimated she had “more than a dozen concussions” in her crash-plagued career; diminishing results also cost her sponsorship. Gordon, who retired at 44, said worsening back pain helped push him into the Fox Sports broadcast booth.

“I was starting to think about, more and more, what kind of life I wanted to have off the track, after racing,” said Gordon, who is married with small children. “Especially what I could do on the business side.” Gordon has gone into business with his longtime car owner Rick Hendrick and is a part owner of Johnson’s No. 48 racecar.

“You look at it at a certain point, and have to say to yourself, ‘There’s more to life,’” said Johnson, who also has a young family. “I’m not into fishing or golf. I’ve met — exceeded beyond my wildest dreams, really — every goal I ever set for myself in NASCAR. Actually, my original goal was to win a Cup race — one race! When I did that, in just my 13th start, I realized, ‘I need to set some new goals!’”

Unlike NASCAR’s other recent retirees, Johnson has decided he wants to keep racing, just not Cup cars.

“I got a chance to drive a Formula 1 car in Bahrain awhile back, and it made me realize: I could do this,” he said. “That opened my eyes to a whole range of possibilities. Watching Fernando Alonso at Indianapolis also inspired me.”

Recently, Johnson was invited to test one of Chip Ganassi’s IndyCars. The results were promising enough that he was offered a two-year contract to campaign IndyCar road races. He is also now considering testing on the oval tracks too, with an eye on a possible Indianapolis 500 drive.

After another test session on Monday, Johnson said he was so far lacking the “bravery and aggression” necessary to become a front-runner. But, he added, “it’s coming; it’s going to be a real steep learning curve for me.”

Johnson, from El Cajon, Calif., said he originally aspired to race IndyCars. So did others, including Stewart, Gordon and Kurt Busch, who also ended up in NASCAR. But a damaging rift in IndyCar racing 25 years ago spoiled the earning potential for decades.

“That’s now changing,” Johnson said. “The gap is narrowing, which helped make it feasible for me to try the switch.” IndyCar’s safety advances have also helped allay Johnson’s fears.

Johnson acknowledges that he could have returned to NASCAR next year, to try again for an eighth crown, his original goal before his ultimately disappointing 2020 campaign.

He would not rule out racing a NASCAR stock car again, for a special occasion. But if he does, he will be with a different team, like Ganassi, which runs only two cars, rather than Hendrick, which is fielding a full stable of four.

Not every driver makes his retirement decision by weighing every factor. Some years ago, a reporter asked Stewart, a three-time Cup series champion, if he had considered how much longer he might race before retirement. “I’ll quit when it’s not fun anymore,” Stewart said gruffly, echoing an answer that his taciturn idol, A.J. Foyt, once gave.

After Stewart retired from NASCAR in 2016, the same reporter asked Stewart why. “I think I already answered your question,” he responded.





No.36 article:
Elite Wine Group Suspends Master Sommeliers

After recent sexual harassment allegations by many women, the Court of Master Sommeliers has apologized and announced next steps.

Seven members of the Court of Master Sommeliers, Americas, an elite body of wine professionals, have been suspended from all court activities, and another has resigned after a New York Times report last week on the group’s longtime pattern of sexual harassment and conflicts of interest.

The men suspended — Greg Harrington, Eric Entrikin, Robert Bath, Matt Stamp, Matthew Citriglia, Drew Hendricks and Fred Dame, a co-founder of the organization — will be subject to an external investigation, a representative for the court said. They are suspended from court activities but not from the court itself, pending a hearing process required by California law. (The court is a registered nonprofit based in Napa, Calif.)

Each of the men has been accused of sexual misconduct involving women who were candidates for the court’s top title of master sommelier. Each already holds that title, and wields enormous influence over the women’s ability to advance in the profession.

On Monday, the 27 women who belong to the 165-member court issued a public apology to the women named in the article, and demanded specific changes to the court, including an overhaul of its ethical policies by an independent third party and immediate postponement of board elections, scheduled for Nov. 11.

The U.S. group, established in 1997, is part of a global network of examining bodies that oversee exacting, multiyear tests of knowledge, skill and service. Those who pass the highest level are rewarded with the title of master sommelier, high salaries and consulting fees, and vast professional prestige.

On Sunday, Geoff Kruth, a prominent educator, resigned from the court; he had already left his high-profile role as president of GuildSomm, a wine education organization that is a spinoff of the court.

Eleven women who had been candidates told The Times that Mr. Kruth had tried to pressure them into sex, sometimes in exchange for professional favors. (Last week, Mr. Kruth denied any impropriety and said he believed that all sexual contact described was consensual.)

An initial statement from the court last week, after the article appeared online, began with praise for “the courage of those who have spoken up” and ended with a restatement of its current policy. “We are committed to receiving, investigating, and resolving all instances of misconduct involving our organization.”

It made no mention of increased transparency, an external investigation or consequences for the men involved. Public reaction from the court’s community of more than 10,000 people was overwhelmingly negative. One comment on the court’s Instagram feed, from Shawn Gordon, a certified sommelier in Austin, Texas, read: “You’ve failed us all. I paid hard-earned money to test and be a part of this organization and it has shown itself to be a complete swamp that needs draining immediately.”

Liz Dowty Mitchell, one of the women quoted in the article, posted an essay about the court’s response. In part, she wrote: “The CMS was well aware of these allegations and the extent of the problem, but chose never to address them in the appropriate manner. This neglect left us victims no choice but to come forward in this very public manner.”

On Sunday, the court released another statement, announcing the suspensions and resignation, and apologizing to each of the 13 women named in the article. The court’s representative said the second statement was not generated by the reaction to the first, but because a formal vote by the board on the suspensions had to take place.

Many of the women said they were told that sexual relationships between masters and candidates were common and widely accepted. The court’s nonfraternization policy does not explicitly prohibit such relationships, as long as they are disclosed to the board and do not create an apparent conflict of interest.

Still, those interviewed said they believed that conflicts of interest were rampant and inevitable.

Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.





No.37 article:
Ian Bostridge on Schubert’s Hidden Depths

The tenor’s new recording of “Die Schöne Müllerin” encompasses that song cycle’s rustic allure and its dark complexities.

I first got to know the 20 songs of Franz Schubert’s “Die Schöne Müllerin” (“The Beautiful Miller Girl”) as an impressionable teenager, some 40 years ago.

It might seem at first sight and hearing to be very much a teenage story. Young man goes traveling for work, falls in love with girl, obsesses about her in that oh-so-teenage way; she remains heartlessly indifferent. Along comes a butch hunter to steal the maiden’s heart, and the young man’s fantasy dissolves into jealousy, anger and tears. He kills himself in the mill stream that led him to the girl in the first place.

I was introduced to the cycle through a famous recording by the German baritone Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau and the English pianist Gerald Moore. Classical in tone, restrained and beautifully sung and played, this is a version that any impressionable listener could fall in love with. What struck me most at the time was the endless dialogue between voice and piano, boy and brook, and Schubert’s unerring ability to transform textually inspired motifs — running water, heavy millstones, the strum of a guitar — into evocative music. This is not singer and accompaniment; it is chamber music for voice and piano.

The LP cover made a telling impact on my perception of the music. Corot’s “Mill at Saint-Nicolas-les-Arras” is a painting from the very end of the artist’s career, in the 1870s; presumably painted “en plein air,” it presents an image of idyllic rusticity which is surely also part of the appeal of Schubert’s cycle, written in 1823. We imagine the miller boy gazing from behind Corot’s screen of trees, longing to belong.

There is undoubtedly a naïve and untroubled way of approaching the cycle, whether as singer, pianist or listener — akin to the naïve and untroubled air with which our hero sets out on his hike. “Das Wandern ist des Müllers Lust,” the text goes: “To wander is the miller’s joy.” The music is tuneful, often with a folksy air. Many, if not most, of the songs are strophic, with the same music repeated three, four or five times for different verses.

The poems that Schubert set were originally written as part of a party game in which a group of well-heeled friends in Berlin told the tale of Rose, the miller maid, in verse, from the point of view of different characters. The poetic cycle published in 1820 by one of these friends, coincidentally named Wilhelm Müller, stripped the story down to essentially four characters and points of view: the boy, the girl, the narrator and the mill stream itself. But while doing this, Müller retained something of the party-game quality, so that even if the story ends tragically, with the boy’s suicide, the text maintains a kind of distance.

Müller’s note below the work’s title — “to be read in the winter” — introduces some darker ambiguity. The poems are to be read in the cold months because they embody exactly the sort of artless pastoral that is helpful to pass the time when people are locked down in winter. But they are more than a frolic, looking forward to spring; they form a psychological journey which, despite its playful origins and ironic role playing, is worthy to set beside this poet’s brooding masterpiece, “Winterreise” (“Winter’s Journey”), put to music by Schubert a few years later.

Schubert removed every trace of irony from Müller’s “Müllerin” original. He ditched some teasing framing poems in the voice of the poet, virtually erased the presence of the miller girl herself and focused on the psychological disintegration of the boy. The result can be read in many ways: a depiction of the failure to grow up and embrace adult sexuality; a study in masochism; a journey toward romantic oblivion. This boy never really notices that the girl doesn’t notice him, and never really breaks out of his self-obsessive bubble.

So why should we be interested in this nebbish, as the musicologist Lawrence Kramer characterizes him? Because, just as with the outsider wanderer of “Winterreise,” he, his narcissism and his obsession are part of all of us. Schubert’s music deepens and ennobles him, and when, at the end of this hourlong odyssey, the mill stream itself sings the boy’s threnody as lullaby, the cosmic gesture of the parting words and music — “und der Himmel da oben, wie ist er so weit” (“and heaven above, how vast it is”) — doesn’t seem overblown.

Surely part of the weight of the cycle comes from the circumstances of its composition. Schubert had just been diagnosed with syphilis, and some of the songs were almost certainly composed in the hospital. The association between sexual desire — however prettified in these pieces — and death is part of the overarching metaphor of the cycle, and that association must have been more than clear to the composer as he wrote.

To add to the ancient preoccupations of sex and death, class is also embedded in the “Müllerin” cycle. This theme would have had its own appeal to Schubert, painfully aware as he was of the precarious social position of the independent composer. The hero of the cycle has, in effect, fallen in love with the boss’s daughter. His fantasy of cozy domesticity is pricked by a hunter, representative not just of bruising masculinity but also of social freedom and independence.

Social relations complicate things in the cycle, but so does our sense as listeners that this is a world on the edge of dissolution. Müller and Schubert’s mill — like Corot’s — is machinery, both material and ideological, that will be cast out by the forward march of industrialization. As Marx very nearly said, “The water mill gives you society with the feudal lord; the steam mill, society with the industrial capitalist.”

The loss of the water mill as a center of communal food production was a historical trauma to which a near-contemporary of Schubert’s, William Blake, responded with visionary force, decrying the advance of the “dark satanic mills” — steam-driven ones like the Albion Flour Mills in London, which burned down to general rejoicing earlier in the decade of Schubert’s birth.

With all these historical and psychological phenomena to feed our interpretations as performers and listeners, it is no wonder that “Die Schöne Müllerin” continues to exert a strange fascination. I’ve been singing it for 40 or so years, as an apprentice and an aspiring master, and it is inexhaustible.

Exhausting, too, if I can let you in on a trade secret from the guild of lieder singers. Quite a bit shorter than its mammoth successor, “Winterreise” — which has 24 songs and lasts 75 minutes, compared to 20 and an hour for “Müllerin” — it is nevertheless quite something to maintain its relentless tessitura and preserve that sense of the art which conceals art.

My first recording of the “Müllerin,” released in 1996, launched my career as a song recitalist. It happened providentially. Another singer had dropped out of this particular volume of Graham Johnson’s extraordinary complete edition of Schubert songs on Hyperion, and I stepped into the breach. The poems Schubert didn’t set were read by my hero, the fabled Fischer-Dieskau.

It wasn’t the easiest of sessions: As we recorded the final song, fireworks started going off next door and we had to piece it together in fragments. Graham played wonderfully, but we disagreed intensely about the tempo of the first song. His slower intuition was probably right — it’s how I sing it now — but at the time, he yielded. I gave the piece a very naïve reading which, returning to the whole business of record covers, was reflected in the photograph on the CD: myself as nerdy youngster, reading a book in a barn.

Much of the rest of my career as a lieder singer has been an attempt to escape from that naïveté and to reflect the deeper waters of pieces like the “Müllerin.” That’s been annoying for some people who prefer limpid beauty to psychological torment. In my latest recording, with the brilliant Italian pianist Saskia Giorgini, a veteran of the solo repertoire whose perspective on Schubert is inflected by her immersion in Liszt and Enescu, I hope to reach some sort of accommodation between the naïve and the sentimental, the mellifluously straightforward and the anxiety-ridden hall of mirrors. The journey to do justice to the miller’s journey is an endless one.

No.1 article:
France reports over 40,000 new cases – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

We have launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

Here’s a quick recap of some of the main developments from the last few hours:

Londoners appear to have shrugged off the UK’s resurgent Covid-19 pandemic as they flocked to pubs and restaurants on Wednesday night, hours before the introduction of a new month-long lockdown across England.

While the UK’s death toll from the coronavirus rose on Wednesday by 492, the most since mid-May, Soho was teeming with revellers seeking one last night out before lockdown.

People will be ordered to stay at home from 00:01 GMT on Thursday to combat a surge in new infections that scientists say could, if unchecked, cause more deaths than a first wave that forced a three-month lockdown earlier this year.

The UK has the highest official death toll in Europe from Covid-19 and is grappling with more than 20,000 new coronavirus cases a day. Scientists warned the “worst-case” scenario of 80,000 dead could be exceeded without action.

Even before Wednesday, data from restaurant bookings service OpenTable showed a surge in demand for London eateries during the run-up to the new lockdown.

Several English police forces used social media to urge people going out on Wednesday night to follow social-distancing rules.

Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have their own lockdown policies and enacted tougher restrictions last month.

Brazil reported another 23,976 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the past 24 hours, and a further 610 deaths from Covid-19, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The country has now registered 5,590,025 infections since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 161,106, according to ministry data, in the world’s most fatal outbreak outside the United States.

Irinej, the ageing patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox church, the country’s largest Christian denomination, was hospitalised on Wednesday after testing positive for the coronavirus, his office said.

Irinej, 90, was “routinely tested following an epidemiological assessment,” and remains “without symptoms and in excellent health”, a statement said.

“His Holiness is hospitalised in a Covid hospital in Belgrade,” Irinej’s office said.

On Sunday Irinej attended the funeral of Metropolitan Amfilohije, the most senior cleric of the Serbian Orthodox church in Montenegro, who died from Covid-19.

Throngs of mourners, many without masks, gathered at Amfilohije’s funeral in Montenegro’s capital, Podgorica, despite a rise in coronavirus cases.

Joanikije, another prominent Montenegro bishop who attended the funeral, was diagnosed with “minor pneumonia,” his diocese said on Tuesday.

Montenegro’s prime minister-designate, Zdravko Krivokapic; Serbia’s president, Aleksandar Vucic; and Milorad Dodik, the Serb member of Bosnia’s presidency, also attended the funeral in Podgorica.

So far 53,495 people have tested positive for Covid-19 and 850 have died in Serbia, a country of 7.2 million. Montenegro, with a population of 620,000, has so far reported 326 deaths and 20,581 infections.

The Serbian Orthodox church has about 12 million followers, mainly in Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia.

Four Italian regions will go into partial lockdown from Friday as the government scrambles to regain control of the coronavirus pandemic.

Giuseppe Conte’s government is trying to avoid a full national shutdown and has instead introduced a three-tier system that divides the country’s 20 regions up according to level of risk.

The northern regions of Lombardy, Piedmont and Aosta Valley, along with Calabria in the south, have been placed in the “red zone”, meaning people will only be able to leave their homes for work, health or emergency reasons and bars, restaurants and non-essential shops – apart from hairdressers – will close. People will be banned from travelling in or out of their regions.

In Puglia and Sicilia, which have been placed in the orange zone, bars and restaurants will be closed and people will be able to move freely within their towns and cities but not leave them. The rest of the country will be in the yellow zone, meaning there will be no new restrictions apart from those already imposed nationally, such as the 6pm closure of bars and restaurants and complete closure of cinemas, theatres and gyms. All regions will be under a 10pm-5am curfew.

Unlike in the spring, factories will stay open across the country.

Restrictions per region have been determined by the rate of Covid-19 transmission, the number of infections and people with symptoms and the availability of hospital beds.

The measures will be in place until 3 December. 

“The virus here, and in the whole of Europe, is racing strongly, and violently,” Conte said.

Cases last week doubled compared to the previous one, the rate of transmission has increased to 1.7 nationally, and in some regions it’s higher. There are no alternatives, to slow the curve we need these restrictions … I understand the inconvenience and frustration, but we have to hold tight.

Conte said intensive care capacity would be at risk in 15 of Italy’s 20 regions within a few weeks unless new measures were enacted.

Italy registered 30,550 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday and 352 fatalities.

The number of people hospitalised across the country stood at 22,116 Wednesday, of whom 2,292 were in intensive care – more than double the number on 24 October.

Doctors had called for more aggressive restrictions as hospitals become overwhelmed and staff fall sick – 14,000 health workers were infected with coronavirus between September and October, and 184 medics have died since the start of the pandemic.

The worst-affected regions in terms of daily caseload are Lombardy, which on Wednesday registered 7,758 cases, Campania, which for now is in the yellow zone, and Piedmont.

France registered 40,558 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, compared to 36,330 on Tuesday and a record of 52,518 on Monday, health ministry data showed.

The total number of cases increased to 1,543,321 but the ministry added that the number of new cases reported on Wednesday was a minimum number due to problems with data gathering.

The ministry also reported that the number of people who have died from the virus increased to 38,674, up from 38,289 on Tuesday. It said there were 394 new deaths in hospitals over the past 24 hours. 

Italy’s latest restrictions to try to rein in the coronavirus include a partial lockdown of its richest and most populous region Lombardy around the financial capital Milan, the prime minister Giuseppe Conte said on Wednesday.

Earlier, the government published its new package of measures which toughen up nationwide curbs and divide the country into three zones - red, orange and yellow, according to the intensity of the epidemic.

The zoning depends on a raft of factors including local infection rates and hospital occupancy, with restrictions will calibrated accordingly.

In the critically affected red zones people will only be allowed to leave their homes for work, health reasons or emergencies and bars, restaurants and most shops will be closed.

However, unlike in Italy’s national lockdown in the spring, all factories will remain open.

Speaking at a news conference to illustrate the package which comes into effect on Friday, Conte said the red zones would comprise the large northern regions of Lombardy and neighbouring Piedmont, along with Calabria in Italy’s southern toe and the tiny alpine region of Valle D’Aosta.

Lombardy accounts for around a sixth of Italy’s population and more than a fifth of its gross domestic product.

Cyprus announced new restrictions on Wednesday to fight a resurgence of Covid-19 after a rise in cases in recent weeks.

A curfew on movement from 11:00pm to 5:00am will start on Thursday and remain in force until 30 November.

Cyprus introduced a broad lockdown in March that brought cases of Covid-19 down to zero or single digits before restrictions were eased. An uptick started in early October.

On Wednesday, the Mediterranean island reported 166 new cases, bringing the total number of infections to 5,100. There have been 26 deaths.

The Cypriot president Nicos Anastasiades said in a statement:

The daily increase in cases risks spiralling out of control, which other than posing a threat to life threatens the healthcare system, employment and our welfare in general.

Hello from London. I’m Lucy Campbell, and I’ll be bringing you all the latest global developments on the coronavirus pandemic for the next few hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: lucy.campbell@theguardian.comTwitter: @lucy_campbell_

Here’s a roundup of some of the key global coronavirus developments over the last few hours: 

Spain’s death toll from the coronavirus has reached 38,118 after the health ministry revised its methodology for recording infections and fatalities, up sharply from Tuesday’s unrevised 36,495.

The tally of infections now stands at 1,284,408 cases, according to the latest data release, which removes double entries and adds some cases that were not initially diagnosed as Covid-19. On Tuesday, the ministry reported 1,259,366 cases.

Unlike France, Germany and the UK, which have imposed nationwide lockdowns, Spain has adopted a regional response to tackling the pandemic, leading to a patchwork of different regulations.

Murcia on Wednesday joined several other regions including Catalonia in shutting down bars and restaurants, while the northern region of Cantabria banned citizens from travelling across municipal borders.

Health minister Salvador Illa told a news conference it would take two to three weeks for the latest regional restrictions to produce effect, but added that “there is still margin to take additional measures, there are a great many steps we can still take”, without specifying.

The timetable for delivery of the Oxford University and AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine candidate has slipped and Britain will receive just 4m doses of the shot this year, the head of the UK’s vaccine procurement programme said on Wednesday.

In May, Britain agreed a deal for 100m doses of the vaccine, developed by Oxford and licensed to AstraZeneca, with 30m doses estimated for delivery by September 2020.

Oxford’s trial chief said earlier he was optimistic that late-stage trial results of its efficacy could be presented before the end of the year, and that doses of the shot are already being made.

UK Vaccine Taskforce chair, Kate Bingham, said the target of 30m doses of the vaccine by September had not been achieved, and she estimated that Britain would get 4m doses by the end of the year instead.

“The predictions that were made in good faith at the time were assuming that absolutely everything would work and that there were no hiccups at all,” she told lawmakers.

She said the scale-up in manufacturing usually took years to do but instead was moving at unprecedented speed, adding that the full 100m doses would be delivered next year.

“We’re starting with low numbers of doses – by which I do mean millions of doses, but not tens of millions of doses initially – and then that will then ramp up so that we will end up with the 100m doses ... in the first half of next year,” she said. 

Greece’s prime minister is expected to announce new coronavirus restrictions following a surge in cases.

Although the country has reported fewer infections than most European countries, the number has been gradually increasing since early October.

Greece registered 2,646 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the highest daily tally since its first case was reported in February, health ministry data showed. 

Kyriakos Mitsotakis is expected to make the announcement outlining new measures on Thursday, after consulting health experts, his office told Reuters.

Earlier this week Greece expanded a night curfew and shut restaurants, bars, theatres and museums in the most populous areas of the country for one month. Some regions, mainly in the north of the country, have entered lockdown. 





No.2 article:
Infection rates among older age groups in England still concern government advisers

MPs who want to avoid a second lockdown have seized on falling rates of confirmed coronavirus cases in Liverpool as evidence that the three-tier Covid alert system is bringing the virus under control and should be given more time to work.

There is good reason to believe that the top tier of restrictions have had an impact in Liverpool. When the tier system was announced on 12 October, and Liverpool entered tier 3, the number of cases the previous week stood at 3,440. That figure has fallen steadily ever since, reaching 1,828 by 29 October.

The decline is precisely what was hoped for, but there are subtleties in the data that are causing government advisers to pause. Prof Chris Whitty told MPs on the science and technology committee that the fall in confirmed infections in the north of England was driven by younger people and brought about by what he called real and artificial effects: a levelling off and perhaps a decline in positivity rates, but also a slight reduction in the uptake of tests.

What concerns advisers most is that they do not see a convincing decline in infections among the older age groups – those most vulnerable to developing severe disease, being hospitalised and dying from the infection. “The data are still tracking up in all the data that I have seen in the older age groups who are the ones who are likely to translate into hospitalisations, intensive care unit cases and deaths,” Whitty said.

Because of the lag time between infections and deaths from coronavirus, the impact of the tier system, brought in only three weeks ago, will only start to show in the death data this week or next. The latest data for Liverpool, up to 31 October, show that deaths have risen fairly steadily since the tier system came in, from a seven-day average of 5.4 to 6.9 deaths a day. There is a hint that the rate is slowing, but it is not convincing.

When the tier system came in, scientific advisers made clear that the baseline restrictions in the highest, tier 3, were unlikely to be effective enough to bring the R value below 1 and suppress the virus. Their assessment now is that in some areas in the north of England, R seems to have been pushed down close to 1 but may not have been driven any lower. “We do not have, in my view, clear evidence that R is below 1 anywhere that we actually have significantly high rates,” Whitty told the MPs.

The risk is that the top tier holds R close to 1 when the rate of new infections is still high, meaning that large numbers of people, if not rapidly rising numbers, are still admitted to hospital, where a sizeable proportion will die. It locks in a high prevalence of infections. The lockdown is intended to push cases down faster.

MPs voting on the lockdown are not helped by the prime minister’s timing. The full impact of the three-tier system has yet to be seen. But waiting two or three weeks more could be extremely costly given how late restrictions were brought in. According to Simon Stevens, the chief executive of NHS England, the number of coronavirus patients in English hospitals has risen from 2,000 at the beginning of October to nearly 11,000 today, the equivalent of 22 hospitals’ worth of Covid patients. Faced with rising infections and deaths across the country, and some hospitals, such as Liverpool, already above their spring peaks for Covid patients, advisers are not keen to sit back and watch what happens.





No.3 article:
Love in the time of Covid – from weddings to help for rough sleepers

As England enters a new lockdown, people respond with community spirit

As the country heads into a winter of tough coronavirus restrictions, once again communities are coming together to help those in need and provide some much-needed joy in these challenging times.

A man who flew to Sydney to declare his love has married in a last-minute ceremony before lockdown.

The Rev Richard Coles tweeted a picture of the happy couple, Eric and Lizzie, and the story of how they came to be together.

Coles said Eric came to him for advice after realising he loved Lizzie, who had just emigrated to Australia. “You know what to do,” Coles replied, and after flying to Sydney to explain his feelings, the couple were united.

A Tudor hotel in Shrewsbury is reopening its doors to rough sleepers, after hosting 57 people during the first lockdown.

Mike Matthews, manager of Prince Rupert hotel, said the cold weather during this lockdown means finding accommodation for homeless people is crucial and he’s urging other hotels to follow his example.

“It’s going to be harsh weather as we enter the winter, and hotels galore have empty bedrooms. There’s no logical reason for hotels not to offer their services,” he said.

Working closely with Shropshire council, Matthews said 14 people were moving into the 70-room hotel on Wednesday, and would have use of the hotel for as long as needed over the winter.

Of those who stayed in the hotel during the first lockdown, nine are still living there and one is now employed full-time in the hotel, while two-thirds moved into permanent homes.

“We’ve built up a strong bond with them, they’re part of the Prince Rupert family now,” said Matthews, who moved into the hotel full-time along with two colleagues to support the arrivals.

“It has been challenging and highly complex at times but ultimately our focus is to help them through a difficult period in their lives, and hopefully they come out of it in a much better place.”

Homelessness charities have urged the government to bring back the “Everyone In” scheme that provided emergency accommodation in hotels during the first lockdown.

A primary school in Walsall has announced it will hold monthly birthday parties for students who can’t celebrate their special days as normal because of coronavirus restrictions.

In a letter to parents, Goldsmith primary academy said: “We understand our children have already had so many challenges and had to adapt to new rules and regulations both at home and school, and their emotional wellbeing is something that is very important to us.”

The headteacher, Leanne Bridgwood, told BBC West Midlands: “We’ve been thinking about what we can give back and what children are missing out on and we realised there is a loophole in government guidance where we can provide a party for children even if their parents at home can’t.”

The parties will take place on the last Friday of each month, with games, snacks, banners and badges, and each child who had a birthday that month will receive a cake.

“The staff are as keen to start the parties as the children,” said Bridgwood. “It’s a time where can forget about Covid, and English and maths, for an hour and really enjoy ourselves. The other day, one child wrote: ‘Thank you for giving our birthday parties back’.”

A 104-year-old great-grandmother has completed a marathon walk for charity.

Inspired by NHS fundraiser Capt Tom Moore, Ruth Saunders, from Newbury, Berkshire, had originally set herself the goal of walking 104 laps of her block – about 21 miles (33.8km) – to match her age when she set off on the challenge on 8 September.

She extended her challenge to the length of a marathon and crossed the finish line of her 26.2-mile (42km) walk at Newbury Racecourse on Wednesday.

Her granddaughter, Kate Saunders, 50, said: “She definitely paces out her laps quite quickly. I kept telling her to slow it down.”

Saunders has so far raised more than £31,000 for Thames Valley Air Ambulance, surpassing her original target of £500.





No.4 article:
Fears about economy under Covid lockdown helped Trump outperform polls

Exit polls show economic concerns were top of mind for voters, and anti-lockdown rhetoric resonated for many

Voters’ fears about the economic impact of coronavirus lockdowns appear to have helped Donald Trump outperform pollsters’ expectations and brought the US election down to a nail-biting finish.

While ballots are still being counted, that performance probably shows the continued resonance of anti-lockdown rhetoric in an election where, especially for Trump voters, economic health came first.

The still evolving election result also shows the difficulty of delivering a nuanced public health message when Covid-19 cases are surging in the US and scientists, public health professionals, journalists and even doctors are under assault from the president and his allies.

“No one is saying let’s shut down the economy,” said social epidemiologist Natalia Linos, executive director of the Harvard University FXB Center for Health and Human Rights. However, multi-pronged messages about throttled economic reopenings, mask-wearing and social distancing are “complicated” to get across. “For people who haven’t had first-hand experience of the health impact of Covid it may seem unnecessary,” said Linos.

Exit polls show economic concerns were top of mind for voters, even for voters who had not yet experienced personal hardship because of the pandemic. Both a CNN and a New York Times exit poll showed Trump voters’ main issue was the economy with the coronavirus pandemic in fourth place in the Times survey, behind crime and health policy. Racial inequality beat the coronavirus into second place as the deciding issue for Democratic voters.

Broad-based shutdowns in March and April brought economic worries to places such as the rural upper midwest long before the virus was widespread there. Political scientist Kathy Cramer, from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, said this was certainly the case in Wisconsin, where an edge-of-your-seat finish is now playing out.

“There is no doubt that, in general, people were experiencing economic effects more than the health effects of the pandemic,” especially in the spring and summer, said Cramer. Cramer is also author of the Politics of Resentment: Rural Consciousness in Wisconsin and the Rise of Scott Walker.

In the waning days of the campaign, one of Trump’s primary lines of attack on his opponent Democrat Joe Biden, was that he would “lock down” the economy again, and make the US into a “prison state”. Meanwhile, Biden focused predominantly on a message of unity and of criticizing the president’s Covid-19 response.

Early lockdowns used, “a bazooka rather than a BB gun”, to control the virus, said Dr Howard Markel, a pandemic historian and pediatrician at the University of Michigan school of public health. Michigan is another swing state still too close to call, and is among five Biden must perform well in to win. “There are places that got locked down, along with other high-risk places, that were locked down that may not have needed to be locked down that quickly.”

The fact that public health professionals are no longer calling for broad-based lockdowns – including the White House coronavirus taskforce adviser Dr Deborah Birx – is not a message that seemed to reach some voters.

“What’s not being said, maybe by Democrats, is, ‘Hey, American people, don’t believe this malarkey,’” said Markel. “But if the president keeps denigrating these people – like ‘fire Fauci’ – then half the people don’t believe they’re telling the truth,” Markel said, referring to a recent chant to oust the nation’s pre-eminent infectious disease expert, Dr Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institutes for Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

The virus control measures might also have been seen as heavy-handed by many of Trump’s white voters, because the pandemic has had a disproportionate effect on racial and ethnic minorities, who supported Biden in larger numbers, and the fact that the virus did not reach many rural areas until much later in the pandemic.

By June, a Washington Post-Ipsos poll found one in three black Americans knew someone who had died of Covid 19, compared with one in 10 white Americans. According to exit polls, Trump held a 15% advantage over Biden with white voters.

By contrast, Biden focused on the administration’s missteps in the pandemic, and held a 34% advantage over Trump among Latinos, the group which has arguably suffered the worst economic and health effects of the pandemic.

“In places like Wisconsin, that did shift a bit over time,” said Cramer. “Wisconsin is a place that has experienced an incredible surge in recent weeks.” But even the recent wave of infections, “has focused around the Green Bay [metro] area”, an urban area that helped push Biden to lead Trump in the state overall.

Cramer said early data appears to show Trump’s support has actually increased in rural America, and in parts of the south and midwest such as Oklahoma, Mississippi, Arkansas and Iowa.

“Part of it is economics,” she said. “Race is a big element here, but it’s all of that together,” said Cramer. “Standing up for small business and deregulation and white folks has reinforced, for many people, that he is their person.”

This article was amended on 5 November 2020 to correct a misspelling of Natalia Linos’ name. 





No.5 article:
Contact tracers’ expertise is being ignored

The system is inefficient and wasteful, writes a contact worker. Local authority initiatives are doing better, says Austen Lynch

I am a clinical contact worker for test and trace. Dr David Maisey (Letters, 1 November) should realise that the clinical level (tier 2) of contact tracers – those who call the cases themselves – has been made up of clinical staff at a band 6 level or higher since the beginning, with GPs welcome to join. We have a wealth of clinical experience. The strict instructions to adhere to scripts and policies mean we are not allowed to use it. It’s only recently that the call handler level employees were moved up. This is exploitative and stressful for them and dismissive of those of us with clinical training.

Clinical staff have been highlighting from the beginning that there is a problem with families getting too many phone calls. Last week, we received another email from above reminding us that we must follow the policy and get names and numbers for every member of a household until such time as Public Health England/the government change the policy. This is due to limitations in the computer program and, no doubt, to do with the initial privacy concerns, so that no record is matched up with another record.

I agree the system is inefficient and wasteful. We struggle with poor technology, poor training, poor communication from above – we are also told not to contact PHE directly – and almost complete absence of clear management structure. This is not the fault of the army of skilled clinical workers and unskilled call handlers who are working tirelessly to reach an increasingly hostile and frightened populace.

Put the blame where it belongs – the people at the very top making political decisions without regard for, or experience in, public health.Name and address supplied

• Your correspondents correctly cite many reasons for the failure of current test-and-trace systems run by private contractors. In parts of Lancashire, local authority initiatives seem to be enjoying far greater success. Preston city council set up a small six-strong team that traced hundreds of people whom outsourced agencies had failed to contact within the 24-hour window.

They made contact with over 650 individuals, about a third of whom were notified by home visits. Their overall success rate of 73% indicates that a far more effective approach to breaking chains of transmission can be achieved by deploying dedicated local authority staff.Austen LynchGarstang, Lancashire





No.6 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

New restrictions including a 10pm hospitality curfew criticised as not going far enough 

Turkey is resisting implementing tough measures to combat Covid-19 despite fears that a second wave of the coronavirus is taking hold in the country and as several European states declare new lockdowns.

The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, announced on Tuesday that restaurants, bars, hairdressers, barbers, cinemas and all other similar entertainment venues and businesses across Turkey would have to close at 10pm. Flexible working hours across both the private and public sectors were encouraged, he added, and mosques and schools would remain open for now.

Turkey’s total numbers of cases and deaths are still much lower than those of several European countries, but the number of cases is increasing at a rate of more than 2,000 a day – the highest level since the first wave of the pandemic hit Turkey in April.

Doctors and opposition politicians have alleged for months that Turkey’s caseload is in fact much higher. They have asked the government to do more to curb the spread of the virus and accused the authorities of a cover-up – a charge Ankara denies.

An admission from the health minister, Fahrettin Koca, in September that the country was excluding symptomless cases from its daily tally drew widespread fury from opposition campaigners, who claimed Ankara was prioritising the struggling economy over public health.

The new measures announced on Tuesday were criticised by Turkish healthcare workers’ and doctors’ unions as not going far enough. 

“Healthcare workers are the only ones really tackling the problems of the pandemic at the moment. We should be supported with thorough policymaking to fight it, but instead we are the ones who are burning out,” said Lutfi Çamlı, the head of the İzmir chamber of physicians.

“It’s hard to even comment on these new measures because we are not even aware of what the real situation is, we can’t get the information from the government. If they were transparent it would be different.”

More than 100 healthcare workers have died and 40,000 have been infected with Covid-19 in Turkey since the beginning of the crisis, leading to several protests over working conditions and a lack of protective equipment.

The Turkish Medical Association has been criticised by Erdoğan’s coalition partner, Devlet Bahçeli, the head of the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), who has accused doctors of “treason” and said the association should be closed down.

Wearing masks in public and in workspaces is compulsory, and some parts of the country have been subject to localised lockdowns and curfews for over-65s since measures banning all intercity and international travel were lifted in July.

callout-coronavirus

Although the Turkish authorities have not publicly suggested reimplementing travel restrictions, on Tuesday Koca urged people in Istanbul not to leave the area, saying the city of 17 million people accounted for 40% of Turkey’s Covid-19 cases.

“If you are in Istanbul. Do not leave [the city]. You could be a spreader without symptoms, you could be an undetected contact. Unless it is necessary, delay your trip,” he tweeted.

Last week’s earthquake that hit İzmir has left hospitals bracing for a rise in cases, after many of the city’s 3 million residents abandoned social distancing measures in the aftermath. A total of 114 people have been confirmed dead and more than 1,000 were injured in the quake, putting extra strain on intensive care units and medical resources across the country.





No.7 article:
UK Covid-19 daily death toll rises to 492 – highest since May

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Official government coronavirus UK death toll since pandemic began is now 47,742

Official government coronavirus UK death toll since pandemic began is now 47,742

The UK death toll from coronavirus has risen by 492 – almost 100 more than the previous day’s increase.

Wednesday’s total of people who died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 was the highest since 19 May, when 500 deaths were reported, and was 24% higher than the 392 recorded on Tuesday. This is despite the fact that figures on Tuesdays are often larger because of a delay in reporting deaths over the weekend.

The government’s official coronavirus death toll for the UK since the pandemic began is now 47,742. Separate figures published by the UK’s statistics agencies for deaths where Covid-19 has been mentioned on the death certificate, with additional data on deaths that have occurred in recent days, show the number of deaths from Covid to be around 63,000.

Dr Yvonne Doyle, medical director of Public Health England, said: “Sadly we know that the trend in deaths will continue to rise over the next few weeks. As the new measures come into place it will take some time for the impact to be seen.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

What can I leave home for?

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

Can different households mix indoors?

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

Can different households mix outdoors?

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Can I attend funerals, weddings or religious services?

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Can I travel in the UK or abroad for a holiday?

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Which businesses will close?

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

“We have all made sacrifices and they have helped to save many lives. Let’s stick with it to keep our loved ones safe. The fewer people you see, the more you’ll help stop the spread.”

The government figures showed a further 25,177 people had tested positive, the second highest total after 21 October, when there were 26,688 positive results. Testing capacity has increased significantly since the first wave of the pandemic. Wednesday’s number of new positive cases was 26% greater and more than 5,000 higher than the equivalent figure on Tuesday, which was 20,018.

There are 12,320 people in hospital with Covid-19, with 1,142 in hospital beds, according to the latest figures. The number of hospitalised patients was 19% greater and almost 2,000 higher than Tuesday’s total.





No.8 article:
Indian TV anchor&#x27;s arrest escalates feud with Maharashtra state

Arnab Goswami’s arrest follows claims that his BJP-backing TV channel smears opponents

One of India’s most famous and polarising television journalists has been arrested in connection with a 2018 suicide case, escalating an ongoing feud between the conservative news anchor and the Maharashtra state government.

Arnab Goswami, the founder of the rightwing channel Republic TV, was arrested at his home in Mumbai early on Wednesday. It prompted a chorus of anger from the ruling Bharatiya Janata party (BJP), including from the home affairs minister, Amit Shah, who called it a “blatant misuse of state power”.

Goswami has made a name for himself as one of the India’s most aggressive and pro-government TV news hosts. On Republic TV, he is regularly seen shouting and pointing into the camera as he vehemently champions the Hindu nationalist cause of the BJP and the prime minister, Narendra Modi.

Republic TV has been accused of smearing opponents and fuelling anti-Muslim conspiracy theories. It is under investigation for allegedly rigging its viewer ratings by paying people to leave their televisions constantly running its channel. Republic TV and Goswami have strongly denied the allegations.

Most recently, Goswami had antagonised the Maharashtra state government, controlled by the Shiv Sena party, by accusing it of involvement in the death of the Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who killed himself in June. 

Shiv Sena is a former ally of the BJP, but the two parties are now bitter rivals. Goswami was accused of exploiting Rajput’s death in order to smear the BJP’s political rival in Maharashtra, as were other BJP supporters who pushed the narrative that Rajput was murdered, which has been proved unfounded.

Leading figures from the BJP accused the Maharashtra government of taking “revenge” on Goswami by arresting him in connection with the 2018 suicide of an interior designer, Anvay Naik. In a note, Naik allegedly blamed Goswami for driving him to his death by refusing to pay him for work he had done for Republic TV. In a statement in 2018, Republic TV said the allegations were unfounded.

Under the previous BJP government administration in Maharashtra, the Naik case had been closed, allegedly after political pressure was applied, but Mumbai police said it had now been reopened.

The BJP president, JP Nadda, called Goswami’s arrest an “assault on press freedom” while the former BJP Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said “such attempts to suppress a voice against the government is detrimental to democracy”.

However, many have accused the BJP of hypocrisy, pointing out that many journalists and publications that publish pieces critical of the BJP government are regularly named as “anti-nationals” and arrested or charged under criminal law. During the Covid-19 crisis, more that 50 journalists have been arrested for critical coverage. In a recent report by Reporters without Borders, India fell to 142nd out of 180 countries in the global press freedom index.

Shiv Sena denied any involvement in Goswami’s arrest. “The state government or any political party has nothing to do with the arrest,” said Anil Parab, a Shiv Sena spokesperson. “There is no politics of revenge. The BJP is trying to save Arnab Goswami as if their party worker has been taken away by the police.”





No.9 article:
If you learned a new creative skill during the first national lockdown – or are planning on learning one during the second, we’d like to hear from you

During the first national lockdown many people took up arts and crafts to relieve boredom and anxiety. We’d like to hear what creative skills you have developed since the pandemic and whether you’ll be learning a new one during the second nationwide lockdown?

What creative hobbies have you pursued since the onset of the Covid pandemic? Have you gained a new creative skill, or do you plan to do so during the second national lockdown? How did you learn this skill? And how did it help you to cope with the pandemic/lockdown? Please specify where you learnt your new skill, including any online links. 

You can share your stories and photos by filling in the form below. Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.

One of our journalists will be in contact for publication before we publish, so please do leave contact details.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.





No.10 article:
Slow-moving Storm Eta lashes northern Nicaragua

Thousands of people in shelters as storm causes floods and deadly landslides

Tropical Storm Eta spun through northern Nicaragua on Wednesday after lashing the country’s Caribbean coast for much of the past day, its flood waters setting off landslides that killed at least three people.

The storm had weakened from the category 4 hurricane that battered the coast, but it was moving so slowly and bringing so much rain that much of Central America was on high alert. Eta had sustained winds of 60mph and was moving westward at 8mph.

The long-term forecast shows Eta taking a turn over Central America and then reforming in the Caribbean, possibly reaching Cuba on Sunday and Florida on Monday. On Wednesday morning Eta was located 90 miles west of Puerto Cabezas, also known as Bilwi.

Eta came ashore on Tuesday afternoon south of Bilwi, after stalling for hours just off the coast. The city of about 60,000 people had been without power since Monday evening. Corrugated metal roofing and uprooted trees were scattered through its streets. Approximately 20,000 of the area’s residents were in shelters.

Inland, about 100 miles west of where Eta made landfall, two goldminers were killed in a landslide on Tuesday morning. A third miner escaped and sought help. One body was recovered before rescuers had to suspend recovery efforts at nightfall.

The storm also has been drenching neighbouring Honduras since at least Sunday, and the country reported its first storm-related death on Tuesday. A 12-year-old girl died in a mudslide in San Pedro Sula, the main population centre in northern Honduras, said Marvin Aparicio, of Honduras’s emergency management agency.

He said at least 559 people in Honduras had had to move to shelters or go to relatives’ homes to escape flooding, and at least 25 people had been rescued. His agency reported at least six rivers causing significant flooding.

Forecasters said central and northern Nicaragua and much of Honduras could get 380 to 635mm (15 to 25ins) of rain, with 890mm in isolated areas. Heavy rain was also likely in eastern Guatemala, southern Belize and Jamaica.

The quantities of rain forecast drew comparisons to 1998’s Hurricane Mitch, one of the most deadly Atlantic hurricanes in history. The US National Hurricane Center said Mitch led to the deaths of more than 9,000 people.

Nicaragua’s remote north-east, where Eta made landfall, was already isolated before the storm. Crossing the wide Wawa river to reach Bilwi, the main city in the region, requires riding a ferry, which suspended operations as the storm approached, making driving to the impact zone impossible.

Cairo Jarquin, an emergency response project manager in Nicaragua for Catholic Relief Services, said the immediate concern in north-east Nicaragua after the storm’s passage would be getting water and food to those remote communities.





No.11 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Exclusive: Hancock has backed transfer of nearly £500m to Randox during pandemic

The UK government has awarded a new £347m Covid-19 testing contract to Randox, the Tory-linked private healthcare company whose testing kits had to be recalled over the summer because of concerns about contamination.

The deal is a six-month extension of an existing contract and was agreed without other companies being invited to bid. It means the health secretary, Matt Hancock, has now approved transfers of nearly half a billion pounds in taxpayer funds to the Northern Ireland-based company since the pandemic began.

Disclosed in a filing on a European contracts website, the award has prompted concerns about “cronyism” and calls for an independent inquiry into the £12bn spent so far on attempting to control the pandemic through the test-and-trace system.

Critics raised further concerns about a separate revelation that the Conservative MP Owen Paterson, who is paid £100,000 a year to act as a consultant for Randox, was party to a call between the company and James Bethell, the health minister responsible for coronavirus testing supplies.

The disclosure raises fresh questions about Paterson’s continuing work for Randox, and the efficacy of the code of conduct for MPs, which is supposed to limit their work as paid lobbyists and regulate access to ministers.

“Legislators must not also be lobbyists,” said a spokesperson for the campaign group Transparency International.

The Green party MP Caroline Lucas said: “We urgently need an independent inquiry into where public money is going as many firms who have benefited seem to have links to the Tory party or individual ministers. 

“The lack of transparency around Covid-related contracts is a scandal. At the very least, ministers owe MPs an explanation, and we are still not getting one.”

Randox provides tens of thousands of kits a week to care homes and individuals testing themselves at home, which are then posted back to its laboratories in County Antrim. Concerns were raised in July when spot checks revealed some kits supplied by a Chinese manufacturer and sent out by Randox were not sterile.

The company was ordered to recall 750,000 unused kits. The failure delayed plans to provide regular testing for English care home residents and staff, a promise on which the government has yet to deliver.

In May, the Guardian revealed that Randox was awarded a first government contract on 30 March, worth £133m. It was awarded in a closed process, without being publicly advertised beforehand and without any other companies being asked to bid. The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) revealed on Wednesday that the contract was for 2.7m kits – meaning the cost per kit was just over £49.

The new deal was signed on 2 October and was expected to run for six months, until the end of March 2021, a spokesperson said.

The government has been bypassing normal rules on holding open competitions for public sector contracts under emergency powers designed to speed up the process during the pandemic. The latest Randox deal was awarded as an extension to the existing contract, again with no other companies invited to bid.

The call between Randox, Paterson and Lord Bethell took place on 9 April, days after the company had secured its first contract to provide testing services. Bethell, who ran a political lobbying firm before entering the House of Lords, is the minister for innovation in the DHSC. He has led efforts by Boris Johnson’s government to use private sector companies in the pandemic response.

Billions in public funds have been awarded to companies such as Deloitte, which helped set up a network of drive-in test centres, and Serco, which runs the contact-tracing call centre. 

The call with Bethell was revealed in the quarterly disclosure of ministerial meetings, gifts and trips, where the reason for the call is listed as “to discuss Covid-19 testing”.

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

A government source said the conversation with Bethell was a “courtesy call” from the minister to Randox and took place after the initial contract had been signed. Paterson was participating as a paid consultant to Randox on the call, the source said.

Paterson, who is the MP for North Shropshire, has disclosed in parliament’s register of interests that he is paid £8,333 for 16 hours of work a month by Randox.

Paterson and Randox did not respond to a request for comment. Challenged last year about his work as a consultant for a number of private companies, Paterson responded: “My financial interests have been correctly declared according to the rules of the House of Commons.”

The Guardian has previously reported that Hancock toured Randox’s laboratories in Antrim last year to inspect a tool for diagnosing sepsis. Documents released under the Freedom of Information Act suggest Paterson also took part in the visit.

callout-coronavirus

Steve Goodrich of Transparency International UK said the government should return to open tenders.

“That hundreds of millions of pounds of procurement can go ahead without even a whiff of competition is bad enough, yet when these deals are awarded to those with political connections it reeks of cronyism,” said Goodrich. “Government really needs to get back into the habit of competitive tendering or risk irreparably damaging confidence in its prudent management of public money.”

“MPs and peers must scrupulously avoid the perception – or reality – that they are working as lobbyists for private interests,” Goodrich added. “When parliamentarians with outside employment meet government concerning their client’s commercial operations, it looks an awful lot like they’re trying to influence ministers in return for payment. Parliament should tighten its rules to make it absolutely clear that legislators must not also be lobbyists.”

A DHSC spokesperson said in an emailed statement: “We are proud to be working with a number of partners on innovative solutions to increase capacity where it is needed and introduce larger-scale testing. This includes an extension of an existing contract with Randox Laboratories, as we continue to increase testing capacity.”





No.12 article:
Police investigate if Vienna attacker was part of wider network

Kujtim Fejzulai believed to have acted alone but known to have been an Isis sympathiser

Austrian police are investigating whether an Islamist terrorist who killed four people in Vienna on Monday night was part of a wider network and if the attack could have been prevented.

Kujtim Fejzulai, known to authorities as a sympathiser of the Islamic State group, which claimed credit for the murders, is believed to have been the lone gunman in the attack despite hours of uncertainty over whether accomplices remained at large.

The 20-year-old dual citizen of Austria and North Macedonia was shot dead nine minutes into the attack in central Vienna.

Police in Austria carried out raids at 18 properties linked to the attacker on Tuesday and made 14 arrests. Two men were also arrested in the Swiss city of Winterthur, near Zurich, after reports Fejzulai had met them in Switzerland.

Fejzulai is also believed to have travelled to neighbouring Slovakia in July accompanied by another man, where he attempted to buy ammunition suited to the weapons he used in the attack, but the sale reportedly fell through after he failed to produce a firearms licence.

Slovakian authorities are said to have informed their Austrian counterparts at the time. The men travelled in a car registered in the name of the mother of an Islamist known to police.

Austria’s interior minister, Karl Nehammer, said on Tuesday that Fejzulai was known to the authorities as a sympathiser of Isis. He had been sentenced to 22 months in an Austrian prison on 25 April 2019 for affiliation to a terror organisation, after attempting to cross from the Turkish border – where he had met two Germans and a Belgian – into Syria.

The sentence was suspended in December last year on condition he would be regularly monitored by probation services and would participate in a deradicalisation programme.

Nehammer and the Austrian chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, both of the conservative People’s party, have criticised his premature release from jail. Nehammer said Fejzulai had been able to deceive his mentors in such a way that they registered no early warning signs of his radicalisation. He said it pointed to “a faultline in our system”, which had allowed for “a premature release of a radicalised person”.

Alma Zadić, the justice minister, of the Green party, defended the decision, saying it was legal and that he had been released on parole. The justice ministry later said it had not been informed about Fejzulai’s attempts to buy ammunition in Slovakia, saying it would have been reason to arrest him.

The government was meeting on Wednesday to discuss the security situation and whether the attack might have been prevented.

Reinhold Einwallner, of the Social Democratic party, said he was astounded that the attacker’s attempt to buy ammunition, particularly when his affiliation with Isis was known, had not triggered a security alert. “It should have caused alarm bells to ring,” he told the Austrian newspaper Kurier.

He called for a more intense exchange of information between the justice and interior ministries about people considered a security threat, saying: “the number of IS [Isis] returnees is of a manageable size.”

The justice ministry said it had not been informed about Fejzulai’s attempts to buy ammunition in Slovakia, saying it would have been reason to arrest him.

The populist far-right Freedom party said the role of the intelligence service urgently needed to be examined. “There are numerous indications that this terrorist and the circles he moved in, had been on the intelligence services’ radar for a long time. And if that was the case, why was this terrorist not taken off the streets?” Herbert Kickl of the party said.

Nikolaus Rast, a lawyer who acted for Fejzulai, said his client had drifted through life and was “easy prey” for terror groups. “He left the impression on me of being a young man searching for something, who didn’t know what his place in society was, who had failed to find an appropriate apprenticeship position and was therefore easy prey for certain groups,” he told the tabloid Bild. 

Three men, two of Turkish origin and another who is Palestinian, were being hailed as heroes for having risked their lives at the scene of the attack to help some of the injured.

Mikail Özen, 25, and Recep Tayyip Gültekin, 21, were about to park their car on Schwedenplatz ahead of enjoying a last coffee together before a coronavirus lockdown when the shooting started. They ran to the aid of a woman they saw lying on the ground, and Gültekin was shot at.

“The attacker fired at him. But Recep was able to intuitively save himself by doing a forward roll,” Özen said. They managed to take the woman to safety.

Osma Yoda, 23, who had been working in a McDonald’s on the square, was helping his boss carry boxes when they came across the gunman. “He was hidden in a closed garage entrance and was shooting at passersby,” the Palestinian man said. When two police arrived, the gunman shot at them, striking one of them. “I dragged him behind a concrete bench and tried to stop the bleeding,” Yoda told Kurier. “He continued to fire from a distance of around 20 to 30 metres. There was blood everywhere.”

He then helped officers take him to a nearby ambulance, assisted by Gültekin and Özen, who are both amateur martial artists. The men were received by both the Turkish ambassador in Austria and the mayor of Vienna, who thanked them for their actions.

A police officer on duty on the night of the attack described the confusion and chaos as he and colleagues attempted to secure the bars and restaurants in the area. “The bullets kept coming and we were rescuing injured people, but we didn’t know where to take them, because we didn’t know where the arsehole was,” he told the Austrian news agency APA.

The 27 people injured, who sustained both gunshot and stabbing wounds, were said to no longer be in critical condition. Among the dead was said to be a female student at the University of Applied Arts.





No.13 article:
Fighting reported in Ethiopia after PM responds to &#x27;attack&#x27; by regional ruling party

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

Abiy Ahmed says defence forces mobilised in Tigray region ‘to save the country’ 

Abiy Ahmed says defence forces mobilised in Tigray region ‘to save the country’ 

Fighting has been reported in northern Ethiopia after the country’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, ordered a military response to an “attack” by the ruling party of the restive Tigray region on a camp housing federal troops.

Analysts and diplomats have been warning for weeks that a standoff between the federal government and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) could plunge Ethiopia into a bitter and bloody civil conflict.

On Wednesday, Abiy accused the the TPLF of attacking a military camp in the region and attempting to loot military assets.

“Our defence forces … have been ordered to carry out their mission to save the country,” he said. “The final point of the red line has been crossed. Force is being used as the last measure to save the people and the country.”

Addressing the nation on TV, the prime minister announced that “several martyrs” had died in the attack in Mekele, the northern Tigray region’s capital, and Dansha town. The government declared a six-month state of emergency in the Tigray region.

The prime minister’s spokesman, Billene Seyoum, told Reuters later in the day that military operations in Tigray had commenced, and diplomats reported armed clashes but gave no further details.

“This war is the worst possible outcome of the tensions that have been brewing. Given Tigray’s relatively strong security position, the conflict may well be protracted and disastrous,” said William Davison, International Crisis Group’s senior analyst for Ethiopia.

“It could seriously strain an Ethiopian state already buffeted by multiple grave political challenges, and could also send shockwaves into the Horn of Africa region and beyond.”

The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s governing coalition for decades before Abiy took office in 2018 and announced sweeping political reforms. Those reforms, however, have allowed old ethnic and other grievances to surface, and led to instability.

Tigray’s population makes up 5% of Ethiopia’s 109 million people, but it is wealthier and more influential than many other, larger regions.

The Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) topples Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam, the head of a communist junta that ruled the country from 1974. The coalition group is led by the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), guerrilla fighters who marched from their homeland in Ethiopia's north to the capital, Addis Ababa.

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

Under Abiy, who won last year’s Nobel peace prize for ending a war with neighbouring Eritrea, Tigrayan leaders have complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions and blamed for the country’s problems.

One factor in the latest crisis is the postponement of national elections due to the Covid-19 pandemic. National polls were due to take place in August, but electoral officials ruled in March that all voting would be delayed until the threat from the virus had eased.

When parliamentarians voted to extend officials’ mandates – which would have expired in early October – Tigrayan leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal.

Now each side sees the other as illegitimate, and federal lawmakers have ruled that Abiy’s government should cut off contact with – and funding to – Tigray’s leadership.

The Tigray region is home to a large portion of federal military personnel and where much of its equipment is located, a legacy of Ethiopia’s brutal 1998-2000 border war with Eritrea, its northern neighbour.

Some analysts estimate that Tigray could muster more than half of the armed forces’ total personnel and mechanised divisions.

Last week, Tigray blocked a general appointed by Abiy from assuming a new posting, saying Abiy no longer had the authority to make such moves.

Tigrayan officials have said in recent days they would not initiate a military conflict. However, the risk of war is high.

On Tuesday night, hours before Abiy’s announcement, Wondimu Asamnew, another senior Tigrayan official, told AFP the federal government was amassing troops on the southern border of Tigray – a claim that could not be independently verified.

“I think when it comes to military mobilisation, it’s not child’s play. It can trigger all-out war … what they are doing is playing with fire,” Wondimu said. “A small spark can ignite the whole region. So I think we are on the alert and I can assure you we are capable of defending ourselves.”

Nic Cheeseman, an expert in African politics at Brimingham university, said that as much of the country’s military capacity had been under the control of the TPLF, an open confrontation would not necessity result in a straightforward “win” for Ethiopian forces.

“There is also a real risk that open conflict will exacerbate ethnic tensions and inspire further secessionist sentiment in other parts of this country. If so, Ethiopia could come apart at the seams. ,” Cheeseman said.

Observers have called for a ceasefire and unconditional discussions in a neutral location in order to sustain a truce and address the grievances of both sides.

However, rhetoric in recent weeks has been highly charged and regional dynamics – such as the growing closeness of leaders in Addis Ababa and Eritrea – will need to be considered in any solution, analysts said.

Ahmed Soliman, at Chatham House in London, said the consequences of a full-blown conflict would be “unspeakable” for Ethiopia and east Africa.

“Ethiopia has been experiencing a difficult transition over recent years but remains the diplomatic cornerstone of the region,” he said.

The vast country, the second most populous in Africa, has long been a strategic partner of Washington. US diplomats in Addis Ababa called for “an immediate de-escalation of the current situation in Tigray and a measured response by both sides”.





No.14 article:
Prosecutors in Brazil file embezzlement charges against Jair Bolsonaro&#x27;s son

Flávio Bolsonaro accused of siphoning off employees’ publicly funded wages

Jair Bolsonaro’s eldest son has been formally accused of embezzlement, money laundering, misappropriation of funds and directing a “criminal organisation” as sleaze allegations continue to swirl around the family of Brazil’s far-right president.

Prosecutors in Rio de Janeiro announced late on Tuesday that they had filed the charges against Flávio Bolsonaro, 39, a senator whose affairs have been under the spotlight since the eve of his father’s January 2019 inauguration.

The accusations, which Flávio Bolsonaro has previously called part of a political plot against his father, revolve around suspicions the president’s son engaged in a widespread but criminal practice in Brazilian politics known as the “rachadinha” when he was a Rio congressman from 2004 to 2018.

Under the scheme, which translates roughly as the “salary split”, corrupt politicians siphon off a chunk of their employees’ publicly funded wages for personal gain.

Charges were also filed against 16 others including Fabrício Queiroz, a former police officer and longtime friend of Brazil’s president who had worked with Bolsonaro’s son and has well-documented ties to Rio’s underworld. Queiroz is under house arrest after being detained in June on the property of a lawyer who has represented Jair and Flávio Bolsonaro.

The Rio newspaper O Globo said the charges were partly based on testimony from a former aide called Luiza Sousa Paes, who told investigators she was required to return more than 90% of her salary. Paes claimed that over a six-year period she had paid about 160,000 reais (more than £20,000) to Queiroz.

A judge must accept the charges for the case to advance.

In a statement, Flávio Bolsonaro’s legal team called the allegations baseless: “This is nothing more than a macabre and ill-conceived tale.”

Jair Bolsonaro made no immediate comment. But the accusations are the latest embarrassment for the former army captain who swept to power in 2018 portraying himself as a Trump-like outsider and anti-corruption crusader who would drain the Brazilian swamp.

That reputation has gradually crumbled because of suspicions over his eldest son and investigations into his other two politician sons, Carlos and Eduardo, over alleged financial irregularities and the allegedly illegal dissemination of disinformation. They also deny wrongdoing.

Brazil’s first lady, Michelle Bolsonaro, has also reportedly found herself in investigators’ crosshairs with claims she received a series of mysterious payments from Queiroz.

Bolsonaro snapped at a journalist who asked about those payments in August, replying: “What I’d really like to do is smash your face in, yeah?”

Brazil’s left celebrated the charges against Bolsonaro’s son tweeting the news with the hashtag #FlavioNaCadeia (#FlavioBehindBars).

There was also criticism from the right, including from disillusioned former Bolsonaro backers such as the conservative congresswoman Joice Hasselmann.

“THE SALARY SPLIT IS THE THEFT OF PUBLIC MONEY AND CROOKS BELONG IN JAIL!” she tweeted.





No.15 article:
Prof Andrew Pollard tells MPs of need for careful scrutiny of clinical trial results

The head of the Oxford University group developing one of the leading Covid vaccine contenders has played down the chances of vaccinating people by Christmas.

“I think there is a small chance of that being possible, but I just don’t know,’’ said Prof Andrew Pollard, the chief investigator of the trial, giving evidence to MPs at a joint hearing of the science and health committees of the House of Commons.

Pollard said it was very difficult to answer the question. The Oxford team, working with pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca, has not yet looked at any results to find out whether it works and will protect people against the virus or prevent them becoming seriously ill.

“I’m optimistic that we could reach that point before the end of this year to do an analysis,” he said. But then they would need to put their data to the regulatory authorities.

“We absolutely need that to happen so there’s very careful scrutiny of everything that’s been done in the clinical trials, to look at their integrity and the quality of the data and to verify that the results are correct,” he said. After that would come the policy decisions about who would get the vaccine and how it would be deployed.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

It was possible other vaccines might be approved before the Oxford one, he said, and he hoped there would be lots of successes because multiple vaccines would be needed for the 7 billion people in the world.

Kate Bingham, the head of the UK vaccines taskforce, told the committee “we could be weeks away” from looking at the interim data for both the Oxford/AstraZeneca and the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccines, for which the UK has also agreed a deal.

Manufacturing of the vaccines was well advanced, she said, although she would not disclose how many doses of the Oxford vaccine had already been made. They were scaling up at unprecedented speed, “starting with low numbers of doses – by which I do mean millions of doses, but not tens of millions of doses initially – so that we will end up with 100 million doses that we’ve secured from AZ in the first half of next year”.

Other questions will arise once results are known, Pollard said. The US regulator, the Food and Drug Administration, has said it wanted at least 50% efficacy to approve a vaccine, but if one was found to prevent 40% of cases, policymakers would have to consider whether it would be of help to the NHS.

A good result would be having vaccines with significant efficacy, he said, “whether that’s 50, 60, 70, 80, or whatever the figure is, that is an enormous achievement, it means that there are, from a health system point of view, fewer people with Covid going into hospital. People who develop cancer can have their operations and all their chemotherapy”.

But that would not mean an immediate end to the pandemic. “It is a complete game changer and a success if we meet those efficacy end points, but unfortunately, it doesn’t mean that we can all go back to normal immediately. It takes time to roll out vaccines and not everyone will take them. And we will still have people getting this virus because it’s just too good at transmitting,” he said.





No.16 article:
Police chiefs in England to target people flouting lockdown rules

Public who ignore lockdown by holding large parties will face crackdown, officers warn 

Police chiefs have warned they will crack down harder on people who fail to show “civic responsibility” by ignoring coronavirus restrictions and fines as England heads into lockdown this week.

Amid concerns over low compliance with self-isolation rules even before the new measures, the chief constables of five forces in the north-west of the country said they would “collectively target” the public who flout lockdown by holding large gatherings, music events and parties.

In an open letter, they said a minority of people seemed “incapable of demonstrating any civic responsibility” and that they would now “face the consequences of greater levels of enforcement”.

The senior officers also said they were seeking support from the government and judiciary to consider how they could rapidly bring to justice the “significant proportion” of people ignoring coronavirus-related fines.

The message from the forces covering Cheshire, Cumbria, Greater Manchester, Lancashire and Merseyside comes after a period of tightened restrictions for much of north-west England due to high numbers of Covid-19 cases.

Strict new rules are expected to be rolled out for the whole of England from one minute after midnight on Thursday, including the instruction to stay at home except in a handful of circumstances including exercise and essential shopping.

Last week, the National Police Chiefs’ Council (NPCC) said more than 20,000 fines had been issued in England and Wales since coronavirus restrictions were introduced on 27 March. No data was available on how many had been paid.

Of these, 1,103 fines were issued in the four weeks to 19 October to people breaking England’s local lockdowns and for gatherings of more than 30 people. The NPCC said the highest level of financial penalty – £10,000 – had been issued 64 times in England and twice in Wales for people holding raves, house parties, or protests of more than 30 people.

Prof Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, said there had been a remarkable level of compliance among the British public to the draconian restrictions on social contact.

However, there have been concerns that the majority of people – up to 80% – fail to quarantine fully when asked to do so by test and trace. Police chiefs are planning to release data in the coming weeks on how many people have been referred to officers for breaching self-isolation.

In their letter on Wednesday, the senior officers said they had seen first-hand “the misery the pandemic has caused” but had received “great support from the majority of our communities”.

They said their forces had taken a “very measured” approach to enforcement and used a model of “engage, explain, encourage and only as a last resort enforce” in relation to issuing fines.

The public wanted a “consistent and robust” approach to enforcement and that the introduction of local restrictions had seen forces take a “firmer stance” over restrictions and move more quickly to issue fixed-penalty notices, they added.

Addressing potential rule-breakers, the chief constables added: “To the minority who feel the restrictions don’t apply to them, be prepared to face the consequences of greater levels of enforcement.

“We will collectively target those who flout the restrictions, particularly those organising large gatherings and music events, repeatedly holding parties or deliberately causing harm to our communities by not following the restrictions such as self-isolating where necessary.”

The letter was signed by Darren Martland, the chief constable of Cheshire constabulary, Michelle Skeer, the chief constable of Cumbria constabulary, Ian Hopkins, the chief constable of Greater Manchester police, Andy Rhodes, the chief constable of Lancashire constabulary and Andy Cooke, the chief constable of Merseyside police.





No.17 article:
Prime minister tells MPs he ‘hopes’ to have the economy open before Christmas

Boris Johnson has refused to rule out an extended national lockdown for England if the scheduled four weeks of restrictions fail to rein in coronavirus infections, telling MPs only that it was his “hope” to reopen the economy before Christmas.

In a mixed message before an afternoon Commons vote on the lockdown, which is due to start on Thursday, the prime minister had earlier told the CBI conference that the restrictions would definitely end in four weeks.

R, or the 'effective reproduction number', is a way of rating a disease’s ability to spread. It’s the average number of people on to whom one infected person will pass the virus. For an R of anything above 1, an epidemic will grow exponentially. Anything below 1 and an outbreak will fizzle out – eventually.

At the start of the coronavirus pandemic, the estimated R for coronavirus was between 2 and 3 – higher than the value for seasonal flu, but lower than for measles. That means each person would pass it on to between two and three people on average, before either recovering or dying, and each of those people would pass it on to a further two to three others, causing the total number of cases to snowball over time.

The reproduction number is not fixed, though. It depends on the biology of the virus; people's behaviour, such as social distancing;&nbsp;and a population’s immunity. A country may see regional variations in its R number, depending on local factors like population density and transport patterns.

Hannah Devlin&nbsp;Science correspondent

In a video message to the event, produced after the prime minister pulled out of a scheduled speech on Monday, he told CBI delegates: “Believe me, we will end these autumn measures on 2 December when they expire.”

But under pressure from Keir Starmer at prime minister’s questions on Wednesday, Johnson would say only that the lockdown rules would expire on 2 December, which they will do under law.

He declined twice to fully engage with questions from the Labour leader about whether the government could then propose an extension to national restrictions if the R rate was still above 1, meaning the number of Covid cases was still rising.

“Will the lockdown end on 2 December, come what may, or will it depend on circumstances at the time? People need to know that,” Starmer asked.

Johnson responded: “These autumn measures to combat the surge will expire automatically on 2 December, and we will then, I hope very much, be able to get this country going again, to get businesses, to get shops going again in the run-up to Christmas.

“But that depends on us all doing our bit now to make sure that we get the R down. I have no doubt that we can.”

Starmer pressed the PM with his next question, asking specifically if lockdown would end if the R rate remained above 1 on 2 December, with Johnson avoiding the question.

The Labour leader expressed exasperation, saying: “I just want some basic honesty. This is serious – we’ve got to look the public in the eye.”

Earlier in the Commons exchanges, Starmer had asked Johnson to justify his delay in imposing a national lockdown, saying that on 21 September, when government scientists advised a “circuit breaker” period to reduce infection rates, the daily Covid death toll had been 11.

“On Monday, 42 days later, the number of people who tragically lost their lives to Covid-19 was 397 – that’s a staggering 35-fold increase,” Starmer said. “Does the prime minister understand the human cost of his delay in acting?”

In an answer seemingly aimed as much to the Conservative rebels who plan to vote against the lockdown, Johnson said there had been no choice but to change course, while insisting it had been right to first try a system of tiered regional restrictions.

“It is precisely because we understand the economic cost, and it is precisely because we understand the social, the psychological damage of lockdown, that it was right to go for the local and the regional solutions,” he said.

Starmer urged the PM to use the lockdown to improve the performance of the test-and-trace system, saying it was not reaching enough contacts, and that too many people were not self-isolating when told to.

Johnson praised the performance of the system overall, but added: “I am perfectly willing to accept the failings of NHS test and trace, of course I am. And of course I take full responsibility for the frustrations people have experienced with that system.”

At the CBI conference, Johnson said he knew many companies had taken major steps to comply with restrictions. “I want to thank you for the heroic efforts you’ve made to look after your employees, to make your premises Covid-secure, putting in Perspex screens, all the trouble you’ve gone to in complying with the kinds of diktats that I never believed we would have to impose, which, I assure you, go completely against every free market instinct I possess.”





No.18 article:
Some are stockpiling comfort food and others are defiant, but for most it’s a feeling of weary resignation

Much has been made of how Covid has deepened divisions in Britain: between the haves and the have-nots, the work-from-homers and the have-to-go-to-workers, the doves and the hawks, England’s north and south.

But as England approaches its second national lockdown on Thursday, a communal feeling unites the nation: gloom. If a sound could sum up the country’s mood it would be a long, drawn-out sigh. Give it a few more weeks and it could become a Munchian scream.

Working in the Humbugs sweet shop in Chippenham in Wiltshire, Rita Sargant summed up the prospect of a month at home succinctly. “Rubbish,” she said. “Life’s for living. I’m 89 and if I get Covid, get me a bottle of whisky and a box of chocolates and leave me.”

Whereas the panic-buying first time around was focused on toilet rolls and tinned tomatoes, this time people are stockpiling for comfort, she said. “People love their sweets. They’ve been coming in to stock up.”

In the supermarkets, yeast and bread flour – the “It” ingredients of the first wave – remain in plentiful supply, suggesting England is now happier on the sofa watching Bake Off instead of baking their own bread.

Asked what she would do during lockdown, Sargant replied: “God knows, I’ll go mad. Last time, I spent a lot of time in the garden, but I can’t do that this time because of the weather. I’ll walk three or four miles a day to keep me going.”

Millions of people kept fit with Joe Wicks during lockdown part one, but even the Body Coach himself cannot face daily workouts this time.

The 34-year-old said he was going to share three new workouts a week until the latest lockdown is over, “however long that takes”. Talking to Radio 4’s You And Yours on Tuesday, Wicks admitted it was hard to get motivated to exercise during winter “when it’s dark and grim and wet”.

Gyms are supposed to close on Thursday, but several insist they will defy the law and stay open. The owners of Gainz, a 24-hour gym in Bedford, posted a statement on Instagram explaining their reasoning. “We witnessed a breakdown in people’s mental health during the first lockdown and this isn’t something anybody wants to repeat,” they wrote. Bedfordshire police said it was aware of the post and said that as the legislation is not yet in force, the council was leading on the matter.

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

A beauty salon in Liverpool also said it would not shut up shop, vowing to fight the lockdown in court. Skin Kerr in Bootle has already been shut down once for displaying posters saying: “You can’t catch what doesn’t exist”, as well as banning masks and “Covid talk”.

However, overall, the prevailing mood is one of weary resignation rather than defiance. Back in Chippenham on Tuesday, the town was bustling. Some people were buying Christmas presents and wrapping paper, others taking advantage of pre-lockdown offers. One of the charity shops was offering everything at half price. Barbers, hairdressers, tattoo parlours, pubs were doing a brisk trade.

Chippenham is in a tier 1 area, meaning the pubs have been able to stay open until now. Lorna Noble, 28, the landlady of the Black Horse, was pessimistic about the weeks ahead. “It’s really hard times for us. It’s one thing after another. We had the first lockdown, then the 10pm curfew, which was a big blow for us, now lockdown again.” She has had to let half her staff go. “We’re not sure what the future holds.”

In Greater Manchester, the pubs have been shut for almost two weeks already under tier 3 measures – at least those who weren’t able to force clients to order a “substantial meal” with every pint. But the region, along with much of Lancashire and West Yorkshire, has in effect been in tier 2 since 31 July. All household mixing has been banned indoors, causing a slump in trade as the weather has turned.

In Old Trafford, Rosalyn Wilde, a construction bid manager, said little would change for her on Thursday. “For us having been in lockdown for a long time, it doesn’t really feel that different, and I am happy to grin and bear it for a few weeks if it means we have any chance of seeing family at Christmas. I do feel that if it drags on longer than the four weeks though that people will start ignoring the advice,” she said.

She thinks the country should already be in a national lockdown and that government rhetoric is not helping the widening gap between the north and south.

“The thing that annoyed me when the talks were ongoing in Greater Manchester about going into tier 3 was the constant commentary about how the rate in some parts of the country was low, so a national lockdown wouldn’t be ‘fair’.

“My two responses to that were that first, the rate in pretty much every part of the country was higher than it was in Trafford when we were put under local lockdown, and second, there was a national lockdown in March when Covid was mainly prevalent in the south with few cases ‘up north’, but none of us up here blamed those ‘down south’.”

She is still cross after a government minister only a few weeks ago justified local lockdowns by saying the rate in Cornwall was low. “I checked, and it was pretty much the same as the rate here when we were put under restrictions – that really wound me up,” she said.

In the Stockport suburb of Romiley, Shaun Rowark, a senior healthcare analyst, resented the implication that the national lockdown was only happening now because the north couldn’t get its house in order.

In the House of Commons on Monday, Boris Johnson repeatedly thanked the residents of various Tory constituencies in tier 1 for working hard to keep disease levels low, while apologising for putting them under lockdown.

“I would like to know what evidence he has that their behaviour has been better than ours,” said Rowark. “Greater Manchester has one of the biggest student populations in the country and that’s where [many] of the infections have been – it’s not because tier 3 residents are not behaving.”

Romiley is in the Conservative-held constituency of Hazel Grove, but many locals are starting to despair at the government’s approach. Johnson’s remarks were “condescending”, tutted Pat Willetts, a grandmother.

‘“Instead of congratulating parts of the country, he should be focusing on making the rules simpler so that everyone understands what they need to do,” she said. “Too much has been focused on the financial costs of lockdown rather than public health and safety, and we should have been in a national lockdown much earlier than this.”





No.19 article:
Middle East state that imposed swift lockdown now has one of world’s highest infection rates

Rates of new Covid-19 cases in Jordan have risen to among the highest in the world a few months after the kingdom appeared to have eliminated community transmission of the virus and relaxed most public health restrictions.

As recently as three months ago, Jordan was counted alongside New Zealand, Thailand and Vietnam as a coronavirus success story, after going weeks without detecting infections in the community and registering just over 1,100 cases and 11 deaths as of late July.

On Monday this week the country of 10 million people announced it had detected a daily record 5,877 cases – one of the highest per capita rates in the world – with more than 80,000 detected overall. Nearly 970 people have died.

“I believe that we are now witnessing the first wave – what we dealt with in the beginning was cluster cases,” said Ismail Matalka, the former dean of the school of medicine at Jordan University of Science and Technology.

Jordan’s early success was credited to swift, strict action, with authorities sealing off borders in mid-March and briefly placing citizens under one of the most restrictive lockdowns in the world – banning anyone from leaving the house for any reason but a medical emergency, punishable by up to one year in prison.

The measures were seen as necessary to compensate for a healthcare system the World Health Organization rated as one of the least prepared in the region to fight the virus.

The then prime minister, Omar Razzaz, said in July that the country had effectively eliminated community cases but that it was a question of “when, not if” another wave would hit.

Cases started to grow again even before the country reopened its borders to commercial flights in September, thought to be fuelled by truck drivers bringing goods from neighbouring Syria and Saudi Arabia, countries where the outbreak has been much larger.

Authorities have tightened an evening curfew and reimposed lockdowns on Fridays – the first day of the weekend in the country, when many people would pray together in mosques and visit each other’s homes – but said the economy could not afford the same harsh measures that stamped out the virus between March and May.

Health experts in the country said the resurgent pandemic illustrated the limits of lockdowns and closed borders without a strong testing and contact-tracing system, especially when dealing with a lengthy pandemic.

“We went into full lockdown betting that the world would find a cure or a vaccine, as was the situation with other global pandemics, but that did not work,” said Khaled Rababah, the head of the nurses’ union.

“It is clear that we cannot isolate ourselves in a global pandemic,” Matalka said. “This simply cannot work as a main strategy since no country can sustain this for a long time.”

The country’s health ministry says PCR tests are returning positive rates between 17% and 23%. “But I estimate there is wider community spread and even higher positive rates, since these tests are still targeted,” Matalka said.





No.20 article:
Netherlands introduces car-free Sundays - archive, 1973

For three months from November 1973, the Dutch government banned private motor vehicles on Sundays to curb oil consumption during the Opec energy crisis

Richard Norton-Taylor, Amsterdam5 November 1973

The Dutch proved today that they could be as phlegmatic as the British ever were. As the government’s ban on Sunday driving came into force, motorways were abandoned, and queues at bus stops were long. Empty taxis were parked in rows at the ranks.

The Government’s initiative was widely welcomed, and it is not difficult to see why. At the busy crossroads where yesterday I waited an hour for a breakdown van to come and mend my car, the sound of bicycle bells and rusty – and not so rusty – wheels purring almost delicately took the place of angry drivers blowing their horns and impatiently revving their engines.

There were, of course, authorised exceptions to the ban apart from public transport; fire engines, ambulances, doctors, dentists, veterinary surgeons, foreign tourists, and tradesmen who had to get their food to markets, restaurants and hotels.

But in Amsterdam, still western Europe’s leading centre for hippies, it was entirely appropriate that the police in the best of faith allowed the bearded long-haired driver to take a group of foreign hippies on a tour of the city in his psychedelic bus. “It’s very nice, after all,” said the long-haired police corporal with his limited English.

The Dutch are also thrifty and by this evening only a dozen motorists In Amsterdam and a handful in The Hague had been fined for breaking the regulations. Television crews from Germany, Belgium, and Sweden were busy taking shots of middle-aged couples sharing a single bicycle taken from the back of the garage.

A cabaret group leader was less fortunate; he could take his equipment to another town for a show tonight, but the rest of his group had to go by public transport. A French couple who had hired a car with local number plates also expressed dismay when they were told that they had to walk – or use public transport.

But the police enjoyed recounting how they stopped a car at three this morning (when the ban came into force); the car drove off at speed, the police took to the chase and finally caught two Yugoslavs who had chosen just the wrong hour to steal a vehicle.

Under the emergency 1939 Distribution Law, which the government has reenacted, those who break the ban on driving can face fines of up to £17,500 or a maximum prison sentence of six years. However, police today were fining those few culprits they saw about £17.

Some Dutchmen were looking ahead to the heart of winter and potential cuts on domestic fuel consumption. They blamed the government for “provoking” the Arab oil producers into their boycott of the Netherlands by its reputedly pro-Israeli stand.

This is a land of countless cyclists – they enjoy priority on the roads and at junctions over cars. In addition there are an estimated six million mopeds as against three million cars. Yet as the standard of living rises, so car-driving is becoming a sport as in all other west European countries.

Perhaps the success of the government’s initiative today can be put down partly to what one Dutchman referred to as “the element of Calvinism” that still has a place somewhere in the souls of his countrymen. And those churchmen who still scorn any activity on the Sabbath could thank the Arabs for helping them in their task.





No.21 article:
Surge in Covid hospital patients predicted to be higher by end of November than April peak

The NHS is preparing to administer any potential coronavirus vaccine before Christmas, as it was revealed that the number of Covid in-patients in England was equivalent to 22 hospitals full of patients.

Simon Stevens, the chief executive of NHS England, said there had been a “very substantial” increase in coronavirus hospital admissions in October.

Projections by the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M) show that, by the end of November, there will be more Covid in-patients than there were during the first peak in April.

But there was some hope as Stevens disclosed the health service was preparing to write to all GPs across the country in anticipation of a potential vaccine being available before Christmas.

GPs will be “geared up to start by Christmas if the vaccine becomes available”, Stevens said.

He added: “There are over 200 vaccines in development and we believe that we should hopefully get one or more of those available from the first part of next year.

“In anticipation of that we’re also gearing the NHS up to be ready to make a start on administering Covid vaccines before Christmas, if they become available.

“We reached an agreement with GPs to ensure they will be doing that, and we’ll be writing to GP practices this week to get them geared up to start by Christmas if the vaccine becomes available.”

Stevens said the health service was “adding as much capacity as it can” in anticipation of the usual winter pressures and greater demand due to the pandemic.

“In many parts of the country we’re now seeing more coronavirus in-patients in hospital and in intensive care than we saw in the first peak in April,” he said.

In early September, there were under 500 coronavirus patients in hospitals, he said. By the beginning of October that figure had risen to 2,000. The current figure is just under 11,000 in-patients.

“So, put another way, we’ve got 22 hospitals’ worth of coronavirus patients across England. And indeed, even since Saturday, when the prime minister gave his press conference, we filled another two hospitals full of severely ill coronavirus patients,” he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.

Stevens urged the public to adhere to national lockdown restrictions to preserve other services as he revealed that a quarter of routine operations had been cancelled in the north-west.

“And the reason we want to try and minimise the number of coronavirus infections and patients is not only because of the excess death rate that implies, but because of the knock-on consequences it has for other services: routine operations, cancer care,” he said.

He added: “So if we want to preserve those other services so that the health service can continue to help the full range of patients, we need to do everything we can, together, to keep the infection rate down for coronavirus.”

A further 397 people were reported on Tuesday as having died in the UK within 28 days of testing positive for coronavirus, the highest daily increase in Covid-related deaths in five months.

While the Tuesday tally tends to be higher owing to a delay in reporting deaths over the weekend, the latest figure is nevertheless the highest recorded since 422 people were reported as having died on 27 May.

It is more than seven times the daily toll recorded on 23 March when the first national lockdown began, and takes the government’s official coronavirus death toll for the UK since the pandemic began to 47,250.

However, separate figures published by the UK’s statistics agencies for deaths, where Covid-19 has been mentioned on the death certificate, together with additional data on deaths that have occurred in recent days, show there have now been just under 63,000 deaths involving Covid-19 in the UK.

National restrictions are in effect in England until 2 December, when they will be replaced with a revamped three tier system of measures.

Government say the list is not exhaustive, and other permitted reasons for leaving home may be set out later. People could face fines from police for leaving their home without a legally permitted excuse.

No, not unless they are part of an “exclusive” support bubble, which allows a single-person household to meet and socialise with another household.

Parents are allowed to form a childcare bubble with another household for the purposes of informal childcare, where the child is 13 or under.

People are allowed to meet one person from another household socially and for exercise in outdoor public spaces, which does not include private gardens.

Up to 30 people will still be allowed to attend funerals, while stone settings and ash scatterings can continue with up to 15 guests.

Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies are not permitted except in “exceptional circumstances”. Places of worship must remain closed except for voluntary services, individual prayer and other exempt activities.

Most outbound international travel will be banned. There is no exemption for staying away from home for a holiday. This means people cannot travel internationally or within the UK, unless for work, education or other legally permitted exemptions.

Everything except essential shops and education settings, which include nurseries, schools and universities, will close.

Entertainment venues will also have to close. Pubs, restaurants and indoor and outdoor leisure facilities will have to close their doors once more.

However, takeaway and delivery services will still be allowed, while construction and manufacturing will stay open.

Parents will still be able to access registered childcare and other childcare activities where reasonably necessary to enable parents to work. Some youth services may be able to continue, such as one-to-one youth work, but most youth clubs will need to close their doors.

Public services, such as jobcentres, courts, and civil registration offices will remain open.

There is no exemption for grassroots organised team sports. Elite sports will be allowed to continue behind closed doors as currently, including Premier League football matches.

Aaron Walawalkar

Stevens also suggested that all patient-facing NHS staff would soon be routinely tested, regardless of symptoms.

He said: “Routine testing of asymptomatic NHS staff has now begun in high prevalence parts of the country, areas where there are outbreaks, and more than 70,000 NHS staff have had those tests within the last several weeks.

“And the chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, yesterday wrote to the health committee, to parliament, explaining that, because the availability of testing had now increased, and we’ve got this new saliva testing that will be available for hospital and other health service staff over the next six or eight weeks, we will now be able to press on routinely testing all patient-facing NHS staff.”





No.22 article:
Wings and a prayer: Thai Airways launches &#x27;sacred&#x27; flight over Buddhist sites

Airline’s latest scheme to boost its income follows sale of bags made from life vests

Thai Airways has launched a special flight that will cruise over 99 holy sites, allowing passengers to chant Buddhist mantras from the sky, in its latest attempt to boost its revenue.

The airline was struggling even before the coronavirus pandemic, and the closure of Thailand’s borders has been a devastating blow.

The company has launched a number of novel initiatives to raise cash in recent months. It has put bags made from life vests and slide rafts on sale, and opened an airline-themed cafe selling in-flight meals in Bangkok and a food stall selling dough fritters. It has also opened its Airbus and Boeing flight simulators to the public.

The new flight will not land at any destinations, but will fly over temples in 31 provinces before returning to Bangkok. Passengers will be given a prayer book and special meal, and tickets range in price from 5,999 baht (£149) to 9,999 baht (£248).

Several other airlines have launched “flights to nowhere” during the pandemic, including the Taiwanese carrier EVA, which has sold journeys from Taipei, and Japan’s ANA, which offered Hawaii-themed flights after its service to Honolulu was suspended.

Indonesia’s national airline, Garuda, has sold its in-flight meals as takeaways, and Singapore Airlines has been charging customers up to £360 a head for dinner on a stationary plane.

The pandemic has cost airlines tens of billions of dollars. Thailand, where tourism accounts for up to 20% of GDP, remains mostly shut to foreign travellers. Only small select groups of tourists are allowed to enter the country.

Thai Airways is attempting to restructure 245bn baht (£6bn) worth of debt.





No.23 article:
Why are people losing their heads over a black Anne Boleyn?

A new Channel 5 series has a black actor playing Henry VIII’s second wife. But is it the triumph for diversity it seems? I’d rather see some new new queens on the block

Poor Anne Boleyn has had a rough go of it. She was married to Henry VIII, a wife-killing tyrant whose legs were covered with pus-filled boils. And, after failing to give her husband a son, she was beheaded on spurious treason charges. Then, to add insult to injury, Boleyn was stuck with a horrible reputation for the next few centuries.

And she is still ruffling feathers from beyond the grave. Henry VIII’s second wife is the subject of a new Channel 5 series; she is to be played by the black British actor Jodie Turner-Smith. Predictably, racists are losing their heads over it. (I’d wager many of the same people who think a black woman shouldn’t play a white historical figure have zero issues with Jesus being routinely portrayed as a white guy.)

I’m sure Turner-Smith will make a brilliant Boleyn but, to be clear, I don’t think there’s anything particularly progressive about the casting decision. There is, I think, a widespread misconception that “diversity” means plugging non-white talent into white stories and spaces. What’s far more important is diversifying the sorts of stories that we tell. Boleyn’s story is fascinating but it’s also very familiar. Meanwhile, there are plenty of non-white queens with beguilingly bloody backstories that few people know about. 

Take Ranavalona I, the Queen of Madagascar from 1828 to 1861, for example. She cut ties with European powers, staged coups and murdered people with poisonous nuts. I’d watch that show. Or Queen Arwa (no idea why that example came to mind), who ruled Yemen from 1067 until 1138. She reportedly avenged her father-in-law’s murder by luring his killer into a trap and sticking his head on a pole. I’d watch that show, too. So while a black Boleyn is brill, the moral of this story is that we need even more diverse screen queens.

• Arwa Mahdawi is a Guardian columnist





No.24 article:
France considers envoy to explain Macron&#x27;s ideas to Muslim states

Move comes amid backlash over president’s views on secularism and freedom of expression

France is looking at appointing a special envoy to explain Emmanuel Macron’s thinking on secularism and freedom of expression in a bid to quell the anti-French backlash growing in some Muslim countries, officials have said.

The growth in anti-French sentiment also has the potential to deepen the already entrenched conflict between Macron and Turkey over Libya and oil exploration in the eastern Mediterranean.

Macron has already conducted one lengthy interview on Al Jazeera Arabic seeking to justify his approach, but has so far only received full-throated support for his stance from the foreign minister of the United Arab Emirates, Anwar Gargash.

Macron also spoke on the phone to the Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, to reassure him that he distinguished between terrorism and extremism on the one hand, and Islam and Islamic thinking on the other.

Many Arab leaders have condemned the killing of the French teacher Samuel Paty on 16 October, the subsequent killings in Nice and the latest murders on Monday night in Vienna, but the degree of explicit and implicit criticism of Macron’s stance on freedom of expression has startled some French officials.

There was also concern that some mainstream news agencies in Turkey and Qatar have carried opinion pieces claiming that the rights of Muslims in France have been suppressed.

Macron has been personally caricatured in the Iranian press as the devil and his effigy burned in Bangladesh as 50,000 protesters took to the streets. A call to boycott French products, encouraged by Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, has also been launched with little effect.

The Saudi foreign ministry said it “rejects any attempt to link Islam with terrorism, and condemns the offensive cartoons of the prophet” .

Its government also called for “intellectual and cultural freedom to be a beacon of respect, tolerance and peace that rejects practices and acts which generate hatred, violence and extremism and are contrary to the values of coexistence”.

The former Malaysian prime minister Mahathir Mohamad wrote on Twitter that “Muslims have a right to be angry and to kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past. But by and large the Muslims have not applied the ‘eye for an eye’ law. Muslims don’t. The French shouldn’t. Instead the French should teach their people to respect other people’s feelings.” The attitude of the French president was, he said, “very primitive”. 

Gargash, an ally of the French and opponent of Turkey in Libya, said in an interview with Die Welt: “[Muslims] have to listen carefully to what Macron said in his speech. He doesn’t want to ghettoise Muslims in the west, and he is totally right.”

He added: “As a Muslim, I feel offended by certain caricatures. But as a thinking person, I see the politics that are carried out around this topic. With his attacks on France, Erdoğan manipulates a religious issue for political purposes.

“The words of the French president were deliberately taken out of context.”

Gargash said Erdoğan was using the controversy to mount a political recovery. “As soon as Erdoğan sees a loophole or weakness, he uses it to increase his influence. It is only when he is shown the red line that he is ready to negotiate,” he said.

“Erdoğan wants to become the leader of Sunni Islam. That’s why he stages it that way. But in truth this is a political project, not a theological one.”

He said the real goal of the Turkish president was to expand the influence of his country in the Muslim world, which already extends from the Gulf to the western Mediterranean.

“Erdoğan wants to use this situation and rebuild the Ottoman empire. Like Iran, it pursues an imperialist policy, and that is one of the main dangers in the region,” he said.

“Macron is one of the few European politicians who openly oppose Turkey’s regional expansion,” says Gargash. “Europe needs a united stance towards Turkey”.

Macron has stressed the cartoons were not official publications. He said: “I understand and respect that we can be shocked by these cartoons, but I will never accept that we can justify physical violence for these cartoons. I will always defend in my country the freedom to say, write, think, draw.”





No.25 article:
Wednesday briefing: Biden – 'I believe we are on track to win'

Democrat speaks and tells supporters to ‘keep faith’ as votes are counted … pints still available in England lockdown … earwax test could detect stress

by  Warren Murray

Greetings, mellow citizens. Enhance your calm and let’s take this one thing at a time.

With polls closed and counting under way in the US presidential election, Joe Biden spoke in Delaware a short time ago and declared: “We feel good about where we are … we believe we are on track to win this election.” While Biden took the stage before supporters, Donald Trump was fuming on Twitter that “We are up BIG but they are trying to STEAL the Election”, adding somewhat bewilderingly that votes cannot be cast after “poles” (sic) have closed. Twitter promptly masked the tweet with a warning that it may be misleading about the election.

Here is a round-up of the big developments and you can see at our live results page where things are at right now in the race for the states and their electoral college votes. Different news outlets “call” the state results in different ways, at different times – we go with the Associated Press assessment. Stick around the Guardian today because our live blog and smorgasbord of other reporting on the US election will continue to provide compelling reading.

With voting done and dusted – but those votes still being counted, which is entirely normal and legal – the US may be facing a drawn-out fight for the White House. Democratic hopes of a landslide for Joe Biden over Donald Trump were tempered with the president winning Florida – a state he needs to stay in office. The “rust belt” states, just at this point, look pivotal to Biden’s chances. Biden said in Wilmington: “We’re gonna have to be patient until the hard work of tallying votes is finished.” He was “confident” about winning Arizona, which went Republican last time, and “still in the game in Georgia … we’re feeling real good about Wisconsin and Michigan. And by the way it’s going to take time to count the votes, but we’re going to win Pennsylvania.” Biden said a result may come as early as Wednesday morning US time “or it could take longer”. It was “not my place or Donald Trump’s place” to call the final result. He finished with a rallying cry: “Keep the faith guys, we’re gonna win this.”

Voting day itself appeared to pass off smoothly, though fears of subsequent unrest prompted boarding up of shops in places like Washington, New York and Raleigh, North Carolina. As Julian Borger writes, “downtown Washington on election day had the feel of a city digging in for a siege. The White House and the Treasury were surrounded by a high steel fence and in the surrounding blocks, businesses and apartment buildings had covered every square foot of exposed glass with plywood”.

Democrats have held on to the House of Representatives and all eyes are on whether they can win control of the Senate – crucial to either allowing a Biden presidency to prosecute its agenda, or keeping a second Trump administration in check.

In a worrying sign of the times, a supporter of the bizarre, utterly false QAnon online conspiracy theory, has won a seat in the House for the Republicans. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, two members of the progressive “Squad” of Democratic congresswomen of colour, led the way in securing re-election to the US House on Tuesday.

Pints but no protests – Pubs in England will be able to serve takeaway beer as long as it’s pre-ordered by phone or online. The rules for England’s lockdown beginning tomorrow also state which stores can remain open – apart from essential outlets like food shops and pharmacies, they include the likes of garden centres, outdoor food stalls, pet shops, hardware and bicycle stores. An exemption allowing protests to take place is expected to be removed from the rules, which has angered human rights and other campaign groups. We unpack the rules and their quirks here. Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, has condemned the dubious “Great Barrington declaration” that calls for Covid to be let run wild in the young and healthy to bring about so-called “herd immunity”. Penny Mordaunt, a senior Tory minister, has told parliament the UK should be braced for at least a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic and further lockdowns. Ministers expect a moderate number of Conservative MPs to rebel but Labour support means the measures are guaranteed to be voted into force today. Further coronavirus developments ad infinitum at our global live blog.

Midweek catch-up

&gt; The BBC has said questions for Martin Bashir over his famous interview with Diana, Princess of Wales will have to wait until he is over a severe case of coronavirus. Her brother, Earl Spencer, alleges forged documents were used to help get the interview.

&gt; Wind-blown dust is worsening the melting effect of global heating on snow and ice in the Himalayas, scientists are warning. Human activity has increased the prevalence of dust and its darkening effect when it settles on the snow makes it heat up and melt faster.

&gt; Outsourced cleaners at the University of London have won a 10-year battle to be employed directly as staff instead of through contractors. The Independent Workers of Great Britain union said it was “very proud” of the achievement – “Outsourcing is one of the biggest problems in society,” said its president, Henry Chango Lopez.

&gt; A test that measures earwax for the stress hormone cortisol could help millions of people with depression or stress-related conditions, scientists have said. Researchers say the test can be done at home without clinical supervision (hmmm where else have heard that lately …)

Austria gunman’s feigned turnaround – Britain’s terror threat level has been lifted to “severe” following the attacks in Austria and France. Police have said there was only one gunman in Vienna: the man they killed, Kujtim Fejzulai, 20, a jihadist who had pretended to be deradicalised after his arrest and jailing for trying to join Isis in Syria. Four people were killed in the Vienna attack, 22 others were injured including three critically, and police said they detained 14 people for questioning.

‘Spy cops’ judge’s demand – The head of the newly opened inquiry into undercover policing has insisted that in the course of the proceedings Scotland Yard must reveal whether it currently has spies in political groups. In an opening statement the Met’s barrister, Peter Skelton accepted undercover officers had caused “immense hurt” to women deceived into relationships and distress to families whose dead relatives’ identities were used. Oliver Sanders, barrister for 113 undercover officers, sought to play down the significance of the relationships his clients formed and said using the identities of dead children was “necessary tradecraft” in the security, intelligence and law enforcement community. “[The officers] proceeded on the basis that there was no alternative and the families of the deceased children in question would never know.”

… in the circumstances will be coming to you a bit later this morning, to fit in as much of the latest election info as possible. You will be able to find it here.

Her image is everywhere – in the return of The Crown, a Hollywood film, musical and emulated on the cover of Vogue. For the younger generation, there is no greater fashion inspiration right now than Diana, Princess of Wales, writes Jess Cartner-Morley.

The biggest challenge in Liverpool’s Champions League group proved no challenge at all after a superb Diogo Jota hat-trick helped Jürgen Klopp’s side to a 5-0 demolition of Atalanta in Bergamo. Manchester City have a maximum nine points after a fine display from Ferran Torres at centre-forward and Gabriel Jesus’s goal-scoring return highlighted a 3-0 win over Olympiakos. Rodrygo scored the clinching goal with 10 minutes to go as Real Madrid beat Internazionale 3-2 in Group B, while both Bayern Munich and Borussia Mönchengladbach scored six in big wins. Super League will return to being a 12-team competition in 2021 after clubs agreed to welcome applications from lower-league clubs who wish to replace Toronto Wolfpack.

Lydia Ko, the former women’s golf world No 1, is the star name at this week’s Moonlight Classic in Dubai, where she will make her debut under floodlights. Ed Smith felt moved to defend the commitment of Ben Stokes, Jofra Archer and Sam Curran to the England cause after allowing them to miss the one-day international leg of the upcoming South Africa tour in order to rest. Primoz Roglic reclaimed the Vuelta a España overall lead when he won the 13th stage, a 33.7km time-trial ending with a sharp climb up to the Mirador de Ézaro at an average gradient of 14.8%. And the former Argentina captain and World Cup winner Diego Maradona will undergo surgery for a subdural haematoma, a blood clot on the brain, his personal physician has said.

The US dollar has surged overnight amid continued uncertainty about the outcome of the US election. The greenback’s rise saw the pound, the Chinese yuan and the Australian dollar fall sharply by more than 0.5%. Sterling is currently buying $1.299, while against the euro it rose slightly to €1.115. It was a mixed picture on share markets overnight but the FTSE 100 is set to lift 0.18%. Another 18,000 high street premises could be left empty in 2020, almost double the number in 2019, as the coronavirus pandemic hammers retailers, restaurants and leisure businesses.

Today’s round-up comes with the caveat that for reasons of timing, we may not have caught all the papers in their final-edition form. That being said – today’s prize for fudging it definitely goes to the Star and its splash headline: “Old fart wins election”, with a picture of both protagonists and some more unkind words for each candidate that we will not repeat here. The Daily Mail wins second prize – it shows the first lady gliding past catwalkishly with a wave to the cameras and asks “So is that hello or goodbye, Melania?”. The Mail’s front-page lead is “BBC to probe Diana TV lies”.

The Guardian’s extra-late fourth edition front page says “Battle for America’s soul” and advertises our big election special inside. Joe Biden is shown at the centre of a crowd outside his childhood home in Pennsylvania. The Telegraph says “Massive turnout as America decides” while the Times has “America decides its fate” which might be regarded as sounding a bit final.

A great deal of excitement about a potential coronavirus jab. Sayeth the i: “GPs told to prepare for Covid vaccine”. “Vaccine in front line on a month” says the Metro – that’s for essential workers and the over-85s (the paper’s pic slot points to a feature inside of doubtful relatability: “How fitness is helping TV anchors in lockdown”). The Mirror says that hoped-for vaccine is a “Ray of hope for Xmas”. The Express says GPs are “on standby” to role out the inoculation – about the election, it says Trump has been “defiant to the last” and Americans are to “finally learn their fate”.

The Guardian Morning Briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.26 article:
Salvador Allende installed as president of Chile – archive, 1970

4 November 1970: Latin America’s first democratically-elected Marxist president takes power

Santiago, November 3 The people of Santiago took to the streets today to cheer their new president, Salvador Allende, when he appeared on the balcony of the Presidential Palace after his inauguration.

Crowds surged round as he drove to the palace from the Congress building and the cathedral where he had taken part in an ecumenical Te Deum. Congress itself was overflowing with foreign dignitaries as the outgoing President Frei handed over the tricolour sash of office to Allende in a ceremony which ended with the solemn swearing in.

This evening a carnival was due to take place throughout the city centre. No previous inauguration in the country’s history has had anything to rival it. In Alameda city’s main boulevard, Chile’s main poets, artists, actors, and musicians were to give recitals on pavement stages.

In an interview published today the Conservative paper El Mercurio, President Allende spoke in the strongest terms of the recent assassination of the commander in chief, General Rene Schneider, by right-wing terrorists. A climate of terror had been created, he said. If reactionary violence broke out, it would have to be answered with revolutionary violence.

“I do not believe in civil war,” he said, “but I do not discount it either. If they close the way for Chile to go forward, there will be no alternative but armed insurgence.”

He promised that a plebiscite would be held if Congress rejected the new developments which his multiparty coalition would propose, but he rejected any close comparison with Cuba. Cuba had never had democracy, he said, whereas Chile was one of the most democratic countries in Latin America.

A retired general, Roberto Viaux, leader of the army pay mutiny in October 1969, was bound over to a court-martial today on formal charges of participating in the murder of General Schneider. He was also accused of having incited subversion or the overthrow of the legally constituted government.

See also:Allende’s widow leads war on junta5 November 1973





No.27 article:
NZ website withdraws author&#x27;s works after she criticises Māori foreign minister

Writer suggested it was inappropriate for new foreign minister Nanaia Mahuta to have a moko kauae, or sacred facial tattoo 

A major New Zealand website has pulled the books of a local author after she made comments about the country’s incoming foreign minister, Nanaia Mahuta, that many considered offensive.

Mahuta is the first woman to be appointed to the role of foreign minister and the second-ever Māori person. 

In 2016 Mahuta became the first Māori woman to display a moko kauae [sacred facial tattoo] in parliament and has been promoted from associate minister of housing and Māori affairs to one of the highest ministerial portfolios.

On Monday writer Olivia Pierson publicly criticised Mahuta, making comments about her moko and suggesting it was inappropriate for a diplomat.

“Moko is a statement of identity, like a passport,” Mahuta, from the Waikato-Maniapoto tribe, told the Guardian in 2016. “I am at a time in my life where I am ready to make a clear statement that this is who I am, and this is my position in New Zealand.”

Mahuta had the moko kauae inked in 2016, alongside 13 other prominent Māori women. They are usually bestowed on high-ranking Māori women as a reflection of their standing and mana, or power, in the community.

Marama Fox, co-leader of the Maori party, told the Guardian in 2016: “Apart from the fact that I find her moko kauae stunningly beautiful, it is an expression of her whakapapa [genealogy] and uniqueness.

“I’m proud as a Māori woman to sit alongside her in parliament restoring to our political landscape a symbolic gesture of rangatiratanga [self-determination] previously dissuaded during our colonial struggle to give vote to Māori women in their land of inheritance.”

On Twitter Pierson wrote: “Facial tattoos, especially on a female diplomat, is the height of ugly, uncivilised wokedom!”.

On her website, Pierson describes herself as a “free-thought advocate”. Her most recent book is Western Values Defended: A Primer. The Guardian has approached Pierson for comment.

Pierson’s comments were quickly censured, with many New Zealand twitter users encouraging her to delete her original post.

The New Zealand-run general goods website Mighty Ape also took swift action and said it would stop selling Pierson’s books immediately, bringing applause from many.

Mighty Ape was contacted for comment. 

Pierson’s supporters say she has become a victim of “extreme wokeness”, and the move by Mighty Ape was an example of “cancel culture” in action.

Mahuta, who has been an MP for more than 20 years, has previously said she wanted to break down the negative associations that facial moko have with gang membership in New Zealand.

“I think there is an emerging awareness about the revitalisation of Māori culture and that facial moko is a positive aspect of that. We need to move away from moko being linked to gangs, because that is not what moko represent at all.”

Mahuta said that since she was inked, the majority of responses had been positive and inquisitive – and sparked conversations about Māori culture and traditions in modern, multi-cultural New Zealand.

Traditionally women’s facial moko were confined to the chin area, while men’s could be across the whole face.

Although the prevalence of facial moko declined after European colonisation, since the late 20th century there has been a renaissance of facial moko as a means of reclaiming Māori identity and culture.

Mahuta has said her moko is both highly individual and also intrinsically linked to her tribe, whanau (family) and bonds to the rivers and mountains of New Zealand.





No.28 article:
South Korea detains suspected defector who crossed heavily fortified border

North Korean man was seen crossing barbed wire before being picked up in the demilitarised zone 

South Korea has detained a North Korean man who it believed was trying to defect by crossing the heavily armed land border separating the two countries.

The man was first seen crossing barbed wire fences shortly before 7.30pm on Tuesday, according to South Korean media reports.

He was apprehended at 9.50am on Wednesday after surveillance equipment spotted him at the eastern end of the demilitarised zone [DMZ], a 248km-long (155-mile) strip of land strewn with mines.

It was not clear if the man was a soldier or a civilian, although reports said he was not in uniform.

“An investigation is planned to find out details about the man, including how he had come down and whether he wished to defect,” South Korea’s joint chiefs of staff said in a statement.

The defence ministry declined to confirm a Yonhap news agency report saying the military had issued a “Jindotgae” anti-infiltration alert for the eastern border area.

The incident comes within weeks of a South Korean fisheries ministry official being killed after crossing into North Korea via the countries’ maritime border, sparking a rise in tensions amid claims that North Korean soldiers had shot him dead, doused his body in fuel and set it alight. The South’s intelligence agency said this week it had “circumstantial evidence” indicating that the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, had launched an investigation into the shooting.

Very few of the 31,000 North Koreans who have defected to the South in the past two decades have done so via the DMZ, which is the scene for occasional military skirmishes but also the setting for cross-border talks during times of détente. Most defectors cross into China and arrive in the South via a third country, often Thailand.

In 2018 a North Korean soldier defected to South Korea via the eastern part of the DMZ, while another was shot at by his compatriots when he ran across the border in a dramatic escape to the South in 2017.

South Korea resumed tours to its side of the border village of Panmunjom on Wednesday, a year after they were suspended due to an outbreak of African swine fever in the North and, more recently, concerns over the spread of the coronavirus.

The South’s unification minister, Lee In-young, did not mention the suspected defection at a ceremony held on Wednesday to mark the tours’ resumption, but called for free travel among all Koreans within the DMZ and for recently severed inter-Korean hotlines to be reinstated.

“Re-establishing round-the-clock communication channels would be a basis for restoring inter-Korean relations,” Lee said.

North Korean state media has not commented on Wednesday’s incident at the border, which has separated the countries since the end of the 1950-53 Korean war. South Korea said it had not observed any unusual activity by the North’s military.





No.29 article:
Raelene Castle, former Rugby Australia boss, to head Sports New Zealand

Much-criticised figure becomes top sports administrator in country where she was previously netball chief executive 

The controversial former boss of Rugby Australia, Raelene Castle, has become the first woman appointed to New Zealand’s top role in sports administration.

Castle, 49, an Australian, was confirmed on Wednesday as the head of Sports New Zealand, the agency that overseas funding and investment in sports organisations.

Castle was chief executive of Netball New Zealand before becoming the first female chief executive of a club in Australia’s National Rugby League, taking charge of the Canterbury Bulldogs in 2013.

She led Rugby Australia from December 2017 until April 2020 but her tenure was often contentious. She oversaw the Wallabies’ poor performance at the 2019 Rugby World Cup and the subsequent resignation of head coach Michael Cheika.

Castle attracted fierce criticism for her handling of the Israel Folau saga after the Wallabies star had his contract terminated because of anti-gay social media posts, leading to a multi-million dollar legal settlement.

A decision to reject Fox Sports’ initial broadcast deal beyond this season was a source of criticism from some quarters, while the code’s financial plight has been laid bare by the coronavirus pandemic.

The Rugby Australia chairman, Paul McLean, said Castle had endured “abhorrent” bullying. “Criticism is easy, being cynical is easy, but decision making is tough,” McLean said. “She was able to do that and do that with some clarity. She would run through broken glass to get things done, and she has done that.”





No.30 article:
Twitter permanently suspends conspiracy theorist David Icke’s account

Social media platform said Icke had violated its rules regarding coronavirus misinformation

Twitter has permanently suspended the account of the conspiracy theorist David Icke.

A spokesman for the social media platform said Icke had violated its rules regarding coronavirus misinformation.

The move follows the decision by YouTube and Facebook to terminate Icke’s accounts in early May for the same reason.

The former footballer, 68, has made controversial unproven claims about the virus on several internet platforms, including a discredited theory that it is linked to the rollout of the 5G mobile network.

Famous medics including Dr Christian Jessen and former junior doctor Adam Kay have called on social networks to remove Icke from their platforms.

They are backed by the Centre for Countering Digital Hate (CCDH), which claims his conspiracies over Covid-19 have been viewed more than 30m times.

CCDH had called for Twitter and Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, to permanently ban Icke and his content from their platforms.

The Countdown presenter Rachel Riley celebrated Icke’s departure from the the popular website, tweeting: “The UK’s foremost hate peddler/conspiracy grifter has finally been chucked off Twitter.”

Icke’s Instagram page, which has 212,000 followers, is still active and posted a video on the weekend of him telling a large crowd in Birmingham to “choose freedom”. The video has been viewed more than 85,000 times.





No.31 article:
PNG police chief raises fears officers may have been raping women inside station

New provincial commander says he is concerned by allegations of rape and sexual assault by officers in Alotau Town

Two policemen have been charged with rape allegedly committed inside a police station in Alotau Town, in Papua New Guinea’s south-east, but the city’s most senior officer said he fears others sexual assaults may have been committed by police, with victims too afraid to report attacks.

“I can honestly say that this practice may have been going on for a while,” Milne Bay provincial police commander Peter Barkie told the Guardian. “I’ve heard about it but since taking office I can only confirm two [alleged] cases, who were charged during my time.”

Barkie said rapes and sexual assaults were almost never reported to police, with victims deterred by cultural and social stigma and an abiding mistrust of the police.

“One of the main reasons is because these female detainees were ashamed and many were married women who wanted to protect their marriages, [so] none of them came forward.

“That is another reason why none of the women came forward, though there were whispers, I believe they were afraid to come out and lay an official complaint because at that time, people were afraid of the police.”

One assault survivor, who wished to remain anonymous, was detained at the police station for allegedly committing adultery – a crime under PNG law. The woman was allegedly raped by a policeman earlier this year. Two officers have been charged over the alleged assault.

Robert Ali, the director of PNG police’s internal investigation unit at that time of the alleged assault in March, said he was aware of the report of the alleged incident and confirmed the two officers’ cases were before the courts. The case has not yet gone to trial, delayed by Covid-19, and the officers have not yet entered pleas.

Ali said that he could not confirm or deny other alleged instances inside the police station were under investigation.

A Milne Bay resident who spoke to the Guardian on condition of anonymity, said she believed assaults had been occurring for years and that perpetrators escaped prosecution because rape was seen as a taboo topic in conservative, deeply religious, PNG society.

“No woman would come forward and say she was raped, because sadly, society would look at her differently, they would blame her and even, sometimes, this destroys their marriages, and husbands instead of supporting their wives to seek justice, divorce them out of shame that she was raped.”

“A couple of us have tried to get this out, we’ve helped to lay complaints at the Alotau police station and when there was no response, we sent a report down to the police headquarters in Port Moresby, and also sent a report to the police internal investigation unit… but most times, nothing comes out of it,” the source said.

Unrelated to alleged offences in Alotau Town, PNG’s reformist police minister Bryan Kramer made an extraordinary condemnation of his own force last month, alleging the police force was the most corrupt public agency in the country, engaged in drug-smuggling, gun-running, land theft and criminal violence.

“I found our police force in complete disarray and riddled with corruption… add to that a rampant culture of police ill-discipline and brutality,” Kramer wrote about his first 15 months as police minister.

PNG’s police commissioner David Manning, has also conceded his force includes “criminals in uniform”.

Alotau Town has been seized by unrest and criminal violence in recent years, including attacks on police by armed gangs, and riots after visiting policemen killed pedestrians in a road accident.

Milne Bay commander Barkie urged women who had been assaulted to lay complaints with the police.

“One who did come forward…, I asked her to write a statement but she didn’t want to and instead wanted to remain anonymous to protect her marriage, she was afraid her husband would leave her if he knew she was raped, so it’s quite sad, I can’t help them if they won’t lay a report or tell me about it,” he said.

Barkie said he was working to reform the culture and practices at the station and across Milne Bay. In his three-month term as commander, four officers had been dismissed and charged over allegations of rape, murder and theft. A further eight officers have been charged with serious disciplinary offences.

“And I’ve still got a long list pending. It’s a difficult thing to do, to take disciplinary actions against your own men or having them charged criminally, but [if] they have stepped out of line [they] have to be held accountable.

“Someone has to do it, we have to make a stand, if we are to restore... the public’s faith in the constabulary,” he said.









