No.1 article:
Trump, Trying to Cling to Power, Fans Unrest and Conspiracy Theories

The president’s refusal to concede has entered a more dangerous phase as he blocks his successor’s transition, withholding intelligence briefings, pandemic information and access to the government.

WASHINGTON — President Trump’s refusal to concede the election has entered a more dangerous phase as he stokes resistance and unrest among his supporters and spreads falsehoods aimed at undermining the integrity of the American voting system.

More than a week after President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. was declared the winner, Mr. Trump continues to block his successor’s transition, withholding intelligence briefings, critical information about the coronavirus pandemic and access to the vast machinery of government that Mr. Biden will soon oversee.

Some former top advisers to Mr. Trump have said that his refusal to cooperate is reckless and unwise. John F. Kelly, Mr. Trump’s former chief of staff, called it “crazy” on Friday. John R. Bolton, the president’s former national security adviser who wrote a scathing memoir about his time in the administration, said the refusal “harms the country.”

“Every day that he delays under the pretense that he’s simply asking for his legal remedies ultimately is to the country’s disadvantage,” Mr. Bolton said on ABC’s “This Week” program on Sunday morning.

The president’s attempt to cling to power played out against a backdrop of protests by Trump supporters and opponents late Saturday, with sporadic clashes near the White House. The police arrested 21 people as one protester was stabbed and four officers were injured. Rather than seek to calm tensions, Mr. Trump lashed out.

“ANTIFA SCUM ran for the hills,” he posted on Twitter on Saturday as he urged the police to move in aggressively. “DC Police, get going — do your job and don’t hold back!!!”

By Sunday morning, the president seemed to briefly acknowledge defeat, but he quickly reversed himself, declaring “I concede NOTHING!” He repeated lies about the vote-counting process, falsely insisting that Mr. Biden’s victory was the result of a “RIGGED ELECTION” orchestrated by the “Fake &amp; Silent” news media.

Facing his final 66 days in office, Mr. Trump appears unwilling to break from the gut instincts that have guided his pursuit of the presidency and his exercise of authority in the past five-and-a-half years: a fierce determination to act only in his self-interest and a near-total refusal to accept blame or responsibility for his failures.

As the total number of coronavirus cases in the United States soared past 11 million and deaths neared 250,000, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease specialist, warned that 200,000 more people could die by spring if Americans did not more fully embrace public health measures, even with an effective vaccine.

“We are not going to turn it on and off, going from where we are to completely normal,” Dr. Fauci said on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, challenging Mr. Trump’s claims that the virus would go away quickly once a vaccine was ready. “It’s going to be a gradual accrual of more normality as the weeks and the months go by, as we get well into 2021.”

Dr. Fauci said health officials had not begun working with Mr. Biden’s transition team. He also said the president had not attended a meeting of his coronavirus task force in “several months,” vanishing from participation in the panel.

But anyone hoping for a similarly quiet withdrawal from Mr. Trump as he leaves the presidency appears destined not to get it. He continues to deny facts and science in favor of baseless conspiracy theories and has moved aggressively to remove anyone he views as disloyal: a fact underscored by a purge of top officials at the Pentagon last week that was followed by an implicit rebuke by the military’s top general.

“We do not take an oath to a king or a queen, a tyrant or a dictator. We do not take an oath to an individual,” Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a speech on Wednesday. “We take an oath to the Constitution.”

The president’s desperate language as he tries without success to preserve his position stood in stark contrast with the disciplined silence from Mr. Biden, who spent Sunday morning at church services and later met behind closed doors with his transition advisers. Ron Klain, who will be Mr. Biden’s chief of staff, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that a concession tweet from the president was not necessary.

“Donald Trump’s Twitter feed doesn’t make Joe Biden president or not president,” Mr. Klain said. “The American people did that.”

Before going to play golf at his club in Virginia for the second day in a row on Sunday, the president once again lashed out at the news media and Mr. Biden’s supporters, retweeting reports of a university professor who said that anyone who voted for the Democrat was “ignorant, anti-American and anti-Christian.” In his tweet, Mr. Trump called that “Progress!”

He also continued to attack the election results, calling a hand recount underway in Georgia, a state he narrowly lost, “a scam.” Despite the president’s assertions, the recount, which is being conducted at the direction of a Republican secretary of state, appeared to be going smoothly, as about 50 of Georgia’s 159 counties had completed their new counts.

As Mr. Trump arrived at the golf course, dueling signs showed the deep rift in the country that he has sought to exploit with false allegations of vote-counting fraud since Nov. 7, when Mr. Biden was declared the winner. The president’s supporters at the entrance waved “TRUMP 2020” and “KEEP AMERICA GREAT” messages while protesters held signs saying, “SURRENDER DONNIE.”

The nation’s divisions were on grim display in the capital on Saturday night, when pockets of violence broke out between people rallying on behalf of Mr. Trump’s desire to stay in office and anti-Trump demonstrators. After a day in which thousands of the president’s supporters gathered mostly peacefully in support of his false election assertions, the scene turned darker as night fell.

Counterprotesters, including some from a group calling themselves Refuse Fascism, confronted Trump supporters. One threw bottles and fireworks, a USA Today reporter said. People backing the president at one point ripped “Black Lives Matter” signs off a building before trampling them on the ground.

“You could feel the intensity,” said Damien Courtney, 24, a Trump supporter from Tennessee. “It was nerve-racking.”

The rally on Saturday also prompted Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press secretary, to wildly exaggerate the size of the pro-Trump crowd. In a tweet from her personal account, she claimed that “more than one MILLION marchers for President @realDonaldTrump descend on the swamp in support.” In fact, the authorities estimated it was far short of her claims, which echoed the falsehoods that Sean Spicer, the president’s first press secretary, told about the inaugural crowd four years ago.

Former President Barack Obama warned in an interview that aired Sunday night that Mr. Trump’s willingness to spread misinformation about the election was hurting the country’s ability to conduct the basic functions of democracy.

“It’s very hard for our democracy to function if we are operating on just completely different sets of facts,” Mr. Obama said on CBS’s “60 Minutes.” “Any of us who attain an elected office — whether it’s dogcatcher or president — are servants of the people. It’s a temporary job. We’re not above the rules. We’re not above the law. That’s the essence of our democracy.”

Mr. Obama said he worried that many parts of what he called a “deeply divided” nation believed Mr. Trump’s falsehoods.

“The power of that alternative worldview that’s presented in the media that those voters consume, it carries a lot of weight,” Mr. Obama said.

Inside the West Wing, most of Mr. Trump’s top advisers have privately told him what is clear to everyone except his most loyal supporters and the Republican politicians who fear his wrath: His re-election bid has failed, and Mr. Biden will be inaugurated on Jan. 20.

A few Republicans have acknowledged that publicly. On Sunday, Gov. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas joined their ranks, saying on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that he expected that Mr. Biden would be the next president and should have access to intelligence briefings.

But publicly, Mr. Trump’s aides and virtually all Republican lawmakers continued to stand by — or at least not challenge — his false assertions about the election.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, has taken over the president’s legal fight to overturn the election results. In interviews on Sunday with Maria Bartiromo on Fox News, Mr. Giuliani and Sidney Powell, another member of the president’s legal team, floated false conspiracy theories that there was a sweeping effort to switch votes using specific software.

“President Trump won by not just hundreds of thousands of votes, but by millions of votes, that were shifted by this software that was designed expressly for that purpose,” Ms. Powell insisted. “We have so much evidence, I feel like it’s coming in through a fire hose.”

In fact, Mr. Biden leads in the popular vote by more than 5.5 million votes, a total that has climbed as states have continued counting.

At another point, Ms. Powell claimed that the C.I.A. had ignored complaints about the software, “which makes me wonder how much the C.I.A. has used it for its own benefit in different places.” She then urged Mr. Trump to fire Gina Haspel, the agency’s director.

Asked by Ms. Bartiromo whether the president was conceding the race, Mr. Giuliani said: “No, no, no, far from it. What he’s saying is more, I guess you’d call it sarcastic.” He added that “obviously he’s contested it vigorously.”

The president’s tweets about whether Mr. Biden had won the election came as Mr. Trump continued to spread misinformation about the vote-counting process.

His first tweet on Sunday came at 7:47. Referring to Mr. Biden, the president said that “he won” and claimed again that “all of the mechanical ‘glitches’ that took place on election night were really THEM getting caught trying to steal votes.” Twitter quickly labeled almost all of Mr. Trump’s posts on Sunday morning as “disputed.”

After a flurry of tweets and news reports about his “concession,” Mr. Trump insisted that he had been misunderstood.

At 9:16, he insisted: “RIGGED ELECTION. WE WILL WIN!”

The rapid flip-flop made clear that Mr. Trump was still refusing to abandon his false narrative about the vote being rigged and stolen that he has been spreading since Election Day, inflaming anger among his supporters about his defeat.

There was no indication that his tweet would immediately prompt the administrator of the General Services Administration to officially allow the Biden transition team to have access to the money and information they are due, which she has so far refused to do. Mr. Trump later retweeted a post by the administrator, Emily W. Murphy, on veteran-owned small businesses, adding, “Great job Emily!”





No.2 article:
With 11 Million Cases in the U.S., the Coronavirus Has Gotten Personal for Most People 

What was once a health crisis that Americans feared has evolved into one virtually everyone has experienced up close. That will affect behavior, but in many different ways. 

Just a few weeks ago, Kem Kemp, a high school teacher in Houston, knew no one personally who had tested positive for the coronavirus. Then her roommate came down with a deep cough and was diagnosed with Covid-19. Her brother, a dentist in Amarillo, Texas, also tested positive. A neighbor fell sick with the virus. Two faculty members at the private school where she teaches were required to quarantine. And in the last few days, so were two of the  students she advises. 

“Before, we were watching the numbers on the news,” said Ms. Kemp, 62. “Now it’s started creeping into my neighborhood, my school, my home — right where I’m existing.”

As Covid-19 cases surge in almost every part of the country, researchers say the United States is fast approaching what could be a significant tipping point — a pandemic so widespread that every American knows someone who has been infected. But, as reflected in the polarized response to the virus, the public remains deeply divided about how and whether to fight it, and it is unclear whether seeing friends and relatives sick or dead will change that. 

Many who have seen people close to them seriously affected say they are taking increased precautions. Others, though, are focusing on how most people recover and are shrugging off the virus —  and calls for concerted efforts to combat it.

The United States surpassed 11 million reported virus cases on Sunday, with one million of those tallied in just the last week. The daily average of new cases is up by 80 percent from two weeks ago. More than 69,000 people were in American hospitals with Covid-19 on Saturday; more than 1,100 deaths are being reported each day on average.  

Those alarming numbers — the highest case numbers and death toll in the world — underscore a reality found in small towns, big cities and sprawling suburbs alike: The coronavirus has become personal.

Researchers estimate that nearly all Americans have someone in their social circle who has had the virus. About a third of the population knows someone — from a close relative to a neighbor to a co-worker to a friend of a friend — who has died from the virus, researchers say. But not everyone is hunkering down in fear or taking precautions as simple as wearing a mask.  

“As more and more people know someone who gets sick and dies, more and more Americans are likely to take this disease seriously,” said Nicholas A. Christakis, a Yale sociologist and the author of “Apollo’s Arrow,” a new book about the impact of the virus. “But the effect of knowing people who survived it may lead people to misread Covid as not being as bad as it is.” 

Ms. Kemp, for one, has become more vigilant since listening to her roommate cough herself to sleep at night. She wears a mask when she walks her dog, and notices when others do not.  Wessie and John Dietz, of Sauk County, Wis., wear masks even in their car since their 20-year-old grandson, an electrician’s apprentice, appeared to have contracted the virus from a friend he took a ride with. “I hadn’t even thought about it before that,” Ms. Dietz said.

And April Polk, of Memphis, has urged all young people to follow restrictions to curb the spread of the virus since her 24-year-old sister, Lameshia, died this summer. 

“I was one of the ones that didn’t take it seriously, and it took for me to lose my little sister to realize how real this virus is,” Ms. Polk said. “Every day we’re suffering, and we have to be reminded of what happened and how it happened to her.”

Nearly 2.2 million Americans have lost a close family member to Covid, research has shown, with troubling emotional and financial effects for children, widows and parents. Kristin Urquiza, 39, of San Francisco, said she continues to have nightmares about her father’s death from the disease in late June in Arizona. Rosie Davis, a skin laser technician in Carrollton, Texas, has been attending remote grieving classes since her mother died in May at a hospital: “I will never have closure because I was not able to be next her when she passed,” Ms. Davis said. 

Kerry Knudson, of Sioux Falls, S.D. has “been a wreck,” she said, after people in her circle died and her daughter, Jadyn, 13, contracted the virus. With the virus percolating fast through Jadyn’s middle school three months later, Jadyn is still battling waves of exhaustion and fever. 

But for Dennis Rohr 77, even learning that an acquaintance had died from Covid-19 a few days after sitting beside him at a dinner table has not changed his opinion that the disease is relatively benign. 

His grandson’s family has all been infected, Mr. Rohr said, as have his granddaughters. The guitar and piano player in his rock ’n’ roll band both got the virus recently, and one was hospitalized. But, he notes, most people recover. 

“Fear and hysteria have created more problems than the virus itself,” said Mr. Rohr, a city commissioner in Mandan, N.D., the state with the highest rate of known cases in the country. “Most people I know have had sniffles and loss of taste.”

Ken Weigel, 57, also knows many people who have been infected with the coronavirus. The list includes himself, his wife and their son, and his 83-year-old mother, who is currently infected.

But there is more to consider, he said, than a simple calculation about health risks, like the side-effects of shutting down the economy, stifling individual freedom and isolating people from one another. 

“There’s so many people dying from suicides and depression and alcoholism and drug overdose, and it’s just wrong,” said Mr. Weigel, who works as a hot shot driver for Halliburton at the oil fields in Minot, N.D. 

For some, the lessons learned have as much to do with faith as public health.

Gabriel Quintas accepts the death of his favorite uncle, Joel Quintas, from Covid-19 complications at the age of 39 as the will of God and says that he harbors no anger or resentment. Joel, who worked in a bakery in Champaign, Ill., was not the only one in his family to contract the coronavirus, but he was the only one to die from it in the United States. Gabriel’s own parents and two of his brothers tested positive and so did both of Joel’s young sons, though they all made full recoveries.

“We don’t want to blame anybody,” Gabriel, 20, said. “It is something tragic that happened and we want to move on.”

Research has shown that the lessons people draw from their social networks can be more powerful than anything they read on the news or receive from a government or educational institution they may not trust. How Americans perceive the threat of the virus in the lives of their friends and acquaintances will likely influence their willingness to be vaccinated, researchers said. 

The perceived threat of the virus may also depend on how close someone is to a person who has died or suffered a long-term disability as a result of the virus. While about a third of Americans know someone who has died of Covid-19, only a small percentage can count a virus victim among their 20 closest contacts, according to a calculation by James Moody, director of a network analysis center at Duke University.   

“It’s the old joke about Facebook friends,” Dr. Moody said. “How many of them will help you move your couch? If you’re talking to a friend of a friend about someone who died, at that point it’s not impactful in the way that tends to shape people’s behavior.”

Mike Weinhaus, who was hospitalized with Covid-19 in St. Louis this spring at the same time as his wife, has actively sought to share their cautionary tale with friends, family and wider social network. His wife, Jane, went on a ventilator, then off, then back on again. Neither had pre-existing conditions. Two of his children and a daughter-in-law have also had Covid-19. 

But Mr. Weinhaus knows his personal experience can only go so far as a means of persuasion. 

“When I see people that aren’t practicing social distancing and refuse to wear masks, I do not go up to them and say, ‘You’re making a big mistake,’ because you aren’t going to win that battle,” Mr. Weinhaus said. 

  

The virus tore through Jennifer L. Stacy’s family over a nine-month stretch, with an older brother, a younger sister and a nephew among those infected. On Friday, Ms. Stacy’s immediate family went to get tested after possible exposure from another family member.

Like many Americans gripped by Covid-19, Ms. Stacy, 57, a budget analyst, had learned to live with technology as a stand-in for visits to her mother in Charlottesville, Va. An hour away at her home in Locust Grove, Va., she created a bubble with her husband and close relatives, forging a routine of sanitizer, masks and social distancing.

And when Virginia relaxed some restrictions over the summer, she worried that it would eventually lead to an increase in cases. Now, as Ms. Stacy awaits her own test results, the virus feels closer than ever — and the need to be cautious more urgent.  

“I used to mask up and go to the grocery store,” she said. “Now I am ordering online with curbside delivery,” She added: “I still did not anticipate Covid would come into my own house.”

Advertisement





No.3 article:
After War Between Armenia and Azerbaijan, Peace Sees Winners and Losers Swap Places

KELBAJAR, Azerbaijan — The cars, trucks and vans jamming the mountain roads deep into the night on Saturday brimmed with all the possessions that the fleeing Armenians could rescue: upholstered furniture, livestock, glass doors.

As they left, many set their homes on fire, enveloping their exodus in acrid smoke and illuminating it in an orange glow. Near some of the burning houses stood older ruins: the remains of homes abandoned a quarter-century ago, when Azerbaijanis fled and Armenians moved into the region.

In the southern Caucasus Mountains at the border of Europe and Asia, this weekend was a turning point in a decades-long conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over isolated and mountainous lands that both sides believed rightfully were theirs. Back in the 1990s, it was the Azerbaijanis who were forced to leave. Now, it is the Armenians, a renewed tragedy for them and a triumph for their foes.

Under a Russia-brokered peace deal ending a six-week war that killed thousands, Azerbaijan on Sunday was set to take control of a swath of the breakaway, ethnic Armenian region of Nagorno-Karabakh, which is part of Azerbaijan under international law.

“How can I burn this?” said Ashot Khanesyan, a 53-year-old Armenian, referring to the home he had built and was about to desert in the town of Kelbajar. His neighbors had urged him to destroy the house, he said, but, “My conscience won’t let me.”

He was packing his chickens, tying up their feet with white string, but he said he would leave his potatoes behind.

The New York Times came to Armenian-controlled areas and to Baku, Azerbaijan’s capital, to document this pivotal moment for both sides in the conflict. The war has drawn in some of the region’s biggest international powers, with Turkey backing Azerbaijan and Russia struggling to stop the fighting in a region it once ruled.

Russian peacekeeping troops, overseeing the handover, rumbled into the district of Kelbajar on Friday aboard armored personnel carriers. They set up one of their observation posts at Dadivank, a centuries-old monastery that Armenians, who are mainly Christian, fear the arriving Azerbaijanis, who are mainly Muslim, will deface.

“When an Armenian is born, they all know about Artsakh,” said Vergine Vartanyan, 24, in tears, using the Armenian term for Nagorno-Karabakh. Along with hundreds of other Armenians, she prayed at Dadivank for what could be the last time on Friday, to bid farewell.

The contrast with the scenes in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, could hardly be sharper. There, celebratory flags graced almost every surface, hanging from balconies, draped over car roofs and windows and wrapped around the shoulders of a teenager at the Martyrs’ Alley cemetery on a hillside overlooking the Caspian Sea.

Much of Azerbaijan exploded in joyous celebration in the streets on Tuesday after President Ilham Aliyev announced in the early hours of the morning that the war was over and that Armenian forces would withdraw from three districts adjacent to Nagorno-Karabakh and return them to Azerbaijani control.

“We are so happy because we finally won, thank God,” said Ibrahim Ibrahimov, 18, a computer science student walking with two friends near the seafront in Baku. “Finally, the people of Karabakh can go home.”

Armenians and Azerbaijanis lived side by side when both countries were part of the Soviet Union, but century-old ethnic enmity reignited when communism collapsed. Nagorno-Karabakh, mainly ethnic Armenian, ended up as part of Azerbaijan. Armenia won a war over the territory in the early 1990s that killed some 20,000 people and displaced a million, mostly Azerbaijanis.

Azerbaijanis were expelled not only from Nagorno-Karabakh itself but also from seven surrounding districts, including Kelbajar, that had been mostly inhabited by Azerbaijanis. The entire region became the internationally unrecognized, ethnic Armenian Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. Azerbaijan’s desire to return its citizens who had been displaced from their homes became a driving force in its politics.

A quarter-century of on-and-off talks failed to resolve the standoff, and on Sept. 27, President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan launched an offensive to retake the territory by force. Advanced drones, funded by Azerbaijan’s oil and gas boom, pounded the Armenians in their trenches. At least 2,317 Armenian soldiers died; Azerbaijan has not released a death toll.

As Azerbaijan’s forces in early November approached the fortress city of Shusha — a place steeped in history and symbolism for both countries — Azerbaijanis barely slept, watching the state television channel for news.

“We were all crying,” said Teymur Haciyev, 37, recalling the moment when Mr. Aliyev announced that Azerbaijan had taken Shusha. He said he had watched the announcement with his aunt in their one-room apartment, as neighbors poured in to congratulate. Many of them, like his family, are from Shusha. 

“It is the end of longing and living bad times,” he said. “When you are a displaced person, and when you are longing for that place and you cannot visit it, that place becomes more than just a stone or mountain, it becomes like a beloved person. You want to kiss it, and lie down on it and feel the energy from the earth.”

Nearly a million people were uprooted by the first war between the two in the 1990s and were resettled in towns and settlements across Azerbaijan. Many of the families still live in cramped apartments in and around Baku, and their happiness at the promise of return was tempered with grief.

“We are so happy, but many of our young died in that place,” Elnare Mamedova, 48, said of the recent fighting in and around Nagorno-Karabakh. “All the bodies are coming back now.”

She opened a photograph on her phone of her neighbor’s son, a soldier in the hospital with a bullet wound to the head. “He’s been in a coma for 40 days,” she said. Another neighbor’s son was missing, she said. “We don’t know where he is, maybe he is captured.”

It was far from clear when displaced Azerbaijanis would be able to return. Mr. Aliyev has promised to rebuild infrastructure and to rid the region of land mines before allowing families to move back.

On Saturday, in the hectic hours before they thought Azerbaijan was set to take control of the Kelbajar district (the deadline to leave was extended for 10 days on Sunday), the departing Armenians appeared determined to make resettling the area as difficult as possible. They knocked down power lines and disassembled restaurants and gas stations. Men with chain saws fanned out across the roadside, stuffing freshly cut logs into vans and truck beds.

“Let them die from the cold,” said one man, who had arrived from Armenia, collecting the logs.

In a bank in Kelbajar on Friday, an employee was breaking down the interior walls with a large mallet, while workers carried everything that moved — windows, desks, doors — into a truck. At the police station, officers were having a farewell bottle of vodka, while a three-foot-tall white cone of burning documents smoldered in the back.

“These were always Armenian lands!” one police officer yelled when asked who had lived in Kelbajar before.

One of the few people staying in the Kelbajar District was Hovhannes Hovhannisyan, the abbott of the Dadivank monastery. When he arrived with the Armenian soldiers who took control of the area in 1993, they found that the graceful mountainside monastery had been converted to a cattle yard, he said.

Hundreds of Armenians crowded the monastery grounds on Friday for one last prayer; many brought their children to be baptized. Some of the monastery’s unique, carved-stone steles, known as khachkars, were set on wooden pallets, apparently to be removed. Suddenly, down below, the monastery guard’s home burst into flames.

“I told him not to touch it!” Abbott Hovhannisyan exclaimed, referring to the guard, who had apparently ignored his entreaty. 

In Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, tensions ran high in recent days as protesters accused Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan of treason for acceding to the peace deal. Mr. Pashinyan and defense officials said that Armenia, outmatched on the battlefield, had no choice — a statement that came as a shock to a country, and a global diaspora, that had united in patriotic support of the war effort.

“They said we were winning, we were winning, and then suddenly it turned out we weren’t winning,” said Karine Terteryan, 43, crying next to the opera house in central Yerevan after police officers in balaclavas detained scores of protesters. “This is treason.”

On the central Republic Square in Yerevan, a giant screen broadcast cellphone videos shot by Armenian soldiers. One threatened vengeance against Azerbaijanis.

“For every broken window, for every broken house, we will enter your homes,” the soldier said, his voice echoing across the square. “You won’t be able to sleep calmly.”

Nearly 2,000 Russian forces will patrol the line between Azerbaijani- and Armenian-controlled regions for at least five years, under the deal brokered by President Vladimir V. Putin last week. The deal reasserted Russian influence in the formerly Soviet southern Caucasus, and the Russians’ arrival was largely welcomed by those ethnic Armenians who said they planned to stay in the section of Nagorno-Karabakh that remains under Armenian control.

But even amid the heartbreak, some older Armenians recalled wistfully the days when they lived with Azerbaijanis as friends and neighbors — a still relatively recent past now impossible to imagine for younger generations. Igor Badalyan, 53, an Armenian who fled his hometown, Baku, a quarter-century ago, said it was politicians, not regular people, who were to blame for the conflict.

“The people fight each other like dogs baited against each other,” he said, visiting Dadivank on Friday with his wife and collecting stones and earth in farewell. “It is sad that it happened this way. We didn’t want it to be this way.”





No.4 article:
Behind Trump’s Yearslong Effort to Turn Losing Into Winning

Even before he was elected in 2016, Donald J. Trump was building a conspiracy theory about voter fraud that took on new energy this year, as his political fortunes ebbed during the coronavirus pandemic.

The trouble broke out inside the main counting room in Detroit late on the morning of Nov. 4.

It was the day after Election Day, and until then the process of tabulating votes from the city’s various counting boards had gone smoothly inside the TCF Center, the cavernous convention hall that plays host to the North American International Auto Show.

As batches of ballots came in by van, workers methodically inspected and registered them at 134 separate tables, each monitored by voting rights observers and so-called election challengers from each party.

But the posture of the Republican challengers shifted as the count swung in favor of Joseph R. Biden Jr. and word spread that President Trump would sue. One witness, a nonpartisan observer, Julie Moroney, heard a Republican organizer say, “Now we’re going to challenge every ballot.”

Republican volunteers suddenly ramped up their objections across the room: accusations that the workers doing the counting were entering obviously incorrect birth years or backdating ballots. In some cases, the volunteers lodged blanket claims of wrongdoing.

“What are you doing?” a worker asked a Republican observer who was challenging ballots before he was able to even begin to inspect them, a Democratic observer, Seth Furlow, recalled. The Republican observer responded, “I was told to challenge every one.”

Mr. Furlow vividly recalled his discomfort with a scene in which mostly white Republican challengers were confronting the mostly Black elections workers.

Already, the police had escorted a handful of particularly disruptive observers from the room. But tensions increased when election officials noticed that the number of challengers had grown well beyond what each side was permitted and barred entry in a bid to reduce their ranks. Shouts of “stop the count” went up among Republicans.

The fraud that the Republicans claimed to observe was not fraud at all, a Michigan state judge determined on Friday in rejecting a lawsuit filed by allies of Mr. Trump. The various instances of supposed malfeasance were in fact well-established procedures for dealing with the peculiarities of data entry, the correction of minor errors and protocols for social distancing — all intended to ensure a careful and accurate vote count.

But in the fact-twisting narrative of Mr. Trump, his political allies and his supporters, the Detroit counting center was a crime scene where Democrats stole an election, a miscarriage demanding that outrage be channeled through the courts, presidential Twitter posts and cable news stemwinders.

And that was the plan envisioned by the pro-Trump forces all along.

Like similar episodes in Las Vegas, Milwaukee, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, the scene in Detroit was the culmination of a yearslong strategy by Mr. Trump to use the power of the executive branch, an army of lawyers, the echo chamber of conservative news media and the obedience of fellow Republicans to try out his most audacious exercise in bending reality: to turn losing into winning.

Obscured by the postelection noise over the president’s efforts to falsely portray the election system as “rigged” against him has been how much Mr. Trump and his allies did ahead of time to promote a baseless conspiracy devised to appeal to his most passionate supporters, providing him with the opportunity to make his historically anomalous bid to cling to power in the face of defeat.

That bid is now in its last throes. Judges are dismissing the president’s lawsuits, as various bits of supposed evidence — an alleged box of illegal ballots that was in fact a case containing camera equipment and “dead voters” who are alive — unravel. And yet Mr. Trump has still not given up on seeding doubt about the election’s integrity as he seeks to stain Mr. Biden’s clear victory — by more than 5.5 million votes and also in the Electoral College — with false insinuations of illegitimacy. On Sunday alone, he posted more than two dozen election-related tweets, seeming to briefly acknowledge Mr. Biden’s victory before declaring, “I concede NOTHING!”

The roots of Mr. Trump’s approach date to before his election in 2016, and he advanced his plans throughout his term. But his strategy for casting doubt on the outcome of the 2020 campaign took shape in earnest when the coronavirus pandemic upended normal life and led states to promote voting by mail.

From the start, the president saw mail-in ballots as a political threat that would appeal more to Democrats than to his followers. And so he and his allies sought to block moves to make absentee voting easier and to slow the counting of mail ballots. This allowed Mr. Trump to do two things: claim an early victory on election night and paint ballots that were counted later for his opponent as fraudulent.

The United States Postal Service, after coming under the leadership of a Trump ally, Louis DeJoy, made several cost-saving moves that severely slowed mail delivery rates and prompted broad concern about mail ballots arriving on time.

In the Senate, under the leadership of Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, Republicans blocked Democratic efforts to get more money to states so they could buy more sorting equipment to count the huge influx of mail ballots faster.

In key states like Pennsylvania and Michigan, Republican-controlled legislatures refused attempts by civil rights groups and Democrats to change or suspend statutes forbidding election workers from beginning to count ballots before Election Day. And once the counting began, the Trump campaign and the president’s allies pursued other tactics to slow or stop the count and seed doubt about the validity of the results.

Before Election Day, party officials at the state and national levels helped organize teams of observers, a role that was once a symbol of the transparency of American democracy. But in this case, Mr. Trump and his allies encouraged their observers in key states to act aggressively to stop what they portrayed as widespread cheating and provide information that could be fed into lawsuits and stoke demonstrations and coverage from friendly commentators and journalists.

As a Pennsylvania state senator, Mike Regan, a Republican, put it at a rally in Harrisburg last week, “I’ve been told in no uncertain terms by the state party and by our leaders that they are coordinating with the Trump campaign, and so far Pennsylvania has done everything that the Trump campaign has asked them to do.”

Nearly all of it would be done in the name of a falsehood: that the American voting system was so corroded by fraud that any losing result for the president could not be legitimate.

There was no greater proponent of that notion than Mr. Trump, who promoted it heavily from behind his presidential lectern or from his phone. A presidency that began with a lie — that President Barack Obama was not a citizen — is now ending with one, too.

In fact, by the time Mr. Trump acknowledged in September 2016 that Mr. Obama was indeed born in the United States, he was well along in promoting a new false narrative that the election was rigged in favor of his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.

Facing what he and the entire political world expected to be a loss, Mr. Trump repeated the claim regularly as international and domestic allies backed him up: the ambush-video activist James O’Keefe, Russian troll networks, Sean Hannity and Infowars.

Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser to Mr. Trump and a perennial Republican trickster, created an outside group, Stop the Steal, that sought to enlist poll observers to collect evidence of Democratic cheating. Mr. Trump’s advisers readied legal go-teams to jet anywhere he could press a claim.

He also hired a field general for his efforts to bring charges of voter fraud: an operative from Philadelphia named Mike Roman. Mr. Roman had achieved fame in conservative circles in 2008 for helping to push out video from a voting site in Philadelphia where two members of the New Black Panther Party were patrolling outside, one with a billy club, becoming a much disputed cause in conservative news media.

Mr. Trump’s Electoral College victory rendered those 2016 plans unnecessary. But the incoming president had reason to cling to the falsehood as a way to cast doubt on the reality that he had lost the popular vote by a margin of nearly three million.

Mr. Trump even went so far as to impanel a presidential commission to endorse his charge about widespread voter fraud, led by Vice President Mike Pence and Kris Kobach, a former Kansas secretary of state and prominent supporter of the baseless idea that voter fraud is a national threat.

The commission disbanded amid lawsuits and dissension after several months without issuing findings. But internal documents later released through litigation showed that even before its work truly began it had worked up the outline for a report to claim systematic voter fraud and that it wanted to produce an extensive database to identify fraudulent registrations using information from government agencies.

Such matching exercises are a necessary part of keeping voting lists accurate. But in recent years, sloppy data comparisons have resulted in erroneous but sensational-sounding claims of supposedly dead or noncitizen voters that repeatedly fell apart after close inspection.

Before the 2020 election, Republicans in several states pushed aggressive “purges” of their rolls based on such imprecise data matching, often with support from Mr. Trump, before embarrassing revelations that their lists were badly flawed and threatened to wrongfully remove legal voters from their rolls.

For instance, a poorly conducted data match led Texas to announce in early 2019 that it had identified some 95,000 “noncitizens” on its registration rolls. The state swiftly moved to strike these supposedly illegal voters — many of them Hispanic — from its lists as Mr. Trump posted on Twitter that “voter fraud is rampant.”

After further review, Texas learned that its data was incorrect, and civil rights groups successfully sued to halt the planned purge. Wisconsin delayed plans for a large purge last year because of concern about the accuracy of the information, prompting a conservative lawsuit to push it forward, which is still pending.

By then, Wisconsin had emerged as a critical battleground for both parties, along with Pennsylvania and Michigan.

That November, Justin Clark, a senior Trump adviser, visited with Republicans in Madison, Wis., to emphasize just how important the state was to Mr. Trump’s prospects. He signaled how voter fraud allegations would be key to any Trump strategy in 2020, according to a recording that leaked to The Associated Press in December.

Mr. Clark explained how a ruling from a voter intimidation case against Republicans in New Jersey in the early 1980s had led to a longstanding judicial decree forbidding the Republican National Committee from sending and organizing poll watchers in elections. But that decree finally lapsed in 2018, which, Mr. Clark said, gave the national party a new ability to send challengers into polls in 2020 and coordinate in every battleground state.

The challengers would be focused on Democratic “cheating,” he said. And the Republican Party would have an ability it never had before to blast those charges far and wide, through the social media accounts of the president of the United States.

“How many times do you have an issue in a county that is just egregious and terrible, but it never gets the attention it deserves, because the media won’t report it?” Mr. Clark told the Republicans. “We’ve got a guy who is committed to this, who is able to short-circuit media attention on stuff and just say things.”

Wisconsin was one of three key battleground states, along with Pennsylvania and Michigan, where the president had loyal allies who controlled the state legislatures but Democrats were in the governors’ mansions.

During the pandemic, that political dynamic generated clashes that grew more intense as the key role of mail-in balloting became apparent, with Democrats voting by mail in large numbers during primary elections in the spring. The need for more money and new procedures to help process mail ballots more quickly became evident.

An explosion of litigation and legislative maneuvering followed, in which voting rights groups and Democrats pressed to make it easier to cast and count mail ballots and Republicans pressed to keep deadlines and restrictions in place, saying they were to prevent fraud.

A case that reached the Supreme Court gave Wisconsin additional time to count ballots in its primary as the state struggled to conduct the election while the pandemic was raging.

After the Pennsylvania primary in June, Philadelphia officials counted for a week. In the State Legislature, negotiations began over changes that would allow the counting to run more smoothly in November.

Local election administrators and Gov. Tom Wolf of Pennsylvania, a Democrat, sought to allow early processing of mail ballots, known as precanvassing, as early as three weeks before Election Day. Statehouse Republicans publicly signaled a willingness to work on the issue but kept attaching conditions.

One demand sought to do away with drop boxes, which voters could use for ballots as opposed to the regular mail system; another wanted new signature-matching requirements or to eradicate a provision requiring all poll watchers to live in the county.

“Every time we agreed to something that was put out there, they’d raise the bar,” said Jay Costa, the Democratic minority leader in the State Senate who was leading the negotiations. 

Eventually, there seemed to be some momentum behind an agreement that would have allowed for three days of precanvassing, enhanced security measures for drop boxes and ballots postmarked on Election Day and received within three days to be counted. But the deal abruptly fell apart after a Republican caucus meeting in the lower chamber.

In Michigan, Republicans in the State Legislature conducted a similar dance, appearing to be willing to provide more time to begin processing ballots, only to negotiate the additional time down to just 10 hours and only in counties with more than 25,000 people.

Forced to accept the deal as better than nothing, Jocelyn Benson, the Democratic secretary of state, called it a “small step forward.” But she expressed concern in an interview as early as September that the counting would remain so slow that it would leave room for misinformation about the process to spread.

States like hers, Ms. Benson noted, were in dire need of more federal funds for equipment like high-speed envelope openers that could speed the counting.

In Washington in the spring, Congress had allocated $400 million for pandemic election preparedness as part of a $2 trillion recovery package known as the CARES Act — a welcome injection, but it was $3.6 billion shy of what election officials projected would be needed nationwide.

Democrats such as Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota pushed for more throughout the summer and into the early fall. Several influential Republicans, including Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, the chairman of the Rules Committee, said they were open to providing more, but nothing would come of it. Mr. Trump had made clear his opposition to more money to support increased mail-in balloting, and aides to Mr. McConnell argued that Congress had already allocated enough.

Looking back, Senator Klobuchar said, she saw the Republican decision to block more money to help run the election and support voting by mail as part of a plan to “create havoc, because that was one of the only paths he saw to victory.”

By this fall, Mr. Trump was increasingly likely to have an early advantage on Election Day as the in-person vote came in but to badly lose the mail-in vote and, potentially, the presidency along with it. A digital consulting firm founded by Michael R. Bloomberg, Hawkfish, called the early returns the “red mirage.”

The president and his allies began a concerted campaign to twist that situation — one to which they contributed by opposing early counting of mail ballots — into something more sinister.

“They are planting stories that President Trump, he’ll have a landslide lead on election night but will lose when they finish counting the mail-in ballots,” Donald Trump Jr. said in a video posted on Twitter in late September that was viewed nearly 2.5 million times. “Their plan is to add millions of fraudulent ballots that can cancel your vote and overturn the election.”

The president urged his followers to become poll watchers. “When you go there, watch all the thieving and stealing and robbing they do,” he said at a rally in North Carolina.

Mr. Roman, the Philadelphia operative involved in the New Black Panther Party case, would be in charge of the poll-watching operation. His Twitter account quickly began pumping out deceptive allegations that, for instance, Philadelphia election workers were blocking Trump observers from satellite early voting sites.

“What are they hiding?&quot; he wrote in a tweet, the gist of which Mr. Trump repeated during the first presidential debate. In fact, Pennsylvania law did not permit observers at the early voting sites.

Thousands were hearing the call and the message. On the day before the election, a Republican poll observer in Detroit named Bob Cushman posted a meme on Facebook featuring a photoshopped image of Mr. Trump holding a shotgun and the headline “Election stealing will not be tolerated in America.” (As lawyers for the city of Detroit later reported in legal filings, Mr. Cushman shared other posts promoting the QAnon conspiracy theory.)

About 24 hours later, Mr. Trump delivered the same message when he addressed staff members, supporters and followers at the White House while the votes were being tabulated around the country and his early leads were slipping away.

“We were winning everything, and all of the sudden it was just called off,” he said. “We want all voting to stop; we don’t want them to find any ballots at four o’clock in the morning and add them to the list.”

From there, a fire hose of confusion flooded conservative news media and the major social media platforms.

“We believe these people are thieves; we believe the big city machines are corrupt,” the former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said on Fox &amp; Friends.

As Democrats, opposing lawyers, fact checkers and in some cases judges pressed for evidence, the Trump campaign released what Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press secretary, called “234 pages of sworn affidavits” from the Trump poll watchers in Detroit: “real people, real allegation, signed with notaries.’’

The affidavits were connected to a last-ditch federal lawsuit by the Trump campaign to prohibit Detroit from certifying its results. But, as lawyers for the city pointed out with expert testimony addressing similar affidavits in another Republican lawsuit in state court, what Republicans described seeing was standard procedure intended to ensure an accurate and legal count.

For instance, Republicans who believed they had witnessed fraud when workers input birth dates from 1900 for some mail ballots apparently did not understand that this was done in cases where information other than dates of birth were being used for verification and the dates were not readily available. The 1900 date was a place holder for the computer program, which required something in the birth date field.

Other witnesses reported that boxes of ballots arrived at the convention center hours after an 8 p.m. deadline; Detroit officials explained that these ballots had arrived on time at other city election offices and boxes and were perfectly legal.

On Friday, Judge Timothy M. Kenny dismissed the suit in a Michigan court, largely on the basis that the affidavits were meaningless. The suit’s “interpretation of events is incorrect and not credible,” he found.

When thousands of the president’s supporters demonstrated in Washington on Saturday, the legal losses and electoral implausibilities were irrelevant. As they marched through the streets holding an enormous Trump flag flecked with white stars against a navy backdrop, they repeatedly chanted the phrase planted four years ago by Mr. Stone: “Stop the steal.”





No.5 article:
Joanna Harcourt-Smith, 74, Dies; Lived a ‘Psychedelic Love Story’

For an adventurous globe-trotting time, she was by the side of the LSD guru Timothy Leary, only to be left traumatized by the experience.

Joanna Harcourt-Smith was a 26-year-old European socialite in Switzerland in 1972 when she met Timothy Leary, the psychedelic Pied Piper to the flower children of the 1960s.

He was 52 and a fugitive from justice, having escaped from prison in California, where he was serving a 10-year sentence on drug charges. Ms. Harcourt-Smith was instantly enthralled — not just by his canary yellow Porsche 911 Targa, but also by his mesmerizing eyes and his promise of psychological freedom.

“You are looking for a way out of the decadent aristocratic game, the limbo of Jet Set desperados,” he told her. “I’ll show you the way.”

After weeks of LSD-fueled adventures, they headed for Afghanistan. But on landing, they were taken into custody by American agents and returned to the United States, where Mr. Leary was again imprisoned. Ms. Harcourt-Smith stood by him and pressed for his release, which came three and a half years later. By then they had both changed, and soon afterward they broke up. She was 30 and ready to start her life over.

Ms. Harcourt-Smith was 74 when she died on Oct. 11 at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. Her daughter, Lara Tambacopoulou, said the cause was breast cancer.

Ms. Harcourt-Smith may have been a footnote in Mr. Leary’s event-filled life — he was married multiple times, though never officially to her, and she was not mentioned in his 1996 obituary in The New York Times — but he loomed large in hers, though she, too, was married multiple times. It took her three decades to absorb and “compost” her experience with him, as she put it, before she published her memoir, “Tripping the Bardo With Timothy Leary: My Psychedelic Love Story,” in 2013.

“I followed him off that precipice, and my family, nationality and sanity were fragmented beyond recognition,” she wrote.

A documentary based on her book is scheduled to air on Nov. 29 on Showtime. The film is by Errol Morris, acclaimed for “The Thin Blue Line” (1988) and “The Fog of War” (2003).

Joanna Marysia Harcourt-Smith was born on Jan. 13, 1946, at the Palace Hotel in St. Moritz. Her mother, the immensely wealthy heiress Marysia (Ulam) Krauss Harcourt-Smith, was playing bridge there when she went into labor 10 weeks early. After 43 hours, she gave birth to Joanna, who weighed less than three pounds.

Joanna’s father, Cecil Harcourt-Smith, a commander in the Royal Navy, was not a presence in her childhood and died when she was 10.

“Many times,” Ms. Harcourt-Smith wrote, “my mother told me that I was a mistake from the moment I was conceived, never making it exactly clear whose mistake.”

Joanna attended a Catholic boarding school outside of Paris. (She was Jewish, but her mother, who had lost several relatives in the Holocaust, forbade her from saying so.) She was sexually abused by her mother’s chauffeur, she said; she told her mother about it, but she didn’t believe her and said to her, “A good chauffeur is hard to find.”

As a young woman, Ms. Harcourt-Smith immersed herself in drugs and promiscuity, at one point joining the Rolling Stones’ circle. Around the same time, Mr. Leary, the high priest of LSD, who was 26 years her senior, was urging people to “turn on, tune in and drop out.”

A psychologist, he had been fired in 1963 from Harvard, where undergraduates had shared in his stash of psychedelics, though these drugs were not illegal at the time. He also faced multiple outstanding indictments, most on minor drug charges, and was eventually imprisoned.

His wife at the time, Rosemary Woodruff Leary, aided by the radical Weather Underground, helped orchestrate his escape from the California Men’s Colony at San Luis Obispo in 1970, and the two fled to Algeria, where they stayed with Eldridge Cleaver, the Black Panther leader.

They made their way to Switzerland, where Ms. Harcourt-Smith sought him out. Mr. Leary’s wife left him, and he and Ms. Harcourt-Smith began an intense romantic odyssey that lasted from 1972 to 1977.

Switzerland did not want to harbor the fugitive Mr. Leary, whom President Richard M. Nixon had called “the most dangerous man in America,” and did not extend his asylum there. So he and Ms. Harcourt-Smith hit the road, first to Vienna, then to Beirut. An informant tipped off the authorities about their travel plans, and when they landed in Kabul, Afghanistan, they were rerouted to the United States.

Ms. Harcourt-Smith was not charged with anything but insisted on staying with Mr. Leary and was held as a useful asset until they arrived in California, where she spent the next three and a half years trying to free him from prison. All the while she was a confounding figure.

“Neither the counterculture nor the prosecutors and prison system knew what to make of her,” Michael Horowitz, Mr. Leary’s archivist, said in a 2017 interview.

“Her outspoken, upper-class European manner put people off,” he said. “She had an edge and knew how to get her way. Tim empowered her, and she in turn was tremendously loyal to him, dedicated to getting him out — whatever it took. Alienating many in the counterculture was the fallout from that.”

As a condition of Mr. Leary’s release, he and Ms. Harcourt-Smith agreed to become federal informants. Mr. Leary’s followers were outraged and blamed her for their guru’s becoming a traitor to the cause. The poet Allen Ginsberg branded her “a C.I.A. sex provocateur.”

Ms. Harcourt-Smith always insisted that their becoming informants was not her idea; rather, she said, it was Mr. Leary who told her to tell the government that he was ready to cooperate. She felt she was being scapegoated.

In any case, Mr. Leary was released in 1976. Anger at the pair was so great that the government put them in the witness protection program for their own safety, and they lived for a time outside Santa Fe, N.M., under the aliases James and Nora Joyce.

But by then they were wearing on each other. His years in solitary confinement had damaged him, she wrote. They were both alcoholics and fought all the time before splitting up.

Ms. Harcourt-Smith moved to the Caribbean and lived on a sailboat for a few years. She stopped drinking and taking drugs in 1983 and settled again in Santa Fe, where she began life anew.

“I felt like a child who grew up in the forest,” she said in a radio interview with Susun Weed, an herbal health expert. “I had to relearn everything,” she said, adding: “I had so much shame and guilt that I could barely write.”

In the late 1980s she began to reconcile with her daughter, whom she had not seen for 15 years, from the time her daughter was 5.

Ms. Tambacopoulou said in a phone interview that her mother had been “extremely traumatized” by her experience with Mr. Leary, “but we were both absolutely determined not to let the events of her life destroy us.” Over time, they found peace with each other.

In 2006 Ms. Harcourt-Smith and Jose Luis Gomez Soler, a mystic from Spain, founded a website, futureprimitive.org, and she began hosting a podcast in which she interviewed authors and innovators.

She and Mr. Soler married in 2009. In addition to Ms. Tambacopoulou, Ms. Harcourt-Smith is survived by her husband; two sons, Alexis d’Amecourt and Marlon Gobel; and three grandchildren.

“She grew and transformed enormously over the course of her life and became an inspiration to many in her later years,” her friend Cynthia Jurs, a Buddhist teacher in Santa Fe, said in an email, adding, “I would love for people to know who she became, not who she was.”





No.6 article:
‘Rumble in the Bronx’ Fight Club Drew 200. The Sheriff Shut It Down.

The fight club would have been illegal even before the pandemic. Parties in Manhattan and Brooklyn this weekend were also closed down for violating pandemic rules.

More than 200 people stood shoulder to shoulder shouting as two men sparred at the center of a Bronx warehouse. Some people hung over the barricades, social media showed, craning their necks for a better view. When one man knocked out the other, the crowd erupted in a thunderous roar.

The amateur fight would have been illegal before the pandemic, but with coronavirus cases spiking in the city, it risked being a dangerous underground event.

Sheriff’s deputies broke up the unlicensed fight club, known as “Rumble in the Bronx,” around 11:15 p.m. Saturday. Many of those crowding inside were drinking, smoking hookah and not wearing masks, the authorities said.

The leader of the club, Michael J. Roman, 32, and nine others were arrested and charged with unlawful assembly, health and alcohol code violations and participating in a prohibited combative sport. They were also each fined $15,000.

Just days earlier, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo had tightened restrictions in the state in an effort to control the spread of the virus. Private indoor and outdoor gatherings statewide are now limited to 10 people, and gyms, bars and restaurants must close every evening at 10 p.m.

“Bars, restaurants, gyms, house parties, that’s where it’s coming from, primarily,” Mr. Cuomo said on a conference call with reporters last week.

Hours before breaking up the fight club, sheriff’s deputies had also disbanded a party in Brooklyn with nearly 200 guests and another in Manhattan with over 200 people.

Kevin O’Hanlon, owner of Rogue Space, which hosted the event in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, expressed regret in a phone interview on Sunday.

“We’re about being a positive influence in the community, and this is not something I’m proud of at all,” he said.

Organizers of the events did not respond to requests for comment or could not be immediately reached on Sunday.

For months, New York City, which had been an early epicenter of the coronavirus, had largely managed to keep the virus contained. Although cases and hospitalizations are lower than they were in the spring, officials have said they will consider further restrictions to stop a second wave.

On Sunday, Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Twitter that there were 937 new virus cases and 117 people had been hospitalized. The seven-day average of positive test results was 2.57 percent, slightly lower than last week.

Speaking at the Brown Memorial Baptist Church in Brooklyn on Sunday, Mr. de Blasio reminded New Yorkers that with the holidays approaching, the virus — which has killed more than 24,000 city residents — remains a very serious threat.

“We face a challenge again, but we can’t have amnesia,” Mr. de Blasio said. “A second wave is bearing down upon us, but we can stop it.” 

Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Cuomo have discouraged traveling and gatherings during the holidays.

A spokesman for the mayor thanked the sheriff’s office, but said that New Yorkers would have to do their part.

“Nobody’s going to beat Covid-19 for us,” said the spokesman, Mitch Schwartz. “We have to do it ourselves — and that starts by remembering that our choices matter.”

It is unclear if there has been an increase in the number of illegal gatherings held in the city since the start of the pandemic. Sheriff Joseph Fucito said such events have long existed.

Since July, his office has shut down at least one large illegal event each weekend. The pandemic, he said, has amplified the problem.

His office learned about the gatherings from the internet and through tips.

At 3:15 a.m. Saturday, the authorities found 180 people attending a party at Hearts of Love on Liberty Avenue in Brooklyn. Many did not have face coverings, and were drinking and smoking hookah, the authorities said.

Three men, including a security guard, were charged with violating an emergency executive order. The guard, Julio Soto, 35, was also charged with unlicensed warehousing of alcohol.

Two hours earlier in Manhattan, the sheriff’s office shut down the party on West 26th Street at Rogue Space. Deputies saw tables, chairs and velvet ropes being unloaded from a truck on Friday evening. At 1 a.m., they found 205 guests packed into the space without masks, officials said.

Ahmad McLure, 36, a promoter, and three others were charged with violating the governor’s emergency order and alcohol violations.

Mr. O’Hanlon, the venue owner, said the space was 3,000 square feet. He said guests were required to wear a mask into the building and that he had reminded people to wear their masks properly.

The gathering was supposed to be limited to 50 people and smoking was not allowed, Mr. O’Hanlon said, but “then it all broke down.”

Mr. O’Hanlon said he had received many requests for social events recently, but had been reluctant to agree. He said business had been slow and acknowledged the financial pressure that he and other venue owners have felt since the start of the pandemic.

But because of the raid, he said, he did not make any money from the event.





No.7 article:
The New World Order That President Biden Will Inherit

The importance of vision, expertise, honesty and simple decency in the management of world affairs cannot be overstated.

President-elect Joe Biden has signaled that he will move swiftly to restore dignity to the badly sullied image of the United States; respect for the professionals of America’s diplomatic, intelligence and military services; and a more predictable, nuanced and sympathetic approach to foreign relations. That message of a restoration of norms is likely to resonate in many capitals around the world, as it did with an electorate that gave Mr. Biden a decisive victory over Donald Trump.

There is much that Mr. Biden can do in his first 100 days. He has already vowed to promptly rejoin the Paris accord on climate change and to make climate action central to his administration. He has declared his intention to restore the United States’ relationship with the World Health Organization, signaling that the United States will join forces with the rest of the world to halt the rampage of the coronavirus.

Mr. Biden is also expected to organize a summit of democracies, and to recommit the United States to exposing human rights abuses wherever they arise, whether in China, Russia, Saudi Arabia or Turkey. At the same time, he will seek ways to revive the nuclear deal with Iran, and agree with Russia to extend the New START treaty on limiting strategic nuclear arms. Hopefully, Mr. Biden will terminate American support for Saudi Arabia’s terrible war in Yemen.

These are all welcome signs of America’s imminent return to a role in the world that better reflects our historical values.

The team Mr. Biden is said to be assembling looks as if it will be composed of veterans of administrations past and paid-up members of the foreign policy establishment. If Republicans retain control of the Senate, Mr. Biden’s appointments could be constrained by the need to get them confirmed, while the scope of his actions will often be reduced to what can be accomplished through executive orders.

Even a Senate controlled by Democrats would not presage a dramatic departure in American strategies and policies. Mr. Biden may tone down the trade war with China, but contentious differences on issues such as 5G networks or China’s claims in the South China Sea will remain at the fore. Whatever hold President Vladimir Putin may have had on Mr. Trump almost never translated into a lifting of sanctions, and Democrats are not likely to seek a reset with Russia. Mr. Trump’s bromance with Kim Jong-un did little to change the U.S. stance on North Korea. Mr. Trump’s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was decidedly one-sided, yet there had been no movement toward a two-state settlement in the years before Mr. Trump became president, and there is little indication that any such movement is imminent no matter who’s in the White House — or where the U.S. Embassy is.

Mr. Biden is likely to continue Mr. Trump’s attempts to withdraw from foreign wars and be reluctant to enter new conflicts, though with more nuance and more concern for allies. While Mr. Biden will definitely not emulate Mr. Trump’s zero-sum approach to trade, with tariffs slapped on friend and foe alike, free trade is not something Democratic voters are always keen on. While most NATO allies and members of the European Union will celebrate the exit of Mr. Trump, the United States is likely to continue insisting that NATO allies start paying a fair share for the common defense. The Europeans, for their part, have recognized that the United States is no longer the undisputed boss of the free world.

In short, the world is not what it was in 2016, nor can it go back to the status quo ante. China is considerably more assertive, and countering Beijing’s aggressions while recognizing its legitimate demands and seeking its help in containing North Korea or reducing carbon emissions will require creative new approaches. So will dealing with a right-wing president in Brazil or a tenacious dictator in Venezuela, or negotiating further nuclear arms reductions with Russia while maintaining sanctions, or trying to placate Israel and several Gulf Arab states while reviving a deal with their archenemy Iran.

It is a restive world, requiring constant adaptation and engagement from its most powerful democracy. But the importance of vision, expertise, honesty and simple decency in the management of world affairs cannot be overstated. Mr. Trump’s “America First” approach meant, first and foremost, reducing international affairs to the same level as his real-estate wheeling-dealing: What’s in it for me? The president’s infamous phone conversation with President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine, the one that got him impeached, provided an apt motto for his administration: “I would like you to do us a favor though.”

It is understandable that allies will harbor some doubts over whether Trumpism is finished for good, especially while Mr. Trump clings indecently to the hope of staying in power. But the expectation that a Biden-Harris administration will at least end the volatile and unpredictable lurches of the past four years has already elicited relief from allies who suffered Mr. Trump’s disdain. And it has caused anxiety among illiberal leaders who reveled in Mr. Trump’s camaraderie and the dimming of America’s beacon.

Simply abandoning Mr. Trump’s approach is immeasurably important for America and the world. The strength of the United States has always derived as much from the soft power of its democracy, freedoms and values as from its battleships and drones. That strength is multiplied by America’s alliances among democracies in the East and West.

There will be plenty of time to sort out why the United States fell for Mr. Trump or whether he can come back. President-elect Biden has signaled that he intends to lead America back into the international arena, and whatever their qualms or doubts, America’s friends and allies should not wait to join forces in tackling the business of the day — a global pandemic and the future of the planet, to name just two items on the agenda.





No.8 article:
Peru’s President Steps Down After Just 6 Days, Leaving Country Adrift

Manuel Merino took power after Congress pushed out Peru’s popular president. In office less than a week, he faced mounting opposition from protesters.

Facing widespread opposition, Peru’s interim president stepped down on Sunday, his sixth day on the job, plunging a country already facing an economic tailspin and a devastating pandemic into a constitutional crisis.

The interim president, Manuel Merino, had taken power on Tuesday after legislators shocked the nation by voting to remove the popular incumbent, Martín Vizcarra, and then swearing in Mr. Merino, who was the head of Congress.

By giving up the presidency, Mr. Merino opened up a power vacuum and left Peruvians bracing for the prospect of living under a fifth president in five years, certain only that there is more turbulence to come.

Late Sunday evening, an attempt by Congress to push through a replacement for Mr. Merino failed after lawmakers balked at the Marxist credentials of the proposed candidate. That left the country effectively rudderless.

“The resignation of Merino is just the beginning of the end of the political crisis,” said Denisse Rodríguez-Olivari, a Peruvian political scientist at Humboldt University of Berlin. “There are still profound problems in the way the country is governed.”

From his first moments in office, Mr. Merino faced opposition from Peruvians who took to the streets in protest and from prominent political and social leaders, many of whom said they did not recognize him as the country’s leader.

On Sunday, after most of his cabinet resigned and his last political allies abandoned him, the Congress that had put him in power called on him to step down, and Mr. Merino took heed.

“I present my irrevocable resignation,” he said in a video address to the nation. “I call for peace and unity of all Peruvians.”

The task of resolving Peru’s problem has fallen to its deeply unpopular and inexperienced Congress.

Elected in January, the lawmakers have proven more interested in pushing through their narrow business interests than governing a nation in crisis, analysts said. About half of them are under investigation for corruption and other crimes, and many in the country have blamed their political opportunism for the current turmoil.

Mr. Merino said he would now focus on ensuring a smooth transition to a new leader, and the Congress announced that it would appoint a new president from among the lawmakers later Sunday.

It was unclear, however, if Peruvians would accept Congress’ pick as their leader and end the daily protests rocking the nation. Whoever takes power now, Ms. Rodríguez-Olivari said, will need to pay close attention to the people’s demands to win legitimacy and be able to govern.

Mr. Vizcarra, the former president, added to the transition uncertainty Sunday evening by claiming the Congress was too discredited to select Mr. Merino’s replacement. He urged the nation’s top court to weigh in on the legality of his removal — a move that he could potentially use to stage a political comeback.

“It can’t be that the Congress that got us into this crisis gives us the solution,” Mr. Vizcarra told reporters on Sunday.

Protesters have also demanded that, if Congress is to pick the next president, they must choose from the small group of lawmakers who voted against Mr. Vizcarra’s impeachment, and that the nominee have a clean reputation, with no pending investigations or charges.

“The citizens feel like they have triumphed,” said Alexandra Ames, a political analyst in Lima. “But they know that the resignation is not enough, and they are awaiting Congress’s decisions to decide on further protests.”

Mr. Vizcarra, the president replaced by Mr. Merino, had earned the support of a majority of Peruvians during his two years in power by working to clean up Peru’s notoriously venal political establishment.

To remove him, lawmakers cited unproven accusations of corruption and used an archaic constitutional clause that allows the Congress to declare the president morally incapable to lead the nation. Mr. Vizcarra had been due to step down after a presidential election in April, and had promised to face justice after leaving office.

Mr. Merino promised to unite the nation and respect democracy, but his administration unraveled before it got started.

His presidency was met with the biggest street demonstrations in the two decades since the downfall of the authoritarian President Alberto Fujimori, who is now in jail for human rights abuses and corruption.

The marches in cities and towns across Peru — in the capital, Lima, as well as in the Amazon, the Andes and on the Pacific coast — were driven largely by young people who saw Congress’ action as a ruthless power grab by lawmakers.

“They don’t realize that we’re capable of continuing, week after week, until this is over,” said Alejandra Cavero, a 19-year-old university student who said it was her first time protesting.

The police’s hardfisted response to the protesters — including the heavy use of tear gas and of rubber bullets at close range — only deepened discontent with the new president.

An umbrella group for human rights organizations in Peru said Saturday morning that 41 people had gone missing during the protests and that 112 had been wounded.

Then two protesters were killed during a police crackdown Saturday night, and calls for Mr. Merino to resign spread to some of his government’s staunchest supporters. By Sunday morning, most members of his Cabinet had tendered their resignations.

Marches continued in Lima on Sunday, images on local media showed, even after Mr. Merino announced his resignation.

“We have a single feeling that’s been multiplied. Why? The greed and hunger of those in power who should be defending our rights,” said Rubén León, a 38-year-old cook. “I’m not a fan of Vizcarra, but his impeachment is an embarrassment and it’s causing a lot of instability.”





No.9 article:
The Afrobeats Star Davido, an Upbeat Voice in a Turbulent Time

The 27-year-old musician focuses on lighthearted topics. But one of his latest songs has become an anthem of resistance.

Davido — the American-born Nigerian Afrobeats artist David Adedeji Adeleke — has built an international career on songs about love and lust that have collectively amassed more than a billion streams. The album he is releasing on Friday, “A Better Time,” is filled with them. 	

But the perky song that opens the LP, “Fem” (“Shut Up”), has taken on an unexpected role since it appeared in September: as a protest song for Nigerians demonstrating to end police brutality and corruption.

“It was on an entirely different subject,” Davido, 27, said via a shaky video connection from his home in Lagos, with his fiancée, Chioma Rowland, and their 1-year-old son, Ifeanyi, nearby. “What the song is literally saying is to tell somebody that talks too much to shut up.”

The lyrics, mixing English and Yoruba, boast about Davido’s success and taunt those who envy him: “Before the whole matter gets dangerous/You need to make sure you don’t say too much.” Protesters have sung “Fem” in the faces of police and government officials.

The protests were set off by anger at a notorious police unit, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, and became known as the #EndSARS movement. On Oct. 11, Davido joined protests in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria, and ended up defusing a confrontation between the police and demonstrators; videos of the incident raced across social media. He had come for a meeting with the inspector general of police, Mohammed Adumu, initially hoping to bring along fellow artists. He also had a livestreamed meeting with Nigeria’s speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila.

“They kept on saying, ‘Yeah, but give us time, give us time,’” Davido recalled. “But it’s like, yo, we’ve given you time. You have to understand people have been fighting this system since 1960. It’s long overdue. And it doesn’t even end with SARS. EndSARS is one of a million problems.”

Unrest has continued. About a week after Davido’s meetings in Abuja, Nigerian soldiers shot and killed peaceful protesters in the Lekki neighborhood of Lagos. Burna Boy, another leading Afrobeats performer, released a furious single, “20 10 20,” that includes gunshots recorded at the scene.

Yet Burna Boy has often incorporated historical and sociopolitical messages in his songs. Davido, instead, has concentrated on more lighthearted topics: romance, ambition and positive thinking. One of his first big hits in Nigeria, “Dami Duro” from 2011, declares, “You can’t stop me”; it was his reaction, he told the website Bella Naija, to being picked up by the police on his way to the studio.

“One thing about Africans — rich or poor, happy or sad, no matter the situation going on in your culture, you always find time to smile and just be happy,” Davido said. “People always like to celebrate. So on this album, there’s no downers. It’s just straight bangers and music to make people happy.”

Nigerian Afrobeats was poised for its American breakthrough in 2020. The music is a gleaming, transparent, ultramodern reclamation of a broad African diaspora — American and Afro-Caribbean styles as well as music from all around Africa — programmed by some of the world’s most creative producers and songwriters.

Like hip-hop, Afrobeats revels in collaborations and crossovers. Tiwa Savage, who sings a duet with Davido for “Tanana,” on the new album (after his appearance on her 2020 album, “Celia”), said in a video interview that Afrobeats is “a new genre and still growing. I think we all realize that we need to work together. We’ve all realized that it can’t be just one person. We all have to come as a force.”

Leading Afrobeats performers like Davido, Savage, Burna Boy, Wizkid and Mr Eazi have already proved themselves across Africa and Europe. They have been signed to multinational labels, drawn millions of streams and sung alongside American and British superstars — notably Drake, who collaborated with Wizkid on the hit “One Dance,” and Beyoncé, who embraced Afrobeats on her 2019 album “The Lion King: The Gift” and its 2020 “visual album” expansion, “Black Is King.”

American album releases, concert tours and festival dates were booked for Afrobeats stars in 2020. Then the pandemic hit and plans collapsed. Davido had to cancel a sold-out, 26-show American tour soon after it began — but it only made him more prolific.

He returned to Lagos and brought a revolving cast of producers to his home studio, working at all hours. “I definitely like to be there for the whole process, from the beat, to the engineering, to the arrangements, to the mixing, to the mastering — everything,” he said.

In a few months, they churned out more than three dozen songs; 17 appear on “A Better Time.” Davido said, “I just kept on recording. I had nothing else to do.”

Davido was born in Atlanta but grew up in Lagos; his father, Adedeji T. Adeleke, is one of Nigeria’s wealthiest businessmen, the founder and C.E.O. of the conglomerate Pacific Holdings Ltd. “I’m from both sides of the world,” he said. “I’m from Nigeria and at the same time I’m from America. And it’s like both sides are going crazy right now.”

After attending the British International School in Lagos, he returned to America to study business administration at Oakwood University in Huntsville, Ala. But he was more interested in music, and he got the equipment to start producing his own beats. While in the United States, he also soaked up hip-hop’s entrepreneurial spirit. “I wouldn’t say my time in the States affects my African music,” he said. “But my style, the way I dress, my attitude, my charisma, the way I run my label — I think I get a lot of that from studying the American system and people like 50 Cent.”

Against his parents’ wishes, Davido left college and moved to London and then to Lagos to make music, determined to prove he was not merely some wealthy dilettante. He released his first album, “Omo Baba Olowo” (“Son of a Rich Man”), in 2012, when he was 19. He had hit after hit in Nigeria, and he drew collaborators from Africa and then beyond: Meek Mill and Rae Sremmurd on non-album singles, Tinashe on his 2016 EP “Son of Mercy,” Chris Brown and the Jamaican hitmaker Popcaan on his 2019 album “A Good Time.” Meanwhile his tour venues kept getting larger; in 2019, he headlined the 20,000-capacity O2 Arena in London.

While his international audience expanded, Davido found himself singing more, not fewer, lyrics in Yoruba rather than English. “Back in the day, I’d say everybody really had the mind-set that, ‘Oh, the more English you sing, the more they understand you,’” he said. “But my biggest records in America are records where I’ve spoken my dialect.”

The new album includes a twinkling affirmation of deep affection, “Very Special”; the breezily suspicious “Something Fishy”; a touch of 1990s hip-hop with appearances from Nas and Hit-Boy on “Birthday Cake”; and “So Crazy,” a midtempo duet with the Atlanta rapper Lil Baby that seesaws between heartbreak and come-on. Davido also has African collaborators, including the Kenyan band Sauti Sol, the South African rapper and singer Sho Madjozi and the Nigerian singer and producer CKay.

Davido secured a collaboration with Nicki Minaj, “Holy Ground,” when, drunk after a night at a club, he sent her a direct message on Instagram, where she follows him. “I’m like, ‘Hello, Nicki, I’m a big fan. I got a hit for us.’ She says, ‘Send it.’ I’m like, what? And then I send it. And two days later she sent it back. That’s exactly what happened: no label in between, no mutual friend, nothing like that. It was just plain magic.”

Despite his excitement about the new work, the pandemic has left Davido, like countless other musicians, frustrated about what comes next. “I’m not even sure if I’m going to be able to perform in the near future — and I’ve got all these banging records,” he said. “It’s taking a toll on me.”





No.10 article:
When a Leader Just Won’t Go

In Nancy Mitford’s comic 1960 novel “Don’t Tell Alfred,” the wife of the new British ambassador to Paris arrives at the embassy to find that she has a vexing problem: Her predecessor has refused to move out.

Indeed, Pauline Leone, the wife of the previous ambassador, is so unhinged by the prospect of a status-free future that she has set up her own rival court, grandly receiving a stream of visitors as if for all the world she were still Madame L’Ambassadrice, the social arbiter of Paris.

“﻿At the beginning one thought it was a lark — that in a day or two she’d get tired of it,” a British official says crossly. But no. “She’s having the time of her life,” he adds, “and quite honestly I don’t see how we shall ever induce her to go.”

As the nation ponders the awkward case of Donald J. Trump, a president who will not admit that he has been fired, it is helpful to consider him through the experiences of other people, fictional and otherwise, who have been unable to accept the arrival of unwelcome developments in their personal and professional lives.

Is Trump like King Lear, raging naked on the heath and desperately hanging on to the increasingly diminished trappings of power even as they are stripped from him? Or is he more like Bartleby the Scrivener, the inscrutable model of passive resistance who one day declines to do any more work or indeed leave the building, declaring: “I would prefer not to?”

Is he like Nellie, the character in “The Office” who installs herself at the desk of the regional manager when he is out of town and unilaterally appoints herself boss? Or how about George from “Seinfeld,” who quits one of his many jobs in a huff, unsuccessfully tries to get it back, and reports to work anyway, as if nothing had happened?

Timothy Naftali, a history professor at New York University, said that one way to view Mr. Trump would be as a version of Miss Havisham, the jilted bride from “Great Expectations” who lives forever in the past, never taking off her tattered wedding gown even as her house decays around her.

“He’s wearing the cloak of the presidency and he’s stuck in his room, getting dusty, while everyone else has moved on,” Mr. Naftali said.

No president in American history has ever before refused for so long to concede an election he has obviously lost. But when it comes to hanging on to an alternative version of reality, Mr. Trump has plenty of nonpresidential company.

There was Eteocles, a son of Oedipus in Greek mythology, who remained on the throne of Thebes, reneging on his promise to share it with his twin brother, leading to a battle in which they killed each other.

There was Gov. Edmund J. Davis of Texas, a Republican, who refused to leave office after losing the election of 1873, claiming that he had several months left in his term and barricading himself on the ground floor of the State Capitol. (The newly elected governor and his supporters installed themselves on the first floor, using ladders to enter through the windows.)

There was the Hiroo Onoda, the Imperial Japanese Army officer who would not surrender after the end of World War II, remaining in combat-readiness in the jungle for 29 years until his by-then elderly former commanding officer arrived and rescinded his no-surrender order.

And there was the entire government of Moldova, which in 2019 decided not to make way for a new government, leading to a bizarre situation in which both groups claimed for a time to be in charge of the country. The impasse finally ended when the former prime minister grudgingly stepped down in the face of growing national outrage and international pressure.

While American presidential transfers of power have traditionally been smooth, well-run affairs, world history is replete with examples of dictators and strongmen employing nefarious means to remain in office. Sometimes such rulers refuse to accept the results of honestly conducted elections. Sometimes they throw out term limits, and just keep on governing. Sometimes they jail, torture, kill or disappear their political opponents. (Sometimes they do all of those things.)

Mr. Trump has spoken admiringly about at least some of these practices, saying, for instance, that he was “probably entitled” to a third term “based on the way we were treated.” (That was before he lost the election.)

But given the news wafting like the occasional smoke signal from the White House, where some of the president’s advisers and relatives are reportedly attempting various psychological techniques to get Mr. Trump to accept the fact that he is now a lame-duck president, his behavior seems less like a putsch and more like an extended whiny tantrum. As Dan Rather, an elder statesman of American journalism, said on Twitter: “Dude. You lost.”

“He cannot bear being the loser and so now is doing everything within his power to assault the reality he hates,” said Joseph Burgo, a clinical psychologist who has studied Mr. Trump and written about his appeal to voters.

“Once he has exhausted all possible avenues to challenge the election, he will spend the rest of his life insisting the system conspired to deprive him of his victory,” said Dr. Burgo, the author of “The Narcissist You Know: Defending Yourself Against Extreme Narcissists in an All-About-Me Age.” “He will take refuge in blame, self-pity and righteous indignation to shore up his sense of self, thereby warding off the humiliation of true defeat.”

Meanwhile, many Republican legislators, loath to upset Mr. Trump, are helping to prop up the illusion that he is still somehow in power, in a way reminiscent of the courtiers who flattered, lied and enabled their way through the final days of Emperor Haile Selasse’s reign in Ethiopia in Ryszard Kapuscinski’s “The Emperor.”

Interestingly enough, there appears to be some precedent for this within the Trump family itself. When the president’s father, Fred, developed Alzheimer’s, the family reportedly conspired to help him believe that he still ran the Trump organization. According to Vanity Fair, the elder Mr. Trump would show up for work every day, signing blank papers and using an office phone connected only to his secretary’s line. “Fred pretended to work,” a family friend told the magazine.

With his vast coterie of enablers willing to believe his baseless assertions about the election, Mr. Naftali said, Trump might be better compared to the Wizard in “The Wizard of Oz.”

“Many of us assumed that Trump’s behind-the-curtain moment — when Dorothy arrived and, thanks to Toto, found out that the Wizard was a humbug — would come because of his handling of the Covid emergency,” he said. “But one of the reasons the president is able to continue this fantasy that he won a second term is that 73 million people don’t agree that he was a humbug. Even though the Wizard is on his way out, Oz still exists.”

Of course, angry people can be very dangerous when backed into corners, and Mr. Trump’s belief in his own falsehoods has already had damaging, real-life consequences. Some sympathetic right-wing media outlets and many Republican officials are refusing to acknowledge that Joseph R. Biden Jr. is the president-elect. Millions of people appear to believe Mr. Trump’s assertions that the election was stolen and that the coronavirus, now raging out of control, is not a serious problem. His supporters are marching in the streets to protest the election result, and it remains to be seen under what circumstances he will finally leave the White House.

All these things raise the question (asking for a friend): How do you get someone to face reality and get out of the White House?

For clients who have lost their jobs during this unsettling time, said Megan Walls, an executive coach and career adviser in Chicago, she works to help them accept what has happened and move on. “The reality is that we can’t control Covid or jobs or business — we can only control ourselves,” she said.

However, she added, Mr. Trump would not be a good candidate for the kind of coaching she offers.

“I won’t work with people who are avoiding the situation or acting like a victim,” she said. “Anyone who is digging their heels in — I can’t help him until they help themselves. Maybe they don’t need a coach; they need a psychotherapist.”

How about flattery?

On Twitter, the Trump-admiring journalist Geraldo Rivera compared the president to a heavyweight champion who knows he has lost but grittily fights on in case he can eke out a victory. His lyrical description — “Still, he’s going to answer the final bell, looking for the knockout he knows is a long shot”— inadvertently brings to mind the delusional Black Knight in “Monty Python and the Holy Grail,” who won’t surrender even after his arms and legs have been hacked off. (“Tis but a scratch,” the knight declares. “What are you going to do, bleed on me?” King Arthur responds.)

As for the former ambassador’s wife who overstays her welcome in “Don’t Tell Alfred,” embassy officials decide that the best way to evict her is to deprive her of the attention she craves. “We must bore her out,” an official says.

Finally, reluctantly, she leaves, taking on a diva-ish air of wounded glamour as she encounters a crowd of guests arriving for a party to which she has not been invited.

“She shook hands, like a royal person,” Mitford writes, “as she sailed out of the house forever.”





No.11 article:
When the Critic Is Also the Star. And the Audience.

Connection or isolation? Intensity or escape? This spate of shows that put the watcher to work are rewarding, but often in contrasting ways.

Could we get a volunteer up here?

That’s not an invitation theater fans are likely to hear from an actor on a physical stage anytime soon, but it is the beguiling come-on from a small flock of experimental productions happening right now — online, over the phone and even in person. (Well, in cubicle, if you participate in “Temping,” in the East Village.)

All of them depend on the willingness of a spectator to step forward and become a star.

We took individual turns in the spotlight, then sat down, remotely, one recent weekday morning to chat about this enticing development in pandemic theater. These are edited excerpts from our conversation.

LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES Alexis, in the Before Times, were you one of those audience members who are happy to be brought up onstage, or not so much?

ALEXIS SOLOSKI Well, on my third date with my husband, we went to a magic show and they asked for help with an ax-throwing act and I made myself the target. So yes, shamefully, I am. You?

COLLINS-HUGHES I would way rather hide behind my notebook in the audience. So it’s weird that I was eager to go to “Temping,” the show at the Wild Project that has exactly one performer: the audience member, playing a temp hired to fill in for an actuary. It’s a piece that predates the pandemic, but its setup is ideal right now.

SOLOSKI I’ve read the script, but I haven’t seen it yet. Is “seen” even the right word? “Done?” “Experienced?”

COLLINS-HUGHES “Seen” is wrong — there’s no audience, live or otherwise — but “done” is right. The audience member does everything, including, if your brain works like mine does, thinking about what you’re going to wear on your first day.

SOLOSKI So what did you wear?

COLLINS-HUGHES I decided on a skirt and a knit top, but it was in the 70s out, so I rationalized that my temp would be the kind of person who risks violating a no-open-toed-shoes rule. I wore sandals.

SOLOSKI I remember skirts. The show, presented by Dutch Kills Theater Company, tries to mix mundane office tasks and metaphysics. How was it?

COLLINS-HUGHES It is a show about how fleeting life is, and how necessary some degree of risk is to happiness, but really the storytelling is a weak link. The design is the strength, with loads of voicemails and audio messages to play, and emails to read and answer.

It does require a basic proficiency in Microsoft Office, and I wondered what happens if, say, you’re hopeless at Excel spreadsheets. But there are workarounds for that; the show responds differently based on your actions.

And it really is fun to have the lighting change according to what you’re doing right that second. That’s one clue that while you’re alone in the cubicle — which is nice and airy, so it feels safe — behind the scenes, someone is watching.

SOLOSKI So were you a good temp? And how did it feel to be the star, knowing that two members of the company, a room away, were surveilling you?

COLLINS-HUGHES I was a good temp! And it was reassuring that I wasn’t all by myself — that this show, which runs about 50 minutes, was more than just a video game that I could have played at home.

SOLOSKI So you are comfortable acting. Just for very small audiences. Me, I starred in a show, too, “Read Subtitles Aloud,” short videos from Media Art Xploration, PlayCo and the Turkish theater festival A Corner in the World, in which the participant plays a former member of a theater company web-chatting with onetime colleagues. Subtitles appear on the screen. When read aloud, they create the illusion of a conversation between you and the prerecorded performer.

COLLINS-HUGHES Did it work for you? I tried the first episode and found it frustrating.

SOLOSKI The first episode is frustrating. It assumes a ton of intimacy. Plus kissing. I don’t want to kiss anyone right now. Even through a screen. Even if they can’t see me. But I did enjoy the later ones as I learned more about the company, their relationships and what I guess I have to call “my character.” I’ve seen — sorry, done — the first five and I imagine I’ll do the rest, too.

COLLINS-HUGHES Did it bug you at all that, no matter how you delivered your lines, there was no exchange of energy with your scene partner?

SOLOSKI A little. It’s a necessary limitation of the form. But it doesn’t have to be too limiting. Last night, I went through it again, investing more emotion. The energy is there if you want it. It’s a dance, a pas de deux. If they step forward, you step back and then it mostly works.

COLLINS-HUGHES Did it feel theatrical?

SOLOSKI I felt theatrical! And occasionally embarrassed. There’s a part where I had to sing “Purple Rain.” So even though it wasn’t live, I felt present. Too often, pre-pandemic, I would see plays that didn’t seem to acknowledge the audience at all. Now, I find that a lot of experimental work takes particular care of us — I’m thinking of pieces like “Cairns” and “Tempest” in VR — valuing audience experience and trusting us to do a lot of the imaginative work ourselves.

COLLINS-HUGHES I experience the screen as much more of a barrier. I have seen some wonderful work, but a lot of it just makes me feel more alone — which frankly is a feat, given that I live by myself and haven’t hugged another human since March. Theater that contemplates our isolation is the last thing I need right now.

SOLOSKI I may have the opposite problem. I’ve been inside a 600-square-foot apartment with two kids for the duration. As I did pre-pandemic, I look to theater as a kind of escape. I don’t have any use for traditional fourth-wall theater online right now. But in immersive spaces, I’ve felt really seen and welcomed and taken out of myself. I know we both loved the first part of the new 600 Highwaymen piece, “A Thousand Ways.”

COLLINS-HUGHES Yes! It’s startling to so enjoy a phone call that’s just you and a stranger (again, there is no audience, and here no one is even listening in) being guided by an electronic voice that’s following a script. But “A Phone Call” — the start of a triptych-in-progress — is a lovely thing. And it’s delightful to have an ally in the other person so that you can decide whether and how much to follow the automated prompts. How was your call?

SOLOSKI Splendid. Funny and sweet and unexpectedly moving. I was partnered with a Canadian woman, maybe a decade or two older than me. The prompts took us through childhood, family, special skills. (She saved someone’s life once!) I may have cried a bit. I guess the flip side of any work about isolation is that it’s also necessarily about connection — however impossible. Nearly all of us have people in our lives that we can’t be with right now or can never be with again. (I was crying talking about my grandfather, dead for a decade.) Work that somehow takes that on, I have a lot of time for.

COLLINS-HUGHES I did think of that show as being more about connection, and using really simple tools to accomplish theatrical goals. One of the temptations of experimentation is to use every available tool. Pulling back and just giving us the space to listen and respond — asking us to risk nothing physically, because it’s completely distanced, but to be vulnerable emotionally — can be a more satisfying way to go. And voice can be so intimate.

SOLOSKI I’m eager for the second part — and eager for a moment when it can be staged safely — where you meet a different partner one-on-one, in-person. The only screen, I believe, is plexiglass.

COLLINS-HUGHES I’m eager for it, too — so mask up, everyone. There’s live theater to get back to!

Temping

Through Dec. 4, Wild Project, Manhattan; dutchkillstheater.com.

Read Subtitles Aloud

New episodes daily through Nov. 23; mediaartexploration.org.

A Thousand Ways (Part One): A Phone Call

Ongoing, dates vary; 600highwaymen.org.





No.12 article:
The Hot New Covid Tech Is Wearable and Constantly Tracks You

Sports leagues, large employers and colleges are turning to devices that could usher in more invasive forms of surveillance.

In Rochester, Mich., Oakland University is preparing to hand out wearable devices to students that log skin temperature once a minute — or more than 1,400 times per day — in the hopes of pinpointing early signs of the coronavirus.

In Plano, Texas, employees at the headquarters of Rent-A-Center recently started wearing proximity detectors that log their close contacts with one another and can be used to alert them to possible virus exposure.

And in Knoxville, students on the University of Tennessee football team tuck proximity trackers under their shoulder pads during games — allowing the team’s medical director to trace which players may have spent more than 15 minutes near a teammate or an opposing player.

The powerful new surveillance systems, wearable devices that continuously monitor users, are the latest high-tech gadgets to emerge in the battle to hinder the coronavirus. Some sports leagues, factories and nursing homes have already deployed them. Resorts are rushing to adopt them. A few schools are preparing to try them. And the conference industry is eyeing them as a potential tool to help reopen convention centers.

“Everyone is in the early stages of this,” said Laura Becker, a research manager focusing on employee experience at the International Data Corporation, a market research firm. “If it works, the market could be huge because everyone wants to get back to some sense of normalcy.”

Companies and industry analysts say the wearable trackers fill an important gap in pandemic safety. Many employers and colleges have adopted virus screening tools like symptom-checking apps and temperature-scanning cameras. But they are not designed to catch the estimated 40 percent of people with Covid-19 infections who may never develop symptoms like fevers.

Some offices have also adopted smartphone virus-tracing apps that detect users’ proximity. But the new wearable trackers serve a different audience: workplaces like factories where workers cannot bring their phones, or sports teams whose athletes spend time close together.

This spring, when coronavirus infections began to spike, many professional football and basketball teams in the United States were already using sports performance monitoring technology from Kinexon, a company in Munich whose wearable sensors track data like an athlete’s speed and distance. The company quickly adapted its devices for the pandemic, introducing SafeZone, a system that logs close contacts between players or coaches and emits a warning light if they get within six feet. The National Football League began requiring players, coaches and staff to wear the trackers in September.

The data has helped trace the contacts of about 140 N.F.L. players and personnel who have tested positive since September, including an outbreak among the Tennessee Titans, said Dr. Thom Mayer, the medical director of the N.F.L. Players Association. The system is particularly helpful in ruling out people who spent less than 15 minutes near infected colleagues, he added.

College football teams in the Southeastern Conference also use Kinexon trackers. Dr. Chris Klenck, the head team physician at the University of Tennessee, said the proximity data helped teams understand when the athletes spent more than 15 minutes close together. They discovered it was rarely on the field during games, but often on the sideline.

“We’re able to tabulate that data, and from that information we can help identify people who are close contacts to someone who’s positive,” Dr. Klenck said.

Civil rights and privacy experts warn that the spread of such wearable continuous-monitoring devices could lead to new forms of surveillance that outlast the pandemic — ushering into the real world the same kind of extensive tracking that companies like Facebook and Google have instituted online. They also caution that some wearable sensors could enable employers, colleges or law enforcement agencies to reconstruct people’s locations or social networks, chilling their ability to meet and speak freely. And they say these data-mining risks could disproportionately affect certain workers or students, like undocumented immigrants or political activists.

“It’s chilling that these invasive and unproven devices could become a condition for keeping our jobs, attending school or taking part in public life,” said Albert Fox Cahn, executive director of the Surveillance Technology Oversight Project, a nonprofit in Manhattan. “Even worse, there’s nothing to stop police or ICE from requiring schools and employers to hand over this data.”

Executives at Kinexon and other companies that market the wearable trackers said in recent interviews that they had thought deeply about the novel data-mining risks and had taken steps to mitigate them.

Devices from Microshare, a workplace analytics company that makes proximity detection sensors, use Bluetooth technology to detect and log people wearing the trackers who come into close contact with one another for more than 10 or 15 minutes. But the system does not continuously monitor users’ locations, said Ron Rock, the chief executive of Microshare. And it uses ID codes, not employees’ real names, to log close contacts.

Mr. Rock added that the system was designed for human resources managers or security officials at client companies to use to identify and alert employees who spent time near an infected person, not to map workers’ social connections.

GlaxoSmithKline, the pharmaceutical giant, recently began working with Microshare to develop a virus-tracing system for its sites that make over-the-counter drugs. Budaja Lim, head of digital supply chain technology for Asia Pacific at the company’s consumer health care division, said he wanted to ensure maximum privacy for workers who would wear the proximity detection sensors.

As a result, he said, the system silos the data it collects. It logs close contacts between workers using ID numbers, he said. And it separately records the ID numbers of workers who spent time in certain locations — like a packaging station in a warehouse — enabling the company to hyper-clean specific areas where an infected person may have spent time.

GlaxoSmithKline recently tested the system at a site in Malaysia and is rolling it out to other consumer health plants in Africa, Asia and Europe. The tracking data has also allowed the company to see where workers seem to be spending an unusual amount of time close together, like a security desk, and modify procedures to improve social distancing, Mr. Lim said.

“It was really designed to be a reactive type of solution” to trace workers with possible virus exposure, he said. “But it has actually become a really powerful tool to proactively manage and protect our employee safety.”

Oakland University, a public research university near Detroit, is at the forefront of schools and companies preparing to making the leap to the BioButton, a novel coin-size sensor attached to the skin 24/7 that uses algorithms to try to detect possible signs of Covid-19.

Whether such continuous surveillance of students, a young and largely healthy population, is beneficial is not yet known. Researchers are only in the early phases of studying whether wearable technology could help flag signs of the disease.

David A. Stone, vice president for research at Oakland University, said school officials had carefully vetted the BioButton and concluded it was a low-risk device that, added to measures like social distancing and mask wearing, might help hinder the spread of the virus. The technology will alert campus health services to students with possible virus symptoms, he said, but the school will not receive specific data like their temperature readings.

“In an ideal world, we would love to be able to wait until this is an F.D.A.-approved diagnostic,” Dr. Stone said. But, he added, “nothing about this pandemic has been in an ideal world.”

Dr. James Mault, chief executive of BioIntelliSense, the start-up behind the BioButton, said students with privacy concerns could ask to have their personal details stripped from the company’s records. He added that BioIntelliSense was preparing to conduct a large-scale study examining its system’s effectiveness for Covid-19.

Oakland had initially planned to require athletes and dorm residents to wear the BioButton. But the university reversed course this summer after nearly 2,500 students and staff members signed a petition objecting to the policy. The tracker will now be optional for students.

“A lot of colleges are doing masks and social distancing,” said Tyler Dixon, a senior at the school who started the petition, “but this seemed like one step too far.”





No.13 article:
Chris Nikic, You Are an Ironman. And Your Journey Is Remarkable.

The Florida sky had grown dark, and Chris Nikic felt ready to quit. He had been pushing through the grueling race for more than 13 hours, even though he could not navigate the course or keep the time without help.

It suddenly became too much. In the hot, humid air, he struggled to breathe. His feet burned as they pounded the pavement, his legs felt like concrete, and it seemed as if the muscles in his back had been put through a shredder.

Nikic, a 21-year-old who lives with his parents in an Orlando suburb, had started the day with determination. If he could overcome the challenge of this race — a 2.4-mile open-water swim followed by a 112-mile bike ride and a 26.2-mile run — and do it under 17 hours, he would be the first competitor with Down syndrome to complete an Ironman triathlon.

Such a feat would not just put him in the record books. It would also prove to himself and those around him that he could, in fact, do big things. And if he could do big things, then maybe one day he would be able to fulfill his ultimate dream: to live independently and have a wife and a family of his own.

Would he make it? The finish line was 16 miles away, but he was breaking down.

It was then that Nikic summoned a well of patient, hopeful perseverance — along with the energizing power of the simple vision he had set for his life.

One step forward, two steps.

One step. Two steps. Three. …

To understand the long odds Nikic faced during that race, held in Panama City Beach, Fla., on a recent Saturday, you have to go back to his childhood.

At 5 months old, he endured open-heart surgery. He was so weak and had such poor balance that he did not walk on his own until he was 4. To keep him from choking, his family fed him baby food until he was 6. When he learned to run, it took months for him to discover how to swing his arms at his side instead of holding them straight above his head.

It took years for him to learn how to tie his shoes.

His parents — Nik, a corporate performance trainer, and Patty, a stay-at-home mother — struggled to get their son proper care and attention. They moved him to seven different elementary schools, searching for the right fit.

At every turn, experts spoke of Nikic in terms of limits instead of possibilities.

“I always felt isolated, left out, excluded,” he told me during a video call this week, as he described the emotions that he felt growing up.

He found solace in sports. By his early teens, he was running sprints, swimming and playing basketball in the Special Olympics. When he was about 15, his parents took him to a parking lot near their home and taught him to ride a bike. It took six months for him to go 100 feet, but once he got the hang of it there was no turning back.

After undergoing a series of ear surgeries that sapped his strength and left him homebound, he grew determined to do more than he ever had before.

Last October, with the help of a local endurance training group and Dan Grieb, a volunteer coach, he set his sights on the Ironman. It was the ultimate test. Conquer it, and he felt he could do anything.

Nikic and Grieb began meeting in the predawn hours for 20-mile runs and 100-mile bike rides. Focused on making small improvements each day, Grieb helped him learn how to shift gears and balance. How to ride with the wind. How to relax while swimming in the ocean, even around jellyfish.

Something was changing. He added muscle to his stocky, 5-foot-10 frame, but it was more than that. Everyone around him noticed that as he grew fitter he seemed mentally sharper, more attentive and confident.

The race neared.

“Based on all of his training I was certain he would finish” in under 17 hours, Nik Nikic said. “Unless something went wrong. Something can always go wrong.”

A stiff wind swept across the Gulf of Mexico in the early morning on race day. 

Grieb was there in the water as a guide, tethered to his charge by a black bungee cord meant to offer extra safety. They emerged from the choppy sea in just under two hours.

Grieb then helped Nikic onto his 10-speed bike, fixed his feet onto the pedals, and they began the long ride. There would be trouble ahead. Because Nikic could not balance well enough to drink water while riding, he had to stop and climb off his bike to hydrate. When he did that on the 22nd mile, he had not noticed that he was standing atop a large mound of red ants, which swarmed his ankles and bit at his flesh, causing his legs to swell.

He managed to get going again, only to crash his bike a few miles later while speeding down a hill.

Again, he kept on.

Then came the marathon segment. It began well enough. Looping through the streets of Panama City Beach in the nighttime darkness, tethered to Grieb so he would keep from falling and stay on course, he passed a clutch of family and friends who cheered in support.

But at Mile 10, everything changed. He slowed so much that it seemed he was barely moving at all. He began complaining about the pain. There was anguish in his eyes. “He looked like a zombie,” said his sister, Jacky. “Like he was just absolutely done.”

His supporters huddled around him, doling out hugs, hoping to lift his spirits.

Nik Nikic clutched his son, drew him close and whispered in his ear: “Are you going to let your pain win, or let your dreams win?”

Chris Nikic knew this wasn’t only about finishing an Ironman, but about showing himself what he could achieve in the future. His own home. Independence. A wife as kind and beautiful as his mother.

“My dreams,” he told his father, “are going to win.”

He began to jog again.

One step forward. Two. Three. One step. Two. Three.

He found his rhythm. Nothing could stop him. He crossed the finish line with arms held high in celebration, and a little time to spare — 16 hours 46 minutes 9 seconds.

“I learned that there are no limits,” he said, when we spoke days later. “Do not put a lid on me.”

Take a bow, Chris Nikic, for holding tight to your dreams, for your patience and hopeful perseverance and guts. We could use a little more of that in this world.





No.14 article:
Roger Jepsen, Senator From Iowa and Reagan Ally, Dies at 91

A voice for farmers, he lost a re-election bid after it was disclosed that he had joined a health spa that was shut down on prostitution charges.

Roger W. Jepsen, an Iowa Republican and Reagan administration ally who served one term in the Senate before losing a 1984 re-election bid after it was revealed that he had joined a private health spa that was later shut down on prostitution charges, died on Friday in Bettendorf, Iowa. He was 91.

His death, at the Clarissa C. Cook Hospice House, was confirmed on Sunday by his son Craig, who did not specify a cause. He said Mr. Jepsen had been living in Florida but moved back to Iowa in October with his wife, Dee Ann Jepsen, so that his family could help look after him.

An Iowa state senator and lieutenant governor before his election to the Senate in 1978, Mr. Jepsen became a dedicated supporter of President Ronald Reagan’s conservative agenda of tax cuts and a defense buildup in the early 1980s. Having grown up on a farm, a son and grandson of Danish-American farmers, he was a voice in Washington for the nation’s agricultural interests.

Mr. Jepsen was the Reagan presidential campaign’s chief farm adviser in 1980 and helped persuade the incoming president to lift a partial embargo on American grain sales to the Soviet Union that had been imposed by President Jimmy Carter after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. The embargo had minimal effects on the Soviet Union, which bought grain elsewhere, but American farmers had felt the brunt of the sanctions.

The embargo had caused American grain prices to plummet, leading to an agricultural credit crisis, and some farmers had burned crops in protest. The embargo was believed to have hurt Mr. Carter in his bid for re-election in 1980 as anger in Midwestern farm states turned into votes for the victorious Reagan.

On another foreign-policy issue, Mr. Jepsen, a strong supporter of Israel, found himself in a dilemma in 1981 when he initially joined Senate opposition to the Reagan administration’s plan to sell Awacs surveillance planes to Israel’s hostile neighbor Saudi Arabia, a step that required Congressional approval. Mr. Jepsen said the sale would jeopardize Israel’s security.

But on the eve of the Senate vote, Mr. Jepsen, saying that he had received “highly classified information” on Awacs that had changed his mind, switched to Reagan’s side. He joined a voting bloc that approved the sale of five Airborne Warning and Control System planes to the Saudis for $8.5 billion. It was then the largest foreign arms sale in American history.

When Senate Democrats demanded a closed session to study the classified information, Mr. Jepsen admitted that there was none, and a White House official later told The New York Times that the real reason for his reversal was that Mr. Jepsen had given in to presidential pressure.

In an interview for this obituary in 2017,Mr. Jepsen acknowledged that he had met with Reagan at the White House before the Senate vote but denied any presidential arm-twisting.

“He did not pressure me,” Mr. Jepsen said. “He shook my hand. He put his hand on my shoulder and said, ‘If you can give me a boost on this vote, I’ll really appreciate it.’”

Mr. Jepsen’s reversal raised his standing with the president, who in 1982 named the senator’s wife, Dee Jepsen, to be a special White House assistant and liaison to women’s organizations. Two years later, Reagan campaigned in Iowa for Mr. Jepsen’s re-election, and after Mr. Jepsen was voted out of office, the president appointed him to a $73,600-a-year federal post.

On domestic issues Mr. Jepsen introduced Senate bills to support conservation, consumer protections, child nutrition, assistance for crime victims and voting protections for the elderly and the handicapped.

A born-again Christian who made “family values” a keystone of his later political career, Mr. Jepsen was a chief sponsor of the Family Protection Act of 1981, a package of proposals to strengthen families through education, tax incentives and restrictions on federal funds for abortion and contraceptive services. Hailed by evangelicals but criticized by liberals as an attack on the rights of women and gay people, the measure died in committee.

To Americans fed up with proliferating codes and numbers in their lives, Mr. Jepsen struck a chord in 1980 by ridiculing a Postal Service plan to require the use of nine-digit ZIP Codes on mail instead of five. He called the plan “another Washington monument to stupidity.”

The service said it would spend $900 million for machines to sort mail by nine-digit codes but promised eventual annual savings of $600 million. Reflecting widespread public resistance to more numbers, the service introduced nine-digit codes in 1983, but the last four digits are still optional.

Iowa’s 1984 Senate race, pitting Mr. Jepsen against Representative Tom Harkin, a five-term Democrat, began as a classic conservative-liberal contest over Iowa’s sluggish economy, abortion and other issues. But it degenerated into a mudslinging war of accusations and questions over Mr. Jepsen’s morality and military service record.

As the Harkin campaign trumpeted, Mr. Jepsen once claimed he had been a paratrooper in World War II, but when challenged had acknowledged that he had not entered the Army until 1946, a year after the war ended.

In a more damaging revelation, two Iowa radio stations reported that Mr. Jepsen in 1977, a year before he ran for the Senate, had joined Leisure Spa, a Des Moines brothel that offered “nude modeling, nude encounters and nude rap sessions to our members.” The establishment was closed three months later in a prostitution raid, and its owner pleaded guilty to “keeping a house of ill-fame.”

Mr. Jepsen initially called the reports a “deliberate attempt at character assassination.” He did not dispute his membership — there were copies of his signed application — but said he had thought that the spa was a health club, had visited it only once and had left “immediately.” He later admitted visiting the brothel out of “curiosity and weakness” and said he had been “humbled before an entire nation” before making his “commitment to Christ” in late 1977.

But the scandal did not fade from the 1984 race. Campaign buttons declared, “Roger Jepsen — Porn Again.” The Des Moines Register ran a cartoon depicting the senator at the spa, asking, “Could someone tell me where the exercise machines are?” The newspaper’s chief political reporter, David Yepsen, said, “People are laughing at him, and that can be fatal, at least in this state.”

It was. Despite an overwhelming re-election showing by President Reagan, who carried other Republicans to victories on his coattails, Mr. Jepsen’s political career was ended with a decisive loss to Mr. Harkin.

Roger William Jepsen was born in Cedar Falls, Iowa, on Dec. 23, 1928, the eldest of three children of Ernest and Esther (Sorensen) Jepsen. Roger and his siblings, Myron and Carol, grew up on the family farm and attended local public schools. Roger graduated from high school in 1945 and attended Iowa State Teachers College (now the University of Northern Iowa) for a year.

After Army service in 1946-47, he attended Arizona State University in Tempe, earning a bachelor’s degree in psychology in 1950 and a master’s in guidance counseling in 1953.

Mr. Jepsen married Dorothy Lambertson in 1948 and had four children with her. The marriage ended in divorce. In 1958, he married Dee Ann Delaney, who had a daughter, Linda, by a previous marriage. Linda died in 1996.

In addition to his wife and son Craig, from his first marriage, he is survived by another son from his first marriage, Jeffrey; two daughters from his first marriage, Ann Carruthers and Debbie Geisler; a son from his second marriage, Coy; his sister, Carol Nymann; nine grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren.

Mr. Jepsen was an insurance underwriter and sales manager in Iowa in the 1950s and ’60s. He began his political career as a Scott County Supervisor from 1962 to 1965, and was an Iowa state senator from 1966 to 1968 and a two-term lieutenant governor from 1969 to 1973, serving with Gov. Robert D. Ray.

Advocating a constitutional ban on abortions, Mr. Jepsen in 1978 narrowly beat Senator Dick Clark, the incumbent Democrat, who had been targeted for defeat by National Right to Life forces.

After Mr. Jepsen left the Senate in 1985, Reagan named him chairman of the National Credit Union Administration, a regulatory body. He retired in 1994.

Mr. Jepsen told The Times in the 2017 interview that in his Senate years, he and his wife had regularly joined members of Congress in prayer breakfasts, Bible-study groups and Christian fellowship gatherings.

“They helped to develop positive feelings about public service,” he said.





No.15 article:
Sex-Abuse Claims Against Boy Scouts Now Surpass 82,000

The deluge of sex-abuse filings, coming ahead of a bankruptcy deadline, far surpasses the number of claims filed in Catholic Church cases.

More than 82,000 people have come forward with sex-abuse claims against the Boy Scouts of America, describing a decades-long accumulation of assaults at the hands of scout leaders across the nation who had been trusted as role models.

The claims, which lawyers said far eclipsed the number of abuse accusations filed in Catholic Church cases, continued to mount ahead of a Monday deadline established in bankruptcy court in Delaware, where the Boy Scouts had sought refuge this year in a bid to survive the demands for damages.

Paul Mones, a lawyer who has been working on Boy Scouts cases for nearly two decades, said the prevalence of abuse detailed in the filings was breathtaking and might reflect only a fraction of victims.

“I knew there were a lot of cases,” Mr. Mones said. “I never contemplated it would be a number close to this.”

One coalition of attorneys, operating as the group Abused in Scouting, has clients from all 50 states along with cases in which the abuse occurred overseas at places such as military bases in Japan and Germany. The accusers range in age from 8 to 93. While the vast majority are men, some women have also filed complaints.

The avalanche of claims, 82,663 of them by late Sunday, set up a monumental task for the bankruptcy case as the Boy Scouts seek to one day emerge with its operations intact.

 

The national organization has more than $1 billion in assets, according to its bankruptcy filing. The organization also has a network of local Boy Scouts councils that own hundreds of camps and other properties across the country where scouts can advance their skills and values along lake shores and in mountain valleys.

As the Boy Scouts seek to reorganize and set up a victims’ compensation fund under the Chapter 11 filing, a judge set Monday as the deadline for victims to come forward with claims that will ultimately undergo a vetting process.

In a statement, the Boy Scouts of America said the organization was “devastated by the number of lives impacted by past abuse in Scouting.” The organization said it had sought an accessible process for survivors to seek compensation.

“The response we have seen from survivors has been gut wrenching,” the organization said in the statement. “We are deeply sorry.”

Founded in 1910, the Boy Scouts grew under a rare congressional charter in 1916 that detailed scouting values of “patriotism, courage, self-reliance and kindred virtues” — goals that shaped the civic ideals for generations of American boys.

From an early age, young scouts learn about obedience and loyalty, reciting an oath to stay “morally straight.” The organization has said that some 130 million Americans have gone through its programs over the years, including the likes of John F. Kennedy, the astronaut Neil Armstrong, the Civil Rights icon Ernest Green and the film director Steven Spielberg.

While the Boy Scouts count some 2.2 million current members, those numbers have been on the decline from a peak of around five million in the 1970s. In 2017, the organization expanded to allow girls to participate, although that effort has frayed relationships with the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A.

But even in the organization’s early years, abuse files maintained at the Boy Scouts headquarters detailed troubles. In 1935, the organization described having files on hundreds of “degenerates” who had served as scout leaders, according to a New York Times article from the time.

Lawyers, including Mr. Mones, later pressed to release some of those files in a case in Oregon, where a 2010 jury verdict held the Scouts liable for $18.5 million in punitive damages. The Oregon Supreme Court later ordered that the case records be made public.

Although many of the abuse cases occurred in decades past, some states in recent years have passed laws giving older victims a chance to pursue accountability in the courts. That includes New York, which approved a one-year window that opened last year, prompting a stream of new lawsuits with defendants from organizations such as schools, the Catholic Church and the Boy Scouts.

Terry McKiernan, the president of BishopAccountability.org, a watchdog group that tracks abuse in the Catholic Church, said more than 9,000 victims had come forward over the years, although he believed that number represented only a small fraction of those who suffered abuse in the church.

Frank Spinelli was 11 years old on Staten Island when he joined the Boy Scouts in 1978. He said his scoutmaster, a police officer named Bill Fox, began to groom him, taking him out for ice cream, pressing to have Mr. Spinelli sleep at his home and turning their conversations toward sex. It ultimately led to three years of sexual abuse, Mr. Spinelli said.

Mr. Fox was eventually convicted of abusing three boys and later died in prison.

Years ago, Mr. Spinelli said he approached lawyers to talk about pursuing a case against the Boy Scouts, but they told him the statute of limitations had long passed. But after New York approved its new look-back law, the lawyers returned to say that he now might have a case. He is among those filing as part of the bankruptcy proceeding.

Mr. Spinelli said he was not surprised to see so many men coming forward with claims. He said that it was not something that was gratifying to see and that financial compensation wasn’t the important thing to him. Instead, he said he was hopeful that a window into the magnitude of the problem and the accountability coming in the bankruptcy process could help force lasting change in the Boy Scouts.

“I truly believe it’s these uncomfortable conversations we need to have to recognize a path moving forward,” Mr. Spinelli said.





No.16 article:
They Once Ruled Ethiopia. Now They Are Fighting Its Government.

Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s two-year feud with the rebellious ruling party of the Tigray region has exploded into a war, with bombings, massacres and ethnic divisions, that threatens to upend the entire Horn of Africa.

NAIROBI, Kenya — When it comes to mountain warfare, the people of Tigray — an ancient kingdom in the far north of Ethiopia, spread across jagged peaks and lush farmland — have decades of hard-won experience. 

Tigrayan fighters led a brutal war through the 1970s and ’80s against a hated Marxist dictator of Ethiopia, whom they eventually toppled in 1991, becoming national heroes. For most of the next three decades, Tigrayans ruled Ethiopia.

But after Abiy Ahmed, a peace-talking young reformer, came to power as prime minister in 2018, he brusquely sidelined Tigray’s leaders. Tensions exploded violently on Nov. 4, as the world was focused on the presidential election in the United States, when Mr. Abiy launched military strikes in Tigray.

Now Tigray is once again at war, fighting the federal government. But this time the risks could be even wider: the potential fracturing of Ethiopia and the upending of the entire Horn of Africa.

The battle pits the nation’s army and Mr. Abiy, an internationally feted winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, against the ruling party of Tigray, which commands a large force of well-armed and experienced fighters who know their own mountain terrain well. Already the conflict has escalated at alarming speed with intense fighting that has involved airstrikes and artillery barrages, sent thousands of civilians fleeing across borders — some in boats or even swimming — and led to reports of civilian massacres.

With such intransigent foes, analysts predict a potentially long and bloody fight that is already spilling over Ethiopia’s borders.

On Friday, Tigray launched rockets at two airports in neighboring Amhara Province and on Saturday said it had fired a volley of rockets at the main airport in Ethiopia’s neighbor Eritrea, which Tigray accuses of siding with Mr. Abiy.

The rush to war has exacerbated ethnic divisions so badly that on Friday it prompted warnings of potential ethnic cleansing and even genocide.

“The risk of atrocity crimes in Ethiopia remains high,” said Pramila Patten, the United Nations’ acting special adviser for the prevention of genocide, and Karen Smith, the special adviser on protecting civilians, in a joint statement.

Until recently Ethiopia, a close American military ally, was seen as the strategic linchpin of the volatile Horn of Africa. But with its brewing civil war spilling into Eritrea, refugees streaming into Sudan and Ethiopia’s peacekeeping mission to Somalia now under strain because of its domestic turmoil, analysts worry that Ethiopia could destabilize the region.

The dispute between Mr. Abiy and the Tigrayans goes back to the early days of his term as prime minister two years ago.

He moved quickly to shake up the country after decades of stultifying, iron-fisted rule under the Tigray People’s Liberation Front. Political prisoners were freed from secret prisons, exiled dissidents were welcomed home and Mr. Abiy promised free elections and press freedom.

Those rapid, wide-ranging reforms, which eventually helped Mr. Abiy win the Nobel Peace Prize, were a pointed repudiation of the Tigrayan old guard. Leaders of the Tigray People’s Liberation Front were unceremoniously sidelined and, in some cases, prosecuted for corruption and human rights abuses.

Resentful and angry, the Tigrayan leaders retreated to Mekelle, the regional capital of Tigray. The two sides sparred over politics, funding and control of the army. Then in September the Tigrayans openly defied Mr. Abiy and proceeded with regional elections that had been canceled in the rest of Ethiopia because of the pandemic.

But that clash, ostensibly a dispute between Ethiopian elites, was also emblematic of a much wider threat to Mr. Abiy’s authority.

Although Ethiopia is one country, it contains 10 regions, many of them ethnic strongholds that have historically jostled for power. In moving so quickly to liberalize politics in 2018, Mr. Abiy may have inadvertently unleashed pent-up regional frustrations that had been simmering for decades.

Rivalries among ethnic groups like the Oromo, Amhara, Tigray and Somali burst into the open, leading to violent clashes that have increased in frequency and intensity this year, often killing scores of people. With Ethiopia’s shaky federation straining badly, Tigray emerged at the vanguard of a movement pressing for greater autonomy for Ethiopia’s regions.

Mr. Abiy, who started to imprison opponents, pushed for much tighter central control.

“Everyone saw this coming,” said Kjetil Tronvoll, a scholar of Ethiopian politics at Bjorknes University College in Norway. “Both sides felt insecure and started to mobilize troops. It was a clear signal of a civil war in the making.”

Mr. Abiy’s speed in prosecuting the war has sent waves of alarm across the region and dismayed those who once lauded him as a peacemaker. 

With phone and internet connections cut off, it’s hard to know exactly what is happening in Tigray. But both sides agree that government warplanes have pounded targets around Mekelle, that some Ethiopian troops were pushed over the border into Eritrea and that the most intense fighting has raged in western Tigray. By Sunday at least 20,000 Ethiopian civilians had fled into Sudan, a refugee stream that the United Nations fears could quickly become a flood. Sudan says it is preparing for up to 200,000 refugees.

There have been accusations of war crimes against both sides, including a massacre reported by Amnesty International in which dozens of villagers were said to have been chopped to death with machetes, possibly by pro-Tigray militiamen.

Mr. Abiy, who insists his dispute is with the ruling “clique” of Tigray, and not its people, has repeatedly promised a short campaign. Few experts believe that is likely. By some estimates, Tigray has 250,000 armed men, including special forces and militias. And its leaders, who have been anticipating this confrontation for more than a year, will not be easy to find.  

Ethiopian officials say their immediate goal is to topple the rebellious Tigray authorities and capture their 12-person executive committee: a group of politicians, ideologues and security officials, many veterans of Tigray’s last war in the 1980s.

One major target is Getachew Assefa, a Tigrayan hard-liner and former head of Ethiopia’s intelligence service, who has been on the run since 2018, when Mr. Abiy’s government issued a warrant for his arrest.

Even in power, Mr. Getachew was notoriously had to find. A single dated photo of him is in circulation. After the American ambassador then, Donald Yamamoto, obtained a rare meeting with Mr. Getachew in 2009, he noted his “hot temper and reclusive habits” and that he was known for “eccentric behavior and elusiveness.”

Other senior Tigrayans wanted by the government include an 80-year-old ideologue, a former foreign minister and the party president, Debretsion Gebremichael, considered a political moderate until tensions with Mr. Abiy exploded this year.

That dispute did not have to end in fighting, said Asnake Kefale, an associate professor of political science at Addis Ababa University. But a purported Tigrayan attack on an Ethiopian Army base in Tigray early this month “took the division, which could have been resolved through politics, to a war, with all the adverse consequences,” he added.

In Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa, the conflict has acquired signs of a broader crackdown.

The authorities have detained at least 250 people, mostly Tigrayans, and dismissed or furloughed Tigrayans from jobs in the security services, civil service, the national airline and even as officers of international organizations.

The Tigrayan head of security at the African Union, which is headquartered in Addis Ababa, lost his job after the Defense Ministry complained about him in a letter, according to a copy seen by The New York Times.

In Somalia, where 4,400 Ethiopian peacekeepers form the bulk of an African Union peacekeeping mission, Tigrayan officers have been confined to barracks or sent home, according to a Western diplomat and an African Union official.

At Bole International Airport in Addis Ababa, human rights workers say, security officials have begun to ask Ethiopian passengers for their identity cards, which show ethnicity, instead of their passports, which do not.

An uneasy current of jingoism runs through the capital.

On Thursday morning hundreds of flag-waving people streamed into the national stadium, waving Ethiopian flags, to support the war effort. First in line to donate blood was the city’s mayor, Adanech Abiebie. “Our army is the pride of Ethiopia, the pride of Africa,” she said.

The rally was directed purely against the political leaders of Tigray, Ms. Adanech said. “Ordinary Tigrayans are our brothers and sisters,” she said.

But Woldegiorgis Teklay, a Tigrayan journalist whose office in Addis Ababa was raided last week, said he had since received numerous calls from Tigrayans whose relatives had been detained by the police because they speak Tigrinya, the language of Tigray.

As the conflict deepens, Mr. Abiy’s reputation as a peacemaker has been undermined, and some Ethiopians have begun to blame the Nobel Prize committee for giving him that honor.

“The Nobel Prize protected Abiy,” said Mr. Tronvoll, the academic, who called it “a shield that deflected a lot of criticism.”





No.17 article:
The President vs. the American Media

After terrorist attacks, France’s leader accuses the English-language media of “legitimizing this violence.”

The president has some bones to pick with the American media: about our “bias,” our obsession with racism, our views on terrorism, our reluctance to express solidarity, even for a moment, with his embattled republic.

So President Emmanuel Macron of France called me on Thursday afternoon from his gilded office in the Élysée Palace to drive home a complaint. He argued that the Anglo-American press, as it’s often referred to in his country, has blamed France instead of those who committed a spate of murderous terrorist attacks that began with the beheading on Oct. 16 of a teacher, Samuel Paty, who, in a lesson on free speech, had shown his class cartoons from the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo mocking the Prophet Muhammad.

“When France was attacked five years ago, every nation in the world supported us,” President Macron said, recalling Nov. 13, 2015, when 130 people were killed in coordinated attacks at a concert hall, outside a soccer stadium and in cafes in and around Paris.

“So when I see, in that context, several newspapers which I believe are from countries that share our values — journalists who write in a country that is the heir to the Enlightenment and the French Revolution — when I see them legitimizing this violence, and saying that the heart of the problem is that France is racist and Islamophobic, then I say the founding principles have been lost.”

Legitimizing violence — that’s as serious a charge as you can make against the media, and the sort of thing we’ve been more used to hearing, and shrugging off, from the American president. And Americans, understandably distracted by the hallucinatory final days of the Trump presidency, may have missed the intensifying conflict between the French elite and the English-language media.

More than 250 people have died in terror attacks in France since 2015, the most in any Western country. Mr. Macron, a centrist modernizer who has been a bulwark against Europe’s Trumpian right-wing populism, said the English-language — and particularly, American — media were imposing their own values on a different society.

In particular, he argued that the foreign media failed to understand “laïcité,” which translates as “secularism” — an active separation of church and state dating back to the early 20th century, when the state wrested control of the school system from the Catholic Church. The subject has become an increasing focus this year, with the approach of the 2022 election in which Mr. Macron appears likely to face the far-right leader Marine Le Pen. Mr. Macron didn’t initially campaign on changing the country’s approach to its Muslim minority, but in a major speech in early October denouncing “Islamist separatism,” he promised action against everything from the foreign training of imams to “imposing menus that accommodate religious restrictions in cafeterias.” He also called for remaking the religion itself into “an Islam of the Enlightenment.” His tough-talking interior minister, meanwhile, is using the inflammatory language of the far right.

When Mr. Paty was murdered, Mr. Macron responded with a crackdown on Muslims accused of extremism, carrying out dozens of raids and vowing to shut down aid groups. He also made a vocal recommitment to secularism. Muslim leaders around the world criticized Mr. Macron’s and his aides’ aggressive response, which they said focused on peaceful Muslim groups. The president of Turkey called for boycotts of French products, as varied as cheese and cosmetics. The next month saw a new wave of attacks, including three murders in a Nice church and an explosion at a French ceremony in Saudi Arabia.

Some French grievances with the U.S. media are familiar from the U.S. culture wars — complaints about short-lived headlines and glib tweets by journalists. But their larger claim is that, after the attacks, English and American outlets immediately focused on failures in France’s policy toward Muslims rather than on the global terror threat. Mr. Macron was particularly enraged by a Financial Times opinion article on Nov. 3, “Macron’s war on Islamic separatism only divides France further,” which argued that he was alienating a Muslim majority that also hates terrorism. The article said he was attacking “Islamic separatism” when, in fact, he had used the word “Islamist.” Mr. Macron’s critics say he conflates religious observance and extremism, and the high-profile misquote — of his attempt to distinguish between the religion of Islam and the ideology of Islamism — infuriated him.

“I hate being pictured with words which are not mine,” Mr. Macron told me, and after a wave of complaints from readers and an angry call from Mr. Macron’s office, The Financial Times took the article off the internet — something a spokeswoman, Kristina Eriksson, said she couldn’t recall the publication ever having done before. The next day, the newspaper published a letter from Mr. Macron attacking the deleted article.

In late October, Politico Europe also deleted an op-ed article, “The dangerous French religion of secularism,” that it had solicited from a French sociologist. The piece set off a firestorm from critics who said the writer was blaming the victims of terrorism. But the hasty deletion prompted the author to complain of “outright censorship.” Politico Europe’s editor in chief, Stephen Brown, said that the article’s timing after the attack was inappropriate, but that he had apologized to the author for taking it down without explanation. He didn’t cite any specific errors. It was also the first time, he said, that Politico had ever taken down an opinion article.

But French complaints go beyond those opinion articles and to careful journalism that questions government policy. A skeptical Washington Post analysis from its Paris correspondent, James McAuley, “Instead of fighting systemic racism, France wants to ‘reform Islam,’” drew heated objections for its raised eyebrow at the idea that “instead of addressing the alienation of French Muslims,” the French government “aims to influence the practice of a 1,400-year-old faith.” The New York Times drew a contrast between Mr. Macron’s ideological response and the Austrian chancellor’s more “conciliatory” address after a terror attack, and noted that the isolated young men carrying out attacks don’t neatly fit into the government’s focus on extremist networks. In the Times opinion pages, an op-ed asked bluntly, “Is France Fueling Muslim Terrorism by Trying to Prevent It?”

And then, of course, there are the tweets. The Associated Press deleted a tweet that asked why France “incites” anger in the Muslim world, saying it was a poor word choice for an article explaining anger at France in the Muslim world. The New York Times was roasted on Twitter and in the pages of Le Monde for a headline — which appeared briefly amid the chaos of the beheading — “French Police Shoot and Kill Man After a Fatal Knife Attack on the Street.” The Times headline quickly changed as French police confirmed details, but the screenshot remained.

“It’s as though we were in the smoking ruins of ground zero and they said we had it coming,” Mr. Macron’s spokeswoman, Anne-Sophie Bradelle, complained to Le Monde.

As any observer of American politics knows, it can be hard to untangle theatrical outrage and Twitter screaming matches from real differences in values. Mr. Macron argues that there are big questions at the heart of the matter.

“There is a sort of misunderstanding about what the European model is, and the French model in particular,” he said. “American society used to be segregationist before it moved to a multiculturalist model, which is essentially about coexistence of different ethnicities and religions next to one another.”

“Our model is universalist, not multiculturalist,” he said, outlining France’s longstanding insistence that its citizens not be categorized by identity. “In our society, I don’t care whether someone is Black, yellow or white, whether they are Catholic or Muslim, a person is first and foremost a citizen.”

Some of the coverage Mr. Macron complains about reflects a genuine difference of values. The French roll their eyes at America’s demonstrative Christianity. And Mr. Macron’s talk of head scarves and menus, along with the interior minister’s complaints about Halal food in supermarkets, clashes with the American emphasis on religious tolerance and the free expression protected by the First Amendment.

Such abstract ideological distinctions can seem distant from the everyday lives of France’s large ethnic minorities, who complain of police abuse, residential segregation and discrimination in the workplace. Mr. Macron’s October speech also acknowledged, unusually for a French leader, the role that the French government’s “ghettoization” of Muslims in the suburbs of Paris and other cities played in creating generations of alienated young Muslims. And some of the coverage that has most offended the French has simply reflected the views of Black and Muslim French people who don’t see the world the way French elites want them to.

Picking fights with American media is also an old sport in France, and it can be hard to know when talk of cultural differences is real and when it is intended to wave away uncomfortable realities. And reactionary French commentators have gone further than Mr. Macron in attacking the U.S. media, drawing energy from the American culture wars. A flame-throwing article in the French magazine Marianne blasted U.S. coverage, with an adapted English version in Tablet adding an American flourish by denouncing “simplistic woke morality plays.” 

But the ideological gaps between French and American points of view can be deceptive. The French commentariat has also harped on the #metoo movement as an example of runaway American ideology. Pascal Bruckner, the well-known public intellectual, called the sexual abuse case against Roman Polanski “neo-feminist McCarthyism.” But perhaps the most prominent American journalism in France this year came from The Times’s Norimitsu Onishi, who played a central role in forcing France to grapple with the well-known pedophilia of a famous writer, Gabriel Matzneff. A recent profile in a French news site described Mr. Onishi and others as “kicking the anthill just by naming things” that had previously gone unspoken. Mr. Matzneff is now facing charges.

And Mr. Macron has his own political context: a desperate fight against a resurgent coronavirus, a weak economy and a political threat from the right. He is also disentangling himself from an early, unsuccessful attempt to build a relationship with President Trump. He had spoken to President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. the day before our conversation.

I asked him whether his vocal complaints about the American media weren’t themselves a little Trumpian — advancing his agenda through high-profile attacks on the press.

Mr. Macron said he simply wanted himself and his country to be clearly understood. “My message here is: If you have any question on France, call me,” he said. (He has, in fact, never granted The Times’s Paris bureau an interview, which would be a nice start.)

And he recoiled at the comparison to Mr. Trump.

“I read your newspapers, I’m one of your readers,” he said.





No.18 article:
Trump, the Absolute Worst Loser

He has spent his life gaming the system, so it’s no surprise that he can’t accept defeat.

Donald Trump lost the election. He knows it. But he won’t admit it.

He still hopes and believes that there is a way for the courts to erase enough votes to tip the election in his favor. This will not happen.

His legal challenges in swing states across the country are largely being met with defeat and setback. In court, you have to provide evidence. Lies, accusations and conspiracy theory don’t cut it. Trump has spent his life gaming the system. It is unfathomable to him that this system can’t be gamed.

In the end, Trump hopes to push his case to the Supreme Court, where he has seated three conservative justices. That is also not likely to be a winning strategy.

Trump believes he can use the judiciary as a weapon against the American people. The judiciary is not likely to allow itself to be used.

Barring that, he is committed to destroying faith in the electoral process itself. If he didn’t win, he insists he must have been cheated because, in his mind, failure is not a possibility.

Like he has done for the entirety of his presidency, he is lying, concocting a narrative detached from reality.

His Twitter feed since the election — he has made precious few appearances or official statements during this time — has been an unprecedented attack on election integrity and the voting franchise as a whole.

He keeps complaining that the election was rigged, that it was stolen from him, that computer software switched millions of votes from him to Joe Biden.

On Sunday, in reference to Biden, he tweeted: “He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA. I concede NOTHING! We have a long way to go. This was a RIGGED ELECTION!”

But Trump has gone further, appearing to attack the voters who cast their ballots for Biden. He retweeted a post by a Richmond, Va. television station that read: “Virginia Wesleyan University business professor and dean Paul Ewell wrote that anyone who chose Biden for president is ‘ignorant, anti-American and anti-Christian.’ ” To that tweet, Trump appended, “Progress!”

Donald Trump will no longer be president on Jan. 20. That is a hard fact, an unmovable date. Biden will be sworn in and will become the president.

But Trump is not going to allow this transition to be smooth. He rose in spectacle and he will flame out in it. We should put nothing beyond him. He will do everything he can do not to assume the posture of the defeated. He will do everything to secure a future for himself and his family that is comfortable and secure. He will do everything with the last bits of power from his presidency.

His attack on the election system is doing damage to our democracy. So is his refusal to concede. So is his sulking. But, of course, Trump doesn’t care about our democracy. He doesn’t care about democracy, period. He cares about money and power. He cares about managing the mob. He cares about adoration.

But the problem here is bigger than Trump. Republicans in Congress are indulging Trump’s delusion, which has the effect of granting his derangement credence in the eyes of his loyal followers.

Trump became president in part because the Russians interfered with our election to help him in 2016. That was a fact. Trump repeatedly called the investigation into that interference a hoax. Election officials have deemed this election “the most secure in American history.” That is a fact. Trump keeps claiming it was wracked with corruption.

Trump is depressingly predictable: constantly lying and denying, constructing a world in which he is the winner and hero.

We know why Trump does what he does. He is depraved. Republicans in Congress, by going along with this nonsense, are proving once again that they are so cowardly and craven that they will join Trump in his depravity.

They underscore that the Republican Party is a thing that now exists in name only. This is Trump’s party, bought and paid for.

In other years, the rising stars of the party would emerge in this period offering a post-loss vision for an alteration that would ensure victory the next time out. Not this year. They are all too afraid to tell the loser that he lost.

And, if Trump declares soon that he will run again in 2024, as some have speculated, it will further cow other 2024 contenders. Any suggestion that they would run would put them immediately in a fight with the man who just received a record number of Republican votes.

After Republicans lost in 2012, they produced an autopsy report designed to grow the party. With Trump, they threw that out and doubled down on being the party of white grievance. This year’s election and Trump’s reaction to it is not likely to produce an autopsy but induce a séance.

The Republican Party is dead. Trump killed it. MAGA is dancing on the grave. The way to remember that party is in spirit.





No.19 article:
What We Learned From Week 10 of the N.F.L. Season

DeAndre Hopkins pulled down a catch that will live forever, Ronald Jones II ran Tampa Bay to victory and Ben Roethlisberger was no worse for the wear after a week of no practice.

A Hail Mary into triple-coverage. A 98-yard touchdown run. A roughing the passer call that handed a team a win. It was a week of big plays and last-minute changes in fortune, and it shook up the N.F.L.’s best division, as the N.F.C. West now has a three-way tie for first place.

Here’s what we learned:

Pittsburgh’s quarterback appears to need practice about as much as Allen Iverson did. Roethlisberger was idle all week after landing on the Covid-19 reserve list as a result of close contact with tight end Vance McDonald and wasn’t cleared to enter team facilities until Saturday. That didn’t matter as he torched Cincinnati’s defense for 333 yards and four touchdowns. Pittsburgh improved to 9-0 for the season. and will look to stretch that to 10-0 next week in Jacksonville.

It is hard to tell by the final score, but this was a closely-contested 17-17 game at halftime, and the second half had a slow start as well. Jones’s wild 98-yard run came on the first play of Tampa Bay’s second drive of the third quarter, and from there the Buccaneers were off to the races. Needless to say, the 192 yards rushing were a personal best for Jones, who came into the day with a career-high of 113. He had just 9 last week.

You could make a reasonable case that Green Bay’s Marquez Valdes-Scantling had a more impressive game overall, considering his 78-yard touchdown and his average of 37.3 yards a catch. But this column is a Murray-to-Hopkins Hail Mary fan blog and we are not considering other nominees at this time.

Detroit’s Matt Prater got most of the attention for a three field-goal game that included a 59-yard game-winner as time expired, but he was far from alone. With one game remaining in Week 10, the league’s kickers have already connected for 11 field goals of 50 or more yards, tying a record set in Week 13 of the 2012 season.

The longest field goal on Sunday belonged to Seattle’s Jason Myers, who hit a 61-yarder in the Seahawks’ loss to Los Angeles. But the best day, beyond Prater’s, belonged to Buffalo’s Tyler Bass who connected on field goals of 54, 55 and 58 yards, setting a new career long on three consecutive kicks.

There have been 71 field goals of at least 50 yards this season, which according to the N.F.L. has already broken the league’s record for the first 10 weeks of the season, which was set in 2017 when there were 67.

*Except when it takes more.

Cardinals 32, Bills 30 The photo above this item is of a Cardinals touchdown.

Buccaneers 46, Panthers 23 Tom Brady had more than 300 yards passing for the third time this season — he topped that mark only once in his final 10 games with New England — and he once again split up his touchdown passes, with one each to Rob Gronkowski, Mike Evans and Cameron Brate.

Steelers 36, Bengals 10 Pittsburgh’s big day on offense saw Diontae Johnson, a second-year wide receiver, contribute six catches for 116 yards and a touchdown while the rookie sensation Chase Claypool scored two more touchdowns, bringing his total over his last six games to eight.

Rams 23, Seahawks 16 Leonard Floyd got three of the Rams’ six sacks and five of the team’s 12 quarterback hits, helping to make Russell Wilson’s day absolutely miserable.

Giants 27, Eagles 17 It was a throwback game for the Giants, as the team’s defensive front set the tone with three sacks and 13 quarterback hits, and Daniel Jones went a second consecutive game without committing a turnover. After starting the season 0-5, the Giants have improved from historically awful to merely bad, which in their division could lead to a playoff spot.

Patriots 23, Ravens 17 Rex Burkhead caught touchdown passes from Cam Newton and Jakobi Meyers, Damien Harris ran for 121 yards and New England held on for an upset that could go a long way to turning around a disappointing season.

Saints 27, 49ers 13 A huge hit from San Francisco’s Kentavius Street in the second quarter left Saints quarterback Drew Brees wincing on the field — and resulted in a fairly questionable penalty on Street. Brees was able to fight his way through the pain until halftime, but gave way to Jameis Winston for the second half despite never being officially ruled out with what was described as a rib injury.

Dolphins 29, Chargers 21 Justin Herbert has had a remarkable rookie season, but the Chargers quarterback was outplayed by Tua Tagovailoa in this game and his interception early in the fourth quarter helped give Miami the breathing room it needed to stretch its winning streak to five games.

Packers 24, Jaguars 20 After an impressive N.F.L. debut last week, Jacksonville’s Jake Luton came back to Earth a bit, passing for just 169 yards with one touchdown and one interception against a Green Bay defense that typically makes quite a few mistakes. That won’t work against Aaron Rodgers, even on a day that was a little slow by his lofty standards.

Browns 10, Texans 7 In his first action since Week 4, Nick Chubb ran for 126 yards and a touchdown while Kareem Hunt, seeming happy to share the load, had 132 yards from scrimmage.

Lions 30, Footballers 27 In his first start in nearly two years following a devastating leg break, Alex Smith threw for 390 yards and rallied his team all the way back from a 24-3 deficit to a 27-27 tie before a mistake by his team’s defense handed Detroit the victory.

Raiders 37, Broncos 12 When asked about a game in which his team’s defense forced five turnovers and running backs Josh Jacobs and Devontae Booker combined for 193 yards rushing and four touchdowns, quarterback Derek Carr just seemed happy to be there. “It’s kind of awesome,” Carr said in his postgame news conference. “As I get older, I let the young guys do more of the work.”





No.20 article:
Joe Biden Will Face This Overlooked Crisis on Day 1

Members of the new administration may have to reassemble a broken government before they can begin to use it for good.

Most of the election-disaster scenarios that journalists and campaign lawyers prepared for don’t seem to have come to pass. True, President Trump and many Republicans are giving the appearance of contesting the election, perhaps to placate Trump’s ego. But so far nothing has emerged that would lead to the Supreme Court getting involved, state legislatures haven’t tried to appoint their own electors and the popular vote and Electoral College tally aligned.

But while we were worrying about an election crisis, we may be unprepared for the crisis of governance that Joe Biden will face after he is inaugurated as president on Jan. 20.

It’s not just the likelihood that the Senate will remain controlled narrowly by Republicans — and so prevent ambitious legislation on climate change, economic stimulus or health care.

There’s much more to governing than legislative initiatives. And unlike previous Democratic presidents, with low expectations for legislative breakthroughs, Mr. Biden could hit the ground running with the day-to-day work of administrative governance. And also unlike predecessors such as Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter, he and his core staff have the experience in the executive branch that others needed years to acquire.

But they may have to reassemble a broken government before they can begin to use it for good.

The Covid-19 pandemic and economic crisis together have revealed the limits of our capacity to respond to crises that demand basic coordination and resources, limits made far worse by members of the Trump administration but not solely their fault.

In personnel and regulatory rules, the core of the day-to-day business of governing, the next president is likely to encounter a minefield of Trump-era changes; a bureaucracy that’s lost much of its experienced middle tier; and hundreds of officials who have passed the Trump loyalty tests reportedly organized by the White House personnel director, Johnny McEntee, or cabinet officials like Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who asked Mr. Trump to fire his agency’s inspector general in May.

The Trump administration has moved aggressively to alter regulations affecting the environment, workplace health and safety, education policy and programs like Medicaid. This newspaper has documented the completion or advancement of rollbacks of more than 100 environmental rules, some of which went even beyond the wish lists of the companies that will benefit. The Economic Policy Institute found 50 actions that would limit workers’ rights.

Some changes made by executive order can be reversed quickly by the same method, but most will require lengthy rule-making periods of their own, with time for public comment and possible legal challenges.

With Democratic control of the Senate, the Biden administration would have been able to use an obscure process, the Congressional Review Act, to reverse regulations finalized late this year, just as Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans used it 16 times to reverse regulations from President Barack Obama’s administration. Instead, the Trump administration has two and a half months to jam through even more rules changes.

All these regulatory changes, and the complexity of reversing them, will be like sand in the gears in the implementation of any action on climate, student loans or health care, as well as to the ordinary functioning of government. And they will make enacting an effective medical, economic and social response to the pandemic even more challenging.

The Trump administration’s shocking sabotage of the census adds another complication that will ripple through the management of the more than 130 federal programs, including Medicaid and food stamps, that use census data to allocate funds.

Steve Bannon and other acolytes of Mr. Trump denounced the “administrative state” as if it were a permanent and unchanging feature, but Mr. Trump has effectively used the administrative state to dismantle itself, beginning quickly to drive out experienced midlevel lawyers, scientists and analysts, even devising tactics like moving whole offices far from Washington. Throughout the federal government, political loyalists so inexperienced they have not yet completed college have been installed in key positions. Many are likely to try to “burrow in,” converting political appointments to protected Civil Service positions.

Officials below the cabinet level — with titles such as director of the Bureau of Land Management, or assistant secretary for postsecondary education — will be as important as the higher-profile positions, and filling them quickly (or replacing unqualified people who hold those positions now) with experienced people familiar with the agencies should be a priority.

But Mitch McConnell’s Senate can grind this process to a halt, too, even if it confirms many of Mr. Biden’s top-level nominees.

There are still constructive efforts to prepare for governance in 2021, including by the very nonpartisan Partnership for Public Service’s Center for Presidential Transitions. Perhaps the most comprehensive catalog of actions a Democratic president could take without support in Congress is the “Day One Agenda,” published by the liberal magazine The American Prospect in 2019. It includes ambitious steps to strengthen antitrust enforcement and forgive student loan debt.

But the basic challenge of claiming control of the executive branch and carrying out a public health and economic response to the pandemic requires far more than a day to be ready.

Mr. Biden and his team might also not realize how much has changed, and how many of the basic structures of daily governance have been broken. One value of democratic norms is that they create expectations that allow smooth transitions across administrations or within them. As those norms have been broken in the Trump years, so have those expectations.

People’s direct experience of government and the services and security it provides, or fails to provide, shapes our sense of ourselves as citizens in a democracy as much as, or more than, elections and legislation. Much will depend on the Biden administration’s preparation for what it finds when it finally takes the keys to the White House.





No.21 article:
A Chagall Curtain Needs a New Home With a Tall Ceiling

A 65-foot-tall stage curtain that the artist created for the Metropolitan Opera in the 1960s will go up for auction Tuesday at Bonhams.

Wanted: art lover with deep pockets and a high ceiling — a very high ceiling. A 65-foot-high ceiling, 20 feet taller than the Hollywood sign, 25 feet taller than a telephone pole and 46 feet taller than a full-grown giraffe.

The object in question is a stage curtain — a riot of figures on a fiery red background not quite 44 feet wide — that Marc Chagall created for a Metropolitan Opera production of Mozart’s “Die Zauberflöte” (“The Magic Flute”) in the 1960s, at about the same time he designed the famous murals that flank the Met’s lobby at Lincoln Center. The curtain is to be auctioned on Tuesday in New York by Bonhams, which estimates that it will sell for $250,000 to $500,000.

The curtain’s gigantic size is why it is being sold. It was too big for the spot where the most recent owner wanted to hang it, in a museum in Armenia, a lofty pyramid with artificial waterfalls that is almost as tall as the Empire State Building. And so it was folded, put back in its custom-made crate and returned to New York.

“It does take a special space,” said Molly Ott Ambler, a senior vice president of Bonhams. “It’s a unique object to consider.”

But unlike auctions where the item being sold — a painting or a diamond or a tiny stamp — is carried to the podium before the bidding begins, the curtain will remain in its crate on Tuesday. It is so large that Bonhams had to rent a studio about half the size of a football field just to photograph it.

“It’s such a quintessentially Chagall image, with multiple figures and a swirling fantasy flying through the air,” Ms. Ott Ambler said, noting that Chagall used more gold and silver pigment on the curtain’s linen fabric than on the sets for ballets that he had designed when he was younger. “He’s really good at incorporating geometric shapes, at giving the sun and moon a vibrating quality. He’s able to create these dynamic relationships between the sections of the curtain that tell the story.”

The Met sold the curtain, seen in the final act of the production, in 2007, two years before it put up the murals in the lobby as collateral for a loan in the wake of the financial crisis.

The curtain, executed in collaboration with the Russian stage designer Volodia Odinokov, was part of the only opera set that Chagall designed. Artists have long expanded their portfolios by collaborating with choreographers and directors. Perhaps the most famous such partnership was Salvador Dalí’s backdrop for Alfred Hitchcock’s thriller “Spellbound” in 1945. Artists like Eugene Berman and John Piper designed opera sets — Berman did five for the Met from 1951 to 1963 — and Maurice Sendak’s rough sketches and polished designs for operas and ballets were the subject of an exhibition at the Morgan Library &amp; Museum last year. The sculptor Henry Moore designed a staging of “Don Giovanni” by Mozart in 1967 that included abstract shapes made of foam rubber. And Julie Taymor, the Tony Award-winning director of “The Lion King,” designed a new “Magic Flute” for the Met in 2004 to replace one designed by the painter David Hockney.

Chagall had created inventive settings for ballets in the 1940s but did not venture into opera until Sir Rudolf Bing, the director of the Met, persuaded him to work on a new production of Mozart’s last opera, a fantasy about a prince assigned to rescue the abducted daughter of the Queen of the Night.

Bing, who was friendly with Chagall, had tried to get him to design a production for a ballet in the 1950s. Chagall said no to that project and to Verdi’s “Nabucco,” which was scheduled for the 1960 season. But he could not say no to “The Magic Flute.” It was a favorite. “There is nothing on earth that approaches those two perfections, ‘The Magic Flute’ and the Bible,” he once declared.

Chagall, then in his 70s, had just unveiled a new painted ceiling at the Paris Opera, actually a set of panels that were placed over the original circular painting by Jules Eugène Lenepveu. Chagall created a swirl of figures and symbols that paid tribute to Bizet’s “Carmen,” Wagner’s “Tristan und Isolde” and Mussorgsky’s “Boris Godunov,” among others — and “The Magic Flute.”

And then he plunged into the new Met production. His granddaughter Bella Meyer described the curtain as “a whole celebration” of the composer. “It was an extraordinary adventure for him to be able to go into the world of Mozart and to be able to bring it onto the stage,” she said in an interview.

“The Magic Flute” was planned for the Met’s first season at Lincoln Center. Chagall “drew and painted sketches from morning to night,” Bing wrote in his memoir, “A Knight at the Opera” (1981), and met with Günther Rennert, the production’s director.

Not everyone was enthusiastic about the outcome. John Canaday, The New York Times’s art critic at the time, said that Chagall “seems to have thought of the assignment a little too much as a one-man show,” while Harold C. Schonberg, The Times’s chief music critic, complained that the opening-night audience was not listening to the arias but “busy trying to count the number of figures in the backdrop.”

Still, the Chagall-designed “Magic Flute” remained in the Met’s repertoire for 24 years. Even after the production was retired, the sets were brought out from time to time for black-tie dinner-dances for Met patrons.

And then the Met sold the curtain to Gerard L. Cafesjian, a collector who had made a fortune from his stake in a Midwestern publishing house. Ms. Ott Ambler said that Mr. Cafesjian, who died in 2013, “loved works of great color and powerful impact.” (His estate now owns the curtain.) He was also passionate about his Armenian heritage and reportedly gave more than $50 million for the museum in the Armenian capital of Yerevan.

“I think he saw this as a potentially strong centerpiece” for the museum, she said of the curtain. “I think he found it to be a compelling celebration of life and the images you think of with Chagall, the large blue bird in the foreground or the symbols of music that Chagall portrayed again and again. Chagall was always looking for joy, and music was a major part of that.”





No.22 article:
How a Minneapolis Suburb Turned Blue, Despite Trump’s Law-and-Order Pitch

President Trump comfortably carried Chaska, Minn., in 2016. This time, he lost by nine percentage points — a dramatic shift that similarly played out in suburban counties across the country.

CHASKA, Minn. — As some protests over police brutality and systemic racism descended into vandalism and looting in Minneapolis over the summer, President Trump insisted that he was the candidate to restore “law and order” to the city. In the nearby suburb of Chaska, Minn., Mike Magusin bristled. In his view, he said, the president had fueled the unrest.

“He’s said plenty of stupid, stupid things that upset people deeply,” Mr. Magusin, 51, said. “That’s what’s dangerous, because people are upset. They’re struggling. And here’s this guy making it even worse with his words.”

Four years ago, Mr. Magusin voted for the Green Party candidate, in part because he assumed the nation would be mostly fine even if Mr. Trump won. This year, he left nothing to chance.

Even though he was not excited about Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Magusin cast his ballot for him, helping the president-elect become the first Democratic presidential candidate to win Chaska in nearly 25 years.

In all, Mr. Trump lost Chaska by nine percentage points — a steep fall from 2016, when he beat Hillary Clinton in that city by six percentage points. And although Mr. Trump captured Carver County, which includes Chaska, he did so by just five percentage points, down from a 14-point margin of victory in 2016.

The shift was so drastic that it helped Mr. Biden easily win Minnesota, by more than 233,000 votes. His performance in Chaska, as well as in other outlying Twin Cities communities, mirrored his success in suburbs across the country, where voters turned out in such significant numbers that they helped fuel Mr. Biden’s rise to the presidency.

Indeed, Mr. Biden improved on Mrs. Clinton’s performance in suburban counties by an average of five percentage points, representing the places with the biggest shift in vote margins from 2016, according to a New York Times analysis. His gains were largest in traditionally Republican strongholds in battleground states, in the suburbs of Phoenix, Dallas, Jacksonville and Atlanta, to name a few.

As was the case nationally, Mr. Trump got more votes in Chaska this year than in his first presidential run. But he also drove thousands of opponents to the polls.

Some residents said they were repulsed by Mr. Trump’s attitude and his divisive rhetoric on race, leading them to vote for Mr. Biden or a third-party candidate.

Over the past couple of years, the city has grappled with racism after incidents at its high school, which included white students who dressed in blackface. Those episodes, residents said, liberalized some people’s views and fostered a greater understanding of racial justice issues that stands in contrast to Mr. Trump’s denial of systemic racism.

A shift in the city’s demographics, too, seems to have given Mr. Biden a boost. More nonwhite families and professionals who used to live in cities — groups that tend to lean more Democratic — have settled in Chaska, population 27,000, for its affordability and high-performing schools.

And although the occasional acts of vandalism and looting in Minneapolis after the killing of George Floyd in police custody might have stoked some anxiety in Chaska, it did not seem to evoke serious concern, even among Mr. Trump’s supporters. In fact, the main takeaway, some residents said, was not that the country was descending into lawlessness, but that systemic racism was a major problem in America.

“That was a huge turning point for me, I think, in general of really understanding the Black Lives Matter movement and just embracing it,” said Amy Olsen-Schoo, a white Chaska resident who voted for Mr. Trump four years ago but for Mr. Biden this time.

Ms. Olsen-Schoo, 45, was raised in the Twin Cities suburbs as a moderate Republican — fiscally conservative but more liberal on social issues. Until this year, she had voted Republican her entire life.

When Mr. Trump campaigned four years ago, Ms. Olsen-Schoo was drawn to his lack of political experience and his pledge to “drain the swamp.” She said she brushed off his most offensive remarks. When he spoke harshly of immigrants, she took it to mean that he was championing immigration reform, which she agreed with, she said.

“I saw him as someone interesting, something different — it was appealing,” she said. “You look past some of those transgressions. I can’t believe I did that. I’m ashamed.”

Once Mr. Trump became president, Ms. Olsen-Schoo quickly saw his rhetoric as inciting hatred, she said. She was horrified by comments that she read from Republicans on social media, she said, such as suggestions that Muslims were going to destroy America.

Although 83 percent of Chaska’s population is white, its racial and ethnic diversity has slightly grown over the past decade. Latinos make up 8.4 percent, Asians 3.5 percent and Black residents 2.2 percent.

The divisiveness of the Trump era hit close to home, residents said, after a series of racist incidents at Chaska High School and after critics of a new equity program in the school district argued that it would lead to discrimination against white students.

From those racial tensions, residents formed a racial justice group in Chaska, a city of sprawling subdivisions with single-family homes, surrounded by walking trails and lakes.

Donta Hughes, 38, said that after Mr. Floyd’s killing, support grew for the group and for Black residents like himself. He began receiving supportive messages on Facebook, he said, and more white residents became willing to have difficult conversations about race. The Chaska police chief brought together community members, including Mr. Hughes, to discuss issues surrounding race.

Still, when a group of high school students organized a Black Lives Matter protest in Chaska, there was pushback. Some residents warned that it could spiral out of control like demonstrations elsewhere in the country. Some businesses boarded up their windows in the quaint downtown strip of shops and boutiques housed in low-slung brick buildings.

To ease the tensions, Mr. Hughes, who moved to Chaska eight years ago with his wife and four children for the schools, told residents he would patrol the community during the protest. The protest was peaceful, which helped people to see that Mr. Trump’s law-and-order concerns were overblown.

“I think the voices that we had here just spoke loud enough to combat that,” Mr. Hughes said.

In many ways, the hard left turn in Chaska — and the higher Democratic turnout in Carver County — stemmed from yearslong efforts by local Democrats to increase their visibility in a deeply Republican territory.

When Mary Leizinger became the chair of the Carver County Democrats four years ago, she saw an opportunity to gain support in the eastern part of the county, which is more developed and closer to the Twin Cities relative to the rural western part.

Ms. Leizinger said she focused heavily on combating misinformation on Facebook by posting reputable news articles to the county party’s page. She increased participation of county Democratic Party members in community festivals and parades, carrying large banners bearing the party’s name and signs that addressed specific issues.

“Five or 10 years ago, we’d walk in the parades and it would be stone-cold faces,” Ms. Leizinger, 63, said. But last summer, they marched with signs denouncing the Trump administration’s child separation policy at the Mexican border “and got standing ovations,” she said.

The party also bought space on five billboards in the western part of the county and plastered them with messages attacking Mr. Trump and urging people to vote Democratic.

In some ways, Mr. Trump was his own worst enemy.

Coming from a family of Illinois farmers, Rachel Frances said she was drawn to Mr. Trump as a first-time voter in 2016 because of his pitch to working-class people. But once he took office, she quickly came to believe that he did not know what he was doing, she said.

“He knows nothing what it means to be the working class,” said Ms. Frances, 22, who moved to Chaska three months ago with her boyfriend and voted for a third-party candidate this election. “It very quickly wore off, his whole allure.”

Though it remains to be seen whether Chaska’s Democratic swing will continue beyond this election, some liberal residents say they have discovered alliances where they least expected them.

Ashley Tike and her husband, Guillaume, represent the demographic change that has made suburbs bluer. They met in Los Angeles, where Ms. Tike moved after attending college in North Dakota, where she was raised in a conservative Catholic household. Her political views became more liberal while living on the West Coast and for a year in France, where her husband is from.

They moved to Minnesota last year when she was pregnant so that they could be closer to her parents, and they chose Chaska because it was quieter and more affordable than a big city.

But for all of its advantages, Ms. Tike, a 26-year-old figure skating coach, felt politically out of place. Still, she thought that the stakes in this election were too high to stay silent, so she nervously planted a Biden sign in their front yard.

“I was just kind of like, ‘Well, I haven’t met any of the neighbors really anyway because of Covid, and so if they hate us, they hate us,’” she said. “I just felt like Trump needed to get out. Every time I saw him on the TV, my fists were clenching.”

Shortly after Ms. Tike put out the sign, a neighbor on one side came to her and said that her own Biden sign was on its way. Then, the neighbor on the other side also approached Ms. Tike: Where could she get her own Biden sign, she asked.





No.23 article:
Did It Hit 3%? Why Parents and Teachers Are Fixated on One Number

Weeks after he managed to reopen the New York City school system, Mayor Bill de Blasio is facing fresh questions about if and when to close it.

[Read more on NYC school closings due to Covid-19]

The news that hundreds of thousands of parents and educators had been awaiting arrived at 9:45 on Sunday morning, in a tweet from Mayor Bill de Blasio: New York City’s test positivity rate remained below 3 percent.

The city’s school system, which must close if the positivity rate hits a 3 percent seven-day average, would remain open another day. New Yorkers breathed a sigh of relief, for now.

But it was also clear that parents’ and teachers’ focus on that number would not let up. The fixation points to both the profound anxiety surrounding the fate of the school system — the nation’s largest — and the extraordinary challenge of operating schools in a pandemic that is again on the upswing.

Over the summer, Mr. de Blasio pushed hard to reopen classrooms, calling it a moral imperative and a vital step in the city’s recovery. But about seven weeks after he managed to restart the system, the mayor is facing fresh questions about how and whether to close it: Should he stick to the 3 percent threshold he set months ago, or should he revise it, given that recent data shows that schools seem to have relatively few infections?

New York City, one of the few big cities to return children to school buildings, has chosen a relatively conservative threshold for closure.

Several states have adopted higher levels, including New York, where Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has said that schools across the state would have to close only when the test positivity in a region reaches 9 percent. In Iowa, Gov. Kim Reynolds has set the state’s closure threshold at 15 percent.

Debates about when and how to reopen schools come as America is experiencing a stunning surge in cases in most parts of the country, forcing some districts to either delay their reopening plans or cancel in-person classes altogether. The United States reported more than 159,000 new cases on Saturday alone.

A vaccine is unlikely to be widely available until the end of this school year, and it is still unclear whether schools will return to normal next fall, since the vaccines have so far mostly been tested on adults, not school-age children.

In recent days, Mr. Cuomo has suggested that the mayor re-evaluate his calculus, based upon scientists’ current understanding of virus transmission. Still, the governor has left most decisions about school reopening to individual districts, and the mayor doesn’t want to move the goal posts for safety now, officials said — particularly after the uproar in September, when he repeatedly pushed back the school reopening date.

Michael Mulgrew, the president of the New York City teachers’ union, has defended the threshold, saying it was “part of the plan” and should not be revised. “When the mayor told us about the 3 percent, we went to our doctors, and they said it was an appropriate number,” Mr. Mulgrew said in an interview on Friday.

Adding to parents’ concerns is the fact that Sunday is the deadline for families to decide if they want any in-person classes for their children — most likely the last chance to opt in for the entire school year.

The mayor’s messaging has been consistent: The 3 percent threshold is sacrosanct, meaning it is likely that schools will soon close temporarily.

“The 3 percent threshold is a strict standard, just like our mask standard and our school shutdown standard,” his spokesman, Bill Neidhardt, said. “That’s why the schools are safe to begin with.”

The future of New York City’s ambitious effort to offer in-person schooling at its 1,800 public schools hangs in the balance.

As of last week, about 300,000 children had received at least some in-person instruction; the vast majority of the city’s roughly 1.1 million students are still learning with online classes only. Most children are permitted to attend school in person just one to three days a week.

As of Sunday morning, the city’s average positivity rate stood at 2.57 percent, and the expectation is that the rate will only increase.

City officials are preparing for the worst.

On Thursday evening, Chancellor Richard A. Carranza sent an email to principals, asking them to prepare for shutdowns. That same day, Mr. de Blasio suggested that such closures could last for weeks. On Friday, the mayor encouraged parents to develop alternative plans for the likely end of in-person schooling this month.

With so much uncertainty, parents are left scouring the city’s latest numbers for clues: Was Friday’s alarming 2.8 percent average positivity rate artificially high? Could Saturday’s low daily rate have been an outlier, or a positive sign?

“We have a struggle ahead right now, I’m not going to lie to you,” Mr. de Blasio said Sunday during an appearance at a Brooklyn church. “But I do want to let you know school is open tomorrow, and that’s a blessing.”

On Friday, school administrators weren’t taking any chances. Teachers filled bags with books and papers in anticipation of teaching from home for weeks or longer. Some students cleaned out their desks.

Parents questioned whether the 3 percent metric was in fact the correct one, or just a relic from the earlier days of the pandemic, when scientists knew less about how the virus would spread in schools.

The mayor announced the metric over the summer, when it was still unclear if his administration could pull off reopening. At the time, the leader of the city’s teachers’ union was warning that schools would not be safe come fall, and threats of sickouts or even a strike loomed.

Mr. de Blasio said that he set the threshold intentionally low to give anxious parents and educators a clear signal that the city was taking safety seriously.

A City Hall official said the threshold was developed with the city’s public health experts, as part of a package of school safety measures that they set out to make the strictest in the world: mandatory mask requirements, six feet between desks, school buildings at half or even a third capacity and a monthly testing regimen.

The city also predicted then that a 3 percent positivity rate would correlate to roughly 1,000 positive tests a day, which would inevitably cause alarm throughout the city.

Reassuring the teachers’ union, the United Federation of Teachers, was crucial at a moment when the mayor did not appear to have the political support needed to reopen schools.

But to the city’s surprise, very little transmission happened in schools. The latest data shows that random testing since October has produced a positivity rate of just .17 percent.

“Schools have been safer than even our most rosy predictions in City Hall, but that’s because we set standards based on public health, not public opinion,” Mr. Neidhardt said.

A rising chorus of parents is now arguing that the threshold should be closer to the state guideline of 9 percent. But Anna Bershteyn, a professor of population health at N.Y.U.’s Grossman School of Medicine, said, “It’s really difficult to know what the right number should be.”

Isaac Weisfuse, a medical epidemiologist at Cornell University, said he hadn’t seen officials make a persuasive case for the 3 percent threshold, or for any other threshold, particularly since some neighborhoods continue to have very low positivity rates.

“It’s hard to have policies that please everyone and policies that apply to every neighborhood uniformly,” he said.

Some principals and teachers who were wary of reopening have said they are devastated that schools are likely to close again.

“Probably not a popular take on this website right now, but I’m really sad about this upcoming shutdown and the loss of in person learning time for our students,” Michael Perlberg, the principal of Middle School 839 in Brooklyn, wrote on Twitter.

Several teachers and principals soon chimed in, saying they too were distraught about the looming closure, and that the constant uncertainty over whether schools would remain open was weighing on them and their students.

“This is our teacher life right now,” said Marilyn Ramirez, a high school teacher in Manhattan. “I know we’re supposed to be flexible, but this ‘be ready to shut it down at a moment’s notice’ is on some new anxiety level.” Ms. Ramirez said she was also concerned that not enough students had devices to start learning remotely.

Some teachers said they thought the mayor should stick with the threshold.

“I do think it’s a matter of time until the virus spreads in our schools,” said Mike Loeb, who teaches at a Bronx middle school. “In our incredibly unpredictable world, which the mayor has not helped to improve much, sticking with the standard set months ago would bring some consistency.”

Several dozen parents and children held a rally in Lower Manhattan on Saturday in support of keeping schools open even if the city hits the 3 percent average in the coming days.

Ellene Hu, who lives in Manhattan, attended the protest because her son has loved being in his kindergarten classroom five days a week.

 “We know now that schools aren’t superspreaders,” she said, adding that she’s frustrated that her son’s school is likely to close before gyms and indoor dining.

“Can we re-look at the data, and re-look at what contributes to the pandemic and prioritize accordingly?” she said.

On Saturday, Mr. Cuomo suggested that New York City should reconsider its plans.

“If the school has a much lower positivity rate than the surrounding area, then the school is not part of the problem,” Mr. Cuomo said. “And you could argue keeping the children in the school is part of the solution, rather than the children spending time on the street in the neighborhood where the infection rate is higher.”





No.24 article:
Overlooked No More: Anya Phillips, Fashion Influencer in New York’s Punk Scene

She helped give pulse to the movement’s anti-establishment credo, dressing musicians like Debbie Harry of Blondie and James Chance and becoming a downtown “It girl.”

This article is part of Overlooked, a series of obituaries about remarkable people whose deaths, beginning in 1851, went unreported in The Times.

In the 1970s, Anya Phillips left Taiwan to forge a fashion career in New York City, showing up in a burgeoning downtown punk scene in what would become her signature dress, an eye-catching piece made of electric blue spandex that laced up the front. When she paired it with stilettos and a full-length fur coat, she exuded a slinky glamour that would make her the “It girl” of Lower Manhattan’s night clubs.

New York at the time was on the brink of bankruptcy, overwhelmed with neglect and crime. But rent was cheap, and amid the decay, designers, artists, musicians and filmmakers formed collaborations, making art and meeting up at rock venues.

“Arriving there and finding this incredible creativity happening in this kind of grimy downtown scene — she instantly got it,” said Sylvia Reed, a close friend and the former wife and manager of the Velvet Underground’s frontman, Lou Reed, in a phone interview.

Phillips mingled with artists like the Ramones and Iggy Pop and styled musicians in garments that suited their sensibilities and colored their rock personas. She designed the pink dress that the singer Debbie Harry wore on the cover of Blondie’s album “Plastic Letters” (1978) and dressed James Chance and the Contortions in 1950s-era suits and ties that helped define the aesthetic of no wave, a nihilistic subgenre of punk rock.

Phillips’s plans were always bigger than the punk scene. She talked with Reed about wanting to translate her designs into her own fashion label, but expressed concerns that conventional avenues to fame might be challenging for her, particularly as an Asian immigrant. 

Before she could realize her ambitions, Phillips died of cancer on June 19, 1981. She was 26.

“She was always up to something, designing clothes, drawing sketches,” James Chance said in an interview with the website Vacant. “I really think if she was still alive, she would have become a designer. Many other people have been using her ideas.”

Phillips is believed to have been born in Taipei in February 1955. Her mother, Bi Li-na, had grown up in Beijing and left for Taiwan around the time of the Chinese Communist Revolution in the late 1940s; her father was a soldier in Chiang Kai-shek’s Nationalist army. They separated when Anya was a child. Her mother later married Wade Phillips, an American Army colonel, and had a son with him, Kris, who became known as Fei Xiang, one of China’s biggest pop stars in the 1980s.

As a teenager at Taipei American School, Phillips spent hours sketching clothing designs and showing them off to Sylvia Reed (then Sylvia Morales), her high school classmate. Although Phillips could not sew, she had her garments handmade by local tailors, which likely sharpened her own instincts in cut, fit and detailing.

Phillips moved to Manhattan in 1974 after graduating from high school, and Reed soon joined her.

Phillips aspired to make a name for herself as a fashion designer in New York City, with Reed as a sort of sidekick. “She had this picture in her mind of how she wanted her life to be, and I was to fulfill this role for her as her confidante, best friend and trusted companion,” Reed said in an interview with NBC News in 2016.

By then, Phillips had realized that the traditional path was not for her. She was awarded a full scholarship to Parsons School of Design in Greenwich Village but dropped out days into her studies, finding she lacked the discipline for structured coursework.

Instead, she rooted herself in the punk scene — merging the underground culture with the mainstream fashion she’d grown up admiring — and quickly became as known for her cutout, form-fitting dresses as she was for her eclectic style.

“She had a very clear idea of becoming an influential trendsetter in New York,” Reed said, “and she was that.”

Debbie Harry, who befriended Phillips through that scene, asked her to design her dress for the cover photo of “Plastic Letters.”

“You know, there’s people that you meet and you understand them, and they understand you sort of instantly,” Harry said in a phone interview. “We shared a similar kind of sense of humor.”

Phillips was also an artist, photographer and actress in underground films. She interviewed Paul Simonon, the bassist of the punk band the Clash, and contributed photos for Punk magazine. And she appeared in the fumetti-style illustrated photo comic “The Legend of Nick Detroit,” among an ensemble cast of New York punks. She later co-founded, with the downtown figure Steve Mass and the artist Diego Cortez, the Mudd Club in Tribeca, a nightclub where artists and scenesters gathered for a taste of the avant-garde.

By the late 1970s she had begun managing James Chance and the Contortions, which played a blend of punk, funk and jazz, and before long she and Chance were dating.

Acting as a kind of creative director for the band, Phillips sought to create for it a loud fashion aesthetic to complement the group’s sound. She dressed Chance in sharkskin suits and styled his hair into a pompadour — a retro-inspired look that reflected the band’s fusion music.

She acted as a promoter for the band, generating the buzz that helped take James Chance and the Contortions from an opening act to a headliner.

“She had a lot of credibility with the other people on the scene who might have been dubious about me,” Chance said in a phone interview, adding, “She didn’t want me to stay an underground thing that only a few SoHo artists like.”

Chance and Phillips were preparing to record a demo for a sci-fi disco album she conceptualized when she learned she had cancer. Her death two years later was noted in a brief obituary in Rolling Stone.

Through the people who know her work, Phillips’s ideas have endured. Harry wore another of her designs on the cover of her solo single “Rush Rush” in 1983. Some years after that, Phillips’s blue lace-up dress was an inspiration for an Anna Sui collection. To this day Phillips is regarded, along with Vivienne Westwood, as one of the designers who defined punk fashion.





No.25 article:
With Trench Warfare Deepening, Parties Face Unsettled Electoral Map

Voters delivered a convincing victory for Joe Biden, but a split decision for the two parties. Now Democrats and Republicans face perhaps the most up-for-grabs electoral landscape in a generation.

WASHINGTON — America’s two major parties had hoped the 2020 presidential election would render a decisive judgment on the country’s political trajectory. But after a race that broke records for voter turnout and campaign spending, neither Democrats nor Republicans have achieved a dominant upper hand.

Instead, the election delivered a split decision, ousting President Trump but narrowing the Democratic majority in the House and perhaps preserving the Republican majority in the Senate. As Joseph R. Biden Jr. prepares to take office and preside over a closely divided government, leaders in both camps are acknowledging that voters seem to have issued not a mandate for the left or the right but a muddled plea to move on from Trump-style chaos.

With 306 Electoral College votes and the most popular votes of any presidential candidate in history, Mr. Biden attained a victory that was paramount to many Democrats, who saw a second Trump term as nothing less than a threat to democracy.

Yet on the electoral landscape, both parties find themselves stretched thin and battling on new fronts, with their traditional strongholds increasingly under siege. Indeed, Democrats and Republicans are facing perhaps the most unsettled and up-for-grabs electoral map the country has seen in a generation, since the parties were still fighting over California in the late 1980s.This competition has denied either from being able to claim broad majorities and prompted a series of election cycles, which could be repeated in 2022, in which any gains Democrats make in the country’s booming cities and states are at least partly offset by growing Republican strength in rural areas.

The election also represented a continuation of this trench warfare between two parties that are increasingly defined by their activist flanks and limited to only incremental advances.

“We are more divided than any other time in my lifetime,” said Haley Barbour, the former Mississippi governor and Republican National Committee chair, whose first job in politics was on Richard M. Nixon’s 1968 campaign. “But usually when we’re at parity we’re bunched up in the middle — now we’ve got parity but with extreme polarity.”

Mr. Biden and the Democrats viewed this election as an opportunity to deliver a crushing repudiation to Republicans and the movement known as Trumpism, while Mr. Trump and his allies saw the chance to cement a durable governing coalition led by the far right.

Neither party got all it wanted. Democrats improved considerably on their performance in the last presidential race, repairing their standing in the Midwest, building their strength in the Sun Belt. Yet voters in Ohio, Iowa and Florida delivered a stinging rebuke to the idea the Democrats would pick off increasingly conservative states.

The G.O.P. defied expectations and gained seats in the House, limited its losses in the Senate and protected critical state legislative majorities. But the party experienced troubling erosion in the South and West as Mr. Biden won Arizona and Georgia.

As the results come into sharper focus, a more sober mood has set in on both sides of the aisle.

Unless Democrats can win a pair of Senate seats in Georgia’s January runoff elections, Mr. Biden will arrive in the White House facing the same circumstances his predecessors have for eight of the last 10 years: an executive branch controlled by one party and part or all of the legislative branch held by the other.

Mr. Biden, elected officials and strategists in both parties agree, will most likely have a limited window to show he can lead successfully. If he can bridge Washington’s bitter partisan divides to craft successful policies to fight the coronavirus pandemic and revive the economy, he may well have a chance to transform his party’s loose anti-Trump coalition into a more stable electoral majority.

Already, there are mounting signs of just how difficult it may be for either party to govern through pragmatism and compromise. With Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede the election and his talk of running again in 2024, Republicans are worried about Trumpian retribution if they break with a leader who remains the cultural and ideological lodestar of the G.O.P. base.

At the same time, Mr. Trump’s defeat this month has removed the single most important force holding the Democratic Party’s eclectic coalition together: the president himself. With his ouster, the détente that persisted throughout the year between the Democratic left and center has begun to crumble, with open sniping and blame-casting between figures like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, the party’s most prominent young progressive, and Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a centrist of vital importance to Mr. Biden’s agenda in the Senate.

It remains to be seen whether either party will embrace a head-on reckoning with its own electoral vulnerabilities. Moderate Democrats have mostly just criticized the party’s left wing for having promoted stances that they believe cost them seats in Congress, while Republicans have largely remained silent on Mr. Trump’s intransigence and conspiracy-mongering.

While Mr. Biden rebuilt the Democrats’ Blue Wall — reclaiming the swing states of Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania — he carried them by a fraction of the margins former President Barack Obama achieved in both the 2008 and 2012 elections. As long as Republicans manage to amass enormous leads with working-class white voters, those states may not be safely Democratic anytime soon.

Just as troubling to the party, Democrats sagged with voters of color, particularly in Hispanic and Asian-American communities where Republicans’ attacks on Democrats as a left-wing party appear to have resonated, denying Mr. Biden a victory in Florida and costing the Democrats congressional seats in that state as well as Texas and California. Indeed, the only House seats Republicans picked up that were not in districts Mr. Trump also carried were in heavily Hispanic or Asian regions.

On a Democratic conference call this past week, Representative Linda Sanchez, a former member of the House leadership, criticized Democrats’ Latino outreach strategy as a dismal failure, according to two people who participated on the call. And Representative Donna Shalala of Florida, who lost her seat in a heavily Hispanic district, complained on the call that her party did not effectively rebut Republicans’ portrayal of Democrats as socialists.

“Defund police, open borders, socialism — it’s killing us,” said Representative Vicente Gonzalez, a Democrat from South Texas who won just over 50 percent of the vote, two years after he nearly captured 60 percent. “I had to fight to explain all that.”

The “average white person,” Mr. Gonzalez added, may associate socialism with Nordic countries, but to Asian and Hispanic migrants it recalls despotic “left-wing regimes.”

Representative Harley Rouda of California, an Orange County Democrat who narrowly lost his bid for re-election, said the party needed to deliver a more assertive and moderate message if it wanted to claim districts like his. Mr. Rouda, who is planning to run again in 2022, said he suffered with centrist voters and his district’s numerous Vietnamese-American voters, many of whom recoil from messaging about socialism.

“This narrative that the Democratic Party is borderline socialist, we need to fight back harder on that because it’s simply not true,” he said. “We needed to be more forceful in defending the moderate position of the Democratic Party as a whole.”

Chuck Rocha, a longtime Democratic consultant, said too many white Democrats “see Black and brown people as the same” instead of approaching Hispanics as people open to either party and in need of convincing.

“Our community is not a get-out-the-vote universe,” said Mr. Rocha, alluding to voters almost certain to support Democrats if they show up at the polls. “We’re a persuasion universe and should be treated like whites.”

Yet if Republicans cling to Mr. Trump, or to his brand of crude nationalism, they will continue to alienate voters in the fast-growing South and West who helped hand Mr. Biden Arizona and Georgia. As Mr. Biden showed, there are hordes of swing voters who find Mr. Trump and his divisive politics even more offensive than the slogans of the hard left.

Mr. Biden’s map-stretching victories were not isolated events. They cap a steady expansion of Democratic strength, especially in the West, where the party has gained four Senate seats since 2016: two in Arizona, and one each in Colorado and Nevada.

State Senator J.D. Mesnard of Arizona, a Republican who won a difficult race for re-election this month, said his state had clearly become “more competitive,” though he argued that down-ballot results suggested voters hadn’t abandoned the party entirely.

“You see similar things in Georgia and North Carolina — states that have seen a lot of growth,” Mr. Mesnard said. “A lot of these places that were pretty hard-core red are now on the bubble.”

The deeper problem for Republicans is the powerful grip Mr. Trump retains on the party — exactly the factor that made those states competitive.

Among Republicans, there is a stark difference between how lawmakers who are nearing retirement age or are safely ensconced in their seats approach Mr. Trump and how those who still require his favor speak of him.

Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Senate Republican whose term is up in 2022, insisted that “the Republican Party is the Republican Party, it’s no one man’s party.”

And Senator Susan Collins, the Maine Republican who just won re-election without ever endorsing Mr. Trump, said the president “is an important voice but not the dominant voice in party,” pointing to “next generation” figures like Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and the former South Carolina governor Nikki Haley.

But Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, who may run again in 2022, was more deferential to Mr. Trump. “It’s President Trump’s supporters’ party,” Mr. Johnson said. “That’s a group of people I think the Republican Party wants to hang onto.”

For Democrats, the election has illustrated the fragility of their coalition.

With Mr. Biden racking up overwhelming margins in Philadelphia, Detroit and Milwaukee — and even winning metropolitan Phoenix and Atlanta — progressives have become angered by the party establishment’s complaints about the issues energizing activists.

“While there is a lot of sniping at defund the police, Medicare for all, the Green New Deal and things like that, we also have to recognize that the Black Lives Matter movement was a seminal moment for the country and it also boosted Democratic registration and turnout across the country,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, co-chair of the House Progressive Caucus.

National Democrats, meanwhile, were shocked that Republicans made incremental gains with voters of color, especially in a campaign pitting Mr. Trump’s incendiary persona against Mr. Biden’s message of racial-justice message. That development challenged some of the party’s basic cultural assumptions.

Longtime lawmakers in both parties expressed guarded optimism that the depth of the country’s crises would at least initially force consensus and action, adding that their side would pay a political price if they are seen as obstructionists.

“They may not want to compromise with Mitch McConnell, but their choice is doing nothing that improves people’s lives or trying to find a way to compromise,” Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, said of her party’s left.

Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a Republican, argued that it would be folly during simultaneous health and economic calamities for Mr. McConnell, the Senate majority leader, to reprise his strategy of denying Mr. Biden bipartisan success the way he did with Mr. Obama.

“We’re going to have a tough map in the midterms and we need to get some stuff done,” Mr. Cole said. “Next year we better start governing in a normal way.”

The question for both parties is how they can satisfy voters who are pulling further apart, energizing their bases without alienating a bigger share of the electorate.

“The more outrageous one sounds, the greater exposure they get to the public,” said Representative Emanuel Cleaver II, a Missouri Democrat, lamenting the modern incentive structure in politics. “But it just deepens the divisions and worsens the climate in the country.”





No.26 article:
Quotation of the Day: Parties Hunting for a Message After a Split-Decision Election

“The more outrageous one sounds, the greater exposure they get to the public. But it just deepens the divisions and worsens the climate in the country.”

REPRESENTATIVE EMANUEL CLEAVER II, a Missouri Democrat, lamenting the modern incentive structure in politics.





No.27 article:
Giants Make a Case to Win the Grim N.F.C. East

Daniel Jones threw accurate passes and had a 34-yard touchdown run as the Giants (3-7) moved a half-game back of Philadelphia in the once-grand division.

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — The N.F.L. isn’t going to disband the N.F.C. East, that wretched assemblage of teams galloping toward collective infamy. Nor, at last check, does it plan to rescind the division’s automatic postseason berth as punishment for producing such unsightly football week after week after week.

The playoffs, per league rules, will include the N.F.C. East champion, which, in this most bizarre of seasons, could end up being a team that lost its first five games and seven of its first eight.

That team would be the Giants, who on Sunday prevailed, 27-17, over Philadelphia, in an emphatic rebuke of their last meeting, three weeks ago, and in a victory that bestowed upon them one divisional distinction — the least inferior team — as they fervently chase another.

Through Week 10, the Giants (3-7), who had lost their last eight games to Philadelphia, do not lead the N.F.C. East. The Eagles (3-5-1) still do, by a half-game. But as Philadelphia capitulated Sunday, doomed by a sordid assortment of penalties, drops and third-down flops, the Giants coalesced.

Instead of wilting when leading by 11 in the second half, as they did in a 22-21 loss to the Eagles on Oct. 22, the Giants preserved their advantage. Instead of tripping with open space before him, quarterback Daniel Jones remained upright to race into the end zone. Instead of folding in the fourth quarter, a collapse that in Week 7 left the defensive coordinator Patrick Graham alone on the bench afterward with his head in his hands, the Giants thwarted Philadelphia on all three of its possessions.

“The emphasis,” Giants Coach Joe Judge said, “was to finish the game.”

The Giants finished the game, as Judge said, in part because they started so well, with long touchdown drives on their first two series that put them ahead by 14-3 at halftime. When Philadelphia regrouped in the third quarter, by scoring on consecutive drives to draw within 21-17, the Giants put the onus on Jones, who throughout the game demonstrated a certain decisiveness.

His throws were accurate, his decisions smart, and his pocket awareness savvy, and when Darius Slayton streaked down the far sideline in single coverage, Jones delivered a perfect throw for a 40-yard gain that led to the Giants’ final points, a Graham Gano field goal.

For the second consecutive game, Jones delivered the sort of performance — 21 of 28 for 244 yards, with, again, no turnovers — that not only reinforced the Giants’ faith in him but, in a rarity, cast him as the best quarterback at MetLife Stadium on Sunday. Even with Philadelphia quarterback Carson Wentz, the league leader in that category, not committing a turnover, and even with Philadelphia fielding a far healthier team than it did three weeks ago — Miles Sanders and Alshon Jeffery, for two, returned — the Eagles remained serial practitioners of disappointment, going 0 for 9 on third down and looking altogether discombobulated for vast stretches of the game.

Their struggles, coupled with those of well, everyone else, have contributed to the decline of a once-grand division. In a league that prides itself on parity, the N.F.C. East has become parody. By nightfall Sunday, its four teams had combined to win 10 games, the fewest by any division through Week 10 of a full season since the A.F.L.-N.F.L. merger in 1970, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. And the ignominy doesn’t stop there.

Already careering toward the fewest combined victories over a full season since the merger — the record is 22, Elias said, shared by the 2008 N.F.C. West and the 2014 N.F.C. South — the N.F.C. East could finish with the worst winning percentage, as well. In its way? The 2008 N.F.C. West (.344).

Much like Bill Belichick, his previous boss in New England, Judge maintains that tomorrow does not exist until midnight, and he has conditioned his players to believe as much, too.

“It’s irrelevant,” Judge said. “The only thing that matters is that we keep improving.”

That they are. They have won two of their last three games, defeating Washington and losing by 2 points to Tampa Bay.

“We’re finally feeling that sense of team,” said running back Wayne Gallman, who ran for 53 yards and two touchdowns, adding, “We’re not trying to show everybody what we are. We just know who we are and we’re doing it as a team.”

What they are, at this point, is a 3-7 team. A team with difficult games against Seattle, Arizona, and Baltimore remaining, but a team making incremental progress.

Only two teams with losing records have qualified for the playoffs, and both — the 2010 Seattle Seahawks and the 2014 Carolina Panthers — won a game. The N.F.C. East winner will almost certainly join that group of qualifiers, and since no one else seems interested in doing so, as absurd as it seemed eight weeks ago — six weeks, four weeks, two weeks — maybe, just maybe, that team will be the Giants.





No.28 article:
Doctors Are Calling It Quits Under Stress of the Pandemic

Thousands of medical practices are closing, as doctors and nurses decide to retire early or shift to less intense jobs.

Two years ago, Dr. Kelly McGregory opened her own pediatric practice just outside Minneapolis, where she could spend as much time as she wanted with patients and parents could get all of their questions answered.

But just as her practice was beginning to thrive, the coronavirus hit the United States and began spreading across the country.

“As an independent practice with no real connection to a big health system, it was awful,” Dr. McGregory said. At one point, she had only three surgical masks left and worried that she could no longer safely treat patients.

Families were also staying away, concerned about catching the virus. “I did some telemedicine, but it wasn’t enough volume to really replace what I was doing in the clinic,” she said.

After her husband found a new job in a different state, Dr. McGregory, 49, made the difficult decision to close her practice in August. “It was devastating,” she said. “That was my baby.”

Many other doctors are also calling it quits. Thousands of medical practices have closed during the pandemic, according to a July survey of 3,500 doctors by the Physicians Foundation, a nonprofit group. About 8 percent of the doctors reported closing their offices in recent months, which the foundation estimated could equal some 16,000 practices. Another 4 percent said they planned to shutter within the next year.

Other doctors and nurses are retiring early or leaving their jobs. Some worry about their own health because of age or a medical condition that puts them at high risk. Others stopped practicing during the worst of the outbreaks and don’t have the energy to start again. Some simply need a break from the toll that the pandemic has taken among their ranks and their patients.

Another analysis, from the Larry A. Green Center with the Primary Care Collaborative, a nonprofit group, found similar patterns. Nearly a fifth of primary care clinicians surveyed in September say someone in their practice plans to retire early or has already retired because of Covid-19, and 15 percent say someone has left or plans to leave the practice.

The clinicians also painted a grim picture of their lives, as the pandemic enters a newly robust phase with record case counts in the United States. About half already said their mental exhaustion was at an all-time high. Many worried about keeping their doors open: about 7 percent said they were not sure they could remain open past December without financial help.

For some, family obligations left them no choice.

“Honestly, if it hadn’t been for the pandemic, I would have still been working because it was not my plan to retire at that point,” said Dr. Joan Benca, 65, who worked as an anesthesiologist in Madison, Wis.

But her daughter and son-in-law hold administrative positions in a hospital intensive care unit, treating the sickest Covid patients, and they have two small children. When cases climbed in the spring, their day care center closed, and Dr. Benca’s daughter desperately needed someone she trusted to look after the children.

“It wasn’t the way I wanted to end my career,” Dr. Benca said. “I think for most of us, we would say, you would fall on your sword for your family but not for your job,” she said, adding that she knows other female colleagues who have stayed home to care for children or older relatives.

Dr. Michael Peck, 66, an anesthesiologist in Rockville, Md., decided to leave after working in April in the hospital’s intensive care unit, intubating critically ill patients, and worrying about his own health. “When the day was over, I just said, ‘I think I’m done’ — I want to live my life, and I don’t want to get ill,” said Dr. Peck, who had already been cutting back his hours.

He is now spending a few hours a day as the chief medical officer for a start-up.

Still, most practices have proved resilient. The Paycheck Protection Program — authorized by Congress to help businesses, including medical practices, with the economic fallout of the pandemic — helped many doctors remain afloat. That money “kind of made me solid,” said Dr. Ripley Hollister, a family physician in Colorado Springs who serves as chairman of the research committee for the Physicians Foundation. The volume now “is really coming back,” he said.

But, depending on the future course of the pandemic, Dr. Lisa Bielamowicz, a co-founder of Gist Healthcare, a consulting firm, predicts “another wave of financial stress hitting practices.” Many doctors’ groups will seek a buyer, whether a hospital, an insurance company or a private equity firm that plans to roll up practices into a larger business.

One doctor, who asked not to be identified because the discussions are confidential, said she and her partner had already been talking with the nearby hospital nearby about buying their pediatric practice before the pandemic arrived in the United States.

Although federal aid has helped, patient visits are still 15 percent below normal, she said, and they are continually worried about making payroll and having enough doctors and staff to see patients. As the number of virus cases balloons in the Midwest, her employees must deal with increasingly agitated parents.

“They’re yelling and cussing at my staff,” she said. Working for a telemedicine firm might be an alternative, she added. “It’s a hard job to begin with, to own your own business,” she said.

The coronavirus crisis has amplified problems that doctors were already facing, whether they own their practice or are employed. “A lot of physicians were hanging on by a thread from burnout before the pandemic even started,” said Dr. Susan R. Bailey, the president of the American Medical Association.

In particular, smaller practices continue to have difficulty finding sufficient personal protective equipment, like gloves and masks. “The big hospitals and health care systems have pretty well-established systems of P.P.E.,” she said, but smaller outfits might not have a reliable source. “I was literally on eBay looking for masks,” she said. The cost of these supplies has also become a significant financial issue for some practices.

Doctors are also stressed by the never-ending need to keep safe. “There is a hunker-down mentality now,” Dr. Bailey said. She is concerned that some doctors will develop PTSD from the chronic stress of caring for patients during the pandemic.

Even those who are not responsible for running their own practices are leaving. Courtney Barry, 40, a family nurse practitioner at a rural health clinic in Soledad, Calif., watched the cases of coronavirus finally ebb in her area, only to see wildfires break out. Many of her patients are farmworkers and work outside, and they became ill from the smoke.

In 14 years as a nurse, Ms. Barry has never experienced anything “like this that is just such a high level of stress and just keeps going,” she said, adding, “The other hard part is there’s no end in sight.”

She tried working fewer days but decided eventually that she would stop altogether for several months beginning in early December. Ms. Barry hasn’t figured out what’s next for her.

“My intention is to stay in medicine, although I would not be totally opposed to doing something in a totally different area, which is something that I would not have said in the past,” she said.

And patients have indeed felt the effects. The pandemic has developed into “a really huge disruption,” said Dr. Hollister, the family physician, who thinks closed practices are likely to result in “a significant impairment to patients’ access to medical care.” In his community, where both specialists and primary care doctors are leaving, he is tending to more patients who no longer have a doctor.

It is an issue that Dr. McGregory, who took a job at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health in Madison, worries about. There were some families in her practice whom she could not convince to find another pediatrician immediately. She said they “are waiting, which I discouraged, because I think every child should have a medical home.”





No.29 article:
With Progressive Politics on March in New Zealand, Maori Minister Blazes New Trails

Nanaia Mahuta, the new foreign minister, brings a reputation as an honest broker to Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern’s cabinet, the most diverse in the country’s history.

Nanaia Mahuta entered New Zealand’s Parliament as the youngest Maori woman to ever gain a seat. More than two decades later, she has become the country’s minister of foreign affairs, another trailblazing first. So when she was asked at a recent news conference about another woman of color breaking barriers halfway around the world, she broke into a wide smile.

Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, she said, “will bring, I’m sure, some very unique attributes to their leadership.”

“I’m not sure I’m in a position to give her a message,” Ms. Mahuta added, her eyes bright with possibility. “But what I can say, as the first woman representing the foreign affairs portfolio in Aotearoa New Zealand, is that we will do what we must do in the best interests of our respective countries. I know we will have many opportunities to share areas of common interest, and I hope we can.”

Her excitement reflects a global desire among progressives for a shift away from the chauvinist, right-wing populism that has shaped the past four years in the United States and other countries that elected leaders like Jair Bolsonaro in Brazil and Victor Orban in Hungary.

New Zealand offers what many see as the world’s most promising, if tiny, alternative.

When Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern coasted to re-election last month in a landslide that gave her Labour Party the country’s first outright majority in decades, the remote island nation cemented its position as a beacon of hope for those seeking an anti-Trump model of government led by charismatic women and functioning with an emphasis on inclusion and competence.

With a victory over Covid burnishing her image, Ms. Ardern and her team now face a surge in expectations. After three years of leading a coalition government that produced few, if any, lasting policy achievements on major issues like inequality, Labour now has the votes to pass what it wants, and the diversity other progressives long for.

Labour’s newly elected majority is made up mostly of women. It also includes the New Zealand Parliament’s first member of African descent, Ibrahim Omer, who is a former refugee from Eritrea. The 120-member legislative body also has 11 lawmakers who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender; a dozen people of Pacific Island descent; and 16 Maori members.

It is, by far, the most diverse Parliament the country has ever seen, reflecting New Zealand’s demographics and its place within the broader Pacific Islands.

“It’s a really tectonic outcome,” said Richard Shaw, a politics professor at Massey University, which is based in Palmerston North, New Zealand.

Ms. Ardern’s executive council, sworn in this month, includes a mix of well-known allies. She named Grant Robertson, the finance minister, as her deputy prime minister, making him the first openly gay lawmaker to have that role. She also appointed several members of Maori and Pacific Island descent.

Ms. Mahuta, 50, was the biggest surprise.

She arrived in Parliament at the age of 26 with a master’s degree in social anthropology after working as a researcher for her Tainui tribe in the lead-up to its historic treaty with the government that settled land claims from colonization. Her father was the lead negotiator; the Maori queen, Te Arikinui Dame Te Atairangikaahu, was her aunt.

But rather than seizing the spotlight, Ms. Mahuta burrowed into briefing papers.

No-nonsense. Measured. Honest. Those were the words that trailed her as she moved through various roles. As associate environment minister, she navigated complicated negotiations over water rights between her tribe and the government. As local government minister, she was often sent to calm disputes over issues ranging from doctor shortages to dog control. While serving as customs minister, she worked closely with exporters and helped forge agreements with Japan and other countries to streamline trade.

In her new role, she is expected to focus on organizing Covid-safe tourism across the region while expanding economic links with other Pacific Island nations and Australia.

David Cunliffe, a former Labour Party leader who worked with Ms. Mahuta for nearly two decades, called her promotion to foreign affairs an inspired choice.

“She’s someone who seeks progress without necessarily seeking fame for herself,” he said. “All that hard work has now been recognized.”

In an interview on Thursday, Ms. Mahuta said she had not sought the foreign affairs job — “though it was on my long list,” she said — and had been surprised by the offer. She said she jumped at the chance to build New Zealand’s international reputation while working closely with “our Polynesian family across the Pacific.”

The region has become more important and more closely scrutinized in recent years as China’s influence and investment have increased.

American officials say Ms. Mahuta and her team — the defense minister, Peeni Henare, is also Maori — will be welcomed throughout the region as cultural equals and as a strong counterweight to Beijing.

Ms. Mahuta’s elevation is also being celebrated in the Maori community, which represents 17 percent of New Zealand’s population, even as her rise has revived old cultural divides.

In 2016, she became the first woman in Parliament to display a moko kauae (a sacred facial tattoo). But when her foreign affairs promotion was announced, a conservative New Zealand author tweeted that the tattoo was inappropriate for a diplomat, calling it “the height of ugly, uncivilized wokedom.”

New Zealanders quickly rallied to Ms. Mahuta’s side.

“This isn’t simply a win for ‘diversity,’ although it certainly is; it’s also a triumph of history and politics,” said Morgan Godfery, a political commentator who writes about Maori politics. “Ms. Mahuta is one of the most senior members of the Maori King Movement, the 19th-century resistance movement that fought against the invading New Zealand government, and her appointment to that same government’s foreign ministry is a signal of just how far this country has come.”

And, yet, for any government, appointments alone are only the beginning. As is the case in the United States, Ms. Ardern’s team faces serious domestic and international anxieties. Climate change threatens everyone and everything. The economy is struggling, with Covid-19 exacerbating inequality as housing prices continue to rise beyond the reach of the middle class.

Oliver Hartwich, the executive director of the New Zealand Institute, a center-right research institute, said Ms. Ardern needed to be bolder, overhauling education to create more equal outcomes and changing the tax structure to create incentives for local governments to approve new housing construction.

“They are not willing to rock the boat and do what needs to be done,” he said. “There are a lot of announcements and not much follow-up.”

Mr. Cunliffe, the former Labour Party leader, said the governments of Ms. Ardern and President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. both faced the need to be transformative while bringing along skeptics. Populism, he said, can be defeated only with progressive results that benefit supporters and critics alike.

“You don’t beat it by one day at the ballot box,” he said. “You do it by using the power of your office to address the root causes that led to it in the first place, and if you don’t, it will be back again in four years’ time or three years’ time.”

Ms. Mahuta agreed. She said she hoped that solutions for “reimagining what prosperity looks like” can be transferred from the Indigenous community, with values like manaakitanga (Maori for looking after people) and kaitiakitanga (guardianship of the environment).

“Addressing issues of economic inequality is a significant challenge for many countries,” she said. It’s time, she added, “to cut through the old way of doing things.”





No.30 article:
Developmental Disabilities Heighten Risk of Covid Death

People with intellectual disabilities and developmental disorders are three times more likely to die of Covid-19, compared with patients without the conditions, a new analysis found.

People with intellectual disabilities and developmental disorders are three times more likely to die if they have Covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus, compared with others with the diagnosis, according to a large analysis of insurance claims data.

The finding raises complex questions about how to allocate new vaccines as they become available in limited supplies. The drug maker Pfizer announced this week that its experimental vaccine is performing well in clinical trials.

So far, guidelines for distributing vaccines have recommended prioritizing emergency workers, health care providers and other essential workers, as well as people at heightened risk for severe disease, including some older adults and those with certain chronic illnesses.

The guidelines, which are still evolving, have not specifically emphasized the importance of prioritizing the vaccination of children and adults with intellectual disabilities like Down syndrome and developmental disorders. They emphasize more generally the need to protect people with underlying health problems and those living in congregate settings.

The new analysis was performed by FAIR Health, a nonprofit that claims to host the nation’s largest private health insurance claims database, in collaboration with Dr. Marty Makary, a public health expert and professor of health policy and management at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, and the West Health Institute, a group of nonprofits focused on aging and lowering health care costs to seniors.

The analysis was evaluated only by an academic reviewer and has not been published in a scientific journal.

FAIR Health set out to identify who is at greatest risk for dying of Covid-19 by reviewing health claims from nearly half a million Americans of all ages filed from April 1 through Aug. 31, said Robin Gelburd, president of the organization.

“What we find particularly new is the identification of developmental disorders and intellectual disabilities really surfacing to the top in terms of linkages between these categories of comorbidities and the risk of death,” Ms. Gelburd said.

Lung cancer patients with Covid-19 have a similarly heightened risk of death, compared with patients without the cancer, the analysis found.

“As we move toward approval of a vaccine, we’re identifying at-risk populations where you could either prioritize vaccine distribution or, prior to that, begin to give special attention to the care and treatment of these individuals knowing that they’re particularly vulnerable,” Ms. Gelburd said.

People with intellectual disabilities and related conditions include those with Down syndrome and other chromosomal anomalies and congenital conditions like microcephaly. Developmental disorders include those of speech and language, as well as central auditory processing disorders, some of which may be caused by an underlying condition like cerebral palsy. Neither category included autism, the authors noted.

“There is no question,” said Arthur Caplan, director of medical ethics at the New York University Grossman School of Medicine. “These people are high risk and must be given priority for vaccination.”

Still, Dr. Caplan expected there would be debate about what constitutes appropriate distribution of scarce resources.

“There has always been some hesitancy to treat people with intellectual disabilities and people who are institutionalized as equal in terms of consideration for scarce medical resources — and that also includes prisoners, by the way,” he said.

“There will be some balking and battling, on grounds that I would consider discriminatory.”

The new analysis included claims filed by 467,773 privately insured patients. While the database included seniors enrolled in private Medicare plans, it did not include patients on Medicaid, the government plan for the poor that covers many disabled individuals.

Some of the report’s findings confirmed earlier reports. Men were more likely to die of Covid-19 than women, accounting for 60 percent of all such deaths. People aged 70 and older accounted for barely 5 percent of Covid-19 diagnoses but 42 percent of the deaths.

Over all, the death rate among all patients with Covid-19 was 0.6 percent. By contrast, 1.22 percent of those with developmental disorders and Covid-19 died, as did 3.37 percent of those with intellectual disabilities.

In addition to the high risk to people with developmental disorders, lung cancer and intellectual disabilities, people with spina bifida and other nervous system anomalies were twice as likely to die of Covid-19. So were patients with leukemia and lymphoma.

Chronic kidney disease, Alzheimer’s disease, colorectal cancer, mobility impairment, epilepsy, heart failure, spinal cord injury and liver disease were also associated with an increased risk of death.

The report is not the first to highlight the unique risks that individuals with developmental disorders and intellectual disabilities face in the pandemic. Scientists at Syracuse University reported in June that people with these disabilities who were living in group homes in New York State had far higher rates of Covid-19, compared with other state residents, and that their risk of dying was markedly higher, as well.

The population is uniquely vulnerable for several reasons. Many live in group homes or receive care from aides, therapists or teachers who must maintain close physical proximity in order to assist them. Between 16 percent and 20 percent live in congregate settings, compared with only 6 percent of seniors, said Scott Landes, an associate professor of sociology at Syracuse University and an author of that study.

Many are medically frail to begin with, with high rates of underlying health conditions, particularly respiratory problems. That makes them susceptible to pneumonia, increasing the risk for severe illness if they become infected with Covid.

Individuals with Down syndrome are more likely to have congenital heart defects; they may have less muscle tone around the neck and a larger tongue, increasing the risk of choking frequently and developing lung infections.

“Historically, it’s been a challenge for this population to receive good medical care,” Dr. Landes said. Because of their disabilities, they may have difficulty wearing a mask or maintaining social distance, or even understanding why the precautions are needed, he said.

“If you’ve got someone whose cognitive ability is severely reduced, just understanding what’s going on and why they have to wear a mask would be very confusing,” he said.

[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]

Vaccination will play a broader role beyond preventing infections. It will be critical to resuming education and the full array of treatments and other services for those with intellectual disabilities and developmental disorders, whose lives have been disrupted by the pandemic.

“In many ways, the biggest risk from Covid in this population is not to the ones who are infected, but to the ones who are not infected,” said Dr. John Constantino, a psychiatrist who directs the Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities Research Center at Washington University School of Medicine.

With their education and treatments disrupted, “there are many children with intellectual disability that cannot even begin to get any semblance of education,” he said.

“We’ve watched young children with developmental delays who are going backward, losing skills and seeing their progress stall. These are little kids in whom we’re trying to build developmental skills that will be with them for life.”





No.31 article:
Biden Faces Early Test With Immigration and Homeland Security After Trump

The Department of Homeland Security was molded in President Trump’s image, and not just on immigration policy. President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. will have work to do to remake it.

WASHINGTON — President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has said that one of his first priorities will be rolling back his predecessor’s restrictive immigration policies. To do it, he may have to overhaul the Department of Homeland Security, which has been bent to President Trump’s will over the past four years.

The department, created after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, has helped enforce some of Mr. Trump’s most divisive policies, like separating families at the border, banning travel from Muslim-majority countries and building his border wall. When the president tried to reframe his campaign around law and order this year, homeland security leaders rallied to the cause, deploying tactical officers to protect statues and confront protesters.

After agents were videotaped hauling demonstrators off the streets of Portland, Ore., into unmarked vans, department critics called for systemic changes to the agency, or even its dismantlement. But the incoming administration is intent on keeping the department intact.

Still, change is coming.

Interviews with 16 current and former homeland security officials and advisers involved with Mr. Biden’s transition, and a review of his platform, suggest an agenda that aims to incorporate climate change in department policy, fill vacant posts and bolster responsibilities that Mr. Trump neglected, including disaster response and cybersecurity.

But undoing Mr. Trump’s immigration policies will initially dominate.

Many of the Trump administration’s policies cannot be immediately undone, and Mr. Biden is likely to face an early test if migration to the southwestern border surges with Mr. Trump’s pending departure.

That could be politically fraught, balancing the demands of the Democratic left for more lenient immigration policies, with the concerns of moderates who fear such issues cost the party dearly in House and Senate elections this month. Mr. Trump campaigned on a hard-line immigration agenda when he won the election in 2016 and the policies remain a central appeal to many who have supported Mr. Trump.

“If it looks like they’re just kicking the can down the road, then people will be very angry,” said Marisa Franco, the executive director of Mijente, a Latino civil rights organization, who served on a task force that issued recommendations to the Biden campaign.

Mr. Trump measured the success of his homeland security secretaries primarily by the progress of his border wall and the monthly totals of arrests made by his border agents.

The 23-member transition team announced by Mr. Biden last week indicates he will bolster the other responsibilities of the sprawling department. The team includes at least four former officials with Citizenship and Immigration Services, the legal immigration agency that has been mired in financial struggles. The leader of the team, Ur Jaddou, was a chief counsel for the agency under President Barack Obama and frequent critic of Mr. Trump’s policies.

The group also features multiple former Obama administration officials who focused on cybersecurity, emergency response and transportation security. Mr. Trump had a team of only four transition advisers for homeland security.

“If you look at what’s going on in the world now, in addition to border security and T.S.A. airline issues, you have a pandemic and an unprecedented hurricane season,” said Michael Chertoff, a homeland security secretary under President George W. Bush, referring to the Transportation Security Administration. Mr. Biden, he said, will take “a broader-based, more strategic approach.”

A team composed mostly of volunteers separate from Mr. Biden’s official transition team has worked for weeks on that approach. Those volunteers, including Mr. Obama’s former director of the Domestic Policy Council, Cecilia Muñoz, and his former deputy homeland security adviser, Amy Pope, have focused on infusing climate change research into the decision-making of the next department leadership.

While the agency will not become “the department of climate,” one adviser said, the new administration will use the research to shape natural disaster response and resilience to assist the Coast Guard as it patrols the Arctic. The next homeland security leaders could rely on climate science to predict migration from places like Guatemala, where coffee rust has disrupted the crops farmers rely on.

“This is something that needs to be a long term priority for D.H.S.,” said Thomas S. Warrick, a former top counterterrorism official in the department and a co-author of a report this year that emphasized the department’s future roles defending against cyberthreats, pandemics and white supremacy.

Mr. Warrick’s co-author, Caitlin Durkovich, is on Mr. Biden’s official transition team.

The volunteer team has emphasized that change will come not from a drastic restructuring but from personnel. Of the 74 leadership positions at the Department of Homeland Security, 18 are either vacant or held by an acting official. Even those serving in acting capacities have had their appointments questioned by government watchdogs and the courts. As recently as Saturday, a federal judge said Chad F. Wolf, the acting secretary of homeland security, was not serving lawfully when he issued a memo in July suspending protections for the immigrants brought to the United States as children known as Dreamers.

Two advisers involved in the planning meetings said the team was advising the incoming administration to steer clear of all officials who led the agencies overseeing immigration, even those who publicly resisted the White House’s efforts or publicly turned against Mr. Trump.

They are “poisoned,” one adviser said.

Some transition officials have rallied around Alejandro N. Mayorkas, a former homeland security deputy secretary and director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, to be the next secretary.

Mr. Mayorkas’s supporters believe his background as a U.S. attorney for California and as a Cuban immigrant would appeal to both the law enforcement officials in the agency and the immigrant communities in the United States. They emphasized that a decision on the position had not yet been made.

But reinstating officials who served under Mr. Obama, who was criticized as the “deporter in chief” and who expanded detentions at the border to respond to a surge of migrants, could cause consternation on the left.

“My hope is people can see some of the errors of their ways,” Ms. Franco said, adding, “We’ll be vigilant.”

The Trump administration enacted more than 400 changes to tighten or choke off immigration, and while Mr. Biden can roll back the ones issued through executive orders or policy memorandums, rescinding policies that went through the full regulatory process will take time, according to Sarah Pierce, a policy analyst for the Migration Policy Institute.

“On immigration, I expect them to stick to things that are high profile, very easy procedurally and come with minimal logistical burden,” Ms. Pierce said.

That includes ending travel bans that restrict travel from 13 mostly Muslim and African countries and halting the Trump administration’s efforts to strip protections for about 700,000 young immigrants brought to the country as children.

Mr. Biden also plans to raise the cap on refugee admissions to 125,000, impose a 100-day moratorium on deportations and direct Immigration and Customs Enforcement to focus on violent offenders. But it remains unclear how he will rebuild a deteriorated resettlement system to welcome that many immigrants or the specific details of his temporary halt on removing undocumented immigrants.

The new administration will end the national emergency declaration that allowed Mr. Trump to divert billions of Pentagon dollars to the border wall, but an adviser involved in the transition said there were no plans to dismantle the 400 miles of wall already up.

Other regulations will prove more challenging to unravel, like the maze of asylum restrictions imposed by the Trump administration and the public charge rule that allows green cards to be denied to immigrants who are deemed likely to use public assistance.

Ms. Pierce said the new administration could begin the lengthy process of replacing the Trump regulations or, given that the public charge rule is still being litigated in court, revise that regulation in a settlement.

Mr. Biden has also revived the longstanding Democratic goal of creating a path to citizenship for nearly 11 million undocumented immigrants, but without a Democratic Senate, that is likely impossible. (Control of the Senate rests on two Senate runoff races in Georgia in January.)

An expected surge of migration to the southwestern border in the coming months will test Mr. Biden’s ability to balance the demands of the liberal and moderate wings of his party while preventing overflowing border facilities.

“We will treat our immigrants with respect and give them due process, which they aren’t having under this administration,” said Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard, the chairwoman of the House appropriations subcommittee on homeland security who represented the Biden campaign in platform negotiations with Senator Bernie Sanders. “Will that be enough? Probably no.”

The pandemic is another immediate challenge.

A threat assessment released by the Homeland Security Department in October concluded that the coronavirus had exacerbated “underlying economic and political conditions in the region” that have typically fueled migration.

Mr. Biden has said he will look to revive a version of a program that allowed children and young adults to apply for refuge in their home country, rather than making the long, dangerous trip to the border to ask for asylum. He has also said he would bolster aid to Central America while deploying attachés from the Justice and Treasury Departments to combat corruption.

But at the physical border, Mr. Biden’s plans center more so on what he will stop rather than what he will develop.

He has said he will stop “metering,” which restricts the number of migrants who can seek protection at border ports. It is unclear if he would pull out of agreements with Central American countries that allow the United States to divert migrants seeking protection back to the region. He would end Mr. Trump’s “Remain in Mexico” policy that has sent more than 60,000 migrants back to Mexico to await asylum hearings that have been suspended during the pandemic.

Mr. Biden’s advisers have discussed rushing asylum officers and immigration judges to the border to process those families and others seeking protection.

“The real question is scale. Can they be scaled up quickly enough if there is a surge to the border?” said one official involved in the transition.

Mr. Biden has not committed to lifting a public health emergency rule that has essentially sealed the border to asylum seekers. The Trump administration has cited the risk of the pandemic to empower Border Patrol agents to rapidly turn migrants back to Mexico or their home countries without providing the chance to have their asylum claims heard. An adviser to the campaign said the administration planned on consulting with public health officials to discuss the policy.

Biden advisers also acknowledged the need to bolster the capacity at the Department of Health and Human Services, which is responsible for sheltering migrant children traveling alone. That will take congressional approval.

Mr. Biden has said he would cut funding used to detain migrants and instead rely more on programs that track migrants after they are released into the United States to make sure they appear at immigration court.

Brandon Judd, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, the Border Patrol’s union, said that would mean the return of “catch-and-release,” pejorative shorthand for releasing migrants from detention into the public to await their immigration hearing. Mr. Trump has argued the policy encourages migration.

“Obviously my members were hoping President Trump was going to win, and they were hoping he was going to win because of what happens with border security,” Mr. Judd said. “Let’s hope Biden proves us wrong. But we’ve already seen this movie and we expect a replay.”





No.32 article:
Dustin Johnson Wins 2020 Masters in Record Fashion

Johnson, the No. 1-ranked golfer in the world, won with a score of 20 under par, the first player to reach that total at Augusta National.

AUGUSTA, Ga. — For 10 years, Dustin Johnson’s chase for career-defining, major championship titles was tinged with ruthless angst, misfortune and calamitous setbacks.

He grounded a club in an unobserved bunker at the 2010 P.G.A. Championship to earn a heartless penalty that bounced him from a playoff for the victory. Five years later, at the United States Open, a three-putt on the final hole cost him another major championship playoff berth. Riding a hot streak that made him the prohibitive favorite at the Masters three years ago, Johnson slipped on the stairs at his rental house on the tournament’s eve and withdrew with a back injury.

Even as he won the 2016 U.S. Open, he was saddled with the ignominy of a penalty assessed after his celebration on the final hole.

But on Sunday, with verve and nerve, Johnson comfortably secured the validating breakthrough achievement he has long sought with a runaway, five-stroke victory at the 2020 Masters. It is a championship that separates Johnson, one of golf’s most talented players, from the gaggle of nearly 150 golfers with one major title and brightens the path to the game’s pantheon of heroes.

Johnson, 36, hopes to find his way there.

“It feels good to get past one major, especially when the second one is the Masters, which I always dreamed of winning as a kid,” said Johnson, who grew up in Columbia, S.C., about an hour’s drive from the Augusta National Golf Club. “I dream of winning a lot of majors. Hopefully, this one will help give me a little spring.”

Johnson, whose unshakable stoicism on the golf course has become his best-known trait, broke down in tears while being interviewed after the final round behind the 18th green.

“It still feels like I’m dreaming,” he said, wiping his eyes.

Johnson’s closest pursuers were Sungjae Im of South Korea and Cameron Smith of Australia, who each finished the tournament at 15 under par. They narrowed Johnson’s lead after he made consecutive bogeys on the fourth and fifth holes, but Johnson rallied with two birdies in his next three holes and then extended his lead from there.

Johnson’s final-round, four-under-par 68 gave him a tournament score of 268, or 20 under par, which broke the 72-hole Masters record of 270 previously held by Tiger Woods and Jordan Spieth.

Woods, the defending champion, began Sunday 11 strokes behind Johnson, but never mounted a run at the lead. At the par-3 12th hole, he hit three balls into the creek protecting the green and registered a score of 10, his highest score on any hole in his PGA Tour career.

Woods then birdied five of his last six holes to finish one under par for the tournament and tied for 38th.

Johnson’s victory also concluded a bizarrely atypical Masters, which was postponed to November from its customary spot in early April because of the coronavirus pandemic. An event known for its traditions, the 84th Masters was contested for the first time without fans, who are normally an essential part of the visual and auditory experience. Augusta National was so quiet that only the chatter between player and caddie rose above the chirping birds. The final round, a theatric staple of the worldwide sporting calendar, was held four hours earlier than its standard time to account for the diminished amount of sunlight in the fall.

Finally, Johnson was presented with the green jacket that goes with his victory less than five months before he will have to defend his title in April 2021.

That is a circumstance that did not vex Johnson, the world’s top-ranked player.

“I know 2020 has been a really strange year,” said Johnson, who contracted the coronavirus last month and quarantined for roughly two weeks with mild symptoms. “But it’s been good to me.”

Johnson’s victory was his first after holding the 54-hole lead in a major championship. He had failed to win in four such instances, including in August when he tied for second at the P.G.A. Championship. Johnson conceded that not being able to close out the lead in a major had begun to weigh on him.

“There was doubts in my mind,” he said, adding: “I’m in this position a lot of times — like when am I going to finish off the golf tournament or finish off a major?

“This definitely proved that I can do it.”

The Masters victory caps off a brilliant year for Johnson, who won four 2020 PGA Tour events and was second or tied for second three other times. In what is the final substantial tournament of 2020, Johnson on Sunday also stole the spotlight from Bryson DeChambeau, whose recent top results and attention-grabbing, towering drives had made him the Masters favorite. DeChambeau, who shot a one-over-par 73 Sunday to finish the event two under par, said that he battled bouts of dizziness during the tournament and indicated he was going to see a doctor when he returned home to Dallas.

“I’ve got to fix this dizziness; I’ve got to get healthy,” DeChambeau said.

As the sun set Sunday evening, in a Masters ritual, Woods helped put a green jacket, size 42 long, on Johnson’s shoulders. Later, Johnson was asked if there was any special meaning to having Woods, the five-time Masters champion, performing the ceremony.

“Yes,” he answered. Then, with a laugh and broad smile he added: “But any guy could put it on me and I’d be just fine.”





No.33 article:
The Sounds of a Divided America

We listened in on the country’s partisan echo chambers. Plus, the music behind Modern Love.

Hey everyone, we made it to Friday (though after last week, this one felt like a breeze). If you missed any episodes in your post-election daze, here’s a recap. On Monday we listened to the sounds of a divided nation; on Tuesday we investigated why the polling industry was wrong (again); on Wednesday we analyzed the ongoing battle for the Senate; on Thursday we answered your questions about the recent coronavirus vaccine breakthrough; and on Friday we looked at President Trump’s refusal to concede.

We also released a special episode breaking down the election results with three Times journalists. We hope you all get some rest this weekend. And if you’re needing a break from the news, catch up on this week’s episode of Modern Love.

Last week, America’s partisan echo chambers were playing different soundtracks.

For many supporters of President-elect Joe Biden, victory sounded like banging pots, honking horns and popping champagne corks, looping on their social media feeds and outside their windows.

But loss, too, had a sound. And in the hours after the U.S. election winner was announced, some of the 71 million-plus Americans who backed President Trump were grieving. So we wondered: What did those disparate responses sound like? And how could we weave them together into one portrait of the country in this moment?

Senior editor Alix Spiegel had a pitch. “I have an idea for an episode!!!!” she wrote on Slack last Saturday, just after The Times announced Mr. Biden had won the election. Alix suggested that the team use the unique access of Daily producers, who fanned out across the country after the pandemic shut down our offices, to tape wherever they were.

Alix had already recorded one scene the day before, when the results were still uncertain. “She got in a car and drove to Pennsylvania with no idea what she would find there,” our executive producer, Lisa Tobin, said. What Alix found, outside the Pennsylvania Convention Center, were the sounds of victory and grief colliding.

While volunteers were still counting votes inside the convention center, outside, Mr. Biden’s supporters were tentatively celebrating his slow inch toward victory, dancing to music on a loudspeaker. On the sidewalk nearby was a protester, crying because she felt the election was being stolen from Mr. Trump based on unsubstantiated rumors that were circulating on social media.

It was this “diversity of reaction” the team was trying to record, Alix said. “And the thing that audio is so wonderful at is really capturing, in a visceral way, how people feel.”

The scene Alix captured was just the beginning. On Saturday night and Sunday, Daily producers and New York Times reporters recorded scenes across the country: In Georgia, which turned blue for the first time in nearly three decades, Robert Jimison sought out Black women, “the demographic group that most ardently” supported Mr. Biden, he said. When we found out the reporter Astead Herndon “would be in Texas talking to supporters of the president, we asked him to record everything he heard using his phone,” the producer Rachel Quester said.

Finally, the producers Jessica Cheung and Andy Mills followed up with guests we previously had on the show. Jess called a woman who once feared deportation from Immigrations and Customs Enforcement, but now, with the prospect of a new administration, said, “I’m not scared anymore.”

Meanwhile, Andy spoke with a woman in Wisconsin who felt far less hopeful. Debbie Johnson, living in a red county, was avoiding social media because of all “the anger” she had been seeing. “That would make me feel less anxious, if we all just get along, I guess,” she told Andy.

Ultimately, we decided to knit together all these different people and places, the anger and the hope, in the episode — without a narrator. “If you give listeners the actual people, in actual moments,” Alix said, “often that gives them information they need.”

The new season of the Modern Love podcast kicked off a few weeks ago. Now produced entirely by The Times, the show feels and sounds a little different than before. The composer Dan Powell, above, explains his approach to creating the show’s musical theme:

The challenge of writing the theme music for Modern Love was finding a way to capture the column’s breadth. There are infinite permutations of “modern love,” and as a reader, I’ve always been drawn to the column for its stories that span ages, identities and types of love (platonic, romantic, the imaginary and fantastical).

The composer Frank Zappa once said, “There are more love songs than anything else. If songs could make you do something, we’d all love one another.” Beyond the sheer number of love songs out there, there are also more than a few genres and styles that have become coded into our musical vocabulary as signifying love. So for our theme music, we decided that a multigenre approach could help capture the scope of stories we’d be telling on the podcast.

For the intro, I wanted to quote the romantic string arrangements of classic Hollywood scores. I looked to Oscar Peterson’s album “In a Romantic Mood” as a reference, as it has a soaring, vintage schmaltziness. I built the opening to have a crescendoing swoop of strings. This blooms into a section inspired by neo-soul music, featuring keyboards, drum machines, electric cello and atmospheric guitar work by our senior technical manager (and my boss), Brad Fisher. I wanted to create the feeling of fast-forwarding from old love to new love — from memories and nostalgia, to future and fantasy. It sounds like this:

Fun fact: The percussion clicks and shakes used in the theme are all made from household objects — like cups, bowls and kitchenware. Modern Love essays often take place in or around the author’s home (home is where the heart is, as they say). So we wanted to use familiar percussive sounds to evoke a domestic setting. Take a listen:

Once we composed the song, we added one final layer: what we call “the seltzer montage.” It’s a simple set of sparkling chimes, intertwined with a handful of clips from iconic movies and songs that use the word “love.” You can think of it as opening the pandora’s box of the column.

Look out for a new episode of Modern Love every Wednesday. You can find it here or wherever you get your podcasts.

Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.

Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.

Love podcasts? Join The New York Times Podcast Club on Facebook.


No.1 article:
Sweden limits public gatherings to eight people – as it happened

This blog is now closed. We’ve launched a new blog at the link below: 

We’ve launched a new blog at the link below – head there for the latest: 

California will dramatically roll back its reopening efforts, the state’s governor, Gavin Newsom, announced on Monday, saying he was pulling the “emergency brake” amid a troubling surge in cases.

The changes, which take effect Tuesday, will see more than 94% of California’s population and most businesses across the state return to the most restrictive tier of rules aimed at slowing the spread of the virus. The state is also strengthening its guidance on masks; Newsom announced face coverings would now be required outside people’s homes with limited exceptions.

You can read the full report, by Lois Beckett and Vivian Ho, here.

South Africa has recorded 1,245 new coronavirus cases and 73 further deaths.

The caseload stands at 752,269 , while 20,314 people have died.

The Australian state of Victoria has recorded its 18th day without a new coronavirus case or death.

You can read more about the coronavirus situation in Australia at our dedicated blog here.

Health authorities in South Korea are expected to tighten coronavirus restrictions as the number of new Covid-19 infections has risen by more than 200 for three consecutive days, according to a report in the Korea Times.

The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) said on Monday that 223 new virus cases were confirmed on Sunday, bringing the country’s cumulative total to 28,769.

This was the ninth consecutive day that South Korea has seen triple-digit daily infections, and the highest daily increase since 2 September.

KDCA Commissioner Jeong Eun-kyeong said that daily infections may rise to 300 to 400 in two to four weeks if the current trend goes on, referring to risk factors including end-of-year gatherings and cold weather alongside the growing number of asymptomatic cases.

Japan is under growing pressure to reimpose a state of emergency after a record of 1,722 infections were registered on Saturday.

Cases are particularly high in the northern island of Hokkaido and the western prefectures of Hyogo and Osaka. 

Hokkaido’s local government has said it will ask residents of Sapporo to stay at home after 189 new cases were reported in the prefecture on Monday, according to the Japan Times.

In Tokyo, cases have neared 400 in recent days, levels not seen since early August. Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, however, has said the rising cases did not necessitate the reimposition of a state of emergency, or a halt to the government’s campaign to encourage domestic tourism.

The country’s cumulative total stands at over 119,300 cases, including some 700 from the Diamond Princess cruise ship that was quarantined in Yokohama in February. The nationwide death toll is more than 1,900.

Hull has been “forgotten” by central government as the city’s coronavirus cases have increased at an “astonishing and terrifying rate” to become the highest in England, its council leader has said.

Stephen Brady of Hull city council said it needed urgent national support but had received no contact from the government.

The number of coronavirus patients in Hull’s hospitals has passed the peak of the first wave and its infection rate has risen tenfold in barely five weeks.

Josh Halliday and Simon Murphy report:

Belgium has said it intends to make any coronavirus vaccine available to around 70% of the population, some 8 million people, and free of charge.

The jab will not be compulsory, added Frank Vandenbroucke, the health minister, as he and regional counterparts attended an interministerial health conference.

Belgium, with a population of 11.5 million people, has registered almost 540,000 cases of coronavirus and more than 14,000 deaths to date. Its death rate per million residents is one of the worst in Europe.

Joe Biden, the US president-elect has told a press conference that “more people may die” if Donald Trump continues to block efforts to plan for a transition of power as the coronavirus pandemic worsens, Reuters reports, and added that he would not hesitate to get vaccinated.

Biden also said business and labour leaders had signalled willingness to cooperate to fix the pandemic-battered US economy but stressed Covid-19 first must be brought under control and urged Congress to pass relief legislation.

You can follow all the developments on our dedicated US liveblog.

Here’s a quick summary of recent developments to get you up to speed.

Scientists are hopeful that the preliminary success of mRNA vaccines could be a “leap forward” for fighting other diseases, including cancer.

The initial success in late-stage trials by Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech is the first proof the technology, which is much faster than traditional vaccine development, works.

“Unlike conventional vaccines, which are produced using weakened forms of the virus, RNA vaccines can be constructed quickly using only the pathogen’s genetic code,” the Pfizer website says.

The traditional method typically takes more than a decade – Moderna’s mRNA vaccine went from gene sequencing to the first human injection in 63 days. 

“We’ll look back on the advances made in 2020 and say: ‘That was a moment when science really did make a leap forward’,” said Jeremy Farrar, director of the Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, which is backed by the Wellcome Trust.

Moderna and BioNTech are also applying mRNA technology to experimental cancer medicines. None of the potential therapies have reached the critical large-scale Phase 3 trials, however, and experts acknowledges that cancer presents a bigger challenge.

A highly pathogenic strain of bird flu has been found in the pet section of a shop in one of Corsica’s main cities, the French farm ministry has announced.

In a statement, the ministry said all the birds in the shop have been euthanised. 

France will be put on high alert level from Tuesday, it added.It follows Denmark ordering the culling of 25,000 chickens after detecting H5N8 bird flu on a farm.

The cull will effectively stop the country’s poultry and egg exports to non-EU countries for a minimum of three months.

The United States registered more than one million new coronavirus cases last week as new infections rose in every state except for Hawaii, according to a Reuters analysis of state and county reports.

Deaths rose by 12% in the week ending 15 November and averaged more than 1,100 people per day.

Several states, including Michigan, North Dakota and Washington, imposed new restrictions on public gatherings and indoor dining to try to slow the spread of the virus.

Norway’s minority government and the opposition party have agreed on an increased economic support package amid the continuing coronavirus crisis.

At 22.1bn Norwegian crowns (£1.84bn), the overall package is an increase from the 17.7bn crowns initially offered by the centre-right cabinet of the prime minister, Erna Solberg, on 10 November.

“We want to give as much certainty as we can in an uncertain time,” the Conservatives’ finance spokesman in parliament, Mudassar Kapur, said in a statement.

Part of the economic package entails the renewed suspension of environmental measures throughout 2021, such as an air passenger tax. The government had already suspended the tax for 2020.

French health authorities have reported that the number of hospitalised coronavirus patients has increased by 416 to reach a new all-time high of 33,497, even as the number of new cases reached a more than one-month low.

Covid-19 fatalities increased by 506, at 45,054, versus a seven-day moving average of 581. Infections rose by 9,406, compared to 27,228 on Sunday and way below the all-time high of 86,852 reached on 7 November.

Greece has reported 2,198 new coronavirus infections and 59 fatalities.

The country’s total caseload stands at 76,403, while 1,165 have died.Here’s the Associated Press bureau chief for southeast Europe with a breakdown of where the infections were located:





No.2 article:
Death row woman&#x27;s clemency plea in jeopardy as lawyers contract Covid-19

Lisa Montgomery is set to be put to death on 8 December for murdering a Missouri woman in 2004 and kidnapping her unborn child. William Barr, the US attorney general, has designated her the eighth prisoner to be judicially killed since he made the controversial decision to restart federal executions in July.

Montgomery’s last hope of staying alive was to petition for clemency – which in capital cases is seen as the final remedy to prevent miscarriages of justice where all other appeals have been exhausted. But her prospects of a reprieve plummeted recently when both the federal public defenders who have represented her since her conviction fell sick with Covid-19.

Kelley Henry and Amy Harwell visited Montgomery at a federal medical center in Carswell, Texas, as part of the process of preparing her clemency appeal. The lawyers traveled to Carswell on 19 and 26 October and 2 November. They developed symptoms of the illness days later.

But a federal judge signaled reluctance on Monday to grant Montgomery, the only woman on federal death row, extra time.

In a hearing in US district court for the District of Columbia, Judge Randolph Moss questioned why lawyers for the convicted woman had not completed a draft of the clemency petition sooner, saying he believed Montgomery could still authorize other attorneys to proceed on her behalf.

In a previous court filing, Montgomery’s defense team excoriate Barr for pressing ahead with federal executions in the middle of a public health emergency that has struck with especially fearsome force in US prisons. Henry and Harwell only fell sick, the memo states, because Barr “recklessly scheduled Mrs Montgomery’s execution in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic”.

In addition, mental health experts familiar with Montgomery’s case are unable to assess her mental state “and therefore cannot participate in the clemency process”. The lawyers have asked for an injunction postponing the execution until a thorough clemency appeal can be prepared.

Montgomery was sentenced to death in 2007, for murdering Bobbie Jo Stinnett and extracting her baby from the womb. The only woman among 55 inmates on federal death row, she would become the first female prisoner to be executed by the US government since Bonny Brown Heady in 1953.

Any clemency petition is likely to focus on the horrifying childhood to which Montgomery was subjected. According to court documents, she was born with brain damage related to her mother’s alcohol intake during pregnancy and went on to suffer incest, gang rape and child sex trafficking, as well as physical abuse and neglect.

Montgomery’s alcoholic stepfather began abusing her when she was 11, keeping her locked up in isolation and raping her on a weekly basis. The shocking litany of abuses has left her with severe mental health issues including psychosis and hallucinations.

When she learned on 16 October that Barr had ordered her execution, Montgomery became so distressed that she was placed on suicide watch. She has been under constant surveillance in solitary confinement ever since. While on federal death row at FMC Carswell she is being given anti-psychotic, anti-epileptic and anti-depressant drugs.

The pending execution of a female survivor of sexual abuse and domestic violence with severe mental challenges has prompted an outpouring of revulsion around the country and the world. A group of 41 current and former federal and state prosecutors wrote to Donald Trump last week, to implore the president to call off the lethal injection killing.

“Lisa’s experiences as a victim of horrific sexual violence, physical abuse, and being trafficked as a child do not excuse her crime,” they wrote. “In this case, mental health professionals have concluded that the sexual violence and cruelty she suffered was directly related to the crime she committed.”

A coalition of more than 800 organisations, scholars and survivors campaigning against all forms of violence against women have also written to Trump. They write: “Lisa committed her terrible crime – the seriousness of which we do not minimise – in the wake of a lifetime of victimisation and mental illness.

“We urge you to have mercy and to commute her death sentence to life without the possibility of parole.”

On Monday, however, the judge was skeptical.

“I would think that any vigorous and experienced counsel … would begin on day one and would have done a great deal for early November to have at least started the process of putting something together,” Moss said.

Sandra Babcock, an attorney for Montgomery, responded that lead clemency attorneys Henry and Harwell were too sick to meet the Monday night deadline to file Montgomery’s petition.

“What I can tell you is that the amount of time was very short, given all that they had to do,” said Babcock, telling Moss later in the hearing that clemency arguments “can’t be put together by any old person”.

The Associated Press contributed reporting.

• This article was amended on 19 November 2020 to correct the spelling of Bobbie Jo Stinnett’s first name.





No.3 article:
Statewide measures come as officials in Los Angeles county consider a curfew to slow the spread of the virus

California will dramatically roll back its reopening efforts, the state’s governor, Gavin Newsom, announced on Monday, saying he was pulling the “emergency brake” amid a troubling surge in cases.

The changes, which take effect Tuesday, will see more than 94% of California’s population and most businesses across the state return to the most restrictive tier of rules aimed at slowing the spread of the virus. The state is also strengthening its guidance on masks; Newsom announced face coverings would now be required outside people’s homes with limited exceptions.

The move comes as daily case rates have doubled in California over the last 10 days. The first week of November saw the fastest rate of increase in cases in the state since the start of the pandemic – 51.3% – Newsom said. The state reported 9,890 cases in the last 24 hours, with a seven-day average of 8,198.

Last week, California became the second state to surpass 1m total cases. 

“Every age group, every demographic, racial, ethnic, every part of the state, we are seeing case rates increase and positivity rates increase,” Newsom said in a press conference on Monday. “It’s no longer concentrated in just a handful of counties. We are seeing community spread broadly throughout the state of California.”

The rapid spread of the virus “could quickly overwhelm our healthcare system and lead to catastrophic outcomes”, the governor warned.

The new statewide measures come as some county officials in Los Angeles said they were considering implementing a curfew in order to slow the spread of the virus.

A curfew would mean that “businesses do not have to close again, but would instead have limited hours for essential activities”, said Mark Ridley-Thomas, a member of the county board of supervisors, in a statement.

A curfew is not expected immediately. If Los Angeles can reduce the growth in case numbers through voluntary changes, including limiting or cancelling Thanksgiving gatherings, more restrictions may not be necessary, said Barbara Ferrer, LA county public health director, on Monday.

In San Francisco, Mayor London Breed said that non-essential offices “will have to halt indoor operations until further notice”, and return to “100% remote” operations.

Fitness centers, including gyms, “may remain open at 10% capacity”, she wrote.

The troubling rise in cases in November across California has come at a faster pace than a spike in mid-June and could quickly surpass the peak of the hospitalizations at the time, health officials said. 

Statewide, about half of the people who have died from coronavirus are Latino, even though Latinos make up slightly less than 40% of the population, according to state public health data. In Los Angeles county, the highest rates of hospitalization for coronavirus have been among Pacific Islanders and Latinos, according to Ferrer.

The new statewide rules are certain to rankle business owners such as restaurateurs and gym owners, who have been struggling to get back on their feet after lengthy shutdowns. Businesses have complained that they have played by the rules, yet had to pay the price for residents who didn’t do so.

While a surge was predicted with the flu season, contact tracers have identified private household gatherings as a major source of spread. California has blamed the spike in cases mainly on people who have grown fatigued coping with the virus and have ignored public health warnings to not socialize with friends and family members.

Newsom himself has faced blowback after failing to follow his own rules by attending a friend’s birthday party at the opulent French Laundry restaurant in Napa county, north of San Francisco.

“It was a little larger group than I had anticipated,” Newsom admitted on Monday. “I made a bad mistake. Instead of sitting down, I should have stood up, walked back, got in my car and drove back to my house. Instead, I chose to sit there with my wife and a number of other couples that were outside my household.

“I want to apologize to you because I need to preach and practice, not just preach and not practice,” he continued. “You should expect nothing less of me and I expect more of myself. When I say minimize mixing, I mean it.”

In Los Angeles, young people ages 18 through 29 have the highest rate of coronavirus cases, Ferrer, the county public health director, said, even as coronavirus hospitalizations and fatalities are concentrated among much older people.

“Young people are spreading the virus with disastrous results for our elderly,” she said.

Ferrer said there were groups of young people who got coronavirus tests on Thursday, so they could get negative results by Saturday morning, and use that as an excuse to hang out together over the weekend.

“Please don’t use testing as a way to say, ‘If I’m negative, I don’t have to follow any of the protections’,” Ferrer said. “Testing on Thursday so you can party on Saturday, that doesn’t work.”

It also was a waste of valuable testing resources, she added.

Young people “need to do a better job of adjusting their behavior to take into account the serious risk they’re creating for others”.

Official warnings have been more forceful in advance of Thanksgiving next week. In Los Angeles, the public health director bluntly told residents to “cancel travel” for the holidays, and, for any gathering with people from more than one household, to “celebrate outdoors”.

“Is it worth it? The infections that come at Thanksgiving will lead to people in the hospital at Christmas. That’s the math,” San Francisco’s Breed wrote on Twitter.

California’s new statewide restrictions come as other states, including Michigan and Washington, have announced renewed efforts to combat the coronavirus as more than 11 million cases of Covid-19 have now been reported in the United States.

Governor Gretchen Whitmer’s administration ordered Michigan high schools and colleges to stop in-person classes, closed restaurants to indoor dining and suspended organized sports including the football playoffs in an attempt to curb the state’s rising case numbers. The order also restricts indoor and outdoor residential gatherings, closes some entertainment facilities and bans gyms from hosting group exercise classes.

In Washington, which was among the first states to report a Covid-19 case and death in early 2020, all 39 of its counties have been paused in either the second or third phase of a four-stage reopening plan that started in early May after a lockdown that began in March.

The Associated Press contributed reporting





No.4 article:
Appointment expected to ease tensions on the streets after protests over ousting of Martín Vizcarra

Peru’s congress has elected a new interim president after nearly 24 hours without a head of state as the country reels from an intense week of pro-democracy protests marked by accusations of police brutality.

Francisco Sagasti, an industrial engineer and member of the only political party that voted against the ousting of popular former president Martín Vizcarra a week ago, will be Peru’s caretaker president presiding over elections in April 2021.

The move is expected to ease tension on the streets after the impeachment of Vizcarra last Monday unleashed nationwide protests and what analysts have called Peru’s worst political crisis in more than a decade.

The former interim president, Manuel Merino, stepped down on Sunday after mounting calls for his resignation culminated in nationwide fury over the killing of two protesters on Saturday in a heavy-handed police clampdown on demonstrations.

The victims – identified as Jack Brian Pintado Sánchez, 22, and Jordan Inti Sotelo Camargo, 24 – were the first deaths in nearly a week of unrest over Vizcarra’s controversial removal and his replacement by a de facto government, regarded by many Peruvians as a coup.

Vigils and wakes for the two young men were held on Monday as the speaker of congress, Rocío Silva Santisteban, a leftist human rights activist and poet, called for minute’s silence before the chamber voted to select the new interim president and vice-presidents.

“Today is not a day of celebration because we have seen the death of two young people in the protests expressing their point of view,” said Sagasti, who was elected by 97-26 votes.

“We cannot bring them back to life but from the congress and the executive we can take actions so that this does not happen again,” he added.

The Committee to Protect Journalists said at least 35 journalists were injured covering anti-government protests in Peru. More than 100 protesters needed hospital treatment and four were still unaccounted for.

Peru continues to fight one of the world’s deadliest outbreaks of Covid-19, and one of its worst recessions.

Exactly 20 years ago, on 16 November 2000, Valentín Paniagua was elected as a caretaker president after the fall of Alberto Fujimori, who governed Peru from 1990 to 2000, and was jailed in 2009 for authorising death squads, overseeing rampant corruption and vote-rigging.





No.5 article:
Public health official Dr Susan Hopkins says tier 1 had ‘little effect’ and tier 2 varied across country

England’s three-tier system of Covid-19 restrictions will have to be strengthened to get the country through the winter months, a senior health official has said, hinting at a possible new tier 4 of tighter restrictions in December, when the lockdown is due to be lifted.

The tier system, introduced last month, put areas into different categories labelled medium, high or very high risk, or tiers 1, 2 and 3 respectively.

From 2 December, England will be divided into three different tiers of restrictions. They are slightly amended from the previous system.

Across all tiers, shops, personal care, gyms and the wider leisure sector are set to reopen. Collective worship and weddings – with a maximum of 15 in attendance – can also resume.

Under the new system hospitality businesses in England can stay open until 11pm with table service only but last orders must be made by 10pm, in an effort to stagger departures. The&nbsp;“rule of six”&nbsp;will also remain in place indoors, meaning social household mixing is still allowed.

Spectator sport is set to resume, albeit with limits on numbers and abiding by social distancing. In tier 1, there will be a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of occupancy of the stadium or 4,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

In tier 1, people will be encouraged to minimise travel and work from home where possible. Support bubbles – which allowed a single household to join with another household – are also being broadened across all tiers. Parents with a child under one will be able to form a support bubble, as well as those with a child under five who needs continuous care, such as a child with a disability. Also, in cases where there is a single adult carer, for a partner with dementia for example, they would also be able to form a support bubble.

How was it before?

In the least restrictive tier, also known as alert level “medium”, the rule of six applied indoors and outdoors, meaning up to half a dozen people from different households could gather. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could stay open but were forced to shut by 10pm – a move that prompted much criticism, including from Conservative backbenchers.

Under the new system, although hospitality venues will be allowed to stay open until 11pm – with last orders at 10pm – only those that serve substantial meals can operate. It means pubs and bars that do not will have to close.

As before, social mixing outside of households or support bubbles will not be allowed indoors. The rule of six will apply outdoors.

Spectators will be allowed to watch sport in tier 2, with a maximum crowd capacity outdoors of 50% of the capacity of the stadium or 2,000 people, whichever is smaller. Indoors, the maximum capacity is 1,000.

Indoor entertainment venues, such as cinemas, casinos and bowling alleys, must also close.

How was it before?

In the “high” alert level tier people were prohibited from mixing socially indoors with anybody outside of their household or support bubble but the rule of six remained in place outdoors. Hospitality businesses, such as pubs and restaurants, could open until 10pm but people were only allowed to visit with their household or support bubble.

Hospitality venues will have to close, except for delivery and takeaway service. In tier 3, hotels and other accommodation providers must also close, except for specific work purposes where people cannot return home. Outdoor sports, including golf and tennis, will be allowed to continue in all tiers, as will amateur team sports such as football. Unlike the first two tiers, spectators will not be allowed to watch sport in tier 3.

How was it before?

In the most restrictive tier, known as the “very high” alert level that was endured by vast swathes of the north of England, mixing socially indoors between households – unless a support bubble was in place – was banned. Under baseline measures hospitality venues serving substantial food could remain open until 10pm. Up to six people from different households could socialise outdoors in public spaces, such as parks, beaches or public gardens.

Simon Murphy&nbsp;Political correspondent

The health secretary, Matt Hancock, said the government hoped the national lockdown would be replaced on 2 December with a tiered system “similar to what we had before”.

But Dr Susan Hopkins, an epidemiologist, told the Downing Street press conference on Monday that tier 1 coronavirus restrictions had “little effect”, while the impact of tier 2 varied in different places.

Hopkins, a Public Health England director advising the government’s coronavirus response, said: “We have recognised that the tiering of the country has had a different effect in each area.

“Tier 3, and especially tier 3 plus in the north, has had an effect in reducing the numbers of cases in the north-west and we can see the north-west’s declining number of cases now.

“Tier 2 seems to hold in some areas and not so well in others, and so really it depends on how fast transmission is occurring and how well the individuals in the population are taking that advice in.

“We see very little effect from tier 1 and I think when we look at what tiers may be there in the future, we will have to think about strengthening them in order to get us through the winter months until the vaccine is available for everyone.”

Hancock has said it is too early to know the impact of the second lockdown in England, but he hopes measures can be eased on 2 December.

He told the press conference: “It is too early for us to know what the number of cases will be as we come to the end of the current lockdown.

“At the moment, most of the tests we’re getting back, and most of the positive cases, are from around the time the lockdown came in, so we are yet to see in the data – and it’s too early to expect to see in the data – the impact of the second lockdown.

“But we absolutely hope to be able to replace the national lockdown with a tiered system similar to what we had before.”

Listed by local authority for Great Britain. The devolved health authority publishes regional statistics for Northern Ireland.

At a briefing on Monday, the prime minister’s official spokesman told reporters: “We are committed to setting out next week what the replacement regime will be and that will be a return to the localised approach, and we’re actively working on those plans at the moment.”

The government said a further 213 people had died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 as of Monday, bringing the UK total to 52,147. There had been a further 21,363 lab-confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK as of 9am on Monday.





No.6 article:
Britain strikes rapid deal for Moderna jab showing 95% effectiveness in early results

UK officials have scrambled to secure 5m doses of a breakthrough coronavirus vaccine within four hours of early results, amid fears that Britain had missed out on supplies.

Interim findings from the US biotech firm Moderna – whose trials included high-risk and elderly people – suggested its vaccine was 95% effective. It is more expensive than the Pfizer/BioNTech version announced last week but can potentially be stored and transported more easily.

The two vaccines could be used to immunise more than 1 billion people against coronavirus by the end of next year.

Britain initially chose not to buy the Moderna vaccine amid concerns over unpredictable behaviour by the US president, Donald Trump, and the lack of a dependable European supply chain, a source told the Guardian.

The UK had also shunned the EU vaccine purchase scheme, arguing in July that the government could source vaccines faster on its own.

Meanwhile, the US secured 100m Moderna doses, with an option to buy 400m more, while the European commission has a “potential purchase agreement” for 80m-160m doses. Japan, Canada, Switzerland, Qatar and Israel also secured shots.

UK ministers remain hopeful that a vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca could be available soon – even by Christmas – with results of that trial reported to be imminent.

On Monday the health secretary, Matt Hancock, told a Downing Street briefing that the UK had secured 5m doses of the Moderna vaccine – a smaller number than the 350m total doses secured for other potential vaccines. The first jabs would be delivered in spring 2021 if approved by regulators.

After Moderna’s results were announced at 12pm on Monday, the government faced mounting criticism over a decision – understood to have been led by the vaccine taskforce head, Kate Bingham, and the business secretary, Alok Sharma – not to initially secure the vaccine.

One source close to the negotiations said that in the early weeks of the pandemic during the scramble for vaccines, there were fears over “vaccine nationalism” and Trump’s behaviour when it came to agreeing a deal with a US company, which at the time did not have established supply chains to Europe. Moderna has since launched European supply operations, with manufacturing partners in Switzerland and Spain.

On Monday, an emergency team of officials from the vaccine taskforce, along with the Treasury, Department for Business, Energy &amp; Industrial Strategy (BEIS), and the Department of Health, finalised the agreement within four hours, with no advance notice of the firm’s results – clinching a deal less than an hour before Hancock’s 5pm appearance at the daily press conference.

One source said there was concern Hancock would be “mullered” if the UK had not secured doses of the new jab.

Hancock told the press conference that “great advances in medical science are coming to the rescue” from the pandemic. “While there is much uncertainty, we can see the candle of hope and we must do all that we can to nurture its flame,” he said.

Government scientists warned, however, that tougher measures were still needed to get through the pandemic until a vaccine was available – and hinted at a possible new tier 4 of tighter restrictions when lockdown is lifted in England in December.

Dr Susan Hopkins, a medical adviser to Public Health England on Covid-19, suggested a fourth tier of tougher measures might need to be added in England.

“We see very little effect from tier 1 and I think when we look at what tiers may be there in the future we will have to think about strengthening them in order to get us through the winter months until the vaccine is available for everyone,” she told the press conference.

Moderna’s interim analysis released on Monday, and based on the first 95 patients with confirmed Covid infections, found the candidate vaccine has an efficacy of 94.5%. It plans to apply to the US regulator, the Food and Drug Administration, and to regulators in the EU and UK for emergency use authorisation in coming weeks.

A spokesman for Moderna said the company had always been committed to fair access to its vaccine and that Europe supply chains were part of a deal done in May 2020.

“Moderna’s partnership with Lonza [includes] the establishment of manufacturing sites in both the US for the local market, with a dedicated supply chain to supply markets outside of the US from Switzerland,” the spokesman said.

Questions will be raised about how much the UK government has paid for the vaccine, which BEIS would not disclose, citing commercial sensitivity. The European commission is understood to have told the company it wants to reach a deal for a price below $25 (£19) a dose.

The US paid Moderna $15 a dose to secure 100m vaccines in a $1.5bn deal in August. That was on top of $1bn in funding for Moderna’s vaccine, effectively bringing the combined price to $25.

Moderna’s vaccine is more expensive than the other frontrunners. AstraZeneca and Oxford University are aiming to sell their vaccine at about £3 a dose, while vaccines in a trial with Johnson &amp; Johnson and a collaboration between Sanofi and GSK are both expected to cost about £8 a dose. Pfizer is charging the US about £30 for a two-shot course.

Government sources cited questions about the company’s European supply chains and a need to distribute a “limited pot” wisely as reasons for the decision not to initially purchase supplies from Moderna.

The decision had been made to “bet on Pfizer” given it was well-established in Europe and was based on the same platform as Moderna, it was said.

“We knew Moderna was not able to provide until spring 2021 and so therefore when you have a limited pot and two options, you back Pfizer who have a huge European distribution,” the source said. “That is paying off – we now have the chance of a vaccine in December.”

The other concern was how the US would react to other countries buying up a US vaccine. “If the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine came through and suddenly we’re shipping off 75m doses to France, then people will go nuts. We were thinking what Trump would do if that’s an American vaccine, by an American company, subsidised by American government,” a source close to the negotiations said.





No.7 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Letter to Boris Johnson tells of lack of government support despite highest rate in England 

Hull has been “forgotten” by central government as the city’s coronavirus cases have increased at an “astonishing and terrifying rate” to become the highest in England, its council leader has said.

Stephen Brady of Hull city council said it needed urgent national support but had received no contact from the government.

The number of coronavirus patients in Hull’s hospitals has passed the peak of the first wave and its infection rate has risen tenfold in barely five weeks.

At 770 cases per 100,000 people it is nearly triple England’s average and far higher than other Covid-19 hotspots. A council spokeswoman said public health officials were warning that the peak in Hull – which has recorded 252 coronavirus deaths – is yet to come.

In a letter to Boris Johnson on Monday, Brady said: “I am writing to express my grave concerns about the consequences of the current Covid-19 health emergency in Hull and the absence of central government support to assist us in overcoming it.

“As I am sure you are aware, our infection rate is now one of the highest in the country and ... the infection rates in our city have increased at a, frankly, astonishing and terrifying rate over the last few weeks.”

He continued: “Hull and our people have dealt with some huge challenges in the past, and we have always overcome them, but, on this occasion, as has too frequently been the case in the past, we seem, once again, to be the forgotten city.”

Brady asked Johnson for more freedom to enforce local restrictions, more support from Public Health England, discussions about what will happen in Hull when the planned period of national restrictions ends, discussions about financial support for local businesses, and additional support and resources for the area’s hospitals.

On Monday the council said there were 188 confirmed Covid-positive patients in hospital in Hull, with a further 38 suspected cases.

Mike Whale, the Hull district secretary for the National Education Union, said three in every 10 children were out of school self-isolating in the city – which would amount to about 12,000 children.

He said there was huge support among Hull’s teachers to close the city’s schools until the virus was under control. “While children may not be overly vulnerable, the number of adult staff in schools who are currently isolating is really significant and schools are really struggling to stay open,” he said.

callout-coronavirus

The cause of the exponential rise in cases – up from 75.4 per 100,000 on 1 October – remains unclear but Dr Cheryl Walter, a virologist at the University of Hull, has said she believes it may in part be due to the city having low immunity levels.

Hull managed to avoid the worst of the first wave and continued to have low case numbers throughout the summer, compared with other parts of northern England where the infection rate remained relatively high when the first national lockdown was lifted.

Walter said the virus may have crept over to Hull from nearby areas on the “M62 corridor”. She told the Hull Daily Mail that a potential reason for the rise was “we had little ‘community immunity’ going into the second wave, as London did and … winter is almost always a time of year when airborne infectious diseases are most prevalent”.

Boris Johnson addressed Tory MPs in northern England who have formed a pressure group that has taken Downing Street to task over the impact of Covid-19 lockdown measures. He labelled the MPs his “praetorian guard”.

More than 50 Tory MPs signed a letter to Johnson last month – before the imposition of the current 28-day restrictions – urging him to provide a “clear roadmap” out of lockdown, arguing that pandemic “has exposed in sharp relief the deep structural and systemic disadvantage faced by our communities”.

One Conservative MP on the hour-long Zoom call said: “He was on fantastic form, he took the entire meeting standing up. He was very animated, bouncy. He was clearly not a man in poor health. He said he wants us to open up as much as we can on the 2 December but that we had to recognise that this was a dangerous, nasty illness that we needed to get under control.”







No.8 article:
&#x27;Serious doubts&#x27; over Covid safety in government, union warns

Need for Boris Johnson and Tory MPs to self-isolate prompts questions 

There are “serious doubts” about coronavirus safety in government, the biggest civil servants’ union has warned, after Boris Johnson and six Conservative MPs went into self-isolation after being photographed standing near each other at a Downing Street event.

The emergence of a new Covid cluster centred on No 10, with a total of 10 Tory MPs now isolating, has derailed Johnson’s hope of using this week to mark a fresh start following the infighting which saw his main adviser and media chief leave last week.

It has also raised questions about Covid security inside Downing Street, with three MPs at the event having previously posted photographs of themselves standing about a metre from Johnson, with no one wearing a face mask.

Johnson became seriously ill with Covid in April. Sixteen other people linked to Downing Street have either had a confirmed case of coronavirus, experienced symptoms or had to isolate since the start of the pandemic – including the health secretary, Matt Hancock, England’s chief medical officer, Prof Chris Whitty, and the former head of the civil service Sir Mark Sedwill.

The flurry of feared cases began after Lee Anderson, the MP for Ashfield in Nottinghamshire, developed Covid-like symptoms a day after attending a meeting of 2019-intake Tory MPs on Thursday morning at Downing Street.

A positive test on Sunday saw the prime minister informed, through an email sent by the test-and-trace service, that he must stay in self-isolation until 26 November because of his recent proximity to Anderson.

Over the course of Monday, five more MPs announced they were self-isolating: Brendan Clarke-Smith, the MP for Bassetlaw in the east Midlands; Andy Carter, the MP for Warrington South; Lia Nici, the MP for Great Grimsby; Katherine Fletcher, who represents South Ribble in Lancashire; and Chris Clarkson, MP for Heywood and Middleton in Greater Manchester. Clarke-Smith and Carter had both posted photos with Johnson.

Two No 10 aides at the meeting are also self-isolating. They were not named, but Johnson’s spokesman confirmed they were not Dominic Cummings or Lee Cain, the PM’s former chief adviser and communications head respectively, who both left Downing Street at the end of last week.

Another four Tory MPs – Maria Miller, Jacob Young, Matt Vickers and Marco Longhi – have also said they are self-isolating. None was at the No 10 event, but Miller sat next to Anderson in the House of Commons last Wednesday.

Johnson’s spokesman insisted Downing Street fully followed Covid-secure workplace guidelines, and that masks were not usually worn inside the building. He said the fact the MPs were photographed so close to the prime minister was mitigated by the fact they were stood side by side, not face to face.

But a Public and Commercial Services Union spokesman said the incident prompted new worries, citing the case of the business minister, Alok Sharma, who faced questions about distancing in his office after a staff member tested positive for Covid.

“From the controversy around Alok Sharma to parliament not having proper QR codes in place, our members have serious doubts as to the competency levels of ministers when it comes to following Covid safety measures,” he said.

The FDA, which represents senior civil servants, said the case connected to No 10 was a “cause for concern”, saying it was vital for unions to play a role in ensuring government departments and parliament were safe.

A spokeswoman said: “The risk assessments should include the measures the employer will take if there is a Covid outbreak in the workplace and in particular, employers need to be prepared to look again at the measures they have put in place if they have an outbreak – and if necessary make changes so that similar outbreaks don’t occur in the future.”

Johnson has sought to play down the incident, saying he is fine and that his body “is bursting with antibodies”. His spokesman confirmed that the prime minister had had at least one antibody test for Covid, but did not say when this was.

In a video posted to Twitter, Johnson said: “Hi folks, the good news is that NHS test and trace is working ever more efficiently, but the bad news is that they’ve pinged me and I’ve got to self-isolate because someone I was in contact with a few days ago has developed Covid.

“It doesn’t matter that we were all doing social distancing, it doesn’t matter that I’m fit as a butcher’s dog, feel great – so many people do in my circumstances. And actually it doesn’t matter that I’ve had the disease and I’m bursting with antibodies.”

Johnson’s spokesman said masks are not normally worn inside Downing Street because there are one-way systems in place instead to avoid close contact in confined areas.

Asked why the meeting was held in person, he said: “Meetings for work are possible and are taking place. The PM has been having a mix of meetings.”

Johnson, who must isolate for 10 more days – the 14-day self-isolation period begins with the last contact with the infected person – has been working in his Downing Street office rather than staying inside his flat in the building.

His spokesman said Johnson was able to reach the office via a garden, with no contact with staff, and that this had been cleared by medical advisers.

Downing Street said officials were in “advanced discussions” with parliamentary authorities about Johnson taking part in prime minister’s questions and other House of Commons proceedings remotely. Under the “hybrid” parliament arrangements, MPs can take part in some proceedings by video link.





No.9 article:
Macron accuses English-language media of &#x27;legitimising&#x27; violence in France

In the New York Times interview, Macron claimed media outside France did not understand the concept of the separation of church and state, and condemned newspapers which criticised France’s policy towards Muslims.

Macron has been the subject of protests for his perceived attacks on Islam, after he backed the publication of cartoons depicting the prophet Muhammad and claimed in a speech that Islam “is in crisis all over the world today”. Protesters in some countries have called for a boycott of French products.

Speaking to the New York Times, Macron reiterated his anger at some of the English-language media’s response to recent attacks by Islamist terrorists in France.

Samuel Paty, a teacher, was beheaded on 16 October, after he showed his class cartoons from the magazine Charlie Hebdo, which mocked Muhammad, during a debate on free speech. On 29 October, three people were killed in an attack in a church in Nice.

“When France was attacked five years ago, every nation in the world supported us,” Macron said, referring to the series of terrorist attacks across Paris in November 2015 in which 130 people were killed.

“So when I see, in that context, several newspapers which I believe are from countries that share our values – journalists who write in a country that is the heir to the Enlightenment and the French Revolution – when I see them legitimising this violence, and saying that the heart of the problem is that France is racist and Islamophobic, then I say the founding principles have been lost.”

Macron, France’s president since 2017, could be pitted against far-right politician Marine Le Pen at the polls in 2022.

He said foreign media did not understand the concept of “laïcité” – secularism, or the separation between church and state.

“There is a sort of misunderstanding about what the European model is, and the French model in particular,” Macron said. “American society used to be segregationist before it moved to a multiculturalist model, which is essentially about coexistence of different ethnicities and religions next to one another.”

Macron described the French model as “universalist, not multiculturalist”. He said: “In our society, I don’t care whether someone is Black, yellow or white, whether they are Catholic or Muslim. A person is first and foremost a citizen.”

At the start of October, Macron announced a series of measures to combat “radical Islamism”, including placing greater control over mosques and the requirement that imams are trained and certified in France. Some English-language newspapers have been critical of Macron.

On Thursday, Amnesty International criticized the president and his government, saying they had “doubled down on their perpetual smear campaign against French Muslims, and launched their own attack on freedom of expression”.

In a report, the charity pointed to the conviction in 2019 of two men who burned an effigy of Macron at a protest, and suggested Muslims did not enjoy the same freedoms as others in France.

“While the right to express opinion or views that may be perceived as offending religious beliefs is strenuously defended,” the report said, “Muslims’ freedoms of expression and religion usually receive scant attention in France under the disguise of Republican universalism.

“In the name of secularism, or laïcité, Muslims in France cannot wear religious symbols or dress in schools or in public sector jobs.”

Macron’s call to the Times came after he told a French journal Europe must work to be a challenger to China and the US if it is to thrive.

“The changeover of the administration in America,” he said, “is an opportunity to to pursue in a truly peaceful and calm manner what allies need to understand among themselves – which is that we need to continue to build our independence for ourselves, as the US does for itself and as China does for itself.”





No.10 article:
Canadian territory of Nunavut to lock down after first Covid case leads to surge

Territory had its first documented case in early November and on Monday officials announced 26 confirmed Covid-19 cases

The Canadian territory of Nunavut will enter lockdown as a surge in coronavirus cases threatens vulnerable communities in the Arctic.

The territory, which had its first documented case in early November, has since experienced a surge in Covid-19 infections. Officials on Monday announced 26 confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the territory, an increase over the three announced last Friday.

“Nobody is above the rules here. Do not visit. Do not socialise outside your household,” the premier, Joe Savikataaq, told reporters as his government announced the lockdown measures, which are expected to last two weeks.

Nunavut’s first confirmed case of Covid-19 was identified on 6 November, but that number has since ballooned as public health officials uncover evidence of community transmission.

Over the weekend, a number of cases were discovered in the hamlet of Arviat, with a population of 2,657. Officials have also identified coronavirus infections in Rankin Inlet, which they believe are linked to the Arviat cluster.

Beginning Wednesday, schools and daycares throughout the entire territory will shut down for two weeks. Restaurants will only be permitted to offer takeout and bars will close.

There are no confirmed cases of the virus in the capital, Iqaluit, which serves as the main hub for transit down to the larger cities in the south, like Winnipeg and Ottawa. Officials have also discouraged any travelling for the next two weeks.

“Limiting any potential exposure to the virus is our best possible defense in Nunavut,” Dr Michael Patterson, Nunavut’s chief public health officer, said in a statement.

For much of the pandemic, Nunavut has been an exception to the world: no confirmed cases have appeared within its borders.

Strict public health measures, including spending millions to ensure residents adhered to a mandatory quarantine period before entering the territory, have successfully kept the coronavirus at bay, even as cases spread rapidly throughout other parts of the country.

The territory’s sprawl – stretching 808,190 square miles – has helped limit the spread. Many of the communities are connected only by air, reducing the amount of frequent travel.

But the small, tightly-knit communities have also long been a source of worry. For months, public health experts long feared a coronavirus outbreak in the region could have disastrous consequences for vulnerable residents.

In addition to disproportionately high rates of tuberculosis, Nunavut has long struggled with a dearth of public health infrastructure and adequate housing.

“You’ve got populations that are malnourished, living in overcrowded conditions with higher levels of co-morbidities – chronic obstructive lung disease, cardiovascular disease and obesity – that are now going to get a virus,” said Anna Banerji, director of global and indigenous health at the University of Toronto’s faculty of medicine, told the Guardian last spring.

“Especially with the overcrowding, I’m sure this virus will spread quickly.”





No.11 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

German chancellor says she does not currently have the backing of state leaders

Angela Merkel has said she does not have backing among state leaders for new restrictions to give Germany’s “soft” lockdown a harder bite, postponing any decision until a further meeting between the chancellor and 16 state premiers next week.

The chancellor had been in favour of people limiting social interactions in private to only one set second household, and forgo any kind of party until Christmas Eve, according to a draft proposal cited by several news outlets including Der Spiegel.

The plans were also reported to include advising citizens to quarantine at home for up to seven days, even if they display only the symptoms of an ordinary cold, and tightening hygiene requirements at schools, with teachers and students of all year groups asked to wear face masks throughout lessons.

“I could have imagined imposing further contact restrictions today, but there was no majority for that,” Merkel said after the meeting. She added there was a need for greater social distancing.

Germany entered a partial “lockdown light” on 2 November, with contacts reduced to a maximum of two households and no more than 10 people, restaurants and bars closed apart from for takeaways, and unnecessary travel discouraged but not banned. Schools and nurseries have stayed open.

Two weeks on, the rate of new infections has slowed, with the mean doubling time rising on Monday from 25 to 28 days. But the overall number of new cases remains high and the national disease control agency recorded 10,824 confirmed new cases in the last 24 hours.

“The numbers are starting to stabilise,” the German news agency dpa quoted Merkel as telling party colleagues over the weekend. “But too slowly.”

Austria, Germany’s Alpine neighbour, is heading into a second full lockdown on Tuesday after recording an average of 7,000 daily cases last week, one of the highest per-capita rates in the world.

Sebastian Kurz, the Austrian chancellor, said on Saturday that schools and non-essential shops would remain closed from midnight on Monday.

Exceptions are in place for food stores, pharmacies, banks and post offices. Nurseries and schools for younger pupils will be open only to those requiring childcare.

A night-time curfew will be expanded throughout the day, permitting citizens to leave their homes only for essential trips related to work, shopping or exercise.

“My urgent request: don’t meet anyone!” Kurz tweeted. “Every social contact is one too many.”

Austria has been regarded by many Covid-hit countries as a model after its quick action in handling the pandemic in spring, but has struggled to stem new infections in autumn.

On Saturday, 584 of an available 2,000 intensive care beds were occupied with Covid-19 patients. “Triage is now de facto inescapable,” an intensive care specialist, Klaus Markstaller, told the Kurier newspaper.





No.12 article:
Moderna becomes second firm to reveal positive results with nearly 95% protection in trials

More than 1 billion people could be immunised against coronavirus by the end of next year with shots from the first two companies to reveal positive results, after the latest vaccine was shown in trials to have an efficacy of nearly 95% .

With the US’s top infectious diseases official, Anthony Fauci, hailing “the light at the end of the tunnel”, the US biotech firm Moderna announced impressive results for its mRNA vaccine on Monday, a week after interim results for a Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine showed 90% efficacy.

The inclusion of high-risk and elderly people in the Moderna trial suggested the vaccine would protect those most vulnerable to the disease, said Peter Openshaw, a professor of experimental medicine at Imperial College London, who described the results as “tremendously exciting”.

Though it is more expensive, Moderna’s vaccine could potentially provide a major advantage over Pfizer’s, which requires ultracold freezing between -70C (-94F) and -80C from production facility to patient.

Moderna said it had improved the shelf life and stability, meaning its vaccine can be stored for six months at -20C for shipping and long-term storage, and at standard refrigeration temperatures of 2C to 8C for 30 days. 

Moderna said it could potentially manufacture 1bn doses by the end of 2021, adding to a further 1.3bn from Pfizer/BioNTech in the same timeframe. Both vaccines require two doses and are due to be assessed by regulators in coming weeks.

Speaking at a press briefing, Fauci, the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which co-developed the vaccine, lauded the Moderna jab and others still in trials.

He urged people to continue to observe guidelines to combat the disease. “We should not let the accomplishment of an effective vaccine have us feel we can let our guard down … In fact, it should be an incentive to double down as we then ultimately have the synergy between a vaccine and a public health measure which will get us out of the very difficult situation.” 

Stéphane Bancel, the chief executive of Moderna, said: “This has been incredible teamwork. I think none of us probably thought that we could get to this place in the last 10 months.”

Moderna’s interim analysis, based on the first 95 patients with confirmed Covid infections, found the candidate vaccine had an efficacy of 94.5%. The company said it planned to apply to the US regulator, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), for emergency use authorisation in the coming weeks. In the analysis, 90 of the patients had received the placebo with the remaining five getting the vaccine.

Though provisional, the results are particularly exciting because the trial included a large proportion of people at high risk of severe Covid-19 and these appear to have been well protected.

The Moderna vaccine, which is being trialled in more than 30,000 volunteers, is not expected to be available outside the US until next year. The biotech company said it would have 20m doses ready to ship in the US before the end of 2020 and hoped to manufacture 500m to 1bn doses globally next year.

Moderna has agreed to provide the US with 100m doses, with an option to buy 400m more. Japan, Canada, Switzerland, Qatar and Israel have also signed agreements, and the European commission has a “potential purchase agreement” for 80m-160m doses. 

The vaccine, which is based on similar mRNA technology to BioNTech’s, is expected to be assessed by the FDA on a final analysis of 151 Covid cases among trial participants who will be followed on average for more than two months.

At £38 to £45 for a course of two shots, Moderna’s vaccine is more expensive than the other frontrunners. AstraZeneca and Oxford University are aiming to sell their vaccine at about £3 a dose, while vaccines in trial with Johnson &amp; Johnson and a collaboration between Sanofi and GSK are both expected to cost about £8 a dose. Pfizer is charging the US about £30 for a two-shot course. 

Moderna’s two-shot vaccine injects genetic material called mRNA into the body, which cells then use to churn out the spike protein the virus uses to invade cells. The spike protein covers the surface of the virus and is one of the main targets of the body’s immune response to wipe out the infection.

There is some statistical uncertainty over the 94.5% figure but Stephen Evans, a professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine, said that based on the numbers released, the efficacy was still likely to be better than 85%.

A question mark remains over whether the Pfizer vaccine prevents serious illness. The Moderna results, released by an independent data safety monitoring board, are encouraging on this point.

Of 11 participants who developed severe Covid while on the trial, all were in the placebo group. The results also suggest the vaccine is effective in older people and those from diverse ethnic backgrounds. Moderna said about 42% of participants were at risk of severe Covid-19 if infected, as they were older or had co-morbidities such as diabetes, obesity or high blood pressure.

Moderna’s interim analysis found no significant safety concerns, with most reactions being mild to moderate and short lived. Among the side-effects reported were injection site pain in 2.7% of trial volunteers after the first jab. After the second, the most significant side-effects included fatigue in 9.7%, muscle pain in 9% and joint pain in 5%. Others had headaches, other pains, or redness at the injection site.

• This article was amended on 17 November 2020 to clarify that results of vaccine trials at this stage refer to “efficacy” – the performance of an intervention under ideal and controlled circumstances – not “effectiveness”, which describes performance under real-world conditions.





No.13 article:
Iota due to collide with north-eastern Nicaragua overnight, and has maximum sustained winds of 160mph, reaching category 5

Hurricane Iota exploded into a catastrophic category 5 storm on Monday and bore down on a remote Central American coastal region already reeling from another major storm, Hurricane Eta, with efforts to evacuate villagers hampered by shortages of fuel for boats.

Iota is the record 30th named storm of an extraordinary Atlantic hurricane season. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms.

Eta was this year’s 28th named storm, tying the 2005 record. Remnants of Theta, the 29th, dissipated on Sunday in the eastern Atlantic. The official end of hurricane season is 30 November.

Iota was due to collide with north-eastern Nicaragua overnight and was packing maximum sustained winds of 160mph, reaching category 5 on the Saffir-Simpson scale, the US National Hurricane Center (NHC) said.

Barely recovering after Hurricane Eta hit two weeks ago, Guatemala and southern Mexico were also bracing for renewed flooding on land already waterlogged from the earlier storm. In El Salvador, the government declared a “red alert” ahead of Iota, suspending school and activating emergency funding.

The hurricane was located about 100 miles east-south-east of Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua in the Miskito region after whipping past the Colombian islands of San Andres and Providencia before dawn. The Miskito people are descendants of indigenous groups and Africans believed to have escaped from shipwrecked slave ships.

The World Food Programme warned that some 80,000 people in Nicaragua were at risk from Iota, while Honduran authorities said they were evacuating another 80,000. Local authorities and the navy frantically tried to get thousands of families to higher ground or ports in the watery region of jungles, rivers and coastline, which also straddles Honduras and took a direct hit from Eta.

“There are villages that can protect or save themselves, but others cannot cope with this catastrophe after Eta,” said Teonela Wood, mayor of Honduras’ Brus Laguna municipality, which she said was home to more than 17,000 people. 

“The biggest problem we have right now is that we don’t have fuel to keep on evacuating people” on boats, Wood said.

Douglas Espinal, emergency services chief in nearby Puerto Lempira, said fuel shortages stemmed from evacuation and rescue efforts during the earlier storm, which went on to dump rain across a large swath of Central America, destroying crops and killing dozens in landslides and flooding.

Espinal said a little extra fuel had arrived on Sunday, allowing him to make some evacuation runs, and that villagers were also making their own way to seek shelter in Puerto Lempira.

The unprecedented 2020 hurricane season comes as Central America is facing an economic crisis linked to the coronavirus pandemic, with experts warning the compounding hardship could worsen infections, spread hunger, and fuel a new round of migration from the region.

The World Food Programme said millions of people in Central America already urgently needed food assistance in the wake of Eta and that it had transported nearly 300 tonnes of food to affected villages in Nicaragua.

Climate change is increasing the intensity of both rain and droughts across Central America, United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) said last week, saying such phenomena can exacerbate the poverty which drives people to flee their homes. 





No.14 article:
Italian police swoop on mafia racket extorting €50 a coffin from funeral homes

Dawn raids in Puglia lead to about 40 arrests of suspected members of the ‘fifth mafia’

An emerging mafia that ran a protection racket extorting €50 (£45) a coffin from funeral homes has been raided by hundreds of police in one of the largest ever such busts in the southern Italian region of Puglia.

Dawn raids centred on the city of Foggia led to the arrest of some 40 alleged members of a criminal organisation described by Italian authorities as the country’s “number one public enemy”.

Investigators have long recognised the threat from the four established mafia groupings – Cosa Nostra in Sicily, the ’Ndrangheta in Calabria, the Camorra in Naples and the Sacra Corona Unita in Puglia – but have become increasingly concerned by the strength of the Foggia organisation, which some have called the “fifth mafia”.

The suspects, including the clan leaders Federico Trisciuoglio and Pasquale Moretti, were variously held on suspicion of belonging to a mafia organisation, usury and extortion against entrepreneurs and shopkeepers, including funeral homes.

According to prosecutors, the Foggia clans required funeral homes to pay a sum of €50 for each body. “The mafia even managed to bribe an employee of the local administration who provided them every day with a list of people who died in the city,” Ludovico Vaccaro, head prosecutor of Foggia, told the Guardian.

Vaccaro said that usury activities by the clans had become increasingly insistent in recent months, with the bosses taking “advantage of the difficulty entrepreneurs are finding themselves in during this pandemic”. Mobsters offered them loans with interest rates of over 400%.

“The Foggia mafia has become the number one public enemy of the state,” said the national anti-mafia prosecutor, Federico Cafiero De Raho. “But the state’s response against these bosses is getting stronger.”

A series of car bombings in Foggia in February prompted the interior ministry to send a team of anti-mafia investigators to Puglia.

“The Foggia mafia is relatively young,” Vaccaro told the Guardian earlier this year. “The clans that make up this organisation have been embedded in this territory for at least 30 years. We cannot compare them to the historical Italian mafia groups like Cosa Nostra and ’Ndrangheta, but it is a mafia characterised by a high degree of aggression and violence. It is what I call a primitive mafia – one that feeds cadavers to pigs, so as not to leave a trace.”

The mafia in Foggia province emerged in the late 1970s, when the head of the Neapolitan mafia Raffaele Cutolo met a delegation of local criminals in Puglia with the goal of “hiring” them into his organisation and extending his influence into the contraband trade in cigarettes in the Balkans.

Today, at least three criminal sub-groups operate in the area around Foggia. Besides the Società Foggiana, which profits from extortion and drug-dealing, there is the Cerignola clan, known for its armoured car heists and cocaine smuggling, and another group active around Gargano, on the spur of Italy’s “boot”, where 80% of killings go unsolved and whose bosses are believed to have killed 360 people.

“Today’s operation is important because it finally allows us to send a message to the entrepreneurs who are being oppressed by these mobsters,” said Vaccaro. “This operation must give them the courage to rebel and collaborate with the authorities. Only like this can we finally get rid of a mafia that is impoverishing our territory.”





No.15 article:
French broadcaster apologises after wrongly killing off Queen and Pelé

Public radio station blames technical glitch for publishing premature death notices online

Reports of the deaths of about 100 unfortunate celebrities have been greatly exaggerated by a French public radio station, which mistakenly published the obituaries of, among others, a very-much-alive Queen, Brigitte Bardot and Pelé.

Radio France Internationale (RFI), the French equivalent of the BBC World Service, on Monday blamed “a technical problem” and apologised for the error, which saw the death notices appear on its website and partner platforms including Google, Yahoo! and MSN before being hastily taken down.

“We offer our apologies to the people concerned and to you who follow and trust us,” the station said in a tweet. “We are doing all we can to rectify this major bug.”

Other non-French octa- and nonagenarians declared prematurely dead were Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei; former US president Jimmy Carter; Cuban leader Raúl Castro; Yoko Ono; former Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson, and the actors Clint Eastwood and Sophia Loren.

Among French nationals, the victims included Bernadette Chirac, wife of the late president Jacques; the former Socialist prime minister Lionel Jospin, the actors Jean-Louis Trintignant, Alain Delon and Jean-Paul Belmondo, the director Roman Polanski and the fashion designer Pierre Cardin.

Of the Queen, the station wrote: “The United Kingdom awoke an orphan this morning. Buckingham Palace officially announced the death of Queen Elizabeth II. The Queen, who died of …, turned 94 on 21 April 2020.

“All Albion laments the disappearance of its sovereign who, at the head of her country since 1952, has constituted the immovable bedrock around which England’s postcolonial history has unfolded, full of sound and fury.”

In the event of the Queen’s regrettable death from the coronavirus, the station recommended that the obituary be preceded by the words: “The coronavirus pandemic that has wrought havoc around the world is no respecter of crowned heads. In England … it has claimed the life of the monarch. The United Kingdom awoke an orphan this morning. Infected by the virus, Queen Elizabeth II, aged 93, did not survive associated pulmonary complications.”

In the case of at least one celebrity, French business mogul turned politician Bernard Tapie, 77, the mistake was not the first or even the second time he has been declared dead: Le Monde published his obituary in 2019, while the TV station of the sports paper L’Équipe killed him off on screen last August.





No.16 article:
Kremlin meant to kill Navalny, western security agencies believe

Tests reveal novichok used to poison opposition leader was different from Salisbury strain

Western security agencies believe the Kremlin intended to kill the opposition leader Alexei Navalny and only failed to achieve the deadly goal because of quick thinking by first responders when he suddenly fell ill in August.

The conclusion from lab tests is that Navalny was poisoned using a potentially milder strain of novichok than the one used in the Salisbury attack, pointing to an active chemical weapons programme in Russia capable of producing different variants of the poison.

Diplomats from Britain, France and Germany are now working together to try to get the OPCW chemical weapons agency to formally declare that Russia was responsible at a plenary meeting, which starts at the end of the month.

It is unclear if that effort will succeed, but European security agencies say in private there is “growing evidence” of Russian state involvement in the attack.

Navalny collapsed on 20 August while on a flight from Tomsk to Moscow. He fell into a coma and is probably only alive because the plane made an emergency landing in Omsk where he was given atropine, the only drug known to be effective, by the doctors first treating him.

Tests have been carried out in labs in Germany, where Navalny was airlifted for treatment, France and Sweden and by the OPCW. All concluded traces of the novichok nerve agent were found in the opposition leader’s body.

They also concluded the strain of novichok used was different from that used in the Salisbury attack in the UK in 2018, which targeted Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia and ultimately led to the death of a British woman, Dawn Sturgess.

In October, the OPCW said in a statement that the traces of novichok found in Navalny’s blood and urine samples had “similar structural characteristics” to the nerve agent banned after Salisbury.

Hamish de Bretton Gordon, a chemical weapons specialist, said: “Reading between the lines between the way Navalny and the Skripals were treated, this novichock also appears to be less toxic and slow to have an effect.”

Navalny has accused Vladimir Putin of being behind the crime. Such an attack on Russia’s most prominent opposition politician, using a chemical weapon so closely associated with the Kremlin, will almost certainly have been sanctioned by the president, western intelligence agencies add.

Moscow has denied involvement. It has suggested foreign states may have been responsible as part of a plot to stir up internal tensions. Last week Sergei Lavrov, Russia’s foreign minister, claimed Navalny could have been poisoned in Germany or on board a medical plane taking him from Siberia to Berlin.

Officially, the Kremlin destroyed its stockpile of chemical weapons in October 2017. But last month, Bellingcat, an investigative website, reported that the Russian programme had dispersed to a number of secret labs and was still in operation.

According to Washington and London, over the past decade Russia has produced and stockpiled small quantities of novichok. One of the two Salisbury assassins – Alexander Mishkin – liaised with the head of a St Petersburg military laboratory ahead of the Skripal mission, Bellingcat reported.

Meanwhile, last month, it emerged that western agencies had concluded that Russia’s domestic spy agency, the FSB, had carried out the Navalny poisoning. The UK and EU targeted the FSB chief, Alexander Bortnikov, as well as five other senior Russian officials and a Moscow research institute.

But security officials and diplomats hope to go further and are focused on individuals such as Gen Alexei Sedov, who runs the FSB’s second service, responsible for tackling terrorism, extremism and internal political threats. Diplomatic sources have accused the division of carrying out the poisoning.

The latest developments come as the first trip by a UK government minister to Russia since 2017 gets under way, a three-day visit from the junior Foreign Officer ministe Wendy Morton, where she is expected to discuss the attack on Navalny.

Morton’s trip is likely to be challenging. The Labour MP Chris Bryant revealed he fell violently ill with food poisoning during an official trip to Russia in 2009. Bryant said there were repeated calls made to his hotel room every hour. “I gather these were standard practice irritants meted out by the FSB to ‘difficult’ visitors,” he wrote.

Western agencies still do not know exactly how Navalny was poisoned, although they believe – as the opposition leader has himself suggested – that he was targeted in his hotel room on a trip to Siberia, possibly by adding novichok to a water bottle.

A few drops of novichok – a colourless, odourless poison first developed by Russia in the 1970s – added to a drink or applied direct to the skin is normally enough to kill, prompting some to question why Navalny did not die quickly, even allowing for the timely treatment.

Western security agencies also suspect the attack may have been bungled in some way, although there is no evidence to back this up. Navalny spent three weeks in a coma, but has made a gradual recovery, saying in September he could walk and recognise people.





No.17 article:
British diplomat leaps into river to save drowning woman in China

Stephen Ellison hailed a hero as footage of him rescuing student goes viral on social media

A British diplomat has been hailed as a hero after he dived into a river to save a drowning Chinese woman in a rescue that was filmed and then went viral on social media in China and the UK. The incident happened on Saturday.

Stephen Ellison, 61, consul general in Chongqing, was walking by a river in a nearby village when the woman, 24, slipped on rocks into the deep water.

Footage filmed by onlookers showed her struggle in the current, disappear under a footbridge and emerge face down, apparently unconscious.

Ellison took off his shoes and dived in to save her. She has not been named, but was a student.

Critics on social media asked why so many Chinese people seemed to be watching her drowning from the side of the river instead of intervening to save her life, but some said very few Chinese people know how to swim and others that there is a fear of becoming involved in a public incident.

The footage of Ellison’s rescue mission was put on the UK in China Twitter channel and led to thousands of views. Ellison is shown taking off his shoes revealing some alarmingly striped socks, diving into the river from the side fully clothed, capturing the woman and then being thrown a large red life belt which he uses to help drag her to safety by the bank of the river.

“We are all immensely proud”, the UK diplomatic mission in China tweeted Monday. The diplomat himself said the female student, who is from Wuhan and attends Chongqing University, was shaken by the experience and recovered slowly.

But she was extremely grateful and has invited him to dinner with her family next weekend.

The Chinese ambassador to the UK, Liu Xiaoming, praised the British diplomat, saying” “Salute to Stephen Ellison, British new Consul General in Chongqing. His name will be remembered not only in Chongqing area but around China. His act of heroism and kindness will be a much-told &amp; far-spread story of China-UK friendship.”

The hashtag “British consul-general in Chongqing saves female student who fell in the water” had gained almost 40macknowledgments on Weibo by Monday evening as news of Ellison’s bravery spread.

“For a man of such advanced age to save another person from the water in such cold weather, regardless of his own safety, he is a hero and gentleman!” read one comment, liked nearly 2,000 times.

“Regardless of our differences … to act heroically is a virtue and should be praised,” wrote another.

UK-China relations are at a low ebb ever since China ended Hong Kong’s political independence and the Chinese telecommunications firm Huawei was banned from providing 5G networks to the UK on the basis it might be a security threat.





No.18 article:
Sweden limits public gatherings to eight people amid Covid surge

PM says Swedes not observing public health guidance as well as they did in the spring

Sweden has cut its limit on attendance at public gatherings to eight people, as its light-touch approach to the coronavirus pandemic continues to be tested by a surge in new infections and hospitalisations.

Public gatherings have until now had to adhere to limits of between 50 and 300 people depending on the type of event. The prime minister, Stefan Löfven, said the stricter limit would come into force from 24 November.

“This is the new norm for the entire society,” Lofven said, adding that Swedes were not observing coronavirus recommendations as well they had in the spring. “Don’t go to gyms, don’t go to libraries, don’t host dinners. Cancel,” he said.

Sweden’s second wave has come later than in much of continental Europe, but new infections, hospitalisations and daily deaths have all risen substantially since the beginning of the month.

On Friday, the last day for which data is available, Sweden reported its highest number of new cases, 5,990, bringing its total to 177,355 with 6,164 deaths – a far higher per-capita toll than those of its Nordic neighbours, but lower than some countries such as Spain and Italy that imposed strict lockdowns.

Sweden’s light-touch approach, which has largely focused on asking rather than ordering residents to observe hygiene and distancing recommendations while keeping shops, bars and restaurants open, has gained international attention.

It has always denied its aim was to achieve rapid herd immunity, insisting its strategy was to slow the virus enough for health services to cope, but the higher levels of immunity it was expecting have so far failed to materialise.

The new limit applies only to public gatherings such as sporting and cultural events, as the government cannot ban private gatherings in homes. Restaurants will stay open, with a maximum of eight diners for each table, as will schools.

“It’s going to get worse,” Löfven said. “Do your duty and take responsibility for stopping the spread of the virus. In the spring we saw large compliance. It was enough to have recommendations to get most people to keep their distance and cancel their plans. Now there is less compliance.”

The prime minister reiterated that the government “does not believe in a total lockdown. We believe that the measures we have taken … are appropriate.”

Last week the government announced that bars and restaurants would not be allowed to serve alcohol after 10pm from 20 November until the end of February.

The interior minister, Mikael Damberg, said the strict new limit on gatherings would be in place for an initial four weeks but could be extended to run over the Christmas and New Year holidays.





No.19 article:
Countries reject package over attempts to link funding to respect for rule of law

The EU is facing a crisis after Hungary and Poland vetoed the bloc’s historic €1.8tn (£1.6tn) budget and coronavirus recovery plan over attempts to link funding to respect for democratic norms.

The move unravels months of negotiations over the scale and terms of the EU’s spending and sets the stage for a stormy videoconference meeting of the bloc’s leaders on Thursday.

Without agreement among the 27 member states, projects financed by the bloc’s seven-year budget will go without funds and the €750bn plan to rebuild Europe’s shattered economy will not be activated.

“I think we have a crisis again,” a senior EU diplomat said. “We’re back in crisis.”

Hungary and Poland had announced their intentions shortly before ambassadors of the EU’s member states met on Monday to vote on various parts of the financial settlement.

The capitals’ representatives had been due to sign off on the total financial package, requiring unanimity, and on the details of a mechanism to link the provision of funds with continued respect for the rule of law, requiring the support of a qualified majority of member states. They were also due to agree by consensus on a roadmap for new EU taxes to fund an increase in spending.

With Hungary only able to count on Poland to vote against the rule-of-law mechanism, the two countries had to be creative in order to block progress. Representatives for the two member states refused to support the plan to create new EU taxes, with the result that the whole package was torpedoed.

“Hungary has vetoed the budget,” said Zoltán Kovács, a spokesman for the country’s rightwing prime minister, Viktor Orbán. “We cannot support the plan in its present form to tie rule-of-law criteria to budget decisions.”

In a previous warning to fellow governments, Orbán, whose government has been accused of becoming increasingly authoritarian in style and substance, had written that he could not agree to a “proposed sanction mechanism … based on legally vague definitions such as ‘violation of the rule of law’.” He wrote: “Such difficult to define concepts create opportunities for political abuses and violate the requirement of legal certainty.” 

The 27 EU heads of state and government had signed off on the broad spending package and the inclusion of a link to respect for the rule of law in July, after days of hard debate.

The details of the deal were then subject to further negotiations between the member states, represented by the German presidency of the EU, and the European parliament. Those talks resulted in the spending total increasing by about €15bn to be funded by new EU taxes.

There was also provisional agreement between the two sides on procedures to block funds from rogue EU governments found to be putting the rule of law or the independence of judges at risk.

The mechanism would allow a qualified majority of member states to impose sanctions where governments fail to maintain democratic standards.

Its inclusion followed the ill-fated launch of procedures under article 7 of the EU treaties against Poland in 2017 and Hungary in 2018 over alleged attempts by the governments to undermine the independence of their judges.

The article 7 procedure requires unanimity among the member states before sanctions, such as the removal of voting rights in Brussels, can be imposed. Both Poland and Hungary had said they would protect each other from such measures, leaving it ineffective.

Under the new mechanism, there would be greater accountability over EU payments through removal of that veto.

A senior diplomat said the European commission and the German presidency of the EU would need to “take stock” before deciding on the next steps.

Rasmus Andresen, a Green MEP who was part of the European parliament’s negotiation team, said: “The resistance of Orbán and the Polish government is irresponsible. Orbán is afraid that the new rule of law mechanism will harm his autocratic regime. He is trying to take Europe and Covid hostage for his failed policies.

“Hungary and Poland risk plunging the EU into a deep crisis. If the EU budget and the recovery package are blocked, the economic crisis in the EU will intensify and the Hungarian and Polish economies will suffer massively as a result.

“Chancellor [Angela] Merkel must now take the lead. False compromises are now out of place. Now it is becoming a problem that the chancellor has so far done little to interfere in the negotiations.”





No.20 article:
Ask residents about low-traffic neighbourhood schemes

Laurence Kaye on how he and his neighbours feel like prisoners after their street was blocked off

Your article about low-traffic neighbourhoods (Mythbusters: eight common objections to LTNs – and why they are wrong, 16 November) paints an idyllic and, in my experience, unrealistic picture. I live in a street that has been blocked by planters and a bollard. My neighbours and I feel like prisoners in a blockaded zone. It was not a rat run before, but now traffic has increased as it tries to find a way around the maze of closed roads. An elderly neighbour has missed two hospital appointments as the taxi service she uses couldn’t reach her or the hospital on time. A disabled neighbour has had three food deliveries delayed or cancelled as drivers have been unable to park nearby.

Boundary roads are now clogged with idling cars, generating more pollution. Increases in walking and cycling are of course to be encouraged, but LTNs are not the answer, especially during a pandemic, when commuters are avoiding public transport. Plans for a greener future need to considered thoroughly with the direct input of local residents, rather than councils dictating ill-considered plans.Laurence KayeEaling, London





No.21 article:
Covid vaccine: who is behind the Moderna breakthrough?

Team that says its vaccine candidate has 95% efficacy is led by chief medical officer Tal Zaks

In March, as the scale of the global coronavirus crisis became clear, Donald Trump invited a group of pharmaceutical company bosses to the White House. At that meeting Stéphane Bancel, from the biotech firm Moderna, told the US administration that his Massachusetts-based company could have a vaccine ready within just a few months. On Monday, Moderna delivered.

News that its vaccine candidate – which still has to receive formal approval – has nearly 95% efficacy sent global stock markets higher and, coming on top of the similar recent announcement from the German/US collaboration BioNTech/Pfizer, injected some much-needed optimism about the possibility of a return to normal life.

The team behind the Moderna vaccine is led by Tal Zaks, Moderna’s chief medical officer and a former head of global oncology at Sanofi, who said: “This is one of the greatest moments of my life and my career.”

Melissa Moore, the biotech firm’s chief scientific officer in charge of the mRNA technology, has been key to this effort. Moore has spent her entire career analysing the protein structures at the centre of the new vaccine.

The biochemist first mapped out messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNA) as a young researcher at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the early 1990s, and she spent most of her career in academia. In 2013, according to Science magazine, Moore changed tack. She wrote to Moderna, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to pitch for a job. 

In an email to Dr Tony de Fougerolles, then Moderna’s chief scientific officer, Moore said she was “arguably the world’s expert” in her chosen field. De Fougerolles invited her to join his scientific advisory board, and in 2016 Moore took over his role, giving up a tenured professorship at the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester.

“I could have spent the next 15 years turning the crank, putting out more papers, training more students,” Moore told Science in 2017, “but when I’m 80 or 90 and I look back at my life, I would regret that decision.”

Moderna was founded in 2010 by a stem cell biologist, Derrick Rossi, and two financial backers, with the idea that mRNA – the molecule that sends genetic instructions from DNA to a cell’s protein-making machinery – could be re-engineered to develop drugs and vaccines.

Since Moore joined, it has grown into a major biotech firm. It has 23 mRNA drugs and vaccines in its portfolio, such as vaccines for the Zika virus, bird flu and herpes, with 14 in clinical studies. But none of the firm’s products has yet made it to market and the business is still loss-making.

The firm has had government funding – nearly $2.5bn – to aid the swift development of its Covid-19 vaccine, and it has been criticised for its pricing intentions, at $32-$37 (£24-£28) a dose.

The shares, however, have soared. Having hovered around the $20 level for the past two years, they took off in March. By Monday lunchtime in the US they were changing hands at more than $95, valuing the firm at about $38bn.

On the way up, the chief executive, Bancel, has cashed in, selling nearly $50m of shares from a plan set up in 2018. (The shares were sold automatically, when they hit a certain level – a similar arrangement to that used by the Pfizer boss, Albert Bourla, who received $5.6m from a share sale a week ago, just as Pfizer announced its vaccine success.) Other Moderna executives have also sold shares. 

Moderna’s mRNA technology built on research by the Hungarian-born biochemist Katalin Karikó and her colleague Drew Weissman in their University of Pennsylvania lab in the early 2000s. The duo founded a company to develop drugs from their discoveries, but their effort never reached clinical trials.

In 2013, Karikó joined BioNTech, the German biotech firm that has developed a rival Covid-19 vaccine with Pfizer.

Weissman, still at the University of Pennsylvania, has gone on to develop RNA vaccine candidates against flu, herpes and HIV, and hopes to launch human trials of these within a year.

• This article was amended on 17 November 2020 to clarify that results of vaccine trials at this stage refer to “efficacy” – the performance of an intervention under ideal and controlled circumstances – not “effectiveness”, which describes performance under real-world conditions.





No.22 article:
Couch potatoes, assemble! How 2020 taught us a whole new way to be a hero

The German government has released an advert asking people to be as ‘lazy as racoons’ – because there are few finer ways to fight this pandemic than by eating pizza in front of the TV

Name: Couch potatoes

Age: Shush, leave me alone, I’m watching telly.

I can see. But you can’t lie there on the sofa all day doing nothing, it’s not good for you. Actually, I can and it is. Not just good for me, it’s good for everyone. Call me a hero if you like, but I say I’m just doing my bit …

Hero! No one’s calling you a hero. Actually, they are.

Who is? Only the German government.

Er, explain please. The German government has just released an advert, hailing people who are doing absolutely nothing. It begins with an old man remembering his “service” to the nation in his youth back in the winter of 2020, “when the whole country’s eyes were on us”.

Ah, this is about the virus, isn’t it? Isn’t everything? So as this old fella is reminiscing about the winter of 2020, the viewer is taken back there with him. “We mustered all our courage and did what was expected of us.”

He’s saying this in German presumably? Yes, obviously in German, but there’s a translation on Twitter.

And what was expected of the youth of 2020, what did they do? “The only right thing,” he says. “We did … nothing. Absolutely nothing.” And here he is, in 2020, a 22-year old engineering student, lying on the sofa with the remote control. “Being lazy as raccoons.”

Are raccoons lazy? I don’t know, that’s not the point.

What is the point? That it’s important to stay at home. Or was important, as seen from the future. “Days and nights, we stayed on our arses at home and fought the spread of the coronavirus,” explains the advert.

Got it. So just as previously generations might have had to sacrifice their lives, this generation had to stop going out to party for a few months. Exactly. “Our couch was the front line and our patience was our weapon,” says the man, while we see his younger self enjoying a takeaway pizza. “Looking back, this was our fate. This is how we became heroes.”

And the message from the German government? “Become a hero too and stay at home” appears on the screen at the end.

Ha, that’s actually quite good. And I thought we were supposed to be the funny ones. Yeah, like: “Stay at home, save lives, protect the NHS.”

Or “hand space race face …” What is it again? Wash cover, make hands, space face … shoulders, knees, toes. Whatever, it’s certainly memorable.

Do say: “But won’t another sort of health crisis come from a generation of couch potatoes?”Don’t say: “I’ll have the meal for one please … one hero, that is!”





No.23 article:
Fears grow that conflict will draw in regional powers and destabilise Horn of Africa

Ethiopian troops have advanced further into the northern region of Tigray, seizing a key town on the road to its capital, officials in Addis Ababa have said.

The conflict between national forces and troops loyal to the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) is heading towards the end of its second week.

There are widespread fears the war will exacerbate ethnic tensions elsewhere in Africa’s second-most populous country, draw in regional powers and destabilise the Horn of Africa.

On Sunday, the office of Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, said the war in Tigray was irreversible and aimed at “enforcing the rule of law”.

A taskforce set up by Abiy to handle the government’s response claimed troops had liberated the town of Alamata. “They [the TPLF] fled, taking along around 10,000 prisoners,” it said in a statement, without specifying where the prisoners were from.

Though officials have confidently proclaimed imminent victory, Monday’s announcement that federal troops had reachedAlamata may not necessarily reinforce the message that the government offensive was making rapid progress.

The town of about 50,000 is 110 miles (180km) from Mekelle, Tigray’s capital and administrative centre, and only six miles from the border with the neighbouring Amhara region, the launch point for the troops.

Government forces also appear to be pushing forward further to the west, aiming to secure the frontier with Sudan and the strategically important town of Humera.

With communications mainly down and media barred, it remains difficult to independently verify assertions made by all sides.

Abiy launched military operations in Tigray 12 days ago after he accused local authorities of attacking a military camp and attempting to loot military assets. The TPLF, which is in power in the region, denies the charge and has accused the prime minister of concocting the story to justify the offensive.

The Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) topples Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam, the head of a communist junta that ruled the country from 1974. The coalition group is led by the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), guerrilla fighters who marched from their homeland in Ethiopia's north to the capital, Addis Ababa.

The EPRDF sweeps to power in poorly contested elections, and the TPLF leader, Meles Zenawi, becomes Ethiopia's prime minister. Tigrayans dominate senior ranks of government.

Meles introduces a system that gives the country's main ethnic groups the chance to govern the areas in which they dominate. Though Tigrayans make up about 5% of the population, they benefit disproportionately, other regions complain, as roads and other infrastructure are built in their sparsely populated area.

The prime minister dies in office and a successor from another ethnic group is appointed.

Divisions break out in the EPRDF over how quickly to pursue political reforms in response to street protests that threaten the coalition's grip.

Abiy Ahmed, an Oromo, takes over as prime minister, winning praise at home and abroad for opening up one of Africa's most restrictive political and economic systems.

Tigrayans complain they are being persecuted in a crackdown on corruption and past abuses. Former senior military and political officials are put on trial.

Abiy is awarded the Nobel peace prize for his peacemaking efforts, which ended two decades of hostility with Eritrea. The TPLF continue to view Eritrea as an enemy.

Ethiopia's ruling coalition agrees to form a single party, but the TPLF refuses to merge with three other ethnic-based parties, calling the move rushed and undemocratic.

Tigray holds regional elections in defiance of the federal government, which postponed nationwide polls due in August because of Covid-19. Abiy's government says the vote is illegal.

The federal government starts to withhold some funds meant for social welfare programmes in Tigray, part of a plan to starve the regional authorities of cash in retaliation for the vote.

Abiy sends troops into Tigray, accusing the TPLF of attacking federal troops based in the region. The TPLF accuses Abiy of punishing the region for the September vote. Reuters

Since then, air strikes and ground combat between government forces and the TPLF have killed hundreds of people and sent as many as 25,000 refugees pouring into Sudan. The violence has raised international concern over the willingness of Abiy, who won a Nobel peace prize last year, to risk a lengthy civil war against well-armed forces in the region.

Though only 7 million people live in Tigray out of a total Ethiopian population of 110 million, much of the government troops’ equipment is kept in the province and local forces are considered experienced fighters. Military experts say the region’s tough terrain is ideal for guerilla-type warfare.

Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the TPLF, has called on the United Nations and African Union to condemn the offensive, accusing federal troops of “waging this war on the people of Tigray” with attacks on civilian infrastructure.

“We are not the initiators of this conflict and it is evident that Abiy Ahmed conducted this war as an attempt to consolidate his personal power,” he added, saying Ethiopia could become a failed state or disintegrate.

Fears that the conflict could spread into a wider regional war were heightened over the weekend when the TPLF’s forces fired rockets into Eritrea, after accusing the neighbouring country of sending tanks and thousands of soldiers to support Ethiopian federal troops – a charge Asmara denies.

There is deep animosity between the Tigrayan leadership and Isaias Afwerki, who has ruled Eritrea with an iron fist for more than 30 years, but analysts said the primary aim of the strike, which caused limited or no damage, was likely to have been to attract international attention to the intensifying conflict in the hope pressure from overseas powers may force Abiy to the negotiating table.

So far, Abiy, 44, has ignored calls for a ceasefire and negotiations from the UN secretary general, the US, European powers, the pope and others.

Abiy Ahmed becomes prime minister of Ethiopia after a leadership election among the ruling coalition, following the surprise resignation of Hailemariam Desalegn in February.

Abiy frees thousands of political detainees, including the opposition leader Andargachew Tsege, who had been facing the death penalty. Abiy invites him to his office within 24 hours of his release.

Parliament approves lifting the Ethiopian national state of emergency, two months before it is due to expire.

Abiy agrees to accept a 2002 border ruling giving disputed territory to Eritrea. The war between the two has raged on and off since Eritrea gained independence in the early 90s.

A grenade attack targeting Abiy kills two people, and injures more than 165. The blame is placed on internal factions opposed to reform.&nbsp;

The Eritrean president Isaias Afwerki hosts Abiy in Asmara, more than two decades since Ethiopian and Eritrean leaders last met in person. Cheering crowds line the streets, and direct telephone communications are restored between the countries.

The two leaders sign a joint declaration declaring that the “state of war that existed between the two countries has come to an end”.

With both countries having reopened their embassies, and commercial flights between the two capitals resumed, land border crossings between Ethiopia and Eritrea are reopened for the first time in 20 years. Five days later a peace agreement is signed in Saudi Arabia.

Abiy appoints women to half of the ministerial posts in the country, including Sahle-Work Zewde as the first female president. He receives an African excellence award for gender from the African Union for the move.&nbsp;

Abiy’s rule is not without its problems. It is estimated that more than&nbsp;a million&nbsp;Ethiopians were forced from their homes by ethnic violence in 2018, and he attracts criticism for initiating a programme that seems determined to drive people back to their homes, even if it does not seem safe.

Ethiopia makes headlines around the world for planting 350m trees in a day as part of the government’s&nbsp;national&nbsp;“green legacy” initiative. According to the UN, Ethiopia’s forest coverage was 4% in the 2000s, down from 35% a century earlier, and to address this citizens are being encouraged to each plant at least 40 seedlings, in order to grow 4bn trees.

Abiy Ahmed wins the 2019 Nobel peace prize

A Ethiopian government spokesman on Monday said that mediation now would “only incentivise impunity”. 

The Ethiopian National Defence Force has about 140,000 personnel and plenty of experience from fighting Islamist militants in Somalia and rebel groups in border regions, plus a two-decade border standoff with Eritrea.

But many senior officers were Tigrayan, much of its most powerful weaponry is in the hands of the TPLF, as well as the powerful Northern Command’s headquarters in Mekelle.

The TPLF has a formidable history, spearheading the rebel march to Addis Ababa that ousted a Marxist dictatorship in 1991 and bearing the brunt of a 1998-2000 war with Eritrea in which hundreds of thousands were killed.

Abiy once fought alongside the Tigrayans and was a partner in government with them until 2018 when he took office. He won his Nobel prize for pursuing peace with Eritrea, starting to liberalise the economy and opening a repressive political system.

Although his sweeping political reforms won widespread praise, they have allowed old ethnic and other grievances to surface.

The TPLF dominated Ethiopia’s governing coalition for decades before Abiy came to power, and Tigrayan leaders complained of being unfairly targeted in corruption prosecutions, removed from top positions and blamed for the country’s problems.

The postponement of national elections owing to the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated tensions and when parliamentarians in Addis Abab voted to extend officials’ mandates, Tigrayan leaders went ahead with regional elections in September that Abiy’s government deemed illegal.

Amnesty International has denounced the killing of scores and possibly hundreds of civilian labourers in a massacre that both sides have blamed on each other.





No.24 article:
If you would like to share your stories about testing you can get in touch by filling in the form \nbelow. Only the Guardian can see your \ncontributions and one of our journalists may contact you to discuss \nfurther. 

Experts say there is no evidence UK’s £100bn mass Covid testing scheme will provide any benefit

The government’s £100bn Operation Moonshot mass Covid testing scheme is like “building a Channel tunnel without asking civil engineers to look at the plans”, experts have warned.

They say there is no evidence the plan will offer any benefit, the effectiveness of the tests it uses is weak, and the programme itself has been structured without input from the body responsible for advising ministers on screening strategy.

“It worries me that ministers … can wake up one morning saying let’s spend £100bn on this and not have it scrutinised – it would be like building a Channel tunnel without asking civil engineers to look at the plans,” said Dr Angela Raffle from the University of Bristol, who is also a consultant to the UK national screening programmes.

“For screening to work, you would have to do it on literally everybody every few days,” she said. “When I learned of the Moonshot proposal – this seemed to me to be the most unethical proposal for use of public funds or for screening that I’d ever seen.”

The plans for Operation Moonshot, which aims to screen millions of asymptomatic people every week, with a budget of £100bn to deliver 10m tests a day, emerged in September. It is being piloted in Liverpool and a more targeted approach to screening is expected to begin in universities, towns and cities in the coming month.

The strategy is envisioned as a way of getting workers back into offices, allowing families to hug their loved ones again in care homes and perhaps even creating the possibility of a near-normal Christmas.

As yet there is no evidence on whether screening the general population for Sars-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – will increase or decrease disease transmission, hospitalisation and death, the experts cautioned.

At the heart of the issue is the Innova lateral flow test, made by a California-based company, which has been awarded two contracts by the UK government and is being deployed in Liverpool. Last week, the Department of Health and Social Care said the test had an overall sensitivity of 76.8% for all PCR-positive individuals (PCR is the gold-standard swab test that is widely used but requires lab processing).

But that sensitivity is based on tests administered by experienced research nurses – the percentage falls to 57% when administered by self-trained staff, akin to what is happening in Liverpool, said Jon Deeks, a professor of biostatistics at the University of Birmingham.

“The fact that difference exists is very worrying because it sort of suggests that this test is quite fickle,” he said. “The fact that this test is missing cases means that people who have negative results are still at risk of having Covid-19 and this message is not being given to them,” he said.

Allyson Pollock, a clinical professor of public health at Newcastle University, said: “That is one of the myths that’s being propagated … that you could have your test in the morning – and if you were negative you could go about your business or go to funerals, or go to the nursing homes, and you’ll be fine.” 

On the other hand, the data on false positives from the test is encouraging. If you test 1,000 people who do not have Covid-19, you will see only 38 cases of false-positive results, Deeks noted, cautioning that those small percentages can add up when testing large swathes of the population.

Another point of contention is the ability of the test to detect infectiousness – whether an individual is transmitting the virus. “The arguments that we’re hearing …that this test can tell the difference between infectious and non-infectious is not substantiated by any data,” Deeks said.

callout-coronavirus-testing

The process of screening also includes the intervention of contact tracing, part of the £12bn test-and-trace system that has been widely criticised for its limited effectiveness. Additionally, survey data suggests the extent to which contacted people are self-isolating is low.

“The government has already spent £12bn, it’s now proposing to spend the equivalent of around 70% of the entire annual NHS budget on Operation Moonshot running it up to the whole population,” said Pollock.

“You won’t just have to have one test, you may end up having to have multiple tests, which is exactly why the Japanese decided to abandon the idea. So, our big plea is that we really need to get the contact tracing element working.”

• This article was amended on 20 November 2020 to correct an inaccurate figure. An earlier version said that 0.38% of the Covid-19-positive tests are wrong when in fact if you test 1,000 people who do not have Covid-19, you will see only 38 cases of false-positive results.





No.25 article:
Moldova election: blow to Kremlin as opposition candidate sweeps to victory

Maia Sandu wins presidential run-off by a landslide after vowing to fight corruption

The opposition candidate Maia Sandu has won a landslide victory in Moldova’s presidential elections, easily defeating the pro-Russian incumbent, Igor Dodon.

Sandu, a former World Bank economist who has supported closer ties with the EU, won the run-off by harnessing voters’ anger over a long history of political scandals and exhaustion with endemic corruption, including the theft of $1bn from Moldovan banks in 2014-15.

Dodon, who has been accused of having a blase attitude towards the coronavirus pandemic, is a regular guest in Moscow and his defeat is being seen by analysts as a major blow to the Kremlin.

Russia had wanted polarised Moldova to remain in its sphere of influence at a time when several Kremlin-aligned governments are rocked by political unrest and security crises.

Sandu, a former prime minister, brought out diaspora voters in record numbers while Dodon lost support among his largely conservative base in a nearly 58% to 42% loss.

“Moldovans need a state that does not steal, but protects its citizens,” Sandu said in a televised briefing that appeared careful not to alienate Russian-speaking voters or Moldovans who favour closer ties to Moscow.

Nicu Popescu, a former foreign minister under Sandu in 2019 and director of the Wider Europe programme at the European Council on Foreign Relation, said: “There’s been high demand for an anti-corruption platform for many, many years. It was also very clear that Dodon has been part of the same world with very corrupt politics … it was clear for people and they didn’t buy into his divisive campaign.”

Dodon said he had “tentatively” conceded the race on Monday, claiming his campaign had recorded a “huge number of violations”, including in the pro-Russian breakaway region of Transnistria. Nonetheless, it appears his campaign is over.

Sandu, who also heads the centre-right Party of Action and Solidarity, will face an uphill battle to fight corruption in Moldova, a parliamentary republic where the president has little control over domestic affairs or oversight of the prosecutors and courts. The next elections must be held by 2023 and she will probably seek snap elections.

As president, Sandu will be more likely to influence the country’s foreign policy. The former Soviet republic signed an association agreement with the EU in 2014 and now does the bulk of its trade with countries to its west rather than Russia.

But Dodon cultivated support from Moscow over four years in power, soliciting loans and visiting Moscow at least 20 times since 2016, more than any other country. He also appeared to be implicated last year in taking more than $700,000 (£530,000) in funding a month from Moscow to support the Socialist party, or PSRM, in leaked videos. He insisted that the footage was edited to twist his words and take them out of context.

The head of Russia’s foreign intelligence service had claimed that “Americans are plotting a revolutionary scenario for Moldova”, stoking concerns that Moscow could intervene to prevent him from losing.

But on Monday the Kremlin issued its congratulations to the challenger, something it still has not done in the US presidential elections. “I expect that your actions as head of state will contribute to the constructive development of relations between our countries,” Putin said in a telegram to Sandu. The Russian president wished her “successes, strong health, and prosperity”, the Kremlin’s press service said.

Sandu said she would “establish a pragmatic dialogue with all countries, including Ukraine, Romania, European nations, Russia, and the United States”.

Popescu said Russian support for Dodon was “half-hearted” and that Sandu could find a common language with Moscow while improving ties with the west.

“On the foreign policy front, [she’s pro-]Europe but she’s very pragmatic and positive about having a mutually respectful relationship with Russia,” said Popescu. “She never attacked Russia, she never criticised Russia … if there will be any deterioration, it won’t come from Chisinau.”





No.26 article:
Suspected jihadist goes on trial over train attack foiled by US tourists

Ayoub El-Khazzani accused of opening fire with assault rifle on packed train to Paris in 2015 

A suspected jihadist gunman whose attack on a packed international train was foiled by three US tourists has gone on trial in Paris.

Ayoub El-Khazzani, 31, is accused of opening fire with an assault rifle while carrying nearly 300 rounds of ammunition on the high-speed Thalys train from Amsterdam to Paris in August 2015. He was wrestled to the floor and restrained by three US passengers, helped by a British man.

According to the prosecution, the attack is believed to have been planned from Syria and orchestrated by Abdelhamid Abaaoud, who led the November 2015 wave of bombings and shootings in Paris, including at the Bataclan music venue, that left 130 people dead.

Witnesses say Khazzani emerged from a bathroom onboard Thalys train 9364, shirtless and with an automatic rifle strapped across his shoulder, shortly after the train crossed the border from Belgium into northern France.

A French passenger managed to wrest the rifle from him, but Khazzani took out a pistol and shot him and retrieved the rifle.

When he opened fire, the rifle jammed, enabling the three US nationals – two of them off-duty military personnel who were on holiday – to tackle him. Four people were injured in the attack.

When questioned by police, the Moroccan-born Khazzani – who had also been carrying a box cutter – initially claimed he had found the weapons in Brussels where he boarded the train, and had simply intended to rob passengers.

“He doesn’t understand why this incident has taken on such great proportions,” his lawyer Sophie Duval told Le Parisien at the time. She said he denied “any terrorism dimension to what he did”, and the suggestion had “almost made him laugh”.

Khazzani, who was on France’s “Fiche S” security list, later reportedly told police he wanted to “kill Americans” in retaliation for bombings in Syria.

The three US nationals – Anthony Sadler, a student, Alex Skarlatos, a member of the national guard, and Spender Stone, an air force serviceman – and the Briton, Chris Norman, 67, were all made members of the Légion d’Honneur, France’s highest honour, and given French citizenship.

Afterwards, Norman told reporters that his first reaction to seeing a man with an AK-47 on the train was “to sit down and hide”.

“Then I heard an American say: ‘Go get him.’ I decided it was really the only chance to act as a team and try to take down the assailant. My first thought was: I’m probably going to die anyway, so let’s go. I’d rather die being active, trying to get him down, than simply sit in the corner and be shot. Either you sit down and you die, or you get up and you die. It was really nothing more than that.”

Clint Eastwood turned their heroics into a film, The 15.17 to Paris.

Khazzani, who is accused of attempted murder in connection with terrorism, possession of weapons in connection with terrorism, and participation in a terrorist enterprise, appeared in court with three suspected accomplices.

The trial is expected to last until 17 December.





No.27 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Moderna results show Pfizer success was not flash in the pan, but poorer countries may have to look elsewhere

The success of Moderna’s vaccine against Covid-19 is reason for the whole world to cheer. The results from an interim analysis of the trial data are remarkably similar to those of Pfizer/BioNTech a week ago. Most people – Moderna says 94.5% in its trial, Pfizer said more than 90% – were protected from illness.

It’s fantastic news. It means the concept works. Pfizer’s results were not a flash in the pan. Both vaccines have been developed using a new technology that has never produced a licensed vaccine before, called messenger RNA (mRNA), which some hail as the future of all vaccines. It has the potential to deliver vaccines for all sorts of diseases cheaply and safely, enthusiasts say. And, crucially for the time being, they are likely to help us out of the Covid pandemic.

Moderna’s early results are very good. They show that 90 people got Covid who had not been given the vaccine, called mRNA-1273. Just five who got ill were among those in the trial who had received the new jab. None of the 11 who became severely ill had been given the vaccine. And among the 95 were people who were over the age of 65 and people from minority ethnic groups, so the vaccine looks as though it may protect those most at risk. Side-effects included a sore arm and fatigue and were mostly mild to moderate and short-lived.

Vaccine developers couldn’t hope for a much better picture than this. The findings still have to be confirmed by the full trial results in a few weeks, once 151 people in the trial have contracted the virus. But it’s likely the champagne corks are already popping in Massachusetts, where Moderna has its HQ.

The second reason to applaud is that Moderna’s vaccine can be kept in an ordinary fridge at 2 to 8C for a month. The big anxiety about the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is the need to keep it in what is known as ultra-cold chain – freezers running at between minus 70C and minus 80C. That makes it really hard in most countries to store and transport the vaccine, and nigh impossible in low-income countries, without substantial donor help.

So within a week we have two amazing sets of interim results. One swallow doesn’t make a summer, but surely two suggest better weather is well on its way.

But a critical question that is going to become ever more important is raised by the Moderna vaccine. It is very expensive. In the summer, Moderna was pitching for $37 (£28) a dose, which is way above others such as Johnson &amp; Johnson, at $10, and Pfizer, at $20. This was in smaller quantities, and obviously deals will be done to cut the price for bulk purchases, but Moderna is a commercial company, which has clearly stated its interest in making profits.

The US market is its first target. Moderna’s vaccine has been developed with the help of the federally funded National Institutes of Health and the US Department of Health and Human Services. It has received $2.48bn from the US government. This vaccine was the brightest hope of Donald Trump’s Operation Warp Speed programme. By the end of the year, the company aims to have 20m doses available for use in the US.

Because of the price and because of the links to the US government, the rest of the world will have to wait. And low-income countries may have to look elsewhere. The UN Covax programme will subsidise rollouts of coronavirus vaccines to poorer countries, but at the price Moderna wants to charge, that may prove too costly.

callout-coronavirus

On the plus side, Moderna has recognised there are access issues. Any company in this vaccine race will understand the possibility of very negative reactions in a future where people are still dying of Covid-19 in some countries while others are over it. Moderna has said it will not enforce patents on its vaccine for the duration of the pandemic. That makes it possible that manufacturers in India or China could make a lower-cost version.

Campaigners are not satisfied. Companies should not be able to decide when the pandemic is over and hike the price, says Médecins Sans Frontières’ access campaign, pointing out also that AstraZeneca has said it will not profit from the vaccine it is developing with Oxford University – until July next year.

A vaccine that works and will get us out of lockdowns, loneliness and economic disaster is on its way, it seems. Crucially, it must help everyone. As the director general of the World Health Organization has said, it’s not over until it’s over everywhere.





No.28 article:
Setback for Bolsonaro after poor results in Brazil local elections

President’s candidates suffer heavy defeats amid resurgence of mainstream parties

Jair Bolsonaro – already smarting from Donald Trump’s defeat – has suffered a further setback after candidates he had championed performed dismally in municipal elections.

Sunday’s vote provided the first electoral opportunity to gauge the health of the Brazilian president’s anti-establishment movement since the populist’s shock election victory in 2018.

The results, which included painful defeats for Bolsonarista candidates in key cities and the resurgence of politicians from mainstream parties, suggest it is an ailing force.

“The far-right wave that carried Bolsonaro to the presidency turned into a ripple in 2020,” claimed the political commentator Josias de Souza in his dissection of the vote.

Bolsonaro, who has yet to publicly recognise Joe Biden’s victory over his top international ally, had endorsed rightwing candidates in six state capitals – four of whom suffered heavy defeats.

In the Amazon city of Manaus, Bolsonaro’s pick, a friend of four-decades called Alfredo Menezes, finished fifth. In Recife, Patrícia Domingos – who Bolsonaro had vowed would rid Brazil’s north-east of “communism” – came fourth.

In Belo Horizonte, Brazil’s third city, Bolsonaro’s candidate, a 23-year-old conservative activist called Bruno Engler, was thrashed by the incumbent Alexandre Kalil, who won more than 63% of the vote.

But Souza claimed that “of all the Waterloos inflicted on Bolsonaro on Sunday, the most devastating was in São Paulo”.

There, in Brazil’s largest and most economically powerful city, Bolsonaro’s choice, Celso Russomanno, was trounced by the centre-right incumbent, Bruno Covas, and a rising leftwing star called Guilherme Boulos. Covas and Boulos will face off in a second round on 29 November.

“We have beaten Bolsonaro – we have beaten his project of hatred, backwardness and lies that tried to take root in the city of São Paulo,” Boulos celebrated.

São Paulo’s governor, João Doria, claimed: “Democracy has won and Bolsonaro has lost”.

Rio’s unpopular evangelical mayor, Marcelo Crivella, reached the second round but is widely tipped to lose. One newspaper branded Sunday’s results “the Bolsonarista breakdown”.

Elsewhere, there were humiliating defeats or hiccups for other candidates linked to Bolsonaro.

The president’s cousin, Marcos Bolsonaro, managed only 1,340 votes – 4% of the total – in his bid to become mayor of the town of Jaboticabal.

The president’s ex-wife, Rogéria Bolsonaro, failed to become a Rio councillor after receiving just 2,033 votes.

Bolsonaro’s son, Carlos, secured a second term in Rio’s city hall but received 36,000 fewer votes than in the last election and lost his title as Rio’s most voted councillor to a socialist.

In the southern town of Brusque one would-be councillor who tried to boost his chances by running under the monicker “Donald Trump Bolsonaro” secured just 107 votes – 0.7% of the total – finishing in 128th place.

Bolsonaro tried to shift the narrative, claiming the results boded well for his re-election chances in 2022 and were “a historic defeat” for the left. But analysts said the opposite was true, with a new generation of leftwing politicians performing well.

As well as Boulos, 38, there were strong showings from Manuela D’Ávila, 39, the Communist party candidate in Porto Alegre, Marília Arraes, 36, the Workers’ party candidate in Recife, and João Campos, 26, the Brazilian Socialist party candidate in the same city. 

Monica Benício, 34, the widow of murdered leftwing councillor Marielle Franco, was elected to Rio’s city hall for the Socialism and Liberty party.

“The left rejuvenated on Sunday,” reported the Rio broadsheet O Globo.

The election comes at a testing time for Bolsonaro. Trump’s defeat has robbed his populist project of a key source of legitimacy, corruption investigators are reportedly closing in on two of his politician sons, and polls show support slipping in several major cities.

Meanwhile, more than 165,000 Brazilians have died because of a coronavirus epidemic critics claim Bolsonaro has catastrophically mishandled. Last week, with hints that Brazil’s outbreak was again worsening, Brazil’s president rejected warnings of a “second wave” as “jibber-jagger”.





No.29 article:
What does the Moderna vaccine mean for the fight against Covid?

How does it work and how is it different from the Pfizer/BioNTech jab?

As promising results are released from a second vaccine trial, we take a look at what this could mean in the battle against Covid-19.

Early results from phase 3 clinical trials of a Covid-19 vaccine from the US-based company Moderna have been released. These trials are carried out in humans to assess how safe and effective a vaccine is. The Moderna trial involved more than 30,000 participants in the US split into two groups, with one group given two doses of the vaccine and the other group given a placebo.

The new findings are very promising. Based on data from 95 participants with confirmed cases of Covid at least two weeks after the second dose of the vaccine, the researchers report that the vaccine has an efficacy of 94.5%. In other words, 90 of the Covid cases occurred among participants who had been given placebo jabs, with only five cases occurring among those given the vaccine.

When the team analysed the breakdown for 11 severe cases of Covid, they found all had occurred among those who had received the placebo.

In addition, the researchers say the vaccine has not raised any significant safety concerns – the main side effects included pain at the injection site at the first dose, and headache, fatigue and pain in the muscles after the second. “These solicited adverse events were generally short-lived,” the researchers note.

Like the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, which was revealed last week to be 90% effective against Covid, the Moderna vaccine is based on introducing genetic material, known as mRNA, into the human body, which carries instructions for making the “spike proteins” that sit on the outside of the coronavirus and are crucial in allowing the virus to enter human cells.

When this mRNA is introduced to the body, the protein-making machinery within human cells churns out the spike proteins. These proteins are displayed on the outside of the cells, triggering the body’s immune response.

Contrary to claims by some anti-vaxxers, the viral mRNA cannot alter our genes.

Both the Moderna and the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines involve two doses, spaced a few weeks apart.

The latest findings will be cause for excitement on several levels. The high efficacy supports the findings from the Pfizer/BioNTech trials, adding further evidence that mRNA vaccines work well against Covid.

The findings also offer evidence that vaccines that trigger an immune response based on the spike proteins work: that is important because several other vaccines in development are also based on this strategy. For example, the AstraZeneca Oxford vaccine uses a chimp cold virus, which has been modified so that it can’t actually cause infection, to deliver the genetic sequence of the coronavirus spike proteins to human cells.

As with the Pfizer/BioNTech jab, the Moderna team are keen to point out that Covid cases were among participants of different ages and ethnicities. That matters because numerous studies have found that people who are older or of particular ethnicities are at greater risk from the disease.

However, as with the results last week, the new findings have not yet been peer-reviewed and the trial is not yet complete. Among outstanding questions, it is not clear how long any protection may last.

And, once again, details remain scarce, meaning it is not clear whether the vaccine prevents people becoming infected with the coronavirus and passing it on, or whether it just prevents people from developing symptoms of Covid. According to the trial protocol, participants had to show symptoms and a positive test results to be deemed a “confirmed case”.

While both are based on the same approach, there are some important differences.

In particular, while the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine must be stored at -80C – a requirement that brings with it serious logistical challenges – researchers say the formulation of the Moderna vaccine means it is stable for 30 days at temperatures between 2C and 8C. That means the vaccine can be stored in a standard refrigerator – a boon when it comes to getting the vaccine to the population.

Should the Moderna vaccine need to be stored for longer, the team say it can last for six months at -20C, while it is stable for up to 12 hours at room temperature.

Moderna says it is planning to apply for an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the coming weeks, adding that by the end of the year it expects to have 20m doses of the vaccine ready to ship in the US. Moderna has already begun submitting data to the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).

On Monday, the UK announced it had rapidly secured a deal for an initial 5m doses of the new vaccine.





No.30 article:
Bestselling writer says no state has moral right to close bookshops

A group of French authors has promised to pay fines imposed on the country’s bookshops that remain open in defiance of coronavirus lockdown rules.

The pledge was made by the bestselling writer Alexandre Jardin, who said authors were getting together to support booksellers during the crisis.

Under France’s lockdown rules, which are in force until at least 1 December, only essential shops and businesses can remain open. Bookshops are not deemed “essential”.

Jardin, who lost a close relative to coronavirus last month, said he was not taking the health threat lightly, but feared for the future of independent bookshops. “We will not let our bookshops close,” he told BFMTV. “We can’t be having the cops descending on them.”

Shops can sell books but only through online orders, which has been a challenge for smaller outlets. Supermarkets have been ordered to close their book aisles.

Jardin, the author of romance novels Le Zèbre and Fanfan, said the prize-winning writer Didier van Cauwelaert, whose novel Un Aller Simple won the Prix Goncourt in 1994, has offered to pay any fines imposed on bookshops in Cannes.

“I will pay the next bookshop and the next will be someone else,” Jardin said. “No state has the moral right to close bookshops.”

At the beginning of the lockdown more than two weeks ago, the Paris mayor, Anne Hidalgo, pleaded – unsuccessfully – for bookshops to be allowed to remain open and asked the public not to use Amazon. The call has been echoed by the former president François Hollande.

The literary critic François Busnel has announced he is launching a petition against bookshop closures, which he said was France depriving itself of its “best battalion to confront obscurantism”.

“As we saw right after the first lockdown (March-April), there are millions of people in this country who want to read, who need to read. To close bookstores is to condemn a whole section of the the cultural economy to falter and, in the case of some, to disappear,” Busnel told France 5.

In passing, he said the government was making a “huge gift to a company that starts with AMA and ends with Zon”.

The Académie Goncourt, which awards France’s most prestigious literary prize, postponed indefinitely this year’s ceremony, scheduled for 10 November, as a gesture of “solidarity” with bookshops.

Last week, a group of French authors and publishers took a cruise boat down the River Seine to “defend literature” and protest against the enforced bookshop closures. Police forced the vessel to dock and those onboard were asked to disperse.





No.31 article:
Here are the major hurdles ahead for Covid-19 vaccine distribution in the US

The US must undertake the most logistically difficult vaccination campaign in history, from trust to extreme storage requirements 

Nearly a year into the Covid-19 pandemic, a picture of the other side is emerging. There has been positive news from leading vaccine manufacturers and they are beginning to analyze phase III clinical data, an important milestone which could tell researchers about whether they are safe and effective.

But to distribute those vaccines, the US must undertake the most logistically difficult vaccination campaign in history, with a hesitant and weary public, and at least one vaccine with unprecedented storage requirements.

The cause for optimism is real – but so are the logistical challenges that lie ahead.

One of the biggest hurdles any vaccination campaign will face is gaining public trust, including among healthcare workers who will be asked to take the vaccine first.

“One of the really difficult challenges we have before us is getting people to trust the vaccine,” said Dr Michael Osterholm, an epidemiologist at the University of Minnesota who was recently tapped to serve on the Biden-Harris administration’s coronavirus advisory board.

Pfizer must submit the data on its vaccine to the US Food and Drug Administration for approval, but another important step will be publication in an independent, peer-reviewed scientific journal, and continued transparency about its safety and efficacy.

The broader public will also need information on how the vaccine is performing, and consistent messaging from scientists. This will be a challenge amid a change in leadership in the White House, after almost a year of Covid misinformation perpetuated by Donald Trump, and in the era of audiences fractured by social media.

“This is our best way out of this pandemic, so we want to recommend and encourage our community members to take the vaccine,” said Dr Umair Shah, executive director of the Harris county health department in Texas.

“What would be the worst is a vaccine that’s safe, a vaccine that’s effective, a vaccine that’s distributed, and vaccine systems now able to get vaccines in the arms of people – and people just don’t take it,” Shah said.

As public health authorities work to regain public trust, they must also tackle the unprecedented cold storage requirements of the leading vaccine candidate from Pfizer and German company BioNTech.

This vaccine uses technology called a messenger RNA platform, which uses the genetic material of Covid-19 to invoke an immune response. The vaccine leads the pack because it is the quickest to manufacture.

But speed of manufacture is offset by complicated delivery. Pfizer’s vaccine needs to be stored at an unprecedented -70°C (-94° F) a temperature met only with the coldest deep freezers.

Pharmacies do not have freezers this cold, because no approved drug has ever needed to be held at this temperature. Only large medical centers, universities and perhaps some public health departments will probably have such deep freezers.

To get around this, Pfizer has developed a reusable, suitcase-sized shipping container where 975 doses of the vaccine are kept on dry ice. The vaccine is stable for 10 days from the point of departure in this case. If more dry ice can be secured, then the vaccine can be kept in the case for another 15 days.

“The clock starts well before you actually receive the product,” said Soumi Saha, an attorney, pharmacist and vice-president of advocacy at the healthcare logistics company Premier Inc.

Dry ice is considered a hazardous material, so it cannot be shipped by air or sea. It must be transported by ground, posing potentially serious challenges for rural areas where several days of vaccine viability could be lost in transit.

During this time, the case can only be opened twice a day for one minute per opening. Healthcare workers will need to take out an appropriate amount of vaccine only twice a day, meaning carefully calibrating between taking out too little and risk sending patients home, and taking out too much and risk wasting very limited doses.

The first on the list to receive the vaccine are healthcare workers, but herein too is a challenge. There is commonly a nursing shortage in the US, but healthcare facilities are facing more extreme staff shortages because of the enormous spread of Covid-19 across the US.

In many cases, the same workers who test the public will have to turn around and vaccinate fellow workers. Those doses will need to be metered out, because potentially flu-like side-effects from the virus could sideline some. For that reason, a hospital could not vaccinate its entire intensive care unit at once.

“If you have a staff of 25,000 you have to vaccinate, it’s not going to be easy to find the staff to do that,” Saha said.

It is estimated that each worker performing vaccinations can only perform six vaccinations an hour, according to Saha. Those workers will also need to be trained to handle the extreme storage requirements of the vaccine, including how to defrost, dilute and administer it.

Then, healthcare providers have to get workers to return for a second dose of the vaccine, which all but one vaccine candidate requires. Tracking who received which vaccine and when, will be a major data undertaking.

Further, the current vaccine distribution plan provides doses based on state population, not based on the number of health workers who will first be vaccinated. That means some states could have a surplus of vaccines while others have a deficit.

The world needs multiple vaccines to be approved to even begin to meet demand. But approving multiple vaccines adds to the complexity of the delivery effort. Healthcare providers will need to track who received which vaccine and when, to ensure people are protected.

The goal is for all Americans to have access to a vaccine “within 18 months from initial vaccine approval”, said Saha.

For example, the first approved vaccine may not be safe and effective for all people. Vaccines are only beginning to be tested in children, and some vaccines may not be safe and effective in people older than 65.

As vaccine infrastructure is developed, more advanced versions of vaccines could reduce the logistical challenges of distribution. Already, Pfizer is working on a powdered version of its vaccine in hopes of reducing cold storage requirements in 2021.

Further, not all vaccine candidates require cold storage at the same extreme temperatures described here. The other leading candidate from Moderna and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases could be kept at -20C, or roughly the temperature of an existing adult shingles vaccine.

And, at least for now, the best defense against Covid-19 remain social distancing, mask-wearing and hand-washing.

“We may be tired of this virus but this virus is not tired of us,” said Shah. “I hope that on the road ahead that we remember a public health crisis requires a public health response.”

• This article was amended on 17 November 2020 because Pfizer’s vaccine needs to be stored at -70°C (-94° F), not -94C (-137.2F) as an earlier version mistakenly said.





No.32 article:
French president says US election chance to pursue sovereignty amid rising populism

European leaders must not let up on efforts to construct an autonomous bloc that is capable of resisting the duopoly of China and the US, Emmanuel Macron has said in his first extended response to the US presidential election.

The French president said the US would only respect Europe if it was sovereign with respect to its own defence, technology and currency. Warning that US values and interests were not quite the same as Europe’s, he said: “It is not tenable that our international policies should be dependent on it or to be trailing behind it.” The same need for independence applied even more to China, he added.

His analysis came in a marathon interview in the journal Le Grand Continent, conducted last Thursday, in which he called for a redoubling of the protection of the values of the European enlightenment against “barbarity and obscurantism”. Le Grand Continent is the review attached to the leading French thinktank Groupe d’Études Géopolitiques. 

Macron suggested 2020 may prove to be a landmark year similar to 1945, 1968 and 2007. Much of the interview considered the extent to which the forces that led to Donald Trump’s election in 2016, and the UK’s Brexit vote, could be contained, and reversed.

“The changeover of the administration in America is an opportunity to to pursue in a truly peaceful and calm manner what allies need to understand among themselves – which is that we need to continue to build our independence for ourselves, as the US does for itself and as China does for itself.”

He explicitly claimed that the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, was resisting German politicians who have described the search for European autonomy as an illusion, saying such a view is a “historical misinterpretation”.

“It is vital that our Europe finds the ways and the means to decide for itself to rely on itself, not to depend on others in every area, technological, health, geopolitics, and to be able to cooperate with whomever it chooses,” he said.

Macron added that although the US was Europe’s historical ally, cherishing similar principles, “our values are not quite the same. We have an attachment to social democracy, to more equality. Our reactions are not quite the same”.

Macron, who previously criticised Nato as being “brain-dead”, said: “Europe has a lot of thoughts unthought. On a geostrategic level we had forgotten to think because we thought our geopolitical relations through Nato.”

Calling for a reinvention of international cooperation, he said the current multilateral frameworks were blocked. “The UN security council no longer produces useful solutions today. We all have some responsibility to bear when some [institutions] such as the World Health Organization find themselves hostages to the crises of multilateralism.”

He said the deep crisis of cooperation was a crisis born of conflicting values, including the rise of neoconservatism and a breakdown in the universal principle of inviolable human rights. This rupture, he said, “is the fruit of ideological choices fully endorsed by powers that see in it the means to rise, and a form of fatigue, of breakdown”.

Without mentioning Turkey directly, he said: “Authoritarian regional powers are re-emerging, theocracies are re-emerging. It is an extraordinary acceleration of a return of religion on the political scene in a number of these countries.”

Europe, Macron suggested, was fighting against “a colossal step backward in history”, led by those who use radical Islamism to challenge freedom of expression. Insisting he respected cultures and civilisations, he said “nevertheless I am not going to change our laws because they shock elsewhere”.

After 47 years and 30 days it was all over. As the clock struck 11pm on 31 January 2020, the UK was officially divorced from the EU and began trying to carve out a new global role as a sovereign nation. It was a union that got off to a tricky start and continued to be marked by the UK’s sometimes conflicted relationship with its neighbours.

The French president, Charles de Gaulle, vetoes Britain’s entry to EEC, accusing the UK of a “deep-seated hostility” towards the European project.

With Sir Edward Heath having signed the accession treaty the previous year, the UK enters the EEC in an official ceremony complete with a torch-lit rally, dickie-bowed officials and a procession of political leaders, including former prime ministers Harold Macmillan and Alec Douglas-Home.

The UK decides to stay in the common market after 67% voted "yes". Margaret Thatcher, later to be leader of the Conservative party, campaigned to remain.

Margaret Thatcher negotiated what became known as the UK rebate with other EU members after the "iron lady" marched into the former French royal palace at Fontainebleau to demand “our own money back” claiming for every £2 contributed we get only £1 back” despite being one of the “three poorer” members of the community.

It was a move that sowed the seeds of Tory Euroscepticism that was to later cause the Brexit schism in the party.&nbsp;

Thatcher served notice on the EU community in a defining moment in EU politics in which she questioned the expansionist plans of Jacques Delors, who had remarked that 80% of all decisions on economic and social policy would be made by the European Community within 10 years with a European government in “embryo”. That was a bridge too far for Thatcher.

Collapse of Berlin wall and fall of communism in eastern Europe, which would later lead to expansion of EU.

Divisions between the UK and the EU deepened with Thatcher telling the Commons in an infamous speech it was ‘no, no, no’ to what she saw as Delors’ continued power grab. Rupert Murdoch’s Sun newspaper ratchets up its opposition to Europe with a two-fingered “Up yours Delors” front page.

A collapse in the pound forced prime minister John Major and the then chancellor Norman Lamont to pull the UK out of the Exchange Rate Mechanism.

On 1 January, customs checks and duties were removed across the bloc. Thatcher hailed the vision of “a single market without barriers – visible or invisible – giving you direct and unhindered access to the purchasing power of over 300 million of the world’s wealthiest and most prosperous people".

Tory rebels vote against the treaty that paved the way for the creation of the European Union. John Major won the vote the following day in a pyrrhic victory.&nbsp;

Tony Blair patches up the relationship. Signs up to social charter and workers' rights.

Nigel Farage elected an MEP and immediately goes on the offensive in Brussels. “Our interests are best served by not being a member of this club,” he said in his maiden speech. “The level playing field is about as level as the decks of the Titanic after it hit an iceberg.”

Chancellor Gordon Brown decides the UK will not join the euro.

EU enlarges to to include eight countries of the former eastern bloc including Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.

EU expands again, allowing Romania and Bulgaria into the club.

Anti-immigration hysteria seems to take hold with references to “cockroches” by Katie Hopkins in the Sun and tabloid headlines such as “How many more can we take?” and “Calais crisis: send in the dogs”.

David Cameron returns from Brussels with an EU reform package - but it isn't enough to appease the Eurosceptic wing of his own party

The UK votes to leave the European Union, triggering David Cameron's resignation and paving the way for Theresa May to become prime minister

After years of parliamentary impasse during Theresa May's attempt to get a deal agreed, the UK leaves the EU.

He attributed some of the rise of populism to the effect of a breakpoint in the previous Washington consensus about the virtues of globalisation. “When the middle classes no longer have the means to progress and see their situation sliding year after year, a doubt about democracy sets in. That is what we are seeing precisely everywhere, from the US of Donald Trump, to Brexit and the warning shots in our country,” he said.

Macron warned that social media had become an instrument for the rejection of all expertise, be it political, academic or scientific. “We have not organised a public order for this space. The virtual space over determines our choices today, and at the same time it transforms our political life. And therefore it disrupts democracies and our lives.”

He said he was pursuing the concept of a golden hour, the idea that social media firms have 60 minutes to identify and take down posts that glorify and incite terrorism and hate.





No.33 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Third vaccine to undergo large-scale clinical testing in Britain has been modelled on Ebola jab

Six thousand British volunteers are to be injected with an experimental Covid vaccine modelled on an Ebola jab.

It is the third Covid vaccine to enter large-scale clinical trials in the UK. Pursuing multiple candidates is essential to guarantee UK supply and ensure that most effective vaccine is identified, researchers stressed.

Already undergoing large clinical trials in British patients are the Oxford Covid vaccine, and one being developed by the US biotech company Novavax.

A phase 3 trial of the latest vaccine, developed by global pharmaceutical company Janssen (a subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson), begins on Monday.

Phase 3 trials are designed to test the safety and effectiveness of drugs or vaccines in thousands of people. It will initially involve 6,000 volunteers from 17 sites across the UK, including Belfast, Bristol, Cardiff, Dundee, Leicester, London, Manchester, Sheffield and Southampton. A further 24,000 volunteers are to be recruited from other countries.

The UK government’s joint committee on vaccination and immunisation has published a list of groups of people who will be prioritised to receive a vaccine for Covid-19. The list is:

1 All those 80 years of age and over and health and social care workers.

2 All those 75 and over.

3 All those 70 and over.

4 All those 65 and over.

5 Adults under 65 at high at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

6 Adults under 65 at moderate risk of at risk of serious disease and mortality from Covid-19.

7 All those 60 and over.

8 All those 55 and over.

9 All those 50 and over.

10 Rest of the population.

Like the Oxford vaccine, the Janssen candidate uses a weakened common cold virus called an adenovirus to deliver instructions for making the coronavirus’s surface spike protein to our cells.

Cells infected begin making the viral protein and expressing it on their surface, triggering an immune response. This includes the development of “memory” immune cells, which should protect against future coronavirus infections.

However, whereas the Oxford vaccine is based on an adenovirus from chimpanzees, Janssen’s vaccine uses a human adenovirus, which has been modified so it can no longer multiply or cause disease. The same virus forms the backbone of a recently approved Ebola vaccine, deployed during the 2019 outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Janssen’s vaccine has already undergone smaller phase 1 and 2 trials, and interim analysis of a single-dose study suggests that it induces a robust immune response and is generally well-tolerated. Assuming it proves safe and effective in larger trials, 30m doses could be made available to the UK by mid-2021, the business secretary, Alok Sharma, said.

callout-coronavirus

Experts stressed the need for large-scale trials of multiple vaccine candidates, despite last week’s announcement of promising interim results from a trial of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine.

“The recent news is enormously exciting for the whole world, but we must not take our focus off continuing the important research to work out which vaccines work best for different people to provide long-lasting, effective protection against Covid-19,” said Kate Bingham, chair of the UK vaccine taskforce.

“We also can’t be certain that vaccine supply will be efficient and effective and secure from any one manufacturer, wherever it’s being made in the world,” said Saul Faust, a professor of paediatric immunology and infectious diseases at the University of Southampton, and principal investigator of the Janssen trial in the UK. So far, about 25,000 Britons have participated in Covid vaccine trials, and more than 310,000 have indicated their willingness to participate by signing up to the NHS vaccine research registry.

Bingham said there was a particular need for volunteers from those who are at greatest risk of coronavirus, including frontline health and social care workers, and people from black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds.

Faust stressed that participating in a vaccine trial would not exclude anyone from routine immunisation against Covid-19 later on. People who suspect they might have had Covid-19, but were never tested, are also eligible to participate in the Janssen trial. 





No.34 article:
Citizen journalist facing jail in China for Wuhan Covid reporting

Zhang Zhan was arrested more than six months ago after reporting on the outbreak

A Chinese citizen journalist detained since May for reporting on the coronavirus outbreak from Wuhan is facing up to five years in jail after being formally indicted on charges of spreading false information.

Zhang Zhan, a 37-year-old former lawyer, was arrested more than six months ago after reporting on the outbreak. She is being held in a detention facility in Shanghai.

She was accused of “picking quarrels and stirring up trouble”, an accusation frequently used against critics and activists inside China, after reporting on social media and streaming accounts.

The indictment sheet, released on Monday, said Zhang had sent “false information through text, video and other media through the Internet media such as WeChat, Twitter and YouTube”, according to the prosecution document.

“She also accepted interviews from overseas media Free Radio Asia and Epoch Times and maliciously speculated on Wuhan’s Covid-19 epidemic” it said. A sentence of four to five years was recommended.

The NGO Chinese Human Rights Defenders (CHRD) said Zhang’s reports included “the detentions of other independent reporters and harassment of families of victims seeking accountability from the epicentre via her WeChat, Twitter and YouTube accounts”.

The release of the specific charges against Zhang comes days after a media report on an alleged “information blackout” on Zhang’s case, including claims that her mother was yet to see any details of the indictment. According to the Radio Free Asia report and CHRD, Zhang has been on hunger strike since September, and one of her defence lawyers had been taken off her case.

Zhang was previously detained on similar accusations by Chinese authorities in 2018, and again in 2019 for voicing support for Hong Kong activists. She was detained for more than two months and forced to undergo psychiatric assessments, CHRD said.

She is among numerous journalists who have been arrested this year after travelling to Wuhan to report on the virus outbreak and response.

Chen Qiushi, a former lawyer turned journalist, was detained in January. Li Zehua, who travelled to Wuhan to report after Chen’s disappearance, went missing in early February but was released in April. Wuhan resident Fang Bin went missing at the same time but has not been seen since.

Human rights and legal groups have major and long-running concerns about China’s notoriously opaque justice system, which has a conviction rate of about 99%, and often sees defendants denied full legal assistance.





No.35 article:
Australia-New Zealand bubble by Christmas all but dead, Jacinda Ardern warns

New Zealand PM says Australia’s higher tolerance of Covid community transmission ‘problematic’

As South Australia experiences a new Covid-19 outbreak, the New Zealand prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, has conceded there is very little chance of an operational trans-Tasman travel bubble by Christmas.

Australia and New Zealand are tackling the pandemic with slightly different strategies, leading to an impasse over a border reopening.

Australia is pursuing a suppression strategy, which involves locking down hotspots where cases reach a certain threshold, but New Zealand’s elimination strategy does not allow for the same risk tolerance.

“What’s happening in South Australia only further reinforces the importance of having a good understanding of how Australia intends to manage their internal borders when there are outbreaks,” Ardern said.

“If they have an outbreak but they are instituting strong border controls, then it’s manageable. But if they have a tolerance level for community transmission that’s higher than ours, then it is problematic.

“What this underscores is why it’s so important that New Zealand has not rushed into this.”

While Kiwis can travel to New South Wales and the Northern Territory without the need to quarantine for a fortnight, no one entering New Zealand escapes the mandatory isolation period.

Ardern said she didn’t “have the necessary protections” to give an assurance about a Christmas reopening.

Still, New Zealand is holding out the prospect of opening up to one destination soon – the Cook Islands.

The semi-autonomous Pacific nation has deep ties to New Zealand and is without a case of coronavirus.

Kiwi officials are currently on the Cooks, surveying the country’s air and maritime borders, with a view to opening a bubble and restoring the tourism-reliant economy.

Ardern said once officials gave the green light to an opening, it would take three weeks to get it up and running.

On Monday, her cabinet also made changes to mask-wearing after another community case scare in Auckland last week.

From Thursday, Aucklanders on public transport and all New Zealanders on planes will have to wear masks, along with taxi and Uber drivers.

“These additional precautions are a small price to pay to maintain the economic and social freedoms we have,” Ardern said.





No.36 article:
Guerrero at war: chronicling southern Mexico's forgotten conflict – photo essay

Alfredo Bosco came to Guerrero on assignment to document southern Mexican villages emptied out by conflict. Over repeated visits he documents the region’s story

by  Elisabeth Malkin in Mexico City, photographs; Alfredo Bosco

Life in Guerrero seems to hover at the edge of violence. The threat is pervasive: in the armed men at roadblocks, the empty nighttime streets, the kindling of street protests. Then it erupts, in a brief convulsion. What endures is the wreckage left behind.

An altar for a young boy killed by the Tequileros. Many members of the self-defence group of Sierra of San Miguel have lost their sons, brothers, fathers and loved ones fighting against the Tequileros.

The aftermath is what originally drew Alfredo Bosco, an Italian photographer who had worked on the frontlines of the conflict in Ukraine, to Guerrero. He came to the state in southern Mexico, one of the country’s poorest, to document the ghost villages emptied out by fear.

“I immediately realized the story of Guerrero was so much more,” said Bosco. He made repeated trips back to Guerrero between 2018 and the beginning of this year to photograph armed groups battling over mountain villages, the inhabitants who resist, and those who flee.

Federal police patrolling the once touristic city of Acapulco

A man was shot three times and rescued by paramedics, in the suburbs of Acapulco

He also documented the decay of Acapulco, the Pacific coast resort that was once a haunt for Hollywood stars and the Kennedys’ honeymoon retreat. For years, Guerrero’s largest city has been under siege by extortion rackets. Nobody is exempt: teachers, restaurant owners, even the women who run market stalls in the city’s working-class hinterland must all pay up.

The easy narrative of Guerrero’s violence would be to explain it as the outcome of drug trafficking. Some of that is true. Marijuana and then opium poppies have been cultivated in the state since the 1960s. Guerrero is believed to supply more than half of all the heroin produced in Mexico and the state lies on a major transit route to the United States.

The Mexican army eradicating a poppy crop in Chilpancingo

To stop the story there, though, would be to dismiss the overlapping injustices that stalk Mexico and find their sharpest expression in Guerrero. The state is mountainous and has poor communications, which marginalizes its rural population. The most discriminated of all are Guerrero’s indigenous communities, accounting for some 15% of the state’s 3.5 million people.

Federal police inside the house of the former local commissioner in a town near Chilapa. He was one of the leaders of the Los Rojos cartel

A small white elite and local bosses control economic and political power. When social movements have tried to challenge that dominance over the decades, the government has repressed them. With the hope of peaceful change dashed, small guerrilla groups have taken up arms, according to the Mexican historian Carlos Illades. The government conducted a dirty war in the 1970s against one of those groups, a peasant movement led by teachers, normalizing the tools of counterinsurgency, including disappearances, as standard procedure.

Displaced peope coming from the town of Los Morelos heading to the Chichihualco auditorium

In a region where the state’s presence is limited to shows of force, rule of law is an afterthought. Even old scores, over land, or water, or causes that nobody remembers, are settled by violence.

“When we talk about violence, we have to talk about many kinds of violence,” said Vania Pigeonutt, an editor and reporter for Amapola Periodismo, a Guerrero-based news site, who worked closely with Bosco.

Impunity allows this violence to flourish. For most of Mexico’s history, policing and justice have been simply a tool of political power. Homicides are barely investigated, almost never solved.

A man sniffs the blade of the machete he’s digging with hoping to smell victims’ corpses or body parts, as he searches for missing loved ones in Iguala

Mr Rogelio by his wife and his son’s graves, Iguala; 2018. His son disappeared in 2012 and was found dead the year after

Against this backdrop, the decision in 2006 by the then president, Felipe Calderón, to attack the drug trade head-on proved to be disastrous.

When one large criminal organization controlled trafficking in Guerrero, the violence was constrained – often aided by an agreement with authorities who only simulated efforts at interdiction. Calderón ordered Mexico’s military to take down the leaders of the main drug groups and generated an upheaval that his successors have failed to subdue.

The national guard, the new security force that the Mexican government wants to deal with the serious problem of lack of security, formally began its operations on 30 June

In Guerrero, the larger groups splintered into local gangs, which branched out into kidnapping and extortion. They also found additional profits in illegal mining and clandestine logging.

Instead of moving drugs, these gangs needed control over territory and they subjected villages to waves of terror when their armed men descended to lay claim to power.

Unlike the kind of mafia control that Bosco saw in eastern Ukraine or in southern Italy, where he is from, Mexico’s criminals are indiscriminate. “Everyone can be a target,” he said. “The school must close: we attack the teacher coming back home.”

Children training in Ayahualtempa village. After being attacked several times in 2019 by the cartel of Los Ardillos, the village community police has decided to involve children in armed defense training

Displaced people in the village of Ayahualtempa. They are all relatives and have been hosted for some time under the protection of the CRAC-PF indigenous community police. Many of them are women and children

The criminals easily corrupted poorly trained and poorly paid local police forces, bribing them to look the other way, or even turning them into an arm of their operation.

All of those moving parts came together in the kidnapping and disappearance of 43 students from a rural teachers’ college in September 2014. They are believed to have been handed over by local police to a local gang, Guerreros Unidos, which killed them. Federal officials have also been implicated in covering up the investigation. The remains of only two of the young men have been identified and the motive for their disappearance is still unclear.

Local indigenous community police CRAC-PF, Rincón de Chautla

The attention on that case lifted the silence over other disappearances and families banded together to search for mass graves that pockmarked the mountains in the hope of finding their relatives.

In response to gangs like Guerreros Unidos, militias known as self-defense groups have formed in many regions of Guerrero.

These groups are not always what they seem. While some truly are community police, concerned with protecting their families and property, other groups look for a way to coexist with criminal gangs or evolve into a shadow authority. They may even be units of gangs masquerading behind the credibility of self-defense groups.

A CRAC-PF volunteer in her house, in Rincón de Chautla.

A mother from Rincón de Chautla with her children

Much of Bosco’s work focuses on these groups. He turns his gaze on the women of Rincón de Chautla, a village in the central region of the state, who have joined the community police. They look straight ahead, calm and defiant.

He also saw children receive military training and a few weeks later, when photos of children on parade with guns appeared in the Mexican press, the country was outraged.

Members of the self-defence group of Policia Ciudadana de Leonardo Bravo holding their positions in Los Timontos

Members of a self defense group in a poppy field. Member of the indigenous community police CRAC-PF, with a child who’s joining the self-defence group

In contrast, the men of the self-defence forces are masked. Bosco shows them in action, guarding positions, clustered around a fire at night, always wary. But their concealed faces hint at hidden motives.

The balance of forces could change at any moment, creating a new alliance, prompting a new exodus. 





No.37 article:
Monday briefing: Johnson's not-so splendid isolation

PM faces new challenge at critical point in pandemic and Brexit talks … 6,000 people in third vaccine trial ... taxi for Nasa as SpaceX rocket blasts off

by  Martin Farrer

Morning everyone. I’m Martin Farrer and these are the top stories today.

Boris Johnson will be forced to manage what could be a pivotal week in his premiership from self-isolation in Downing Street after meeting a Conservative backbencher who later tested positive for coronavirus. The prime minister, who survived a spell in intensive care with Covid-19 earlier this year, was said to be “well” and symptom-free. But the obligatory isolation comes at a difficult time for him as he tries to reset his government’s course in the wake of last week’s dramatic departure of his chief adviser, Dominic Cummings. Not only is he facing mounting pressure to ensure that the lockdown in England succeeds in reducing coronavirus infections, but also a decision could be made this week about whether a Brexit deal with the EU is achievable. He is also expected to announce a series of green initiatives aimed at phasing out petrol and diesel vehicles within a decade.

However, many Tories remained buoyed by the departure of Cummings, who was seen by many as having a baleful influence on Johnson. One MP cited a truce with ITV’s Good Morning Britain show – which No 10 had boycotted since April – as an example of a less confrontational approach. Our media editor looks at how Cummings’ attempt to reshape the relationship between the government and the media ended up playing a key role in his downfall.

Vaccine trial – Some 6,000 British volunteers are to be injected with a vaccine developed by a subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson and modelled on an Ebola jab. It is the third Covid vaccine to enter large-scale clinical trials in the UK, and comes as the scientist behind the first potential vaccine said his treatment could halve Covid transmission. Ministers hope that two new laboratories set to open early next year could more than double testing capacity in the UK. The facilities in Leamington Spa and a yet-to-be-disclosed location in Scotland will employ up to 4,000 people, and will increase the number of PCR tests that can be processed daily by 600,000, from 520,000 today. Follow all the overnight developments in the pandemic at our live blog here, including the shop in Japan that has delpoyed a robot to check whether customers are wearing a face mask.

America’s crisis – Pressure is mounting on Donald Trump to allow transition talks to begin with US president-elect Joe Biden’s team amid a terrifying surge of coronavirus cases that is pushing the country’s hospital systems to the brink of collapse. The US recorded 166,000 cases on Saturday but Biden’s new Covid taskforce is hamstrung until the Trump administration allows the federal bureaucracy to begin a period of transition. Dr Anthony Fauci, the top infectious diseases expert in the US, said Trump had not attended a Covid taskforce meeting “for months”. The president came the closest yet to admitting defeat in the election when he tweeted yesterday that Biden “won because the election was rigged”. He qualified it by repeating baseless claims of election fraud but did not mention that his campaign has dropped part of its legal challenge to the results in the key state of Pennsylvania.

Taxi for Nasa – Elon Musk was obliged to watch from isolation as his SpaceX rocket blasted off with four astronauts to the International Space Station on the first full-fledged taxi flight for Nasa by a private company. Musk, the entrepreneur behind the company, said he “most likely” had a moderate case of Covid-19 and could not be in Florida to watch the Falcon rocket take off on Sunday night. Its Dragon capsule is due to reach the space station after 27-and-a-half hours and remain there until spring.

Housing reform – The government is preparing to unveil social housing reforms for England this week which could see million of tenants offered greater protection from wrongdoing by landlords more than three years after the Grenfell Tower disaster. The policies are expected to include a strengthened regulator with a mandate to check council and registered social landlords in England, listen to tenants and maintain the standards of homes. Tenants are also set to be given a more direct way of raising complaints without having to go through local councillors or MPs.

Weather bomb – Don’t be fooled by the balmy feel across much of the country today: a weather “rollercoaster” is on the way that will bring heavy rain, snow and freezing temperatures to many parts. The mercury will fall markedly by Thursday, the Met Office says, and flood warnings are in place in western Scotland and down England’s west coast from Carlisle to Cornwall. There is also a chance of snow in mountainous areas.

A slew of initiatives from local councils has meant drivers are being moved off residential streets and on to busier main roads. But while many residents support the schemes, the measures have provoked protests.

 Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/11/13-66770-20201116tifltn.mp3 

In what may be his “best performance yet”, Ethan Hwake comes to our small screens in The Good Lord Bird, a dramatisation of the American abolitionist John Brown that Hawke has also co-written and co-produced. Hadley Freeman talks to him about race, avoiding drugs, and how his mother pushed him “towards a British understanding of acting as a craft and away from American ideas of celebrity”.

Dustin Johnson’s career has reached new highs after the 36-year-old became a multiple major champion with a Masters scoring record. The world’s No 1 golfer won at Augusta National by five shots, at 20 under par, and it was every bit as comfortable as the figures suggest. Lewis Hamilton equalled Michael Schumacher’s record of seven world championships on Sunday by winning the Turkish Grand Prix and said afterwards that he hoped his success as a black man in an almost exclusively white sport would act as inspiration to children everywhere.

Gareth Southgate insisted England could draw encouragement from their display against Belgium and the performance of Jack Grealish, despite their interest in this season’s Nations League ending with a 2-0 defeat in Leuven. Tributes have poured in for the former Liverpool, Tottenham and England goalkeeper Ray Clemence, who has died at the age of 72. Eddie Jones has warned his players of the “massive step up” against Ireland on Saturday, suggesting England are at a disadvantage because of the lack of quality opposition this autumn. Former league and union forward Sam Burgess has been in court in Australia on the first day of his trial for stalking or intimidating.

Matthew Moulding, chief executive of The Hut Group, is in line for one of the biggest payouts in UK corporate history after the share price of the recently listed online retailer rose, hitting targets set when it floated in September. Moulding, who founded the company in 2004, will receive at least £830m in shares, bringing calls for higher taxes on the super-rich. The FTSE100 itself is due to rise by 0.5% this morning while the pound is worth $1.326 and €1.115.

Boris Johnson’s health is the lead on many front pages. The Guardian’s splash reads “PM forced to isolate again as crucial week begins”, the Telegraph has “Johnson isolating after Covid warning”, and the Sun says “Bojo told to isolate”. The i has a slightly different take – “Johnson’s charm offensive” – as does the FT with “Johnson moves to reassure Tory donors after Downing Street turmoil”.

The pink paper is the only one that doesn’t carry a picture of Des O’Connor, the veteran entertainer who died on Saturday. His passing is the lead in the Mirror – “He will be up there in heaven laughing” – while the Star’s headline “Look out Ern .. he’s going to sing” is one perhaps best understood by the over-60s, referring as it does to a long-running gag by the great 70s comedy duo, Morecambe &amp; Wise.

The Mail carries on its Christmas campaign with the headline “We just want to hug our children”, the Times leads on “Charges for using roads to fill £40bn budget hole”, and the Express screams: “Boris tells EU: Stop the bullying or we quit talks”. In Scotland the Herald’s splash is “Lawyers call for 50% in legal aid fees”, while the Record details what it says was an avoidable Covid death: “Fatal flaw”.

The Guardian morning briefing is delivered to thousands of inboxes bright and early every weekday. If you are not already receiving it by email, you can sign up here.

For more news: www.theguardian.com





No.38 article:
Robovie uses lasers to measure social distancing, politely asks shoppers to cover up and guides them around the store

A shop in Japan has enlisted a robot to ensure customers are wearing masks, as the country prepares for a possible third wave of coronavirus infections.

Robovie, developed by the Advanced Telecommunications Research Institute International in Kyoto, is able to pick out customers who aren’t wearing masks and politely ask them to cover up. It can also intervene when they fail to socially distance while queuing up to pay.

The trial, which began last week at the club shop of Cerezo Osaka, a professional football team, will run until at least the end of the month.

Robovie’s developers, who are behind a host of robotic innovations, hope the experiment will reduce close contact between shoppers and staff, adding that they believe most people will feel less embarrassed by being asked to cover up by a robot than by a fellow human being.

Equipped with pre-loaded information about the shop’s layout, Robovie uses a camera and sensors to observe people’s movements, and lasers to measure the distance between them, according to the Kyodo news agency.

When it isn’t enforcing social distancing and mask wearing – a preventive measure that is generally accepted in Japan – Robovie also guides customers around the shop.

While Japan has avoided the large number of cases and deaths seen in some other countries, a recent rise in daily Covid-19 infections has led to calls for new measures to prevent hospitals from being overrun as winter approaches.

It reported 1,441 new cases on Sunday, slightly down on the record 1,737 infections recorded the previous day, with Tokyo, Osaka and other cities and regions reporting record daily rises over the weekend.

The country has confirmed 119,420 cases and 1,908 deaths since the start of the pandemic, according to public broadcaster NHK.

The prime minister, Yoshihide Suga, has said there are no plans to rethink a subsidised domestic tourism campaign or to declare a second state of emergency.

The northernmost main island of Hokkaido, a popular tourist destination, has reported more than 200 cases for four days in a row, including a cluster of more than a dozen on the nearby island of Rishiri that local people are blaming on visitors using the Go To travel scheme, which subsidises holidays.

A Kyodo poll conducted over the weekend found that 84% of respondents were concerned about the latest outbreak, with more than 68% saying the government should prioritise its public health response over the economy.

Half of those surveyed said they opposed rumoured plans to extend the Go To scheme beyond the end of January.





No.39 article:
India oil well fire extinguished after five months

Focus shifts to compensation and environmental impact of huge fire that has been burning since June in the state of Assam 

A massive oil well fire that raged for more than five months in north-east India has been extinguished, officials have said.

Oil India engineers have been battling the blaze in Assam since an explosion in June, weeks after the well blew out and began discharging huge quantities of natural gas.

Two employees of the state-owned company died in the blast, which sent a wall of flame and plumes of smoke into the sky. A third worker died in September after an accident at the site.

Experts from Singapore, the US and Canada joined efforts to contain the inferno, and Oil India spokesman Tridiv Hazarika said on Sunday the fire had now been “doused completely”.

“The well has been killed with brine solution and is under control now,” he said, adding that the well had yet to be capped. “There is no pressure in the well now and it will be observed for 24 hours to check if there is any amount of gas migration and pressure build-up.”

Thousands of villagers in Tinsukia district were relocated to relief camps after the blaze started.

A farmer who lived beside the site said his home had been damaged by the fire and hoped he would be fully compensated for his losses.

“Even if the fire is doused, we cannot possibly go and live in that house any more – we lost not just our cows, goats, fields, crops but our mental and physical peace, too,” Akheshwar Chetia told the Indian Express newspaper.

The Baghjan oil field is next to the Dibru-Saikhowa national park and the wetland habitat of several endangered species, including tigers and elephants. The region is also home to several bird sanctuaries.

The Wildlife Institute of India said in a July report that the oil spill had brought a “large-scale impact” on local plant and animal life.

“The toxins released are known to have long-term persistence in soils and sediments, which will not only affect current life conditions, but due to sustained release over a long period, pose a serious health risk for a longer term,” the institute added.

The disaster has cost Oil India more than $30.5m as of late September, according to the firm’s quarterly financial results released last week.





No.40 article:
‘Mighty moss chicken’ brought back from brink of extinction is the first two-time winner 

It can’t fly and it hides during the day but a critically endangered large parrot is back in the limelight having been named New Zealand’s bird of the year for an unprecedented second time.

The green and fawn kākāpō – the world’s heaviest, longest-living parrot – first won in 2008. After conservation efforts, the population of this large parrot has risen from 50 during the 1990s to 213 now.

Kākāpō – a bird also known as “mighty moss chicken” – used to live throughout Aotearoa, but today survive only on predator-free islands.

Male kākāpō emit a loud booming sound to attract females and smell “like the inside of a clarinet case, musty and kind of like resin and wood,” said Laura Keown, spokesperson for the competition.

“The things that make kākāpō unique also make them vulnerable to threats. They are slow breeders, they nest on the ground and their main defence is to imitate a shrub.

“Those qualities worked great in the island of birds the kākāpō evolved in but they don’t fool introduced predators like stoats, rats and cats.”

Another endangered bird, the antipodean albatross, which is often caught in fishing nets, won most first-choice votes out of the more than 55,000 votes cast but under the competition’s preferential system the kākāpō came through. Organisers said they hoped the antipodean albatross did not feel robbed.

The competition has boosted environmental awareness, organisers said, compared with 15 years ago when bird of the year started “It is definitely part of a shift in thinking about the needs of New Zealand’s unique environment and native species.”

It has also introduced the public to some weird and wonderful characters. The world’s most famous Kākāpō is Sirocco, who reputedly thinks he is human after a respiratory illness meant he became the first male to be hand reared.

Aged 23 – scientists believe kākāpō can live for around 60 years – Sirocco has toured New Zealand to promote the plight of his species. In 2009, he rocketed to global fame after attempting to mate with zoologist Mark Carwardine’s head during filming for the BBC documentary Last Chance to See with British actor Stephen Fry, who likened the bird’s face to that of a Victorian gentleman. The video of the incident – with commentary from Fry: “He’s really going for it!” – has had more than 18m views.

No stranger to scandal, the competition this year involved the endorsement by an adult toy store of the polyamorous hihi, or stitchbird, and voter fraud. Volunteer scrutineers found 1,500 votes cast one night were from the same IP address, all for the smallest kiwi species, the kiwi pukupuku or little spotted kiwi.

Entrants could vote for up to five birds, ranking them in order of choice. This year’s poll was pushed back to avoid a clash with New Zealand’s parliamentary election.

Under the last Labour-Green government, the Department of Conservation – the government agency in charge of looking after native species – received the biggest funding boost it has had in 15 years.

The government has promised to put cameras on all commercial fishing boats, and New Zealand has a goal to be predator free by 2050.





No.41 article:
If you have been affected or have any information, we'd like to hear from you. You can get in touch by filling in the form below, anonymously if you \nwish or contact us&nbsp;via WhatsApp&nbsp;by&nbsp;clicking here&nbsp;or adding the contact +44(0)7867825056. Only the Guardian can see your contributions and one of our \njournalists may contact you to discuss further.&nbsp;

Facilities will allow 600,000 more PCR tests a day to be processsed, in sign end of pandemic is still months away

Covid-19 testing capacity in the UK is to be more than doubled, with major new laboratories to open early next year in a sign the government is planning for the pandemic to persist despite hopes for a number of vaccine candidates.

The facilities, one in Leamington Spa and the other in an unidentified location in Scotland, will employ up to 4,000 people and increase the number of PCR tests – the gold-standard swab tests already used across the UK – that can be processed daily by 600,000, from 520,000 today.

The government said the “mega-laboratories” would speed up test processing, while the health secretary, Matt Hancock, said they would be useful in “future-proofing our national infrastructure to respond to future epidemics”.

The labs are due to be up and running in the first months of next year, the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said last night. There was no detail on costs or who will manage them.

On Sunday, a leading scientist behind the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine candidate, which has cleared interim clinical trials and shown 90% effectiveness in stopping people from falling ill, said he was “very confident” it would also reduce transmission of coronavirus by “maybe 50%”.

Prof Uğur Şahin, chief executive of BioNTech, told the BBC his aim was for normality to return next winter, with the vaccine programme rolled out throughout 2021.

His comments and the construction of the new laboratories reinforce warnings that the end of the pandemic remains many months away. However, on Sunday, the head of the Office for National Statistics, Prof Sir Ian Diamond, confirmed a “slowdown in the rate of growth” in cases in the country, however.

With two weeks of England-wide lockdown restrictions still to come, Prof Susan Michie, a member of Sage, said at the weekend that the public must resist breaking the rules in order to be in a position to see family at Christmas. Prof John Edmunds, another Sage member, added: “We need to take a long-term view and be sensible and realise that we’re going to have to have restrictions in place for some time.”

As well as the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, some doses of which could be ready for rollout by Christmas as long as results and approval go as hoped, more than 170 other vaccine candidates are in development, 11 of which are in phase 3 efficacy trials.

Results from the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine candidate are expected within weeks, and there are also high hopes for a candidate from the US company Moderna.

If the new labs are not needed for Covid testing they will be used to boost capacity to improve testing for illnesses including cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, the DHSC said.

The UK already has five Lighthouse laboratories in Milton Keynes, Alderley Park, Glasgow, Cambridge and Newport with others being set up in Charnwood, Newcastle, Brants Bridge and Plymouth.

Meanwhile, the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, has written to Boris Johnson requesting a national action plan for the vaccine rollout, which he predicted could be the Britain’s largest logistical operation since the second world war. The government has already ordered 40m doses of the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine – enough for 20 million people to receive the required double dose.

Starmer said town halls and sport centres may need to be turned into local vaccine clinics. He also wants to see criteria for eligibility for the vaccine and a guarantee of “equitable access … no matter where you live”.

The new laboratories will process tests carried out at hundreds of testing sites up and down the country and at home. On Sunday, it emerged that a test site run by G4S at Postwick, near Norwich, has been shut down after four staff tested positive for the virus.

“The site will be deep-cleaned as per Public Health England guidelines and reopened as soon as possible,” a spokesperson for G4S said.

Dido Harding, the chief executive of NHS test and trace, said the new laboratories were needed to match an increasing number of test sites where people go for swab tests. About 300,000 PCR tests are being processed daily – double the number in August and 10 times the number in late April.

callout-coronavirus

The new labs are separate from the “Operation Moonshot” rapid testing programme, which gives results in less than an hour using different technology and is being trialled in Liverpool, Stoke-on-Trent and, from Monday, with visitors to around 20 care homes in Hampshire, Cornwall and Devon.

“The addition of these new labs will mean another step up in our testing capacity next year,” Harding said. “Not only will that mean more tests, but it will also mean they can be processed more quickly, and the time it takes to receive results is reduced.”

The health minister Lord Bethell, who is overseeing testing, said of the new laboratories: “This work is absolutely crucial to tackling Covid-19 and enabling the return of more normality to our lives.”








